
                               1 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Apple and Google Rethink Cars, Automakers Plan Their Defense

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1578 words


FRANKFURT -- WHETHER or not Apple's secretive car project ever leads to an
actual automobile, the technology company has already had a profound effect on
the vehicle business.

The mere knowledge that Apple has a team of several hundred people working on
car designs changed the conversation this week at the Frankfurt International
Motor Show. Along with Google, Apple has focused the minds of auto executives on
the challenge posed by new technologies that have the potential to disrupt
traditional auto industry hierarchies.

This year, ''connectivity'' has supplanted ''horsepower'' or ''torque'' as the
prevailing buzzword in Frankfurt. The talk is of self-driving cars,
battery-powered cars and information technology designed to link cars with data
networks to make driving safer and more efficient.

Even though neither Apple nor Google is close to mass-producing a vehicle,
nervousness about their intentions -- which remain cloaked in mystery -- is
understandable.

As cars increasingly become rolling software platforms, Apple and Google have
depths of tech expertise that the carmakers would have trouble duplicating. And
those Silicon Valley companies have financial resources that dwarf those of even
behemoth companies like Daimler and Volkswagen. Google, which began working on
self-driving cars in 2009, is valued by the stock market at more than five times
the worth of either of those carmakers. Apple is worth eight times as much. That
gives them an advantage in a business that requires huge investment in research
and development.

The main risk for carmakers is probably not so much that an Apple car would
destroy Mercedes-Benz or BMW the way the iPhone gutted Nokia, the Finnish
company that was once the world's largest maker of mobile phones. Rather, the
risk is that Apple and Google would turn the carmakers into mere hardware makers
-- and hog the profit.

Carmakers say they are determined to resist that danger by maintaining control
of the software that is proliferating inside vehicles.

''What is important for us is that the brain of the car, the operating system,
is not iOS or Android or someone else but it's our brain,'' Dieter Zetsche, the
chief executive of Daimler, the maker of Mercedes vehicles, told reporters at
the car show. IOS is Apple's operating system for mobile devices.

''We do not plan to become the Foxconn of Apple,'' Mr. Zetsche said, referring
to the Taiwanese-owned company that manufactures iPhones in China.

Even without competition from Apple and Google, the carmakers are under extreme
pressure to change the way they build cars. Regulators in Europe and the United
States are demanding that cars emit less carbon dioxide, a culprit in global
warming. The only way the automakers can meet increasingly stringent emissions
standards is by selling more hybrid vehicles, and eventually all-electric cars.
Both technologies require more software than gasoline or diesel engines.

Technology that links cars to data networks, so-called connectivity, also plays
a role in reducing emissions and satisfying regulators. Systems that help
drivers quickly find a parking space or avoid traffic jams, besides being
convenient, help limit unnecessary driving and save fuel. But the new
technologies are expensive, and car buyers are not necessarily willing to pay.
Electric cars account for a sliver of the market so far.

Those pressures have been building for several years, but they have intensified
since word leaked out early this year that Apple was studying whether to build a
car.

''What has been an evolution is going to be a revolution,'' said Stephan
Winkelmann, the chief executive of Lamborghini, the Italian maker of super
sports cars that is part of the Volkswagen group.

''Starting from sustainability, going over to digitalization, and ending up at
autonomous driving -- these three big things are really something that is a game
changer for the automotive industry,'' Mr. Winkelmann said in an interview.
''Everybody has to tackle these challenges.''

Volkswagen, previously regarded as a laggard in vehicle electrification, said in
Frankfurt this week that it would introduce 20 new plug-in hybrid or
all-electric models by 2020, and it introduced a battery-powered Porsche concept
car. At the company's preshow extravaganza for the media Monday night at a
repurposed basketball arena, there was nary a mention of internal combustion.
Instead, Martin Winterkorn, the Volkswagen chief executive, spoke of cars that
would park themselves and eventually run completely on autopilot.

''By the end of this decade we will have transformed all of our new cars into
smartphones on wheels,'' he said.

It is not only the European carmakers closely watching Apple and Google. Anthony
Foxx, the United States transportation secretary, in Frankfurt for a meeting on
Thursday with his counterparts from other G7 nations, said conventional
automakers were trying to roll out technology as fast as they can, while some in
Silicon Valley were aiming to leap straight to self-driving cars.

''There is an interesting dialogue between Detroit and Silicon Valley on this,''
Mr. Foxx said during a meeting with several reporters. ''There is probably some
tension there, but maybe that is good creative tension.''

One of the main guessing games at the auto show was whether Apple or Google
would ever build a car. Both companies have met with German car companies as
well as suppliers. Google executives have said the company will not become a
carmaker.

''Google is not a car manufacturer and does not intend to become one,'' Philipp
Justus, a Google vice president in Europe, said.

But it was not clear yet whether he meant that Google would license self-driving
technology to traditional carmakers, or use contract manufacturers to build a
vehicle. A Google spokesman declined to elaborate.

Apple's intentions are murkier. As is customary for Apple, the company has
provided no information. But Timothy D. Cook, the Apple chief executive,
reportedly visited a factory in Leipzig, Germany, last year where BMW
manufactures the i3, an all-electric sedan with a carbon fiber body.

''We are not quite sure what Apple is prepared to do,'' Friedrich Eichiner, the
chief financial officer of BMW, said during a meeting with a group of reporters
in Frankfurt. He said he thought Apple was still trying to understand the
implications of getting into the car business.

''Financially they are very strong,'' Mr. Eichiner said. ''They could do it.''

Luca de Meo, head of sales and marketing at Audi, another Volkswagen unit, said
it would be out of character for Apple not to build its own vehicle, if it
decides to get into the car business. ''The Apple style is the ability to do
software and hardware at the same time,'' Mr. de Meo said in an interview.

The traditional carmakers' big advantage is that they have already mastered the
formidable complexity of manufacturing vehicles that are reliable, comfortable
and safe. But it is becoming more feasible for a newcomer to outsource vehicle
manufacturing the same way that Apple outsources production of iPhones. And the
outsourcer wouldn't necessarily be in China.

One company already working with Google is ZF, a large German auto components
supplier that in May completed an acquisition of TRW, a company based in
Michigan that provides auto electronics such as airbag systems. TRW has been
working on sensors and other hardware for self-driving cars.

Stefan Sommer, the chief executive of ZF, said the company would be able to
produce a Google-branded car along with two or three other partners supplying
components that ZF can't, such as sheet metal body parts. ''We would be a
partner in that, for sure,'' Mr. Sommer said in an interview.

But he said ZF could not work with Apple under the conditions it now imposes on
suppliers. ZF sees itself as an innovator, not just a supplier. In Frankfurt, it
displayed a car with electrically powered wheels that allow the car to turn 360
degrees almost on its own axis. ZF could not agree to demands by Apple for
exclusive rights to such inventions, Mr. Sommer said.

While Apple and Google pose a threat to traditional automakers, the mood in
Frankfurt is not gloomy. Not long ago, analysts were predicting that the auto
industry faced long-term decline. Surveys showed that younger people were less
interested than their parents in cars and driving. But if Apple and Google are
interested in the car industry, auto executives reason, cars and driving must be
cool again.

''It's confirmation that we are working in a future industry,'' said Ola
Källenius, head of marketing and sales for Mercedes-Benz cars.

Apple and Google have given the car industry a jolt. Now the question is whether
carmakers can respond quickly enough.

And they are trying to raise their games. Daimler, for example, reorganized its
factories around the world last year, eliminating plant managers and giving
control over production to the executives in charge of different model lines.
The change allowed Mercedes to introduce a new variant of its popular C-Class at
four factories, on four continents, in six months -- about half of what it would
have taken earlier, said Markus Schäfer, head of production at Mercedes.

''This enables us to be more competitive in a world where new competitors come
to the table,'' Mr. Schäfer said.

''We created the automobile,'' he said, ''and we will not be a hardware provider
to somebody else.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/automobiles/apples-auto-inroads-create-a-buzz-
at-frankfurt-motor-show.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dieter Zetsche, chief executive of Daimler, waving next to a
Mercedes S-class Cabriolet at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt on
Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EPA/BORIS ROESSLER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%);
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%);
WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); CONSUMER
ELECTRONICS MFG (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTONOMOUS MOTOR VEHICLES
(78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%);
CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); COMPANY
STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); EXECUTIVES
(71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE
(67%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (63%); MOBILE DEVICES (63%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST
EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION
(62%); EMISSIONS (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (92%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE
MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING
(92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS &
COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES
(92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING &
BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (89%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (75%); TAIWAN (74%); EUROPE
(65%); FINLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Campaign Urges Legal Immigrants to Become (Voting) Citizens

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 884 words


White House officials announced the start of a nationwide campaign on Thursday
to encourage legal immigrants to become American citizens, which could add
millions of voters to the electorate in time for the presidential election next
year.

With about 8.8 million legal residents in the country who are eligible to become
citizens, White House officials said they were trying to make it easier to
complete the final steps to citizenship.

The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency in
charge of naturalizations, will offer practice tests on cellphones for the
civics exam that immigrants must pass, but which many find daunting, and will
hold preparatory workshops in rural areas. Applicants will also be able to pay
the fee, still a hefty $680, with a credit card.

The White House is working with regional immigrant groups to organize more than
70 citizenship workshops and about 200 naturalization ceremonies in the coming
week alone. Four citizenship ambassadors have been named, including Fernando
Valenzuela, the Mexican-born former pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers who
recently became an American citizen after many years in the United States.

Also in the works are local initiatives to make immigrants feel more welcome,
and a revision of Justice Department regulations that would make it easier for
people who want to help immigrants naturalize to obtain credentials to provide
basic volunteer legal assistance.

The officials said they had started the campaign this week because Thursday is
Citizenship Day. But the White House is also aware of federal figures showing
that about 60 percent of immigrants eligible to naturalize are Latino and about
20 percent are Asian, both groups that voted overwhelmingly for President Obama.
Nearly a third of legal permanent residents eligible to naturalize are Mexican.

The campaign, which includes a blitz of television ads with a welcoming message
for immigrants, gives Mr. Obama a chance to set up a contrast with Republicans
vying to succeed him. In the Republican debate on Wednesday night, Donald J.
Trump, the real estate magnate who has been leading the polls among the
Republican candidates, returned to his hard-line proposals that include building
a wall along the length of the southern border.

''We have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside,'' Mr. Trump
said, claiming that undocumented immigrants include many gang members and drug
dealers. ''First day, they're going,'' he said, referring to Baltimore and
Chicago as places where deportations of criminals would begin.

Mr. Trump said he would deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants, then
selectively allow some to return. Ben Carson, the pediatric surgeon in the
Republican race who has seen a recent rise in the polls, also said he would
consider mass deportation of all immigrants in the country illegally.

''If anybody knows how to do that, I would be willing to listen,'' Mr. Carson
said. ''I think it's worth discussing.''

The debate also highlighted the divide among Republicans themselves, with former
Gov. Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio, both of Florida, arguing against mass
roundups and in favor of some path to legal status.

Some Republicans said they were concerned about political overtones in the
campaign.

''I think it's healthy for a democracy for people to become citizens,'' said
Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the American Principles Project's Latino
Partnership. ''Sadly, I think the administration went overboard. A full-fledged
campaign from the White House telling people to become a citizen, I think it is
politicizing the naturalization process.'' Mr. Aguilar, a Republican, was head
of the citizenship office at the immigration agency for six years under the
administration of President George W. Bush. He urged Congress to keep an eye on
the campaign to make sure it did not go beyond civics education.

Mr. Obama's citizenship campaign is part of a package of executive actions first
announced in November. The most ambitious of them, a plan to provide protection
from deportation and work permits to about five million undocumented immigrants,
was challenged in a lawsuit by 26 states and has been blocked in the courts.

For now, White House officials have turned to the citizenship drive, which
offers nothing for immigrants without legal status. To be eligible for
naturalization, immigrants must have been legal permanent residents for at least
three years and, in most cases, five years. The officials insisted the effort
was nonpartisan.

Many groups collaborating with the campaign on training workshops are advocates
who seek citizenship for undocumented immigrants as well, and who have been
alarmed by the tough tone of the Republican campaign.

''We want to build off the negative energy,'' said Tara Raghuveer, policy and
advocacy director for the National Partnership for New Americans, a coalition of
immigrant groups that is holding dozens of events during the campaign. ''People
are hearing the hate and racist xenophobia on the national stage from the
presidential candidates. They are angry, and this is an opportunity for us to
organize.''

Several Spanish-language media outlets will be carrying Mr. Obama's ads,
including Univision, which has feuded with Mr. Trump.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/white-house-campaign-legal-immigrants-citiz
enship.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fernando Valenzuela
 Judith Escobar, an El Salvador native, became a United States citizen last
month. Mr. Valenzuela, a new citizen retired from baseball, will try to
encourage more naturalizations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (95%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATURALIZATION
(90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); DEPORTATION
(89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); BROADCAST
ADVERTISING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%);
BASEBALL (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CREDIT CARDS
(70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (57%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS
(55%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); BEN CARSON (67%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Menendez's Trial Is Delayed; Judge Will Rule on Dismissal

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 617 words


NEWARK -- A federal judge delayed the trial of Senator Robert Menendez on
corruption charges on Thursday as the senator's lawyers vowed to go to the
Supreme Court in their bid to dismiss the charges against him, potentially
pushing the trial back a year.

Judge William H. Walls said he would rule next week on motions to dismiss the
charges against Mr. Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, and his longtime benefactor
Dr. Salomon Melgen, a wealthy South Florida eye surgeon. Federal prosecutors
have accused the senator of performing personal and political favors for the
doctor in exchange for lavish flights and stays in Paris and the Caribbean and
donations to the senator's legal defense fund.

Defense lawyers argued here that the investigation was tainted from the
beginning; that federal agents improperly searched Dr. Melgen's office, that
prosecutors leaked damaging information and withheld exculpatory evidence from
the grand jury, and that they laced the case with salacious details about
extramarital affairs and luxury gifts to try to inflame jurors' moral outrage.

The defense lawyers' central argument is that Mr. Menendez's actions on behalf
of Dr. Melgen cannot be prosecuted because they were part of the legislative
process, and therefore protected under the speech or debate clause of the
Constitution. Mr. Menendez went to health officials in a bid to change future
policy, they argued, not to help Dr. Melgen escape repayment of nearly $9
million that the federal government said he had overbilled Medicare.

Prosecutors failed to tell the grand jury, for example, that Kathleen Sebelius,
then the secretary of health and human services, had told investigators that she
could not recall the senator's seeking any remedy; her ''sense'' was that he was
hoping only to change policy on prospective cases.

''The government presents only the pieces it likes,'' said Matthew Menchel, a
lawyer for Dr. Melgen.

But lawyers from the Justice Department vehemently denied the accusations of
prosecutorial misconduct, saying defense lawyers themselves were cherry-picking
evidence. Ms. Sebelius, they noted, also told investigators that she could not
recall Mr. Menendez's raising any cases other than Dr. Melgen's. And emails and
interoffice memorandums show extensive conversations between Mr. Menendez and
his staff and Dr. Melgen's lawyer and lobbyist about the senator's meeting with
Ms. Sebelius. Other emails show Senate staff members discussing Dr. Melgen's
''ask'' of federal officials.

The judge gave little indication of how he would rule, pressing both sides hard.
''Show me the bias, show me the bias,'' he insisted, as defense lawyers tried to
argue that the prosecutors should have screened jurors for any prejudice, given
the senator's prominence.

Later, in asking prosecutors why they pressed a grand jury witness about her
joint Visa card with Dr. Melgen, and whether she had met his wife, the judge
asked, ''Why all this New York Post-type coverage?''

Prosecutors replied that it indicated motive and consciousness of guilt -- that
Mr. Menendez had told his staff that he was helping a woman related to Dr.
Melgen to secure a visa to enter the United States, knowing the woman was
actually one of Dr. Melgen's mistresses.

Judge Walls told defense lawyers he ''would bet you a nickel'' that the Supreme
Court would not take the case on the speech and debate matter, but said he could
see the court's considering whether Dr. Melgen's financial contributions were
protected under the First Amendment. Either way, both sides predicted appeals to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which the judge said
would most likely delay the trial until fall 2016.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/senator-menendez-corruption-trial-is-
delayed-possibly-for-a-year.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); SUPREME
COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUDGES (90%); EVIDENCE (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
(87%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
LOBBYING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (73%); LEGAL ETHICS
(73%); MEDICARE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (70%); MEDICARE
FRAUD (64%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (91%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (79%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (89%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Eyes That Mirror the Unspeakable

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words


Currently a permanent guest of the federal government after 16 years as a
fugitive, James J. Bulger was, in the 1970s and '80s, Boston's most notorious
criminal. While his younger brother William served as president of the
Massachusetts State Senate, James (referred to as Whitey, though he disliked the
nickname) ran the Winter Hill Gang, an especially vicious enterprise in a
business not known for delicacy. He also enjoyed a cozy relationship with the
local office of the F.B.I., which turned a blind eye to his crimes in exchange
for information about the activities of his rivals.

He was a government informer who meted out lethal punishment to suspected rats;
a remorseless killer viewed as a folk hero by some of his fellow citizens; a
sentimental son of South Boston who brought drugs into his own neighborhood, and
his story all but begs for a movie. Some elements of it have already made it to
the screen. ''The Departed,'' Martin Scorsese's remake of a classic Hong Kong
crime film, incorporates aspects of the Whitey Bulger legend. ''Whitey,'' Joe
Berlinger's solid documentary, looks squarely in the faces of his victims and
their families, dispelling some of the aura of gangster romance that always
seems to surround white ethnic practitioners of organized crime.

''Black Mass,'' Scott Cooper's new film, puts some of that luster back. It's not
that Mr. Cooper necessarily set out to portray Mr. Bulger as a charismatic
antihero whose actions are both appalling and exciting. (The screenplay by Mark
Mallouk and Jez Butterworth is based on the book by the reporters Dick Lehr and
Gerard O'Neill of The Boston Globe.) His protagonist, played by Johnny Depp and
called Jimmy by most of his friends and associates, does terrible, unforgivable
things, nearly all of which the real Mr. Bulger actually did. But the
conventions of popular culture, conventions to which Mr. Cooper hews with
slavish or perhaps unthinking devotion, treat those things with a certain
reverence. This guy is evil, but you have to admit he's also kind of cool.

I'm not really raising a moral objection here. I have seen ''Goodfellas'' and
the ''Godfather'' movies more times than I can count, and I'm as susceptible as
any other deskbound, conflict-averse fantasist to the visceral appeal of a good
gangster movie. But ''Black Mass'' isn't one. Mr. Cooper's direction is
skillful, if overly reliant on borrowed Scorseseisms (especially when it comes
to music), and the cast is first-rate, but the film is a muddle of secondhand
attitudes and half-baked ideas. It feels more like a costume party than a
costume drama.

Mr. Depp, with sweptback silver hair, a dead front tooth and a grayish
complexion offsetting icy blue eyes, gives Jimmy a vampirish air. He sips ginger
ale from a bottle while his colleagues down shots and pints of beer, and speaks
in a fierce whisper. He is nice to old ladies on the street, devoted to his
mother and brother, and shows himself to be a doting (and then a grieving)
father. The contradiction between this apparent soft side and his general
disregard for human life feels less like an insight than like boilerplate, a
cliché to set alongside the splattering of brains against car-window glass, the
surprise whackings of guys who thought they were on their way to whack other
guys, and the invocations of loyalty.

Not to mention the scenes of men in suits slamming their hands on desks and
yelling at one another. ''Black Mass'' pivots between the streets and bars of
Southie and the F.B.I. offices at Government Center, where Jimmy's boyhood pal
John Connolly (Joel Edgerton) has set himself up as the scourge of the Italian
mob while also serving as Whitey's inside man. Mr. Edgerton's hot-blooded
strutting and shouting contrasts intriguingly with Mr. Depp's chilly reserve,
but Connolly remains a one-dimensional character, a garish bad apple in a barrel
full of mostly honest but fatefully credulous lawmen. (His office mates and
superiors are played by Kevin Bacon, Adam Scott and David Harbour as John
Morris, who follows Connolly down Whitey's rabbit hole.)

The other side of the law is populated, as usual, by colorful thugs with rougher
faces and thicker accents. (Hey, guys, can we give Boston a rest as a
crime-movie backdrop, and maybe try Chicago for a while? I say this as a former
resident of both cities and a longtime fan of the letter R.) The episodic
narrative is framed by testimony from some of Jimmy's former underlings, who
turned on him when a new prosecutor (Corey Stoll) came to town. Jesse Plemons as
Kevin Weeks, Rory Cochrane as Steve Flemmi and W. Earl Brown as the slow-moving
hit man John Martorano are all credibly gamy and mean, and the
matter-of-factness of their testimony is the best, most honest part of the
movie.

Benedict Cumberbatch plays William Bulger with a slyness that makes you wish
''Black Mass'' had delved deeper into the mysteries of blood and power. And the
appearance, at the margins of the story, of Julianne Nicholson (as Connolly's
wife, Marianne), Dakota Johnson (as Lindsey Cyr, the mother of Jimmy's son) and
Juno Temple (as Deborah Hussey, a young victim of Whitey's paranoia) exposes the
limitations of the film's angle of vision on the world its characters occupy.
We're in historically masculine genre territory, of course, but this movie's
collection of mothers, wives and mistresses is especially threadbare. More
boilerplate.

It's possible, though, to think of the shortcomings of ''Black Mass'' as fitting
comeuppance for Mr. Bulger. He may have thought he was a big deal, but in the
end all he merits is a minor gangster movie.

''Black Mass'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Explosive profanity, exploding heads.

Black Mass

Opens on Friday

Directed by Scott Cooper; written by Mark Mallouk and Jez Butterworth, based on
the book by Dick Lehr and Gerard O'Neill; director of photography, Masanobu
Takayanagi; edited by David Rosenbloom; music by Tom Holkenborg; production
design by Stefania Cella; costumes by Kasia Walicka Maimone; produced by Mr.
Cooper, John Lesher, Brian Oliver, Patrick McCormick and Tyler Thompson;
released by Warner Bros. Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 2 minutes.

­

WITH: Johnny Depp (James [Whitey] Bulger), Joel Edgerton (John Connolly),
Benedict Cumberbatch (Billy Bulger), Rory Cochrane (Steve Flemmi), Jesse Plemons
(Kevin Weeks), David Harbour (John Morris), Dakota Johnson (Lindsey Cyr),
Julianne Nicholson (Marianne Connolly), Kevin Bacon (Charles McGuire), Corey
Stoll (Fred Wyshak), Peter Sarsgaard (Brian Halloran), Adam Scott (Robert
Fitzpatrick), W. Earl Brown (John Martorano) and Juno Temple (Deborah Hussey).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-black-mass-with-johnny-depp-as-t
he-dead-eyed-killer-whitey-bulger.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Black Mass: Johnny Depp as James J. (Whitey) Bulger in Scott
Cooper's film, opening on Friday. (C1)
 David Harbour, left, and Joel Edgerton as compromised F.B.I. agents in ''Black
Mass,'' about the gangster James J. Bulger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARNER BROS.
PICTURES) (C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%);
ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DRAMA
FILMS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); FILM GENRES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (72%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boehner, Strong Abortion Foe, Is Imperiled by the Like-Minded

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words


WASHINGTON -- Speaker John A. Boehner has been a luminary in the anti-abortion
movement since he was a little-known Ohio state lawmaker, and is widely viewed
as the most passionate opponent of abortion ever to wield the speaker's gavel.

Yet abortion politics are suddenly posing the greatest threat to his speakership
since he ascended to that position four years ago.

Conservatives on his right flank are questioning Mr. Boehner's resolve to stand
up to President Obama over federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and their
agitation is so great, they are mulling a challenge to the speaker's control of
the House.

''It's unfortunate that sometimes Republicans are self-destructive,'' said
Representative John L. Mica, Republican of Florida, who has served in the House
for over two decades. ''I would think the speaker can survive, but some have
made it an election issue, and that puts members on the spot. So there are no
guarantees. A small number of people can do a lot of damage.''

Those pressuring Mr. Boehner want him to agree to a strategy of removing all
federal money for Planned Parenthood in a short-term spending bill to keep the
government operating, an approach that would almost certainly fail in the
Senate. Without a basic bill to keep the government running for the rest of the
year, the lights would go out for a second time since Republicans took control
of the House in 2011.

Mr. Boehner now faces an excruciating choice. He could follow the pragmatic
approach embraced by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader,
to keep the government open and take on the Planned Parenthood fight later -- a
choice that could lead to an embarrassing challenge to the speaker. Or he could
fling himself headfirst into yet another spending showdown in which
conservatives have little chance of prevailing.

Anti-abortion groups view the struggle with unease. ''He has consistently been
there for the pro-life movement,'' said Michael Gonidakis, the head of the Ohio
chapter of Right to Life, which has had a close relationship with Mr. Boehner
for decades. ''I think standing up to Planned Parenthood will solidify his
leadership. I am hoping that enough of his members will convince him to do
that.'' But, he added, ''no one in the pro-life movement is interested in
replacing the speaker.'' Few in the movement seem to support a government
shutdown, either.

Congress has until Sept. 30 to find a way to avoid a shutdown, and there is
great division among House Republicans on how to proceed. ''Before the plane
takes off, you better know how, when and where to land it,'' said Representative
Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania. ''Right now, there is no plan, and the
plane is on the runway, engines revving.''

Members of the House have been preoccupied with the arrival of Pope Francis in
Washington next week and the intrigue around Mr. Boehner's future. It seems
increasingly likely that Congress will not turn to the spending issue until the
last week of September.

''We have no discussions of how to keep the government open just eight
legislative days from now,'' Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the
Democratic whip, said on the House floor Wednesday.

For Mr. Boehner, there is a stark incongruity. One of 12 children, Mr. Boehner
has taken a far more activist position on abortion than on any other policy
matter that animates Republicans. He has won numerous awards from anti-abortion
groups, marched in an anti-abortion rally in Washington and made dismantling
access to abortion a core legislative goal, overseeing the passage of scores of
measures to that end. ''I've never considered 'pro-life' to be a label or a
position,'' Mr. Boehner has said. ''It's just who I am.''

In one of his first moves as speaker, Mr. Boehner fought to end funding for
abortions in the District of Columbia against a reluctant White House in the
first near-shutdown standoff. He played a major role in forging the Pain-Capable
Unborn Child Protection Act, which the House passed this year, and has a 100
percent anti-abortion voting record. He addresses abortion in speeches to Roman
Catholic groups and refers often to the priests who formed his thinking.

''Mr. Boehner has always made protection of life a heartfelt priority,'' said
David O'Steen, the executive director of the National Right to Life Committee,
who added that no other speaker had been such a strong supporter. ''He has
always supported and promoted pro-life legislation, he has repeatedly
facilitated bringing pro-life legislation to the floor whenever feasible, he has
attended and spoken at our convention, and he has marched for life, the first
speaker to do so. We believe he cares deeply for unborn children and is doing
everything he can to seek their protection.''

But the Planned Parenthood funding question has become a proxy for a minority of
very conservative House Republicans who helped bring Mr. Boehner to power in the
2010 elections and have been working to push him to the right ever since.

The numbers opposing Mr. Boehner have grown in recent months, several Republican
representatives and their staff members said, driven in large part by their own
survival back in districts where all Republican establishment figures have been
discredited. That movement has been fueled further by the popularity of Donald
J. Trump, who has been critical of Washington leadership, and Carly Fiorina, who
made a passionate case against Planned Parenthood at the Republican debate on
Wednesday.

That thought has been echoed across the conservative news media and via the
Twitter hashtag #fireboehner. Even if the abortion matter does not push
Republicans to remove him, other fights may, including battles over the debt
ceiling, reauthorizing funding for the Export-Import Bank and removing statutory
budget caps.

Ultimately, it may be Democrats who provide the bulwark for Mr. Boehner to keep
his job, if the matter actually comes to the floor of the House for a vote. But
winning that way could further weaken his speakership as Congress heads into
still more spending battles in December. Democrats may face a huge choice for a
minority party: help weaken or even destroy Mr. Boehner, knowing his replacement
could be even more uncompromising, or maintain the leadership they know and
dislike.

''At this point, Mr. Boehner is either working on a deal with Democrats or
planning his retirement,'' said Representative Thomas Massie, Republican of
Kentucky, who has been actively opposing Mr. Boehner. ''It is obvious to
everyone, including the speaker, that he has more than 29 defections. There are
people who are already running for his seat right now.''

It could be that Mr. Boehner's detractors are merely noisy and that their
numbers are not sufficient to topple him.

It is the kind of fight that has not happened in modern history. Should Mr.
Boehner be removed, a clear successor, who would need a majority of the entire
House to rise in support, is not visible, and no legislative work could be done
until one was selected.

Electing a speaker in a time of tumult is not easy. In 1856, the House devoted
two months and 133 ballots to elect Nathaniel Banks, Democrat of Massachusetts,
against the backdrop of discord over slavery.

The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter,
and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/republicans-abortion-john-boehner-planned-p
arenthood.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner in Washington on Thursday. He is under
pressure to stand up to the president on Planned Parenthood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACH
GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US
STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%);
APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); JOHN L MICA (79%); CHARLES W DENT (57%); BARACK
OBAMA (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (56%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hero's Welcome at the White House

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 525 words


WASHINGTON -- Fresh from foiling a terrorist attack, receiving the French Legion
of Honor and fox-trotting on ''Dancing With the Stars,'' Alek Skarlatos, a
specialist in the Oregon National Guard, was celebrated at the White House and
Pentagon on Thursday with two boyhood friends and fellow heroes.

''Yeah, they gave me a lot of grief, as you can guess,'' Specialist Skarlatos
told Pentagon reporters, speaking of the ribbing he got for his appearance on
the ABC show from his two friends, Airman First Class Spencer Stone, a medic at
Lajes Air Base in the Azores, and Anthony Sadler, a senior at California State
University, Sacramento.

Not about to let President François Hollande of France get the only photo op
with the three Americans who saved a trainload of people en route to Paris last
month, President Obama received them in the Oval Office, where, the White House
said in a news release, the president expressed his gratitude for their
''selfless actions and extraordinary bravery.''

A few hours later, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter had his photo taken with
the three men as well, as Defense Department officials presented Airman Stone
with an Airman's Medal and a Purple Heart, Specialist Skarlatos with a Soldier's
Medal and Mr. Sadler with a Medal for Valor.

It was a gorgeous day in the courtyard of the Pentagon, and hundreds of military
men and women showed up to welcome the three, none of whom had ever been in
Washington before. Airman Stone sang cheerfully the words to the Air Force song,
''Off We Go Into the Wild Blue Yonder,'' while Specialist Skarlatos sang ''The
Army Goes Rolling Along.''

There was not a song for civilians who stop terrorist attacks, but Mr. Sadler,
smiling broadly, seemed to be enjoying himself as much as his two friends were.

It has been quite a ride for the three men since they stormed up the aisle of a
Paris-bound train in August, straight into the path of a gunman, Ayoub El
Khazzani, disarmed him and choked him unconscious. Airman Stone, who was stabbed
in the neck and hand, still wore a brace around one arm and had to clap during
the ceremony by hitting one hand against his forearm.

The meeting at the White House with Mr. Obama, Airman Stone told reporters after
the Pentagon ceremony, was the highlight of a whirlwind of appearances and
ceremonies.

Specialist Skarlatos, meanwhile, is making a bid for the ''Dancing With the
Stars'' Mirror Ball Trophy. The celebrity dance-off began its fall season on
Monday night, when Specialist Skarlatos and his dance partner, Lindsay Arnold --
she was at the Pentagon on Thursday -- performed the fox-trot to Afrojack's
''Ten Feet Tall.'' Specialist Skarlatos, who said he had never danced before,
left the judges impressed.

''I did not expect that at all,'' said one of the judges, Carrie Ann Inaba.
''You came out and showed us one of the best dances of the night. You had
technique, you had rise and fall.''

Bruno Tonioli, another judge, told Specialist Skarlatos he was ''born to
ballroom.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/a-heros-welcome-at-the-white-house.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met in the Oval Office on Thursday with, from
left, Specialist Alek Skarlatos, Airman First Class Spencer Stone and Anthony
Sadler, who were presented with medals for their efforts to thwart a terrorist
attack on a train last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPETITIVE DANCING &
DANCESPORT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (78%); TERRORISM
(78%); ARMIES (78%); FRENCH PRESIDENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AIR FORCES
(77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); ASHTON CARTER (73%)

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Chinese President's State Visit Has Weighty Agenda and Busy Schedule

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and YUFAN HUANG

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1597 words


Xi Jinping, China's president and Communist Party chief, arrives in the United
States next week for his first state visit. For China, a priority will be
bolstering Mr. Xi's stature at home, and the events planned should play well on
Chinese television. These include meetings in Seattle with American business
executives, a 21-gun salute on the White House lawn and a state dinner, followed
by Mr. Xi's first speech before the United Nations in New York.

Though common ground may be found on issues like climate change, Mr. Xi is
expected to yield little on points of contention between the United States and
China, including cyberespionage, island-building in disputed areas of the South
China Sea, and tightened controls on foreign businesses and nongovernmental
organizations operating in China. Here are the details:

The Itinerary

Sept. 22 Mr. Xi lands in Seattle, where he will be welcomed by a delegation that
will include the former Washington governors Christine Gregoire and Gary Locke,
who is also a former ambassador to China.

In the evening, Mr. Xi will deliver a major policy speech at a dinner for
business leaders and other dignitaries, including former Secretary of State
Henry Kissinger, sponsored by the National Committee on United States-China
Relations and the U.S.-China Business Council.

Sept. 23 Mr. Xi takes part in a round-table discussion with chief executives
sponsored by Henry M. Paulson Jr., chairman of the Paulson Institute at the
University of Chicago and a former Treasury secretary. He will also visit
Boeing's factory in Everett, Wash., its largest production site for commercial
aircraft. China is a huge Boeing customer.

Mr. Xi will also tour Lincoln High School in Tacoma, which he visited in 1993,
when he was an official in Fuzhou in Fujian Province.

[Video: Mr. Xi's connections to the U.S. go back three decades. Watch on
YouTube.]

Mr. Xi will attend the U.S.-China Internet Industry Forum, hosted by Microsoft
and the Internet Society of China, with Lu Wei, the Chinese official in charge
of Internet policy, and guests who could include Robin Li of Baidu, Jack Ma of
Alibaba and executives from Apple, Facebook, Google, IBM and Uber.

Sept. 24 Mr. Xi leaves for Washington, where he will have a working dinner at
the White House with President Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry and Susan E.
Rice, the president's national security adviser.

Sept. 25 Mr. Xi will be greeted with a 21-gun salute at the White House and hold
a joint news conference with Mr. Obama. Mr. Kerry and Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. will host a lunch for him at the State Department. This will be
followed by a visit to Capitol Hill to meet with congressional leaders and in
the evening a state dinner at the White House.

Sept. 26 Mr. Xi proceeds to New York for events at the United Nations
headquarters.

Sept. 27 China and the United Nations are hosting the Global Leaders' Meeting on
General Equality and Women's Empowerment: A Commitment to Action, 20 years after
the Fourth World Conference on Women was held in Beijing in September 1995. Mr.
Xi is scheduled to make opening remarks and to serve as chairman of the first
session.

Sept. 28 Mr. Xi speaks at the United Nations' 70th anniversary session. This
will be his first speech at the United Nations and will underline China's status
as a charter member, a co-founder of the postwar international order and a
permanent member of the Security Council.

Mr. Xi leaves the United States later in the day.

The Agenda

The United States sees these three issues as the most important:

Cybersecurity. The Obama administration says the combination of intellectual
property theft and espionage by China has reached unprecedented proportions. The
United States is contemplating sanctions against Chinese hackers, and to fend
these off, a senior Chinese security official visited Washington recently for
talks.

The South China Sea. The United States, worried about freedom of navigation in
one of the busiest commercial waterways in the world, has told China to stop
building artificial islands and to halt construction of military facilities on
those islands. China considers itself to have sovereign rights over about 80
percent of the South China Sea. It is unlikely that the two sides will bridge
their differences, but they may agree to try to manage them.

China's new national security law. The law, which China says is necessary to
meet a range of emerging threats, including terrorism and online espionage, has
raised fears that it will infringe on the ability of American businesses to
operate in ways to which they are accustomed in a free-market economy,
requiring, for example, that information systems be ''secure and controllable.''
Also of concern is related legislation that would require nongovernmental
organizations to find official sponsors in China.

China considers these the most pressing issues:

Developing a ''great power relationship'' with the United States. This goal was
announced by Mr. Xi in 2012, when he was still vice president, and is an effort
to be treated as an equal with the United States. Washington has resisted this,
partly because it would call on the United States to respect what China says are
its core interests in places like Tibet and the South China Sea.

Trade and investment in technology sectors by American companies. CCTV, China's
state broadcaster, reported that Mr. Xi's visit would improve business ties
between the two countries and narrow differences over protectionist policies and
online security.

The South China Sea. China also places this high on its agenda but is expected
to give little ground on its stand that it has ''indisputable'' sovereignty over
large portions of the waterway.

Previous Encounters

This is not Mr. Xi's first visit to the United States, nor his first meeting
with Mr. Obama. As Mr. Obama said in 2013, ''President Xi is no stranger to the
United States.''

In 1985, Mr. Xi, then Communist Party chief of Zhengding County in Hebei
Province, toured Iowa as part of an agricultural delegation under a sister
state-province program.

In May 2006, as Communist Party secretary of Zhejiang Province, he led a
delegation of provincial officials to New York, New Jersey and Washington to
promote the province and encourage investment.

In February 2012, Mr. Xi, then China's vice president, visited Mr. Obama and Mr.
Biden at the White House. He also stopped in Muscatine, Iowa, where he met with
his host family from his 1985 trip, and California, where he took in a Los
Angeles Lakers basketball game.

In June 2013, Mr. Xi met informally with Mr. Obama at the Annenberg Retreat at
Sunnylands, in Rancho Mirage, Calif.

[Video: President Xi Jinping and President Obama held a news conference after
their meeting in 2013.  Watch on YouTube.]

In November 2014, Mr. Xi met with Mr. Obama during the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit meeting in Beijing and announced an ambitious joint plan to
curb the carbon emissions that contribute to climate change.

Protocol and Security

China's glamorous first lady, Peng Liyuan, a former opera singer, will accompany
her husband. There has been no mention of their daughter, Xi Mingze, a Harvard
graduate, joining them. In Washington, all eyes will be on Ms. Peng at the state
dinner: Will she outshine Mrs. Obama in the fashion stakes?

Security is uppermost in the minds of Chinese officials. They have turned down
several suggestions for events aimed at making Mr. Xi seem less formidable,
apparently because of safety concerns.

Among those ideas: watching a Nascar race in Chicago, visiting a Starbucks
coffee shop in Seattle and attending a baseball game. Perhaps also for security
reasons, Mr. Xi is not continuing the tradition of his predecessors, who during
their trips to the United States made a point of visiting a university campus;
instead he is visiting the high school in Tacoma. (Hu Jintao spoke at Yale;
Jiang Zemin spoke at Harvard;  and Deng Xiaoping received an honorary degree
from Temple University.)

China's chief protocol officers were in Washington a few weeks ago, reviewing
every step of the trip. One of their requests: United States security personnel
guarantee that protesters will be kept out of sight and earshot of Mr. Xi. The
Chinese worry that protesters from Falun Gong, the spiritual sect, or critics of
China's policies in Tibet might appear in the same camera frame as Mr. Xi. In
2006, a Falun Gong protester disrupted a reception for President Hu on the White
House lawn, an episode Mr. Xi's trip planners do not want repeated.

[Video: A protester heckled President Hu Jintao at the White House in 2006,
shouting, ''Stop persecuting Falun Gong.'' Watch on YouTube.]

The Political Climate

Domestic politics often color a Chinese leader's visit. One of the Republican
contenders in the 2016 presidential election, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin,
urged Mr. Obama in August to withdraw the invitation to Mr. Xi and to ''focus on
holding China accountable over its increasing attempts to undermine U.S.
interests.''

His rival for the nomination, Donald J. Trump, has led the charge against China,
taking to Twitter and television with harsh words about China's economy.
''Because China's going bad it's going to bring us down, too, because we're so
heavily coupled with China,'' he recently told Fox News. He has also said he
would offer Mr. Xi a McDonald's hamburger rather than a state dinner.

[Video: Donald Trump: If I Was President I'd Buy the Chinese President McDonalds
and Sit Down to Work Watch on YouTube.]




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/asia/china-president-xi-jinping-state-vi
sit-to-washington.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US
PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT
(76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS
(71%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%);
PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); GOOGLE INC
(52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); US-CHINA BUSINESS COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL
COMMITTEE ON UNITED STATES-CHINA RELATIONS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ)
(52%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%);
NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%);
NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JACK MA (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%);
HENRY PAULSON (78%); GARY LOCKE (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE
(56%); SUSAN RICE (56%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FUJIAN,
CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quinn to Lead Nonprofit Group for Homeless Women

BYLINE: By NIKITA STEWART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 859 words


Christine C. Quinn, a former speaker of the New York City Council, has been
named the leader of a nonprofit organization that is one of the city's largest
providers of services to homeless women and children.

Ms. Quinn's new job with Win, or Women in Need, plunges her into the public
debate over homelessness, as Mayor Bill de Blasio, her onetime rival, is
grappling with a more visible homeless population and a shelter system with
little room to spare.

After reaching a record of nearly 60,000 people last winter, the homeless
population in the city has dipped slightly, but that decline has done little to
allay concerns among officials, social services organizations and others.

As of Wednesday, 57,206 people, including more than 23,000 children, were in the
city's shelter system, up from about 53,000 at the end of the administration of
Mr. de Blasio's predecessor, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Win's shelters, which
are part of that system, house about 3,900 homeless women and children at 11
sites.

In an interview, Ms. Quinn said that she was passionate about taking on such a
high-profile role, but that she was also ''a little bit nervous.''

The organization's charge stretches beyond traditional shelters. By helping
women with employment, education and other needs, the group works to move women
and their children into transitional housing and eventually permanent housing.
''That is an awesome responsibility,'' she said.

Although she was one of Mr. de Blasio's opponents in the 2013 Democratic mayoral
primary, Ms. Quinn said she was looking forward to a more cooperative
relationship in her new role. She said Mr. de Blasio and his administration
appeared to be doing the best they could with a crisis ''they inherited and had
on their doorstep on Day 1.''

Ms. Quinn, who starts on Nov. 2, is replacing Bonnie Stone, who is retiring
after leading the organization for about 15 years. Win would not immediately
reveal Ms. Quinn's salary.

The group has credited Ms. Stone with expanding the organization and increasing
its funding levels. In 1983, Win and the Church of St. Mary the Virgin in
Manhattan opened a shelter that housed four women and their six children. The
organization now has 500 employees and 400 volunteers. It placed 750 families
into permanent housing last year, and serves more than 11,600 people annually.

Win has an estimated annual budget of $70 million. The bulk, about $54 million,
comes from city funding, while it raises about $7.5 million in private
donations. The remainder of its budget comes from a mix of state and federal
funding.

Ms. Stone, 70, has been long been a voice in finding solutions for homelessness.
She previously served as deputy administrator of the city's Human Resources
Administration and as a deputy assistant commissioner and a deputy commissioner
of the city's health department, running the chief medical examiner's office.

Ms. Stone and Jaqui Lividini, chairwoman of the Win board, described Ms. Quinn
as a good fit for an organization looking to maintain and increase its funding
as it seeks to create more affordable, permanent housing for women and children.

Ms. Lividini said in an interview that Ms. Quinn was passionate about
eradicating homelessness and knew how to navigate government.

Ms. Stone, in her statement, called her successor ''a terrific choice to guide
Win successfully into the future.''

''She has the expertise and experience, not to mention the brains and the brawn,
necessary to lead the charge on one of the most challenging issues facing the
city today,'' she added.

Ms. Quinn has less experience dealing directly with homelessness, but as Council
speaker she had an impact on the issue in 2011, when she led the panel in a
successful lawsuit against Mr. Bloomberg. At that time, the Homeless Services
Department had instituted a policy that required homeless single adults to prove
they had nowhere else to go before the city would provide them shelter.

Ms. Quinn said the action was ''wrongheaded'' of Mr. Bloomberg, a political
independent, and added that she remained proud of her stance.

Ms. Quinn left government after losing her mayoral bid in 2013, but she has
continued to stay in the public eye as a special adviser on women's issues to
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat. She said she had been completing a fellowship
at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University when she heard that the Win
job would be opening up, and she had been subsequently contacted by a
headhunter.

She has come full circle with the new post, she said, because her first job was
as a housing organizer for poor and homeless people. She said she first
encountered Win in the early 1990s as chief of staff to Councilman Thomas K.
Duane, who had supported more city funding for the organization.

Ms. Quinn said she was hoping to maintain the good work of Ms. Stone and her
staff while focusing on a holistic approach to Win's clients. She said many of
the women were escaping domestic violence, dealing with eviction, and handling
other issues.

''Those are problems that don't disappear,'' she said. ''They don't disappear
the moment you get a lease.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/christine-quinn-to-lead-women-in-need
-for-homeless-women-and-children.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine C. Quinn, seen in 2013, will lead Win, a nonprofit
that gives services to homeless women and their children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER
MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(91%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS
(77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PRIMARY
ELECTIONS (71%); BUDGETS (63%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fires' Toll Rises as Power Lines Come Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words


The death toll from California's devastating wildfires rose to five on Thursday
as officials investigated whether one of the fatal blazes had been started by a
power line making contact with a tree.

Two bodies were found in the smoking ruins left behind by the Valley Fire
northwest of Sacramento, bringing the number of confirmed dead in that blaze to
three, with two people still missing, the Lake County Sheriff's Office said. A
day earlier, the Calaveras County coroner confirmed two dead in the Butte Fire,
in the Sierra Nevada foothills southeast of Sacramento.

All five people confirmed dead were found in their homes. The two in Calaveras
County, both men, had defied evacuation orders. Those in Lake County, two men
and a woman, may not have been able to get out in time, considering how fast the
fire there spread.

The two blazes rank among the worst in California history. Between them, they
have destroyed more than 800 homes and hundreds of other structures and have
charred almost 145,000 acres, and they are expected to keep burning for days or
weeks.

The state's largest fire, the Rough Fire in the southern Sierra Nevada, has
blackened 141,000 acres but has caused much less structural damage.

The Pacific Gas and Electric Company said one of its wires might have touched
off the Butte Fire; the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection,
known as Cal Fire, confirmed that it was looking into that possibility, among
others.

Electricity can arc between a line and another object, like a tree limb, when
they touch or come close to each other and drop sparks onto the grass, twigs and
leaves below. Conditions were ripe for that kind of ignition when the Butte Fire
began last week. Windy weather made trees and power lines sway, the state's long
drought has left the fuel on the ground bone-dry and ready to combust, and the
region was experiencing a heat wave.

''While we don't have all the facts yet, a live tree may have contacted a P.G. &
E. line in the vicinity of the ignition point,'' said Barry D. Anderson, the
company's vice president for emergency preparedness and operations.

Utilities around the country spend millions of dollars a year trimming and
cutting down trees that can interfere with lines.

Despite those efforts, problems with trees are common for power companies.
Daniel Berlant, a Cal Fire spokesman, said that in the last three years, in all
the wildfires for which the department has determined a cause, electric lines
were to blame for 9 percent, most often as a result of contact with trees.

Power lines expand when they heat up, making them hang lower and swing farther
in the wind. The largest blackout in North American history, which left much of
the Northeast and Canada without power in 2003, was caused in part by overhead
transmission lines sagging into trees.

Most overhead lines are not insulated to prevent errant transmission -- the
reason a squirrel or crow can be electrocuted, for instance, blacking out a
neighborhood.

Based on the first witness reports of the Butte Fire, officials said it began in
the rugged, wooded country between the small city of Jackson and the
unincorporated village of Mokelumne Hill, near the border between Amador and
Calaveras Counties.

To determine a fire's origin, investigators examine physical evidence like
cigarette butts or charred branches, gather eyewitness accounts, record wind
patterns and research whether utilities have met state requirements for
maintaining a safe distance between trees and power lines. Cal Fire officials
said it could take weeks to make an official finding.

Mr. Anderson said P.G. & E. had put great effort into fire prevention, paying
for lookout towers, cameras, brush clearing and public education. ''Since June,
we have been conducting daily air patrols along sections of major electric lines
to look for hazards that could spark wildfires,'' he said.

He added that the company would give Cal Fire the results of its inspections in
the area from last year and this year.

Even so, if investigators conclude that a P.G. & E. line started a deadly blaze,
it could feed longstanding resentment of the company in Northern California.

Officials have not disclosed a possible cause for the Valley Fire in Lake, Napa
and Sonoma Counties, which started Saturday and, whipped by high winds, spread
so fast that many people in nearby towns were barely able to get out in time.
Firefighters have not yet been able to search all of the burned acres, so the
death toll and the number of buildings confirmed destroyed could rise.

A lightning strike has been blamed for the Rough Fire.

Fire officials said Thursday that the Valley Fire was 35 percent contained, the
Butte Fire 49 percent and the Rough Fire 67 percent. Some evacuation orders have
been lifted, but thousands of people still cannot return home -- or even learn
if their homes are standing.

Officials cautioned that conditions remain dangerous; the fires continue to
burn, several thousand buildings are still considered threatened by them, and
hot, dry weather is expected to return this weekend.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/power-line-may-have-started-a-deadly-califo
rnia-wildfire.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A firefighter doused a line of flames last weekend as crews
battled one of California's devastating wildfires, called the Butte Fire, near
San Andreas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH EDELSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
(A14)
 Battling the Butte Fire, a firefighter covered up his face. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH
BERGER/REUTERS) (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%);
FIRES (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%);
ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY
(89%); WEATHER (78%); HEAT WAVES (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%);
DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HISTORY (77%);
DISASTER PLANNING (77%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); CONSERVATION (72%);
SHERIFFS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); EXTREME TEMPERATURES (68%)

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (85%)

TICKER: PCG (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC &
OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (85%)

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

What to Do This Weekend

BYLINE: By DANIEL McDERMON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 435 words


Looking for something to do this weekend?

The Times's arts team is here to help.

We asked our colleagues a simple question: What's one thing they would
recommend?

James Poniewozik, chief TV critic

The Primetime Emmy Awards will be announced Sunday night, but -- spoiler alert!
-- we already know that the best drama of the 2014-15 season won't win. FX's
Cold War thriller ''The Americans,'' about a duo of Russian sleeper agents
posing as married suburban travel agents, has developed an outlandish premise
into an intimate and rich story of morality and idealism, marriage and
parenting, topped off with a series of TV's sexiest wigs. Strike back against
the capitalist running-dog hegemony of Emmy!

(The first two seasons are on Amazon Prime; Season 3 is available for purchase.)

Mekado Murphy, senior staff editor

For a tense look at the war on drugs from a woman's perspective, don't miss
''Sicario,'' Denis Villeneuve's thriller starring Emily Blunt as an F.B.I. agent
pulled into a border operation with a mysterious mission. Strong performances
and sharp writing make this a film that will keep you thinking and keep you on
the edge of your seat.

(Find a showtime.)

Martha Schwendener, art critic

The NY Art Book Fair is the most comprehensive gathering in the country of
artists' books, catalogs, monographs, periodicals and zines, with over 370
exhibitors. It takes over MoMA PS1 for one glorious weekend.

(Friday through Sunday at MoMA PS1, nyartbookfair.com.)

Jonathan Wolfe, news assistant

True-crime enthusiasts on the stakeout for ''Serial'' season 2 can enliven the
wait with ''The Staircase,'' an eight-part series that follows the novelist
Michael Peterson and his defense team after Mr. Peterson was accused of
murdering his wife in 2001. The director, Jean-Xavier de Lestrade, seemingly had
access to every stage in the aftermath of the death -- from intimate moments in
the bloodstained household and the private deliberations of the defense team to
the high drama of the courtroom. Loaded with revelations both quiet and jolting,
its twists rival those of many fictional thrillers.

(Find a streaming option.)

Melena Ryzik, reporter

Ten years in, the Brooklyn Book Festival is still the borough's most must-go
literary event (also a prime place to find well-read dates, and/or spot a
literary Jonathan). Bring your tote bag on Sunday for signings and panels with
legendarily sharp authors like Renata Adler and newcomers like the poet Saeed
Jones, or check in on Friday for parties at the Greenlight Bookstore. Page along
at home with a new issue of Granta.

(Find more here.)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/what-to-do-this-weekend.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION
DRAMAS (77%); EMMY AWARDS (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(74%); FICTION LITERATURE (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); FESTIVALS (71%); MURDER
(68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (63%); DRAMA FILMS
(57%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%)

PERSON: EMILY BLUNT (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fiorina Exaggerates Anti-Abortion Footage

BYLINE: By ALAN RAPPEPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIRST DRAFT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 491 words


Carly Fiorina set off some fact-check alarm bells on Wednesday when she dared
Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Obama to watch undercover Planned
Parenthood videos that show dead fetuses. While the authenticity of the videos
remains a subject of debate, Mrs. Fiorina appears to have exaggerated their
contents.

''Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking
while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain,'' she said.

The video that Mrs. Fiorina seems to be referring to does show a still image of
a fetus being held outside of the womb. But it is not seen squirming as Mrs.
Fiorina describes. In fact, it shows Holly O'Donnell, an ''ex-procurement
technician'' for StemExpress, describing a scene in which another technician
calls her over to see a mostly gestated fetus that has a beating heart. There is
no indication that the fetus pictured is about to have its brain removed, as the
video implies.

StemExpress is a company that worked with Planned Parenthood to acquire fetal
tissue for medical research. It severed ties with Planned Parenthood last month
as the controversy over the videos intensified.

The videos Mrs. Fiorina referred to is among thousands of hours of footage that
an anti-abortion group has collected as part of an investigation into Planned
Parenthood. The group claims that Planned Parenthood's clinics are selling
tissue from aborted fetuses for profit, a charge Planned Parenthood denies. The
videos have galvanized Republicans who oppose abortion and have made defunding
Planned Parenthood a rallying cry in Congress and on the presidential campaign
trail.

''I'm sitting there and I'm looking at this fetus and its heart is beating, and
I don't know what to think,'' Ms. O'Donnell says in the video, as a picture of a
fetus flashes across the screen.

Ms. O'Donnell later seems to suggest that the fetus is responding to electrical
stimulus and that she is unsure if it is actually conscious.

''I know why it was happening, because an electrical current in its nodes were
still firing,'' Ms. O'Donnell said. ''And I don't know if that constitutes it's
technically dead, or it's alive.''

Factcheck.org found that the scene that Mrs. Fiorina urges others to watch is
not present in any of the Planned Parenthood videos, and Politifact called her
statement ''mostly false.''

Mrs. Fiorina's campaign did not respond when asked to explain exactly what she
was referring to in the debate.

Some critics on Twitter suggested that while Mrs. Fiorina was trying to solidify
her anti-abortion credentials, a true anti-abortion campaigner would have used
the word ''baby'' rather than fetus when describing the imagery.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/09/17/carly-fiorina-said-to-exa
ggerate-content-of-planned-parenthood-videos/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CLINICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); MEDICAL
RESEARCH (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (94%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Vaccine Debate Has Doctors Despairing

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 805 words


When Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist in Tennessee,
flicked on the television last night to catch the end of the Republican debate,
he watched a scene that felt unsettlingly familiar: A candidate was talking
about vaccines and autism.

Dr. Schaffner has spent much of his career trying to debunk the contention that
childhood shots can cause serious medical conditions, but he had hoped that
national soul-searching this year after an outbreak of measles at Disneyland had
moved the country past some of these old notions.

''I think it's sad,'' said Dr. Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine at
Vanderbilt University, who said he cringed through the autism exchange at the
end of the debate. ''I would have hoped, since two of the discussants were
physicians, that there would have been a ringing discussion about safety and
value of vaccines, and an affirmation of the schedule set out by the American
Academy of Pediatrics.''

For infectious disease doctors around the country watching the exchange, it felt
a little bit like ''Groundhog Day.'' In 2011, during the last election cycle,
Michele Bachmann, at the time a leading Republican candidate, called the vaccine
to prevent cervical cancer ''dangerous,'' setting off a controversy that damaged
the image of vaccines and set back doctors working to promote them as safe.

This time, it was Donald J. Trump who vigorously asserted a connection between
vaccines and autism, telling an emotional story of an employee whose
''beautiful'' baby fell ill with a fever after having a vaccine and, he said,
became autistic. While the two candidates who are doctors -- Rand Paul, an
ophthalmologist, and Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon -- said that childhood
vaccines were safe and important, even they shied away from the strict schedule
set out by the medical profession.

''We have extremely well-documented proof that there's no autism associated with
vaccination, but it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too
short a period of time,'' Mr. Carson said. ''I think a lot of pediatricians now
recognize that and are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which
those are done.''

Mr. Paul agreed. ''One of the greatest medical discoveries of all time were
vaccines,'' he said. ''I'm for vaccines, but I'm also for freedom. Even if the
science doesn't say bunching them up is a problem, I ought to be able to spread
my vaccines out a little bit, at the very least.''

Doctors watching the debate were despairing.

''I was thinking: There's a reason why we have a schedule,'' said Dr. Saad Omer,
an infectious diseases expert at Emory University in Georgia. He watched the
beginning of the debate, then stopped to do work, but ran back in to turn it on
again when some vaccine expert friends started posting on Facebook about the
back-and-forth on the stage.

''I had hoped was there would have been a stronger endorsement of the
schedule,'' he said. ''It's not one person's opinion. It's not even just the
government's opinion. It's based on very broad scientific advice.''

Still, the endorsement by Mr. Paul and Mr. Carson of delaying vaccines is in
keeping with what many pediatricians and family physicians reluctantly do behind
closed doors. If parents demand an alternative schedule, physicians often agree
to postpone one or more vaccinations. A recent survey of a nationally
representative sample of 534 primary care doctors found that a third said they
''often'' or ''always'' allowed parents to delay vaccinations or space them out.

The downside is that this leaves children vulnerable to potentially fatal
infections like measles and whooping cough.

''When you delay vaccines, you increase the period of time in which you are
susceptible to those diseases,'' said Dr. Paul A. Offit, a pediatrician
specializing in infectious diseases at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.
''We are seeing the effects of that. The outbreak we saw this year in Southern
California was among parents who had chosen to delay or withheld vaccines for
their children.''

In a bit of political jockeying, Mr. Carson suggested at the debate that only
vaccines that ''prevent death or crippling'' were very important. ''There are a
multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit in that category, and there
should be some discretion in those cases,'' he said.

But of the 14 preventable diseases that young children are vaccinated against,
Dr. Offit said, ''the only one you could reasonably say does not kill is
mumps.'' And mumps can cause permanent deafness and sterility in men after
puberty, he said. The other 13 diseases can be deadly. ''Tetanus kills, rubella
kills unborn children, measles kills, hepatitis B virus kills,'' Dr. Offit said.

He lamented, ''Why is it that everyone on that stage got vaccines wrong last
night?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/health/republican-presidential-debate-vaccines
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The presidential hopefuls Ben Carson and Donald Trump during the
debate on Wednesday in Simi Valley, Calif. Mr. Trump invoked a bogus connection
between vaccines and autism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); PEDIATRICS
(89%); AUTISM (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MEASLES (78%); MEDICAL
RESEARCH (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%);
PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); CANCER (78%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); PROFESSIONAL
WORKERS (76%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS &
INJURIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (67%);
CERVICAL CANCER (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (56%)

PERSON: BEN CARSON (92%); DONALD TRUMP (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RAND PAUL
(58%)

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (73%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Yellen Blinked

BYLINE: By NEIL IRWIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MONETARY POLICY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words


It has been seven years of zero percent interest rates. What's another two or
three months among friends?

That's the conclusion that Janet Yellen and her colleagues at the Federal
Reserve reached in their policy meeting on Thursday. They  left interest rates
unchanged at the same near-zero level where they have been lodged since December
2008. For them, the risk of changing course prematurely just seemed higher than
another couple of months of zero rates.

Ms. Yellen blinked, which is not to say she made a mistake. Sometimes blinking
is a very sensible thing to do.

It's clear that the Fed officials think that the economy is well on the path
toward healing and that neither a modest interest rate increase nor a volatile
stock market will wreck it. Inflation may have been persistently below the
central bank's 2 percent target the last few years, but it is on track to
steadily rise in the year ahead.

That helps explain why 13 of 17 Fed officials continue to expect that interest
rate increases will be warranted in 2015, according to newly released
projections. In case you're counting, that is a year with a mere 104 days left
in it, and two Fed policy meetings, which kind of narrows the possibilities of
what they have in mind for policy.

What comes through in both the written materials the Fed released Thursday and
Ms. Yellen's comments in a news conference is the sense that they want just a
little more assurance, from both economic data and financial market prices, that
their underlying assumptions are correct.

After all, inflation data has been undershooting the Fed's expectations for
years. A drop in oil prices and a strengthening of the dollar since July will
only hold inflation back further.

The unemployment rate is quite low, but there hasn't been nearly enough time to
judge whether the August market volatility, partly rooted in an apparent slowing
in the Chinese economy, is going to do any lasting damage to the United States
labor market.

Ms. Yellen took pains to argue that the Fed was not simply responding to a few
rough weeks in the stock market, but rather had its eyes on the United States
economy.

''The Fed should not be responding to the ups and downs of markets,'' she said
in her news conference. ''But when there are significant financial developments,
it's incumbent upon us to ask ourselves, 'What is causing them?' What we can't
know for sure is how much concerns about the global economic outlook are drivers
of those developments.''

It's true that the cost of waiting a bit -- to ensure that the economy continues
to perform the way the Fed's models predict -- appears to be low. (Unless, that
is, you count the lost productivity of scores of professional and
semi-professional Fed watchers who now get to spend the remainder of the year
furiously speculating on when interest rate increases will come).

The challenge she and the policy committee will face is that 2015 may end
without the open questions that led to the September delay being resolved. It
can take many months for financial swings to ripple their way through the
economy. For example, a steep drop in oil prices in the second half of 2014 is
only now affecting capital investment in energy exploration -- and hence United
States economic growth.

There is no assurance that these critical questions -- of whether inflation is
finally, truly, really poised to rise, and whether economic softness in China
and other emerging markets will crimp United States growth -- will be resolved
by December or even by the spring of 2016.

The United States economy is at an odd moment when unemployment is basically
back to healthy levels, at 5.1 percent (though that masks large numbers of
Americans who have dropped out of the labor force). Yet inflation continues
coming in less than forecast, and the global economy looks perilous.

Fed interest rate decisions affect the economy with, as central bankers are fond
of saying, ''long and variable lags,'' meaning it takes many months for them to
affect growth and prices. How long is uncertain. As Stanley Fischer, the Fed
vice chairman, said in a television interview last month, if the Fed waits until
it is absolutely certain it is time to raise rates, it will probably be too
late.

In other words, Fed officials inevitably have to make a decision based on what
their models predict, not on cold hard evidence.

The decision to hold off on rate increases this week suggests Ms. Yellen and the
Fed want a little more evidence that the economy is on the mend, but they may
find themselves back in the same spot before they know it.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/upshot/yellen-blinks-on-interest-rates.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet L. Yellen, Federal Reserve chairwoman, at a news
conference on Thursday following the release of the Fed's decision to delay an
interest rate increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. Traders had speculated for weeks over
whether the Fed would raise rates or keep them at near-zero levels. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES)
Traders awaited the decision at the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index options
pit in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) CHARTS: The Fed Is
Close to Raising Interest Rates, but Has Not Yet: Unemployment is falling toward
precrisis levels, and a new Fed labor market index that tracks a range of data
has recovered most of the ground lost during the Great Recession.
But officials remain concerned about sluggish inflation, which is both a sign of
economic weakness and an impediment to faster growth. (Sources: Federal Reserve
Bureau of Economic Analysis
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 White House Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%);
INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%);
INFLATION (89%); PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES
(73%); US DOLLAR (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS
(59%)

PERSON: JANET YELLEN (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Friday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 741 words


9 P.M. (Starz) FURY (2014) An American tank crew -- its leader, Sgt. Don Collier
(Brad Pitt), a.k.a. Wardaddy, and his motley crew (Michael Peña, Jon Bernthal,
Shia LaBeouf and Logan Lerman) -- fights its way across Germany in the spring of
1945 as the Nazis retreat toward Berlin in Hitler's suicidal last stand.
Children are conscripted and uncooperative parents murdered. And while the
Allies may have momentum, the Germans still have plenty of tanks, many superior
to the Americans'. David Ayer, whose drama is less an epic than a series of
tense episodes, ''has a way of filming violence that is both intense and
matter-of-fact,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. ''Like many other
post-'Saving Private Ryan' combat movies, this one emphasizes the chaotic
immediacy of battle, staking its claim to authenticity on the unflinching
depiction of bloodshed: Heads are vaporized by mortar rounds. Limbs are severed
by bursts of automatic-rifle fire. Human flesh is charred by flames and shredded
by shrapnel. But within this gore-spattered, superficially nihilistic carapace
is an old-fashioned platoon picture, a sensitive and superbly acted tale of male
bonding under duress.'' (Image: Mr. Lerman, left, and Mr. Pitt.)

10 A.M. (CUNY) BASEBALL: THE NEW YORK GAME Tony Guida hosts this special, which
distills the city's love of the game through interviews with Sharon Robinson, a
daughter of Jackie Robinson; the former Dodgers pitcher Ralph Branca; the former
New York Times sportswriter George Vecsey; the television sportscaster Sal
Marchiano; the former Mets player Ed Kranepool; the Negro leagues third baseman
James Robinson; and the historian John Thorn, who tells the story of New York's
first baseball superstar, Jim Creighton (1841-1862). The show also visits the
Major League Baseball Advanced Media center.

3 P.M. (FX Movie Channel) SAVAGES (2012) Two Southern California marijuana
dealers -- Chon (Taylor Kitsch), a cynical combat veteran, and Ben (Aaron
Johnson), a soulful Berkeley graduate -- and their gorgeous significant other, O
(Blake Lively), take on Mexican traffickers in what Mr. Scott, writing in The
Times, called ''Oliver Stone's feverish, fully baked, half-great adaptation of
Don Winslow's ferocious and funny drug-war novel of the same name.'' The film,
he added, ''is a daylight noir, a western, a stoner buddy movie and a love
story, which is to say that it is a bit of a mess. But also a lot of fun,
especially as its pulp elements rub up against some gritty geopolitical and
economic themes.'' (Image: Ms. Lively.)

7:30 P.M. (CUNY) SCIENCE GOES TO THE MOVIES Christof Koch, president and chief
scientific officer of the Allen Institute for Brain Science, joins Faith Salie,
an NPR host, and Heather Berlin, a neuroscientist, to discuss artificial
intelligence and the fluid nature of consciousness in films like ''Ex Machina''
and ''Blade Runner.''

9 P.M. (13) PEDRO E. GUERRERO: A PHOTOGRAPHER'S JOURNEY ''American Masters'' and
''Voces'' team up for the first time to explore the life and work of Mr.
Guerrero (1917-2012), a Mexican-American photographer known for his
collaborations with the architect Frank Lloyd Wright and the sculptors Alexander
Calder and Louise Nevelson. The Oscar-nominated ''Cutie and the Boxer'' (2013),
at 10 on ''POV,'' chronicles the sometimes turbulent, undeniably productive
40-year marriage of the artists Ushio and Noriko Shinohara. ''The great virtue
of 'Cutie and the Boxer' is that it refuses to simplify the relationship at its
center, or to take a side in the Shinoharas' marital drama and creative
rivalry,'' Mr. Scott wrote in The Times. ''But there is also warmth and
steadfastness, and the exhilarating sense that, even after more than four
decades, this lifetime collaboration is still a work in progress.''

What's Streaming Now

EX MACHINA (2014) Alicia Vikander portrays Ava, an exquisite embodiment of
artificial intelligence and the latest creation of a tech mogul (Oscar Isaac)
living off the grid in wilderness splendor. But can Ava think for herself? He
intends to find out by luring a young employee (Domhnall Gleeson) into his lair.
Alex Garland's futuristic thriller is ''a smart, sleek movie about men and the
machines they make, but it's also about men and the women they dream up,''
Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. The movie ''belongs to Ava, whose depths of
meaning enrich the movie and then engulf it.'' (iTunes) (Image: Ms. Vikander.)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/television/whats-on-tv-friday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILES KEYTE/COLUMBIA PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); CELEBRITIES (73%); SPORTS (69%); MARIJUANA (65%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); CANNABIS (65%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (65%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (64%); HISTORY (62%); DRUG POLICY (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%);
ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (52%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (50%)

PERSON: BLAKE LIVELY (79%); BRAD PITT (78%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Opposition Journalists Under Assault in Turkey

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1170 words


ISTANBUL --  Hours after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan lashed out against a
prominent newspaper here, an angry mob of his supporters descended on the
publication's headquarters, smashing windows, chanting profanities and trying to
storm the building.

Two days later, while the government kept silent over the episode, Mr. Erdogan
bashed the newspaper for a second time, criticizing its staff for distorting his
words in a Twitter post. That attack ignited a second wave of violent protest,
prompting the newspaper's editor to flee the building and make a live plea on
television for police intervention.

''I've been a journalist for 40 years and it's the first time I've been
subjected to an attack involving sticks and stones,'' said Sedat Ergin, the
editor in chief of Hurriyet, one of Turkey's most influential newspapers. ''If
our paper is being physically attacked twice in 48 hours by violent mobs, then
we must accept that this is now an issue about our life safety.''

The attacks are part of a growing campaign of intimidation against the
opposition news media here. Over the last two weeks, three foreign journalists
have been deported from Turkey; scores of people have been investigated on
accusations of insulting the president; and a magazine and opposition news media
organization have been raided, with some of their executives being investigated
on terrorism charges.

Even for Turkey, which is known as a hostile environment for journalists and
ranks 149th out of 180 countries on the Reporters Without Borders news media
freedom index, the wave of crackdowns has been fierce, with a new trend of
violent attacks inspired by Turkish politicians.

''Turkey's steady backslide on press freedom has gone into high gear over the
past month,'' Nina Ognianova, the Europe and Central Asia program coordinator
for the Committee to Protect Journalists, wrote in an email.

One of the leaders of the first protest against Hurriyet, on Sept. 6, was
Abdurrahim Boynukalin, a deputy for the governing Justice and Development Party.
He delivered a speech outside of the newspaper's offices vowing to make Mr.
Erdogan an all-powerful president by ensuring that his party wins an absolute
majority in a November election.

In video footage that surfaced after the episode, Mr. Boynukalin is seen
addressing a group of Justice and Development supporters expressing regret for
not having assaulted Hurriyet journalists before. ''Our mistake was that we
never beat them in the past,'' he said.

A week later, Mr. Boynukalin was promoted to the high council of his party.

''The attacks terrorized me,'' said Emre Kizilkaya, the managing editor of
Hurriyet Daily News, the English-language version of the newspaper. ''It's hard
to feel safe at work. Hurriyet's management is doing everything to ensure our
safety, but the Turkish authorities have failed to bring the attackers to
justice, and the president is yet to condemn the attack.''

Pro-government journalists have participated in the smear campaign against the
newspaper. In a column last week, Cem Kucuk of the Star Newspaper accused the
veteran Hurriyet columnist Ahmet Hakan of backing Kurdish rebels of the
Kurdistan Workers' Party.

''We could crush you like a fly if we want,'' Mr. Kucuk wrote in his Sept. 9
column. ''We have been merciful until today, and you are still alive.''

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu expressed his disapproval of the assault on
Hurriyet on Tuesday, a week after the second attack.

Media rights groups criticized the government for lagging in its response to the
attacks.

''The government should make every effort to ensure acts of violence are fully
investigated and those responsible brought to justice,'' said Emma
Sinclair-Webb, senior Turkey researcher for Human Rights Watch. ''They must send
out a strong message that lynch mobs should not be part of Turkey's political
culture.''

The clampdown against opposition news media outlets and their journalists is
unfolding against the backdrop of a renewed conflict between Kurdish militants
and Turkish security forces in the country's volatile southeast. That, in turn,
comes ahead of the critical election in November where Justice and Development
aims to regain the parliamentary majority it lost in the June 7 election after
more than a decade of single-party governance.

Analysts say the intimidation tactics seem to be working, with news outlets
censoring their coverage of the escalating violence in the Kurdish southeast for
fear of being prosecuted on terrorism charges.

Late last month, the Turkish authorities arrested two British journalists and
one Iraqi journalist working for Vice News while they were covering clashes
between Turkish police forces and Kurdish militants in the southeast. The
Britons were deported, but their colleague remains in jail. A Dutch journalist
was deported last week after being detained on suspicion of aiding the Kurdish
militants.

Ms. Ognianova says the ongoing detention of the Iraqi journalist, Mohammed
Ismael Rasool; the deportation of the Dutch freelancer, Frederike Geerdink; and
the prosecution of journalists and news media outlets -- all on broad terrorism
charges -- once again show that unless Turkey carries out a meaningful legal
reform, the government will continue to use ''archaic, vaguely worded laws'' to
intimidate journalists.

The Turkish police raided a weekly newsmagazine, Nokta, on Monday and banned its
latest edition from distribution because of its cover, which depicted a
mocked-up selfie of Mr. Erdogan grinning in front of the coffin of a fallen
soldier. The magazine has been charged with ''insulting the president'' and
''making terrorist propaganda.''

A couple of days after the attacks on Hurriyet, the newspaper's chairwoman,
Vuslat Dogan Sabanci, gathered staff members outside the vandalized building and
vowed to keep producing independent journalism.

''I strongly condemn this violence that shattered the door that opens to our
peace and freedoms, attacking our unity and fraternity,'' she said, addressing
her staff and a gathering of reporters from other publications. ''The reason is
our independent publishing stance, under very hard conditions. Our readers and
viewers should know something well: Being targeted in attacks of intimidation by
club-swinging and stone-throwing groups cannot and will not scare us.''

Almost a week later, after the newspaper replaced its shattered windows and
things seemed to be back to normal -- except for the presence of riot police
officers in the building -- Turkish prosecutors said they were investigating the
newspaper for spreading ''terrorist propaganda,'' the semiofficial Anadolu News
Agency reported.

According to the report, the office of Istanbul's chief prosecutor accepted the
front page of a pro-government tabloid newspaper as evidence to support a
criminal charge.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/opposition-journalists-in-turkey-
increasingly-face-violent-attacks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of the government protested outside the newspaper
Hurriyet in Istanbul on Sept. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS
(89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%);
POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%);
TERRORISM (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DEPORTATION (66%); TRENDS
(66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (89%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shy Debut With a Riproaring Cameo

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


The New York cabaret debut of Will Swenson at 54 Below on Wednesday evening had
one unforgettable moment. Who should join the 41-year-old Broadway singer (''Les
Misérables,'' ''Lestat,'' ''Priscilla Queen of the Desert,'' ''110 in the
Shade'') onstage but his wife, Audra McDonald? Together they delivered a tough,
combative rendition of ''You Don't Bring Me Flowers,'' devoid of the usual
sadder-but-wiser sentimentality. As they faced one another and hurled
accusations, Ms. McDonald's eyes flashed with mock fury, and the fight
culminated with her slapping him across in the face. The audience erupted with
delight.

Ms. McDonald's appearance, alas, was a one-night guest shot in an otherwise
mild-mannered show in which Mr. Swenson, who confessed to being very nervous,
struggled to transcend inhibitions instilled by his Mormon upbringing. He talked
at length about his losing struggle to embrace that faith and described his
two-year missionary stint in Ecuador.

At one point, Mr. Swenson ventured into hip-hop with a humorous but tepid
original rap song, ''Diddly Wack Mack Mormon Daddy,'' written with Jenny
Frogley, that barely registered on the Richter scale. His pianist and musical
director James Sampliner led a pop-rock group that included Randy Landau on
bass, Justin Goldner on guitar and Zachary Coe on drums.

Mr. Swenson's rendition of Neil Diamond's quasi-evangelical rabble-rouser,
''Brother Love's Traveling Salvation Show,'' conjured a few whiffs of smoke, but
there were no signs of fire and brimstone, bogus or otherwise. One reason was
that Mr. Swenson's voice lacks the thunderous heft of Mr. Diamond's mountainous
bass-baritone. He has a reasonably strong delivery that did right by the Police
song ''Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic,'' but he didn't begin to wrest it
away from Sting. Although Mr. Swenson has mastered some rock moves, his body
language is largely static. He has the stance of a rocker but not the pelvic
thrust or even a suggestion of gyration.

He was most comfortable in a laid-back mode, singing Mindy Smith's ''One Moment
More'' in memory of his mother and James Taylor's ''Shower the People,'' a song
about breaking out of your own shell. That pretty much describes Mr. Swenson's
agreeable debut, which evoked a baby chick newly popped out of its egg.

Will Swenson performs through Saturday at Feinstein's 54 Below, Manhattan;
646-476-3551, 54below.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/review-will-swenson-brings-his-broa
dway-voice-to-54-below.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Will Swenson: Sparks fly in a mock argument: The Broadway star
Audra McDonald, left, joined her husband, also a familiar face on Broadway, in
his New York cabaret debut at 54 Below on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V.
AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POP & ROCK
(89%); RELIGION (88%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); RAP
MUSIC (77%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (65%)

PERSON: AUDRA MCDONALD (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ECUADOR (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Lands Blow Against a Loophole

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words


Give Donald Trump credit for this: The Republican presidential candidate has
done more to put a stake in the heart of the carried-interest tax loophole in
the last month than the Obama administration has in the last six and a half
years.

That's not for want of trying by the White House. President Obama has proposed
closing the loophole in his budget proposals. He has tried to get rid of it as
part of bargains on tax reform and budgets. There have also been efforts to kill
it in Congress.

Yet it lives on, lining the pockets of billionaire financiers and hedge fund and
private equity managers by giving them preferential tax treatment on a large
portion of their compensation.

It's not just Republicans who have kept it alive. Senator Chuck Schumer,
Democrat of New York, has voted to change the law. But he has long opposed any
overhaul that singled out his wealthy Wall Street constituents and donors when
other types of investment partnerships -- oil and gas, real estate, timber --
also benefit from the lower ''carried interest'' tax.

Then came the Trump phenomenon. Last month, he said he would close the
carried-interest loophole. ''The hedge fund guys didn't build this country,''
Mr. Trump told John Dickerson on CBS's ''Face the Nation.'' ''These are guys
that shift paper around and they get lucky.'' He continued: ''The hedge fund
guys are getting away with murder.''

And at Wednesday night's debate, Mr. Trump raised the issue again. ''The hedge
fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now -- I know 'em all,''
he said. ''But they'll pay more.''

Earlier Wednesday, in a speech to the Business Roundtable, President Obama again
called for carried interest to be taxed as ordinary income rather than at the
lower capital gains rate. He put some teeth into the proposal by linking it to a
resolution of the looming budget negotiations and threat of a government
shutdown.

Even Mr. Schumer threw his support behind this latest idea on Wednesday, saying
that treating carried interest like ordinary income ''would find a wealth of
bipartisan support'' and could pave the way to a budget deal this fall.

Other presidential candidates have piled on. All the Democratic candidates are
on record against it. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont introduced legislation
in July to get rid of preferential ''carried interest'' tax treatment, and has
argued that President Obama has the authority to unilaterally abolish it. Last
week Jeb Bush, no populist maverick, jumped on the anti-carried-interest
bandwagon.

With the emergence of what seems a rare bipartisan consensus, the arguments
against closing the loophole -- both political and economic -- seem to be
crumbling.

''A year ago no one was talking about this,'' said Victor Fleischer, a law
professor at the University of San Diego, who has been crusading against the
carried-interest loophole since 2004 and told me it was the issue that had
defined his career. ''It's fascinating that there's been this resurgence of
interest.'' (Professor Fleischer is a contributor to The New York Times's
DealBook.)

Eric Toder, co-director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center in Washington,
said that Mr. Trump really put carried interest back in play. ''It's a good
populist talking point,'' Mr. Toder said.

Carried interest is the percentage of investment gains that hedge fund managers,
private equity executives and venture capital partners take as compensation,
usually in addition to a management fee. (''Two and twenty'' has become Wall
Street jargon for these funds' typical compensation scheme, meaning 2 percent of
assets under management and 20 percent of any gains.) Because the ''carry'' is
tied to performance, it is treated like an investment and subjected to the lower
capital gains tax rate, rather than as ordinary income, even though most
managers don't put any of their own money at risk.

The loophole taps into the public's insecurities over the fairness of the tax
system, and whether it unfairly benefits the wealthiest Americans.

''It symbolizes how the 1 percent, or the one-tenth of 1 percent, can exploit
the tax and legal system to their own benefit in ways ordinary people cannot,''
Professor Fleischer said. ''If you're a teacher or a firefighter or a
journalist, you can't transform your labor income into capital gains.''

The issue has especially resonated with Mr. Trump's supporters, because it
demonstrates that he isn't beholden to big-money interests because he can
finance his campaign with his own money.

And for other Republican candidates, there's the specter of the Mitt Romney
campaign. Exactly how much Mr. Romney benefited from the carried-interest
loophole could not be determined, since he refused to release his tax returns
before 2010. But as a former Bain Capital partner, he received substantial
carried interest -- 31 percent of his 2010 and 2011 income, The Boston Globe
reported. President Obama pilloried Mr. Romney over the issue during the 2012
campaign.

While distinguishing between ordinary income and capital gains can be complex,
''this one looks especially ugly to people,'' said Mr. Toder, who favors
repealing the loophole. ''Look at salesmen who work on commission. Their
compensation is at risk, too, but they don't get to treat their income like a
capital gain.''

And the people who benefit are among the richest in the country. Even though
most hedge funds haven't had a very good year, last year the top 25 hedge fund
managers earned a combined $11.62 billion, according to Institutional Investor,
or an average of $467 million each. The latest data from the Internal Revenue
Service for the top 400 earners, a list studded with hedge fund and private
equity managers, show that in 2012 they paid the second-lowest average federal
tax rate since the data has been collected, a mere 16.7 percent, in large part
because much of their income (an average of 57 percent) is taxed at the lower
capital gains rate.

That's one reason the loophole has survived as long as it has. ''The group that
benefits may be small, but they're rich and they give a lot of money'' to
politicians, said Daniel Shaviro, a specialist in tax policy and law professor
at New York University School of Law. ''To everyone else it can seem a vague
talking point. It's classic interest group politics.''

Estimates of how much revenue closing the loophole would raise vary, in part
because it's hard to know if hedge fund managers and others who benefit would
alter their behavior by holding assets longer, in that way deferring taxes. The
Treasury estimates it would raise $18 billion over 10 years; Professor Fleischer
contends it would be 10 times that much, $180 billion.

In Washington, carried interest has become a bargaining chip in contentious
negotiations between the White House and Congress. Most politicians would give
it up in the right circumstances, and it has always been on the short list of
what should be repealed if there were a bipartisan deal.

''What's frustrating is that carried interest is always held hostage to
negotiations over tax reform,'' said Professor Fleischer. ''And tax reform is
always coming tomorrow.''

In May, Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee, blocked an effort to link the carried-interest
issue to corporate tax reform, arguing it was an individual tax issue and should
be negotiated in that context, perhaps in 2017. But many Republicans have
indicated they are not against repealing the loophole, as long as they get
something from Democrats in return. (A spokesman for Mr. Ryan said he was not
available for comment.)

Republican opposition to reform may be harder to sustain now that Mr. Trump and
Mr. Bush have gone rogue on the carried-interest issue while also taking
populist stances on other economic issues.

''If closing the carried-interest loophole, ending subsidies for oil and gas,
and tackling inversions are good enough for Donald Trump and Jeb Bush, it ought
to be good enough for Republicans in Congress,'' Mr. Schumer said this week.

Although the political stars seem to be aligning in their favor at last,
opponents of the carried-interest tax break aren't declaring premature victory.

''I'm glad it's on people's radar,'' Professor Fleischer said. ''But I've
learned not to bet on it.'' After 11 years fighting the issue, he said, ''I'm
wiser than I was as a young pup.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/with-trump-as-foe-carried-interest-ta
x-loophole-is-vulnerable.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump speaking at a rally in Dallas this week.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, left, says that treating carried
interest like ordinary income would win bipartisan support. Mitt Romney, who
earned income from carried interest at Bain Capital, was pilloried on the issue
in the 2012 campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION
(89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT
(76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); CAPITAL
GAINS TAX (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); CLOSINGS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BERNIE SANDERS (79%); JEB BUSH
(79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Songs From the North' Works to Understand a People and Their Country

BYLINE: By DANIEL M. GOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 270 words


To the outside world, North Korea is unknowable, a nation reduced to caricature
by its own isolation and by cartoonish satires like last year's James
Franco-Seth Rogen comedy ''The Interview.'' The director Soon-Mi Yoo hopes to
penetrate such presumptions in ''Songs From the North,'' an essay built on three
trips she took to the country and fortified by extensive use of archival
material.

More art-video installation than typical documentary, ''Songs From the North''
is mostly nonnarrative, drawing on North Korean film and TV clips to sketch a
sensibility that -- however stoked by propaganda -- prizes family above all and
melds that with a zealous commitment to the fatherland. Song and music invoke
shared ideals of sacrifice, honor and patriotism; one televised event that
features a young boy crying as he sings of his love of country -- as an audience
of dignitaries also sobs -- is moving and disturbing.

Ms. Yoo, born in South Korea and now on the faculty of the Massachusetts College
of Arts and Design, was escorted by state-supplied guides, unable to travel or
photograph freely. Even so, her portraits of those she films convey their
humanity and individuality, and the glimpses of pool halls, amusement parks and
school groups are small surprises themselves, at odds with the relentlessly dour
images associated with the nation. Scattering history lessons and ambiguous
imagery amid Ms. Yoo's engagement with North Koreans, her film implicitly asks:
What must they think of us?

Songs From the North

Opens on Friday

Directed by Soon-Mi Yoo

In Korean, with English subtitles

1 hour 12 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-songs-from-the-north-works-to-un
derstand-a-people-and-their-country.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from the documentary ''Songs From the North.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KINO LORBER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FILM (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%)

PERSON: SETH ROGEN (91%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Border Permeated by Brutality

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1000 words


Plenty of directors make violent movies. Denis Villeneuve makes movies about
violence, which is not quite the same thing. A Canadian filmmaker equally
comfortable in French and English, he is especially interested in preludes and
aftermaths, in the tense moments before the eruption of violence and in the
shock and confusion that follow. His framing, cutting and sound design evoke the
feelings that motivate and arise from the shedding of blood: rage, grief, steely
resolve and wild panic.

Mr. Villeneuve's 2009 feature, ''Polytechnique,'' was the almost unbearably
meticulous reconstruction of an actual mass shooting at a Montreal university.
He followed it with ''Incendies,'' a grim family chronicle set mainly in a
thinly fictionalized Lebanon during that country's long civil war. ''Sicario,''
his new movie, visits a different war zone: the United States-Mexico border,
where the murderous business practices of the Mexican drug cartels threaten to
bleed across the Rio Grande.

The dry, menacing scenery surveyed in ''Sicario'' is real, of course, as are
some of the aspects of its harrowing story. But the desert and the drug war -- a
landscape evoking old westerns populated with a new cast of outlaws and would-be
sheriffs -- has also become fertile pop-cultural ground. We know the territory,
thematic and geographic, from ''No Country for Old Men'' and ''Breaking Bad,''
from ''The Counselor'' and ''Traffic'' and even ''Weeds.''

Mr. Villeneuve, aided by Taylor Sheridan's lean script, Roger Deakins's parched
cinematography and Johann Johannsson's slow-moving heart attack of a score,
respects the imperatives of genre while trying to avoid the usual clichés. It's
not easy, and he doesn't entirely succeed. But he's also trying to scramble some
of the usual codes, and to paint a morally complicated picture instead of
restaging a morality play.

''Sicario'' tells the story of an ambitious operation undertaken by an alphabet
soup of American law enforcement agencies against top-ranking members of the
Sonora cartel. The action is viewed mostly through the eyes of Kate Macer (Emily
Blunt), an F.B.I. agent who is brought into the plan for reasons she doesn't
quite understand. Nor is she given much information about what's going on once
she's on board.

Kate's expertise is tactical. She and her partner, Reggie (Daniel Kaluuya), are
SWAT-team specialists who, in the movie's first scene, raid a house whose walls
are filled with corpses, anonymous victims of the cartel who died horrible
deaths before being sealed between layers of drywall. Two agents died in the
raid, and payback is among Kate's motives. She wants to get the guys responsible
for killing her co-workers, she tells the guys responsible for the new task
force.

It's not so simple, though. Her boss (Victor Garber) hands her over to a jaunty
supervisor, Matt (Josh Brolin), whose organizational affiliations are unclear.
(D.O.D.? C.I.A.? Something else? Are flip-flops part of the uniform?) Matt is
all smiles, treating possibly extralegal combat missions like pickup basketball
games and answering Kate's earnest inquiries with mock-sheepish good humor. His
closest colleague -- minion? supervisor? consultant? evil twin? -- is a more
somber fellow known as Alejandro (Benicio Del Toro), haloed in sorrow and
capable of extreme acts of brutality.

Kate and Reggie are appalled to discover that their new assignment is being
carried out with almost complete disregard for national sovereignty, the rule of
law or basic human decency. As Alejandro suggests late in the film, there are no
good guys and bad guys in this world, only packs of wolves competing for
territory and dominance. ''Sicario'' suggests that United States government
authorities are one such pack, acting not in the name of justice or security but
rather of expediency and order. The idea that the war on drugs might be won is
not something anyone takes seriously. The only question is how the forces are
aligned and who is enforcing the rules of engagement.

Recent Mexican films -- including fictional features like Amat Escalante's
''Heli'' and a number of brave and powerful documentaries -- have examined how
the drug trade and the power of the cartels have affected all aspects of life
there. A subplot in ''Sicario'' concerning a Sonoran police officer and his
family gestures in that direction, yet the film stays mostly in shallow
action-thriller waters. Ms. Blunt is impressively glum and intense, but Kate is
a bit of a blank, on hand as a filter through which the audience can scrutinize
Matt and Alejandro, who are far more intriguing characters.

Though maybe not quite intriguing enough. Mr. Villeneuve conjures an atmosphere
of menace and pervasive cruelty, but after a while ''Sicario'' starts to feel
too easy, less an exploration than an exploitation of the moral ambiguities of
the drug war. We glimpse mutilated bodies hanging from bridges, hear stabbings
and shootings just out of sight and study the face of a man whose family is
being killed in front of him. But after a while these sounds and images start to
feel like expressions of technique, and they become at once numbing and
sensational, and instead of a movie about violence we're watching another
violent movie, after all.

''Sicario'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Grave bodily harm, threatened and enacted.

Sicario

Opens on Friday.

Directed by Denis Villeneuve; written by Taylor Sheridan; director of
photography, Roger Deakins; edited by Joe Walker; music by Johann Johannsson;
production design by Patrice Vermette; costumes by Renée April; produced by
Basil Iwanyk, Edward L. McDonnell, Molly Smith, Thad Luckinbill and Trent
Luckinbill; released by Lionsgate. Running time: 2 hours 1 minute.

­

WITH: Emily Blunt (Kate Macer), Benicio Del Toro (Alejandro), Josh Brolin (Matt
Graver), Victor Garber (Dave Jennings), Jon Bernthal (Ted), Daniel Kaluuya
(Reggie Wayne) and Jeffrey Donovan (Agent Steve Forsing).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-sicario-digs-into-the-depths-of-
drug-cartel-violence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emily Blunt plays an F.B.I. agent in ''Sicario,'' Denis
Villeneuve's movie about drug violence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD FOREMAN,
JR./LIONSGATE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA VIOLENCE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
CARTELS (88%); FILM GENRES (78%); FILM (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CIVIL WAR
(75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

PERSON: EMILY BLUNT (92%)

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (73%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lazy Sunday? Not This One

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words


This year's Emmy Awards host, Andy Samberg, has no shortage of people to turn to
for advice. A small army of his former colleagues at ''Saturday Night Live,''
including Tina Fey, Amy Poehler and Seth Meyers, has taken on the tricky and
somewhat thankless task of hosting a major awards show.

Mr. Samberg's questions for Mr. Meyers have focused on logistics: Should he
change in and out of tuxedos throughout the night or stick with one? Should he
hit the red carpet or stay focused on the show?

But Ms. Poehler, who has hosted the past three Golden Globe Awards with Ms. Fey,
had no time for such minutiae.

''I've talked to Amy a bunch, but it's mainly just been what to do with the
after-party,'' Mr. Samberg said in an interview. ''She's been very specific
about her personal needs for the after-party.''

Such as?

''There's got to be dancing,'' he said.

That might be exactly what Mr. Samberg needs after spending several hours in the
lion's den as host of the 67th Emmy Awards on Sunday on Fox. And it is not lost
on Mr. Samberg that his every joke will be dissected by millions of critics,
armed with smartphones ready for instant review.

''When you take on something big like this, where you have 15-to-20 million
people watching across the world, it's a lot of different senses of humor,'' he
said, sounding only a little exasperated. ''One person's watching because
they're like, 'I wonder if ''Mad Men'' 's going to win' and another person's
like, 'I wonder if Amy Schumer's going to win.' ''

At the very least, Mr. Samberg will be hosting an awards program that in the
last few years has acquired a renewed relevance. After years of diminished
ratings, the last two Emmy shows were the most viewed in eight years, with 17.8
million viewers in 2013 and 15.6 million last year.

Part of that may have to do with the public's embrace of television as a
meaningful art form, one increasingly drawing from a talent pool that includes
directors and actors who, in the past, had worked almost exclusively in film.
(And, as a result, those celebrities have increasingly appeared at the Emmys.)
It also comes at a time when, at least partly because of the rise of streaming
services, there is more scripted television than ever: An estimated 400 shows
will be in production by year's end, nearly double the number from 2009.

''This is one of the things we have been discussing a lot in the writers' room
for the Emmys, because it's really the big story,'' Mr. Samberg said.
''Television is expanding into so many formats, and there is such a wide swath
of different types of shows. There's something for everybody.''

And that variety has certainly been a theme of the TV season.

''There's no blanket statement for anything in TV right now, because it's so in
flux,'' Mr. Samberg said. ''You have things like 'Last Man on Earth' that you
would have to assume would be on Netflix or Hulu, but it's flourishing on Fox.
There's Will Forte looking like a lunatic with this super-big-premise show, and
it's on Fox and doing great and nominated for Emmys.''

Mr. Samberg has been ''crazy busy,'' he said, while preparing to host. He has
spent the last few weeks writing material for the Emmys, working on edits for
his movie ''Conner4real,'' scheduled for release next June, and doing table
reads for his Fox show ''Brooklyn Nine-Nine.'' (Mr. Samberg's co-star Andre
Braugher is nominated for outstanding supporting actor in a comedy.)

Mr. Samberg said that his goal was to tailor his approach for the Emmys'
audience without compromising his comedic sensibility.

''It's going to be a little more tame than, say, the digital shorts on 'S.N.L.,'
because that's late-night TV where we could do bleeps and blurs,'' said Mr.
Samberg, a star on ''Saturday Night Live'' from 2005 to 2012. ''But I'm also
five episodes into my third season of a network sitcom, so I know how to strike
a balance at this point. We're trying to make it feel like stuff I'd have fun
performing while also not alienating anybody.''

Striking that balance can be difficult. After Neil Patrick Harris hosted this
year's Oscars to mixed reviews, he told The Huffington Post that he didn't know
if his ''soul'' could bear hosting the awards again.

''It's so difficult for one who's simply watching the show to realize just how
much time and concession and compromise and explanation has gone into almost
every single thing,'' Mr. Harris said in the interview. ''Every joke. Wording of
joke. Placement of joke. Canceling of joke.''

Mr. Samberg has hosted awards shows before -- the MTV Movie Awards in 2009 and
the 2013 Independent Spirit Awards -- but nothing on this scale. He has
certainly seen his share of awards shows recently: He won a Golden Globe as best
comedic actor last year, was part of a performance of the song ''Everything Is
Awesome'' from ''The Lego Movie'' during the Oscars and appeared in a taped
segment with the actor Ike Barinholtz at the MTV Video Music Awards last month.

''Karmically, I'm about to host a thing and asking a million people to do cameos
-- I should probably pay it forward, as we all do say,'' he said.

Mr. Samberg said he was excited about the new award for outstanding variety
sketch series, because it ''brings so many funny people to the show,'' including
Ms. Schumer, who is also nominated for best comedic actress for ''Inside Amy
Schumer,'' and Fred Armisen and Carrie Brownstein of ''Portlandia.''

And while viewers should not expect a reprise of David Letterman's notorious
''Uma, Oprah'' routine from the 1995 Oscars, Mr. Samberg said he would embrace
one bit of advice he's received: Get audience members involved, whether they're
comedians or not.

''It means cutting to them for jokes and to remind everyone in the theater and
at home why it's an exciting night,'' he said. ''All these cool people from all
these different types of shows and corners of entertainment are together in one
place. That's the most interesting thing about award shows: You see all these
strange bedfellows.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/television/andy-samberg-emmy-awards-2015.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andy Samberg is set to host the Emmy Awards, a program that has
been resurgent, on Sunday. (C1)
 Andy Samberg said that other comics had advised him on hosting the Emmys. Amy
Poehler, he said, was ''very specific about her personal needs for the
after-party.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); EMMY AWARDS (89%); LATE NIGHT
TELEVISION (78%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%);
CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: AMY POEHLER (93%); SETH MEYERS (92%); TINA FEY (88%); AMY SCHUMER (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Liberty Relying on a Reluctant Star to Reassert Herself

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

Email: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 837 words


Once upon a lifetime ago, Epiphanny Prince scored 113 points in a high school
basketball game. Her phenomenal performance in 2006 broke a record set by Cheryl
Miller, who had scored 105 points.

Nearly a decade later, the 27-year-old Prince has become the catalyst for an
inspired playoff push by the Liberty. With a young team driven by Prince and
Tina Charles, the Liberty, largely ignored and marginalized by the news media,
are in position to scream for attention.

In February, Prince was traded to the Liberty from the Chicago Sky in exchange
for Cappie Pondexter. The deal has worked out for both teams. Pondexter is from
Chicago, Prince from New York, and the Sky and the Liberty could meet in the
W.N.B.A.'s Eastern Conference finals.

Who should get the credit for bringing Prince home? Regardless of whether
General Manager Kristin Bernert made the call or whether it was the team
president Isiah Thomas, Prince's presence has been a revelation.

The Liberty, who begin their playoff run on Friday at Madison Square Garden, are
the top seed in the Eastern Conference for the first time since 2002 and have
clinched home-court advantage throughout the playoffs for the first time in team
history.

Prince is not the only reason for the Liberty's success. Charles is a perennial
candidate for the Most Valuable Player Award, and Carolyn Swords, in her first
season back after sitting out a season with a variety of injuries, has given the
Liberty a tough inside presence, both scoring and rebounding.

But Prince, who grew up at the Ingersoll Houses in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, has
given the Liberty the look and feel of a professional team that belongs at the
Garden.

She missed the first 10 games of the season because of her basketball
obligations in Russia, where she has played in recent off-seasons. The Liberty
went 6-4, but since her return, they have gone 17-7.

Without Prince, Charles averaged 15.1 points per game and shot 38.7 percent from
the field. With Prince, Charles averaged 18.9 points per game and shot 49.4
percent from the field.

But the impact of Prince, who has averaged 15 points a game, goes beyond
numbers.

''What she brings us is the spirit of New York basketball,'' the veteran Liberty
guard Candice Wiggins said.

Wiggins, who won a W.N.B.A. title as a member of the Minnesota Lynx, called
Prince ''hands down one of the most talented players that I have watched or
witnessed.''

After a recent practice, Prince said, ''Whatever they ask me to do, I'll do.''

That is all well and good, but Liberty Coach Bill Laimbeer wants more from
Prince. Asked what he wanted her to do, Laimbeer smiled and said, ''Show me the
113.''

''She's a reluctant great player,'' he said. ''She could be so much better if
she wanted to go out there and be the star.''

Laimbeer, who was named the W.N.B.A.'s coach of the year on Thursday, continued,
''How do you score 113 points in a high school game and don't come out and try
to drop 30 every game on somebody's head?''

The answer is complicated and has a lot to do with evolution. My first exposure
to Prince came in January 2005, when her Murry Bergtraum High School team beat
my daughter's team by dozens of points and Prince scored her usual 45 or 50.

Her evolution over the next decade would be dramatic. It had little to do with
basketball skills and more to with life -- Brooklyn to Rutgers to Russia -- and
learning to do whatever it took to persevere.

''Really just becoming a professional,'' Prince said the other day. ''Learning
there was so much more to basketball than playing basketball, than just playing
the game.''

Prince said it took her nearly five years, starting with her matriculation at
Rutgers, to learn, for example, that she had to take care of her body -- ''that
I needed to eat better and work out more and get my body into a pro body.''

When she looked back at her high-scoring days at Murry Bergtraum, Prince made an
astonishing discovery. ''I was fat,'' she said. ''I have the pictures. I was
scoring points, so nobody would tell me I was fat.''

Finally at Rutgers, Prince was told by Coach C. Vivian Stringer that she had to
get herself in better shape and monitor what she put in her body. But it wasn't
until she arrived in Russia that Prince began to put fitness first to get a pro
body.

Laimbeer wants the lighter, leaner, 5-foot-9, 155-pound Prince to score in
bushels.

This will be a necessity if the Liberty hope to make noise and elicit more than
shrugs from potential fans.

''I don't care if she goes 10 for 25 in a game,'' Laimbeer said. ''We need that
10. That will eventually come out of her. I hope.''

Maybe it will come in time for the Liberty to make a run for the title, maybe
not.

''We have to win,'' said Laimbeer, who won three W.N.B.A. titles as the Detroit
Shock's coach. ''But we started something with this franchise. We started the
path.''

Prince, who broke a high school scoring record nearly a decade ago, can be the
unlikely trailblazer on that path for a team and a league.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/basketball/liberty-relying-on-epiphanny
-prince-to-return-to-her-old-ways.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Epiphanny Prince handling the ball against Lynx guard Anna Cruz
this month. Prince helped the Liberty earn the top seed in the Eastern
Conference playoffs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACY BENGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS
& RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); HIGH SCHOOL
SPORTS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(70%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (89%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA
(51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fiorina Offers G.O.P. a Pathway to Reach Women

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words


With a debate performance that was steely and at times deeply personal, Carly
Fiorina appears to have improved her standing in the race to be the Republican
nominee. But even if she falls short, she took a big stride toward filling a
role her party badly needs: a credible antidote to the gender gap and the
Democrats' claims of a Republican ''war on women.''

The question, as many Republicans see it, is whether they can seize on the
opening. A series of events building on the horizon threatens to feed into
efforts by the Democrats to paint the Republican Party as tone-deaf on women's
issues.

Republicans in Congress are threatening a government shutdown in a dispute over
funding Planned Parenthood. The government's spending authority expires in less
than two weeks, and many conservatives have threatened to vote against a new
budget if it includes any money for the organization.

In a separate move, Senate Republicans are moving quickly to schedule a vote on
legislation that would impose a federal ban on abortion at 20 weeks of
pregnancy. It would be the most restrictive abortion bill to reach the Senate
floor in a decade. Similar laws across the country are facing legal challenges
from women's groups that argue they are unconstitutional.

But with Hillary Rodham Clinton's popularity falling among women as questions
about her honesty and integrity continue to shroud her, many Republicans are
beginning to see Mrs. Fiorina as someone who, if she is not the presidential
nominee, is a much more serious contender for the vice-presidential nomination
or a large leadership role of some kind within the party.

''If she's not on the ticket, they would be foolish not to offer her a key role
in the next administration,'' said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned
Women for America, a conservative organization. The Republican Party, she said,
has begun to correct its past mistakes of neglecting its female talent. ''I
think they're learning their lesson.''

At the debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on Wednesday night, Mrs.
Fiorina spoke directly to the women watching in a way that none of the 10 men
with her on stage could. And yet she was cautious about embracing the role of
the sole female on the stage.

At one point, she was the heartbroken mother. Describing how she lost her
stepdaughter to drug abuse, she revealed a painful episode that many people
watching were unaware of: ''My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug
addiction.''

She said she knew how disgusted women everywhere must have felt when Mr. Trump
said -- and then later denied saying -- that she was too ugly to be president.
''I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,''
she responded.

And as some of the men around her struggled to name a woman who was not an
immediate family member to put on the $10 bill, Mrs. Fiorina dismissed the whole
exercise as empty symbolism. ''I think, honestly, it's a gesture. I don't think
it helps to change our history,'' she said. ''We ought to recognize that women
are not a special interest group.''

Her answer on the $10 bill question, said Kristen Soltis Anderson, a Republican
pollster and author, was instructive in how it revealed Mrs. Fiorina's
discomfort with being seen as someone trying to capitalize on her gender. ''She
resists that,'' Ms. Anderson said, noting that her own research has shown
younger women do not find it as important to vote for the first female president
as older women do.

''It's older women who are more likely to confess, 'Yeah, I give Hillary Clinton
bonus points because she's a woman,' '' Ms. Anderson added, ''whereas younger
woman say, 'I know there's going to be a woman president in my lifetime, so we
should just focus on who the most qualified candidate is.' ''

Winning the female vote is challenging for any Republican. Women have
traditionally identified strongly with the Democratic Party, while male voters
are split between the two parties.

The largest gender gap ever was recorded in the 2012 presidential election: 20
percentage points, according to Gallup. Mitt Romney won among men by 8
percentage points while President Obama won women by 12 percentage points over
all. But among white women, Mr. Obama lost with just 42 percent to Mr. Romney's
56 percent.

To win the White House in 2016, Republicans would almost certainly need to win
more than 56 percent of the white female vote. Many see Mrs. Fiorina as a way to
help them do that, either as the nominee or in some other role.

''Many Republicans will see her, even if she's not the nominee, as that magic
key that can unlock the gender gap,'' said Bruce Haynes, president of Purple
Strategies, a Republican consulting firm. ''That's a challenge that many have
feared has been set in concrete over time.''

But building a credible campaign, Mr. Haynes added, is far more difficult than
having a strong debate performance. And keeping that credibility intact could
get much harder in a government shutdown. ''You don't control the agenda, and
you have to react to the agenda of others -- such as congressional Republicans
who want to back everybody up against a wall as usual,'' he said.

For her part, Mrs. Fiorina is siding with the hard-liners in her party who want
to see a veto showdown with Mr. Obama, who has said he will reject any attempt
to take away Planned Parenthood's funding.

''This is about the character of our nation,'' she said emphatically at the
debate, receiving some of the most vigorous applause of the night. ''And if we
will not stand up and force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us.''

Democrats said that voters should not be confused about what Mrs. Fiorina is
really saying.

''You do that and the government shuts down. Plain and simple,'' said
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the Democratic National
Committee. ''She is indistinguishable, other than her gender, from her
counterparts on that stage.''

Democrats quickly exposed a flaw in Mrs. Fiorina's debate comments about the
undercover videos of Planned Parenthood that have led to the calls to eliminate
its funding. She dared the president and Mrs. Clinton to watch the tapes,
saying, ''Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs
kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain.''

The video that Mrs. Fiorina seems to be referring to does show a still image of
a fetus being held outside the womb. But it is not seen squirming as Mrs.
Fiorina describes, nor is there any indication that it is about to have its
brain removed.

With her social and fiscal conservatism, Mrs. Fiorina would seem to be a good
fit for a Republican nominating contest. A general election, however, is
something some Democrats said they would welcome.

''She was Mitt Romney before Mitt Romney was Mitt Romney,'' said Mark Mellman,
the Democratic pollster who worked on the 2010 Senate race in which Senator
Barbara Boxer defeated Mrs. Fiorina by 10 percentage points, in large part by
highlighting how as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard she had cut tens of
thousands of jobs.

Mrs. Fiorina not only lost that race 52 to 42 percent, she lost women too,
getting only 39 percent of their votes, according to exit polls.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/politics/carly-fiorina-gains-traction-in-de
bate-and-republicans-may-seize-on-her-appeal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carly Fiorina after the presidential debate on Wednesday in Simi
Valley, Calif., where she faced off with other Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX
WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); WOMEN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM
(89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS
(78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ABORTION (74%);
HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); ABORTION LAWS
(72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (71%); US
PRESIDENTS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); LIBRARIES (50%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rail Agency Nominee Questioned

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 732 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama's nominee to lead the Federal Railroad
Administration faced tough questioning by lawmakers on Thursday about the rail
industry's contention that it cannot meet a year-end deadline to install a
safety technology meant to keep trains from derailing.

Sarah Feinberg, 37, who was nominated by Mr. Obama in May, has been acting
administrator of the agency for about nine months. During that time, there have
been several train crashes attributed to excessive speeds, including in May,
when an Amtrak passenger train derailed in Philadelphia, killing eight people
and injuring 200.

Under questioning by a Senate panel weighing her confirmation, Ms. Feinberg said
the railroad administration would enforce the 2008 law that set Dec. 31 of this
year as the deadline to have railroads install the technology, known as positive
train control.

''On Jan. 1, we will enforce the deadline and the law,'' Ms. Feinberg said. She
said the agency would work with the rail companies to help them with technical
and financial challenges they face in trying to install the safety technology.
But she emphasized, ''We do not have the authority to extend the deadline.''
That authority belongs to Congress.

The deadline to install positive train control, which dominated the questions at
the hearing, has become a contentious issue. Some members of Congress have
proposed pushing back the deadline. A Senate bill passed in July would extend it
to 2018. But many safety advocates say the industry has known of the deadline
for years and should be able to install the technology on time.

A report on Wednesday by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative
arm of Congress, found that no railroad would be able to fully install the
technology by the end of the year. The investigators recommended that Congress
extend the deadline. Many railroad operators say they will refuse to carry crude
oil or hazardous chemicals after Jan. 1 if Congress does not do so.

At the hearing, Ms. Feinberg received tough questioning from Democrats and
Republicans, who asked if the agency had contingency plans if the railroad
industry did not meet the deadline.

''If you know that they aren't going to be in compliance at the end of the year,
what are you going to do?'' asked Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of
Missouri.

Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, said he and other panel members
were frustrated by the ''lack of a specific proposal concerning an extension.''

Ms. Feinberg was introduced at the hearing by Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat
of West Virginia, whom she has known since she was a child. Mr. Manchin called
Ms. Feinberg ''uniquely qualified to lead the agency.''

Ms. Feinberg, a former Facebook executive and White House adviser, has dealt
with several high-profile rail accidents during her tenure at the railroad
administration. In addition to the Amtrak wreck, a train derailment in Oxnard,
Calif., killed the engineer and injured about 30 people, and an oil train
derailment in West Virginia caused the evacuation of about 100 people from their
homes.

During her tenure, higher domestic oil production has caused a significant
increase in the amount of crude oil traveling by rail, setting off concerns
about the safety of those shipments through cities and towns.

Before she became acting administrator, Ms. Feinberg's most relevant
transportation experience was the nearly 18 months she spent as chief of staff
to Anthony Foxx, the transportation secretary. Mr. Foxx, whose department
oversees the railroad agency, has said that Ms. Feinberg has his full
confidence.

Railroad administrators without transportation experience are not unprecedented.
Recent examples include Gilbert E. Carmichael, who led the agency from 1989 to
1993 and was active in Mississippi Republican politics before he became
administrator. Likewise, John H. Riley, who led the Federal Railroad
Administration from 1983 to 1989, worked as a Senate aide before being appointed
to lead the agency by President Ronald Reagan.

During her time as acting administrator, Ms. Feinberg has issued a crude-by-rail
rule that imposes significant new safety requirements and has started a
partnership with Google to integrate the railroad administration's grade
crossing data into its mapping software, allowing users to receive audio and
visual alerts about railroad crossings.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/sarah-feinberg-federal-railroad-administrat
ion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%);
US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); GOVERNMENT
CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL
OPERATING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH
PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); ROGER F
WICKER (58%)

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clash Between Cuomo and de Blasio Has Hurt New York, Voters Say in Poll

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 622 words


The feud between Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio is a bitter
battle of attrition that voters believe has harmed New York State, a Quinnipiac
University poll released on Thursday says.

In the survey, 57 percent of voters said Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, both
Democrats, were locked in a political feud. Only 15 percent said they were
working together effectively. Among those who said there was a feud between the
two politicians, 78 percent said it had harmed the people of the state.

Both men have seen their polling numbers slide this year. Mr. Cuomo's job
approval rating stood at just 43 percent statewide, a low point in his
governorship, and voters disapproved by a wide margin of his handling of
education and government ethics.

But Mr. Cuomo was widely seen as having bested Mr. de Blasio in political
combat, and was viewed more favorably than the mayor among voters in New York
City.

The two men have long had a tense relationship, but their rivalry reached a new
pitch in June, when Mr. de Blasio publicly accused Mr. Cuomo of governing
through intimidation and vengeance, and undermining New York City's interests in
Albany.

Voters split almost evenly on Mr. de Blasio's main charge against the governor:
In New York City, 38 percent of voters said Mr. Cuomo had undermined the mayor
in Albany, while 39 percent blamed Mr. de Blasio for not working hard enough to
advance the city's interests.

Yet over all, voters statewide said by a 52-point margin that Mr. Cuomo had
gotten the better of Mr. de Blasio in their clash. Sixty-one percent said the
governor had come out on top, versus 9 percent who named the mayor.

In a smaller sample of New York City voters, 67 percent picked Mr. Cuomo as the
winner.

Speaking to reporters on Thursday morning, Mr. Cuomo took issue with the
perception that a political feud had interfered with governing.

''It's irrelevant to me if people think I am winning a dispute with the mayor,''
he said, adding, ''I would never allow a relationship issue with anyone to have
anything to do with how I serve the state.''

The results of the poll may raise questions about the political strategy behind
Mr. de Blasio's decision to confront Mr. Cuomo publicly. This summer, advisers
to the mayor argued that calling out Mr. Cuomo in sharp terms could force the
governor to shift course, given Mr. de Blasio's support among liberal Democrats
downstate.

Mr. Cuomo has recently made moves to appease the Democratic base: Last week, he
endorsed raising the minimum wage to $15, a measure he previously opposed. But
the governor has not adjusted his treatment of Mr. de Blasio, and he has been
unapologetic about his handling of the legislative session this year.

Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Mr. de Blasio, said in a statement that the
mayor would continue to challenge Mr. Cuomo when he considered it necessary.

''If there are ways to work productively with this governor, we will do so,''
Ms. Spitalnick said. ''If New York City is getting the short end of the stick
from the state, we will continue to call that out.''

In the Quinnipiac survey, Mr. Cuomo was viewed favorably by 45 percent of voters
statewide, including 55 percent of New York City voters.

Mr. de Blasio was less popular by both measures. Just 23 percent of voters
across the state said they viewed him favorably. In the city, 37 percent of
voters said they viewed him favorably, and 49 percent viewed him unfavorably.

The statewide telephone poll was conducted Sept. 10 to Sept. 15 with 1,466
voters and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage
points. The sample from New York City included 397 voters, with a margin of
sampling error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/cuomo-and-de-blasios-feud-has-hurt-ne
w-york-voters-say.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew M. Cuomo and Bill de Blasio last year. In a new poll, 57
percent of voters said the men were locked in a political feud. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%);
POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ETHICS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); WAGES &
SALARIES (70%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (93%); ANDREW CUOMO (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Released Top Members of Al Qaeda in a Trade

BYLINE: By RUKMINI CALLIMACHI and ERIC SCHMITT; Thomas Erdbrink contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words


The government of Iran released five senior members of Al Qaeda earlier this
year, including the man who stepped in to serve as the terrorist group's interim
leader immediately after Osama bin Laden's death, and who is the subject of a $5
million bounty, according to an American official who had been briefed on the
matter.

Iran's release of the five men was part of a prisoner swap in March with Al
Qaeda's branch in Yemen, the group holding an Iranian diplomat, Nour Ahmad
Nikbakht. Mr. Nikbakht was kidnapped in the Yemeni capital of Sana in July 2013.

The Iranian government, in a statement on Thursday after the release was
reported by Sky News earlier this week, denied that the five men had been freed.
The American official, who was granted anonymity to discuss the matter,
confirmed the release of Saif al-Adl, a senior member of Al Qaeda's ruling body,
known as the Shura Council, who oversaw the organization immediately after bin
Laden was killed by Navy SEALs in Pakistan in 2011.

Analysts tracking Al Qaeda described the release as alarming, given the
seniority of the five men. It comes at a time when much of the organization's
leadership has been lost in back-to-back airstrikes, including the death earlier
this summer of Nasser al-Wuhayshi, considered to be the organization's general
manager. At the same time, the organization had been hemorrhaging members to the
more brutal and media-savvy Islamic State.

The release of the men could re-energize the militant group, providing an influx
of vetted leaders at a crucial time, terrorism experts say.

Of special concern is the release of Mr. Adl, a former colonel in the Egyptian
military believed to be in his 50s, who is listed on the F.B.I.'s Most Wanted
Terrorist list, and who was indicted in the 1998 United States Embassy bombings
in East Africa. Qaeda operatives have described him as the organization's
operational boss.

Cynthia Storer, who was the Central Intelligence Agency's first full-time
analyst dedicated to tracking Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda, called him a
''founding father.'' She added, ''If the organization is having internal issues,
he is someone that could bring it together.''

A Qaeda analyst, Michael S. Smith II of Kronos Advisory, who has tracked Mr.
Adl's rise, describes him as ''the biggest fish of the big fish'' and argued
that Al Qaeda's future would rest on the shoulders of Saif al-Adl.

It remains unclear when exactly the swap occurred, with some saying it happened
almost six months ago. The release of Mr. Adl will act like ''a shot of energy''
in the leadership arm of Al Qaeda, said Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, who retired
last year after heading the Defense Intelligence Agency.

''The collusion between Al Qaeda and Iran is something we have seen before and
this trade, if known by the U.S., should have been included as part of the Iran
deal negotiations,'' General Flynn said.

According to the official briefed on the details of the transfer, the other four
men released by Iran were Abdul Khayr al-Misri, an Egyptian who formerly headed
Al Qaeda's foreign relations council; Abul Qassam, a Jordanian who was a deputy
to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the founder of the organization that later became the
Islamic State; Sari Shibab, a Jordanian operative; and Abu Mohamed al-Misri, an
Egyptian who helped orchestrate Al Qaeda's major attacks before Sept. 11, 2001.

After those attacks, Mr. Smith, said, Al Qaeda decided to move several
high-level leaders to Iran, believing that this would be one of the only places
beyond America's military reach.

Mr. Adl, for example, was dispatched alongside one of bin Laden's wives and her
children, and entrusted to organize their safe passage, he said.

It remains unclear when the men were detained by Iranian officials. They were
held under house arrest, Mr. Smith said, and continued to communicate with Al
Qaeda, according to intercepts and letters that were later recovered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/middleeast/iran-released-top-members-of-
al-qaeda-in-a-trade.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORISM (91%); OSAMA
BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%);
KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%);
EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

CITY: SANAA, YEMEN (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); YEMEN (92%);
PAKISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Says Prosecutor Choked Her in Bar Dispute

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 730 words


The quarrel came in a long night of drinking and carousing at an Irish pub in
Manhattan last Halloween, and as is often the case, the cause was trivial. An
assistant district attorney, dressed as Clark Kent, was searching fruitlessly
for his coat after hours of partying with friends and he picked up a woman's
purse and scarf.

The woman, Kirsten Schuck, 32, said what happened soon after was terrifying.
Testifying in Manhattan Criminal Court on Thursday, she said the prosecutor, Eli
Cherkasky, rushed her when she yelled at him for touching her belongings.

Scared, she threw a beer in his face as he came at her. He pushed her into a
stair railing, she testified, then put his hands around her neck and choked her,
forcing her violently into a sofa, then onto the floor. Hunched over her, he
kept on squeezing her throat and slapped her when she tried to pull his hands
away, Ms. Schuck said. Two men and a female bartender separated them.

''I was petrified,'' she said. ''I thought he was trying to kill me.''

Mr. Cherkasky, 35, is charged with third-degree assault, menacing and criminal
obstruction of breathing -- three misdemeanors each carrying a penalty of up to
a year in jail.

But his reputation and future as a prosecutor and a lawyer were also on the line
as his trial began before Judge Ann E. Scherzer. He has been suspended without
pay from the Manhattan district attorney's office, where he worked in the public
corruption unit.

Mr. Cherkasky's lawyer, Paul Shechtman, painted a starkly different picture of
the fight in his opening statement, denying his client ever tried to slap or to
strangle Ms. Schuck. He said a surveillance video would show that Ms. Schuck had
punched Mr. Cherkasky early on. Then, Mr. Shechtman said, she fell into the
railing and stumbled to the floor after she flung the beer at Mr. Cherkasky.

''This was two young people exercising poor judgment, and nothing more,'' Mr.
Shechtman said. He added: ''There was no assault. There was no strangulation.
There was no physical menace and there was no crime.''

Mr. Cherkasky's father, Michael G. Cherkasky, was the chief of the rackets
bureau in the same district attorney's office before becoming a top executive in
the security industry, leading companies like Altegrity, Kroll and, most
recently, Exiger. He was among the dozen or so people in the courtroom
supporting the defendant.

The case is being prosecuted by Nicole Donatich and Matt Hellman of the Bronx
district attorney's office; the Manhattan district attorney's office has recused
itself.

Ms. Schuck, who works for a fine arts consultant and lives in Brooklyn,
testified she arrived at the Failte Irish Whiskey Bar on Second Avenue near 30th
Street with three friends just before 1 a.m. on Nov. 1. Each of them had had a
single drink at a bar across the street, she said.

At Failte, Ms. Schuck and her friends ordered drinks, then repaired to an
upstairs room to play a round of beer pong. She bought a pitcher. Mr. Cherkasky
had been in that room since 10:30 p.m. at a private party that was winding down.

A bartender, Tiffany Honeycutt, testified that Mr. Cherkasky and a female
companion were inebriated, so she refused to serve them any more alcohol. Mr.
Cherkasky's companion fell off her stool and he pretended to fly, diving into
the crowd. ''They were very, very clearly drunk,'' Ms. Honeycutt said.

Ms. Schuck said she yelled at Mr. Cherkasky after he picked up her purse from a
chair, held it above his head, then threw it back down. She said he pinned her
arms to her side and shook her, but then backed off after a friend intervened. A
few minutes later, she said, he returned and again picked up her purse and threw
it down.

''I said 'Dude, cut it out, just go away,' '' she testified. Then, she said, he
screamed an obscenity at her and attacked her.

Ms. Schuck reported the assault to a detective at the 13th Precinct the next
morning. She had discovered Mr. Cherkasky's identity by searching for his
Facebook and LinkedIn pages online, having learned from other people in the bar
that his first name was Eli and that he was a Manhattan prosecutor.

She said that she had bruises on her face and back that lasted two weeks and
that swallowing was painful for a month. She also said she sought psychiatric
help. ''I was having insomnia and nightmares,'' she said. ''I was crying all the
time.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/manhattan-prosecutor-accused-of-choki
ng-woman-at-bar.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%);
CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MISDEMEANORS (76%);
DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%); JUDGES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); CORRUPTION (71%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: ALTEGRITY INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

N.J. Transit Facing Major Delays at Hudson Tunnels

BYLINE: By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 221 words


New Jersey Transit riders faced major delays again on Thursday afternoon because
of power problems at the rail tunnels under the Hudson River, officials said.

Trains were delayed by up to 90 minutes in and out of Pennsylvania Station in
Manhattan, New Jersey Transit said. Around 3:45 p.m., Amtrak officials said
normal operations had resumed at the century-old tunnels after an earlier
problem with the overhead power system.

''Residual delays can be expected through the evening rush hour as we work
through the resulting congestion,'' said Craig Schulz, a spokesman for Amtrak,
which owns the tunnels.

Amtrak workers made temporary repairs, Mr. Schulz said, and they were working to
determine the cause of the problem.

A series of train delays in July brought renewed attention to a proposal to
build new tunnels under the river so that Amtrak can repair the current tunnels,
which were damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. On Tuesday, Govs. Andrew M. Cuomo
of New York and Chris Christie of New Jersey offered to provide funding for half
of the costs to build new tunnels if the federal government paid for the rest.

On Thursday, New Jersey Transit said that cross-honoring of tickets was in
effect with the PATH system, New Jersey Transit buses and private buses at the
Port Authority Bus Terminal and New York Waterway.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/nj-transit-facing-major-delays-at-hud
son-tunnels.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); LONG DISTANCE
PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL
TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); BUS
STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2016 (67%); HURRICANES (53%); HURRICANE SANDY (52%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL
OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boko Haram Tied to Flight of Children

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words


Fear of attacks by Boko Haram, the Islamist extremist group of northern Nigeria
known for its deadly marauding and kidnappings, has uprooted a half-million
children in the past five months, Unicef said in a report released Thursday.

The newly displaced bring the total number of children who have fled from Boko
Haram militants in Nigeria and neighboring countries to 1.4 million, said the
report by Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund.

The report's findings suggested that efforts by Nigeria's new president,
Muhammadu Buhari, who was elected partly on a pledge to eradicate Boko Haram,
were not going as well as he has asserted. Mr. Buhari said last week that
military forces were gaining the advantage on Boko Haram, which has been waging
a campaign of bombings, burnings, abductions and plundering for years through
swaths of northern Nigeria, and more recently in Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

The group is perhaps best known for its abduction of more than 270 schoolgirls
from the town of Chibok in Nigeria's Borno State in April of last year.

''It's truly alarming to see that children and women continue to be killed,
abducted and used to carry bombs,'' Manuel Fontaine, the Unicef regional
director for west and central Africa, said in the report.

In northern Nigeria alone, the report said, 1.2 million children, more than half
of them younger than 5, have been forced to flee their homes, while an
additional 265,000 have been uprooted in Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

The report was issued less than a week after what appeared to be the first Boko
Haram bombing of a Nigeria camp for people displaced by the group. The bombing,
in Yola, capital of eastern Nigeria's Adamawa State, an area that had been
considered secure, raised new concerns about Boko Haram's reach.

In another indication of worsening conditions for victims of the insurgency,
Doctors Without Borders, the international medical aid charity, reported a
deadly cholera outbreak in camps for displaced people in Borno State. It said
more than 1.6 million people were now displaced in Borno State, most of them in
the capital, Maiduguri, the birthplace of Boko Haram.

The charity's report said the first cholera cases appeared about a month ago at
one Maiduguri camp and spread to two others. As of Wednesday, it said, at least
16 people had died of the disease, which can spread quickly.

United Nations officials also have expressed alarm about the conditions
confronting displaced people in Niger who have fled from Boko Haram.

Toby Lanzer, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator for the Sahel region,
said on Wednesday after visiting a camp in southeast Niger that its residents
were traumatized and destitute. ''It's an atrocious situation,'' he told Agence
France-Presse.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/africa/un-boko-haram-mayhem-has-displace
d-1-4-million-children.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOKO HARAM (95%); CHILDREN (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%);
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (89%); TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES
(85%); CHARITIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%);
REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MUHAMMADU BUHARI (78%)

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (98%); NIGER (94%); CAMEROON (92%); CHAD (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA
(79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Scores in 9 Seconds Help Broncos Top Chiefs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 451 words


Denver cornerback Bradley Roby returned Jamaal Charles's second fumble 21 yards
for a touchdown with 27 seconds remaining, completing a stunning comeback for
the Denver Broncos in a 31-24 victory over the Chiefs in Kansas City, Mo., on
Thursday night.

Peyton Manning threw for 256 yards and three touchdowns, the last to Emmanuel
Sanders with 36 seconds left as the Broncos (2-0) appeared headed for overtime.
But on the next play from scrimmage by the Chiefs (1-1), Charles was stripped by
Brandon Marshall and the ball bounced right into the hands of Roby, who ran it
in.

The sudden about-face came after Knile Davis gave Kansas City the lead with 2:27
left on an 8-yard run, raising hope among a sellout crowd that the Chiefs might
finally end some curses.

Instead, Denver pushed its winning streak to seven straight over its A.F.C. West
rival, and Manning improved to 14-1 in his career against the Chiefs.

TEXANS WILL START MALLETT Ryan Mallett is Houston's quarterback again and is
ready to take advantage of his second chance. Texans Coach Bill O'Brien said
Mallett would start for the Texans on Sunday at Carolina.

O'Brien said earlier in the week that he would not announce a decision until
game time. But after the news got out on Wednesday, O'Brien decided to make it
official on Thursday.

''You feel bad when it's one week,'' Mallett said. ''But also you're excited to
finally get out there and show what you've been working toward.''

Brian Hoyer beat Mallett for the job in camp. But Hoyer was benched in the
fourth quarter of Houston's season-opening loss to the Chiefs after committing
two turnovers. Mallett led Houston on two scoring drives in the final six
minutes of a 27-20 loss.

MCCOWN IS IMPROVING Josh McCown moved a little closer to starting Cleveland's
home opener.

Still making progress after sustaining a concussion while trying to dive into
the end zone for a touchdown against the Jets on Sunday, McCown is expected to
be cleared to practice Friday. As long as he gets medical clearance and gets on
the field, Coach Mike Pettine indicated he would play McCown over Johnny Manziel
on Sunday against Tennessee.

McCown has been restricted by the N.F.L.'s protocol on concussions from
practicing over the past two days. He has attended meetings and been on the
field watching as the Browns practice.

CROMARTIE OUT AGAIN Jets cornerback Antonio Cromartie sat out practice for the
second straight day, and quarterback Geno Smith participated in some team drills
for the first time since having his jaw broken by a punch from a teammate.

Cromartie, who sprained his left knee Sunday against Cleveland, has not been
ruled out for the Jets' game at Indianapolis on Monday night.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/football/nfl-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (88%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); CONCUSSIONS
(71%); BRAIN INJURIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (97%); KANSAS CITY CHIEFS (94%); HOUSTON TEXANS
(83%)

PERSON: PEYTON MANNING (92%)

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA
(86%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (87%); OHIO, USA
(86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

MSNBC Retools to Sharpen Its Focus on Hard News

BYLINE: By EMILY STEEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 414 words


MSNBC's shift to more hard news coverage during the day is starting to come into
focus in advance of Brian Williams's return to the air on the cable news network
next week.

NBC News announced on Thursday that Kate Snow, an NBC News national
correspondent, will anchor news coverage at MSNBC from 3 to 5 p.m. during the
week and anchor the Sunday edition of ''NBC Nightly News.''

Chuck Todd, moderator of NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' will host a new daily show at
5 p.m. called ''MTP Daily'' starting Sept. 28, which executives hope will become
the ''cable news show of record'' for the 2016 campaign.

The network also announced a series of behind-the-scenes leadership changes:
Izzy Povich was named the executive producer of morning news coverage and Pat
Burkey the executive producer of afternoon news coverage.

The changes coincide with the return of Mr. Williams, the former anchor of
''Nightly News,'' who in February was suspended for six months without pay after
he acknowledged misleading viewers about his experience in a helicopter attack
in Iraq.

Mr. Williams will start on Tuesday in his new role as an anchor of breaking news
and special reports at MSNBC, coinciding with Pope Francis's arrival in
Washington for his United States visit.

MSNBC, which has experienced stark ratings declines, has shaken up its daytime
lineup significantly in the last several months in an attempt to shift from its
left-leaning opinion-based coverage to more hard news.

''That is what MSNBC was created for: It was created to put NBC News in the 24/7
news business,'' Andrew Lack, chairman of NBC News, said in an interview.

To that end, the network canceled a series of shows, including programs hosted
by Ronan Farrow and Joy Reid, as well as ''The Cycle,'' ''Now With Alex Wagner''
and ''The Ed Show.'' The Rev. Al Sharpton's ''PoliticsNation'' show also was
moved from its daily 6 p.m. time slot to a weekly broadcast on Sunday mornings.

''Previously, the focus was not on covering the news as much as talking about
what had already happened, and not focused on how to be reporting in the field
what was breaking,'' Mr. Lack added.

The new developments signal the coming together of NBC News with MSNBC into one
news operation that pushes its coverage across broadcast, cable and digital
outlets.

''This is about NBC News and MSNBC reintegrating in a way that makes clear that
the power of NBC News is these two parts of the equation,'' he said.
''Separated, we are not as strong.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/media/msnbc-changes-lineup-to-sharpen
-hard-news-focus.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kate Snow and Willie Geist on NBC's ''Today.'' Ms. Snow, an NBC
News correspondent, will anchor MSNBC news coverage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER
KRAMER/NBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); NEWS REPORTING
(89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%);
INTERVIEWS (77%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (97%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (97%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Movies

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3633 words


Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English
subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases: nytimes.com/movies.

'American Ultra' (R, 1:36) Jesse Eisenberg plays a stoner who discovers that he
is a shelved C.I.A. experiment in this comic thriller, which is more thriller
than comedy. Kristen Stewart is his girlfriend. It's not a bad movie, but stoner
humor has been pretty heavily mined already on the big screen, so the fatigue of
familiarity haunts it. (Neil Genzlinger)

? 'Amy' (R, 2:08) Asif Kapadia's shattering biographical portrait of the British
singer and songwriter Amy Winehouse traces the arc of her short, messy life from
smoky-voiced jazz singer to global pop sensation to her death in 2011, at 27,
from alcohol poisoning. This material makes for uneasy viewing, as do some of
her agonizing self-portraits, though there's a great deal more to this
documentary than sad spectacle. (Manohla Dargis)

'Ant-Man' (PG-13, 1:57) Paul Rudd joins the Marvel Universe as Scott Lang, a
skilled thief who crosses paths with a cranky scientist (Michael Douglas) and
his impatient daughter (Evangeline Lilly). Directed by Peyton Reed and enlivened
by a supporting cast that includes Michael Peña, Judy Greer and the rapper T.I.,
this is a lighthearted, small-stakes superhero movie. (A.O. Scott)

'Assassination'  (No rating, 2:20) Set mainly in the 1930s, when Korea was
chafing under Japanese occupation, Choi Dong-hoon's bursting-at-the-seams drama
packs a triad of assassins, a slew of double-crosses and a separated-at-birth
subplot into an overlong, overcomplicated homage to resistance. (Jeannette
Catsoulis)

'Best Of Enemies' (R, 1:27) In 1968, ABC News hired Gore Vidal and William F.
Buckley Jr., intellectual titans of the day with a shared penchant for
television showboating, to debate each other during that year's presidential
nominating conventions. Their encounters are notorious for venom and not always
high-minded invective (Buckley famously threatened to ''sock'' Vidal in the
face). In Morgan Neville and Robert Gordon's lively documentary, those televised
skirmishes are seen as a turning point in the history of American politics and
mass media, to be viewed both with nostalgia and with dread. (Scott)

? 'The Black Panthers: Vanguard of the Revolution' (No rating, 1:56) Stanley
Nelson's documentary traces the rise and fall of the Black Panthers, relying on
a rich archive of images and interviews with rank-and-file members of the party.
Like all good works of history, this film doesn't insist on its contemporary
relevance, but the echoes of the late 1960s to the time of the Black Lives
Matter movement are unmistakable. (Scott)

? 'Breathe' (No rating, 1:31) The scary, spellbinding performance of Lou De
Laâge in the French movie about of a high school friendship that goes bad is so
gripping that her dangerous mixture of sensuality and bravado brings to mind
Angelina Jolie in ''Girl, Interrupted'' and Jeanne Moreau's Catherine in ''Jules
and Jim.'' She is the kind of seductive daredevil who challenges admirers to
follow her into the fire, no matter what the consequences. (Stephen Holden)

? 'A Brilliant Young Mind' (No rating, 1:51) The film refuses to soft-pedal the
infuriating arrogance and coldness of its protagonist (Asa Butterfield), a
British math prodigy with autism. More than most films that address the
condition, this one shows the amount of patience, understanding and commitment
required from caring parents and friends who deal with someone who, however
gifted, may appear selfish and unfeeling. (Holden)

'Coming Home' (PG-13, 1:49) The director Zhang Yimou reunites with Gong Li, who
starred in his great films of the 1980s and '90s, in this gentle story of a
family recovering from the disaster of the Cultural Revolution. It's a slightly
sentimental fable built around a core of almost unbearable pain. (Scott)

? 'The Diary of a Teenage Girl' (R, 1:42) A terrific Bel Powley stars as a
15-year-old fledgling cartoonist who, while living out a freewheeling 1970s
adolescence, traces her passions, anxieties and sexual relationship with her
mother's boyfriend (Alexander Skarsgaard). Marielle Heller directed, from the
book by Phoebe Gloeckner; Kristen Wiig co-stars. (Dargis)

'Dragon Blade' (R, 1:43) Daniel Lee's nutsy maximalist extravaganza suggests a
Cecil B. DeMille Bible epic, a Chinese military parade and a Busby Berkeley
musical, at times all at once. And while it can be tough to find the human pulse
amid the spectacle noise, Jackie Chan, John Cusack, Adrien Brody and a trillion
horse-riding extras are also part of the very big picture. (Dargis)

? 'The End of the Tour' (R, 1:46) Jason Segel plays the novelist David Foster
Wallace and Jesse Eisenberg is David Lipsky, a fellow author writing a profile
of the newly famous Wallace for Rolling Stone magazine. Both performances are
sharp and complicated, and the film, directed by James Ponsoldt from a script by
Donald Margulies, jettisons biopic conventions to become a subtle and unsettling
exploration of literary ambition in an age of celebrity. (Scott)

? 'The Gift' (R, 1:48) A movie that starts out as a conventional stalker
thriller makes a U-turn and emerges as a superior Hitchcockian exercise in
deception that becomes a dour fable of winners and losers in the capitalist rat
race. (Holden)

? 'Goodnight Mommy' (R, 1:40) Unspooling with virtually no music and a seriously
unsettling sound design, this richly photographed and carefully controlled
creep-out (from the Austrian directors Veronika Franz and Severin Fiala) centers
on the escalating cruelty of twin boys who come to believe that their mother is
an impostor. (Catsoulis)

? 'Grandma' (R, 1:20) A small marvel. Lily Tomlin plays a cantankerous feminist
poet whose pregnant granddaughter (Julia Garner) wants an abortion. Paul Weitz
wrote and directed this intimate, heartfelt and extremely funny comedy. With
Marcia Gay Harden, Sam Elliott and Judy Greer. (Scott)

'Hitman: Agent 47' (R, 1:38) Trading brains for bullets and characters for
windup toys, Aleksander Bach's videogame-derived tale of genetically engineered
slayers (Zachary Quinto and Rupert Friend) is a sexless, virtually bloodless
chain of preposterous battles rendered in a two-dimensional gloss. (Catsoulis)

? 'Inside Out' (PG, 1:42) Voiced by a cast of blue-chip comic performers
(principally Amy Poehler, Bill Hader, Phyllis Smith, Lewis Black and Mindy
Kaling), this Pixar gem works on one level as a workplace sitcom set in the mind
of an 11-year-old girl. It's funny and visually inventive. But it also has a
profound and powerful emotional resonance, as Pete Docter, the writer and
director, conducts a tour of the mental life of a child on the verge of
momentous changes. (Scott)

'Irrational Man' (R, 1:34) A miscast if watchable Joaquin Phoenix plays a
philosophy professor who journeys to the dark side in Woody Allen's existential
dirge. Emma Stone plays the foolish student who falls for the moody prof. Mr.
Allen darts around the Big Issues without ever advancing an interesting
argument. (Dargis)

'Jurassic World' (PG-13, 2:04) There's more flab than muscle packed on this
galumphing franchise reboot, which, as it lumbers from scene to scene, reminds
you of what a great action god Steven Spielberg is. Too bad he didn't take the
reins on this, which features Chris Pratt, Bryce Dallas Howard and digital
dinos. (Dargis)

? 'Learning to Drive' (R, 1:29) This small, smart dual portrait of the deepening
friendship between a New York book critic (Patricia Clarkson) and her
Indian-American driving instructor (Ben Kingsley) belongs to a school of
grown-up, low-drama two-handers that doesn't condescend to characters from
different cultures and backgrounds. (Holden)

'Listen to Me Marlon' (No rating, 1:40) For this intimate documentary, the
British director Stevan Riley combines a bounty of visual material with snippets
from the many personal audio recordings that Marlon Brando made during his
lifetime. The movie brings you ear-whisperingly close to its subject, whose
legacy was partly tarnished by an entertainment press that punishes those who
refuse to play the game. (Dargis)

? 'Mad Max: Fury Road' (R, 2:00) George Miller, the Australian action maestro
who directed the three earlier ''Mad Max'' movies before moving on to the
''Happy Feet'' franchise, returns to roaring, squalling, high-octane form in
this episode, which is both a relentless car-chase movie and a stirring feminist
fable. Tom Hardy is excellent as the road-weary, haunted Max, but the movie
belongs to Charlize Theron as Imperator Furiosa, a one-armed truck-driver turned
liberator and avenger of oppressed women. (Scott)

'The Man From U.N.C.L.E.' (PG-13, 1:56) At times Guy Ritchie's latest project
works better as a fashion show than a movie, with a wardrobe that expresses more
about the era than anything in the script. He tends to flaunt his wares like a
store clerk, fawning over the clothes, chairs and cars, and his usual rabbity
pace slows to a tortoiselike crawl whenever the actors deliver a lot of words,
which gratefully isn't often. (Dargis)

'Meet the Patels' (PG, 1:28) This tidy, easygoing documentary -- about the
efforts of Indian-born parents to marry off their prosperous son (the actor Ravi
Patel) through assorted matchmaking means -- is a fascinating, good-humored and
sometimes dramatic examination of family dynamics. Though Mr. Patel is on camera
most often (shot by his wry, understated foil, sister and co-director, Geeta),
it's his parents and the barely seen Geeta who prove most compelling. (Andy
Webster)

? 'Meru' (R, 1:30) An ultrasmooth blend of conventional documentary techniques
and uncommon ambition, Jimmy Chin and Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi's blindingly
beautiful account of two terrifying climbing expeditions on Mount Meru in India
pokes at the psychology of extremity and illuminates personalities for whom
calculating risk is a way of life. (Catsoulis)

'Minions' (PG, 1:28) The little yellow critters from the ''Despicable Me''
franchise now have a movie to call their own. The jokes are plentiful and often
ticklish, visual as well as verbal, though the comedy winds down once a story
and other characters (voiced by the likes of Sandra Bullock) begin to intrude.
(Dargis)

'Mission: Impossible -- Rogue Nation' (PG-13, 2:11) See Tom Cruise run. Run Tom,
run -- fast and entertainingly. (Dargis)

? 'Mistress America' (R, 1:24) Noah Baumbach's movie advertises itself as a
screwball comedy, but it is not really the zany, lighter-than-air divertissement
that the term usually conjures. It would be more accurate to describe the smart,
fast-paced film (with a sensational lead performance by Greta Gerwig) as a movie
that revises and subverts this most buoyant of genres with a steady undertow of
anxiety, dread and anger. (Holden)

'Mr. Holmes' (PG, 1:44) Ian McKellen, with marvelous gravity and mischievous
wit, plays the great detective in retirement, tending bees and looking back,
with some regret, on one of his last cases. With Laura Linney as his housekeeper
and Milo Parker as her young son. Bill Condon directed this charming, minor
exercise in revisionist Sherlockiana. (Scott)

'90 Minutes in Heaven' (PG-13, 2:01) Michael Polish's cinematic homily dwells on
the physical and spiritual recovery of a Texas pastor, Don Piper (Hayden
Christensen), after he is declared dead in a car crash. It's based on Mr.
Piper's best-selling inspirational book and seems most interested in preaching
to the choir. (Nicolas Rapold)

'No Escape' (R, 1:45) An American engineer (Owen Wilson) picks a bad time to
move his young family to an unnamed Southeast Asian country: The morning after
they land, a gruesome uprising targets foreigners for execution. Pierce Brosnan
plays the old post-colonial hand who tries to keep them safe in this overwrought
example of run-for-your-life cinema. (Daniel M. Gold)

? 'Pawn Sacrifice' (PG-13, 1:54) The director Edward Zwick serves up an
absorbing dramatization of the 1972 chess match between Bobby Fischer and Boris
Spassky, with Tobey Maguire playing the eccentric Fischer, who struggled with
demons real and imagined as the world watched the cold-war proxy showdown. The
film is only partly about Fischer; it's also about our dismaying tendency to
place too much importance on chess matches, sporting events and so on,
regardless of the human cost. (Genzlinger)

'Peace Officer' (No rating, 1:49) This documentary about the militarization of
law enforcement is nothing if not timely, though its focus is mostly confined to
Utah. While the movie could offer more information, what is here is disturbing
and sometimes eye-opening. (Ben Kenigsberg)

'The Perfect Guy' (PG-13, 1:40) Michael Ealy is the creep and Sanaa Lathan is
the woman who can't get rid of him in this generic stalker movie. Mr. Ealy
developed a convincing vacant stare when he played a humanoid police officer on
television in ''Almost Human,'' and he employs it to chilling effect here, but
the story goes exactly where you expect. (Genzlinger)

'Pixels' (PG-13, 1:46) The special effects are enjoyable in this comedy about
video game characters from the 1980s that invade Earth. But 1980s nostalgia is
wearing a little thin, and so is Adam Sandler's penchant for playing schlubs who
somehow catch the eye of attractive women. (Genzlinger)

? 'Queen of Earth' (No rating, 1:30) A sensational Elisabeth Moss plays a woman
who visits her ostensible best friend (Katherine Waterston, very fine) in a
teasing, sometimes brutalizing story that's about friendship but is also about
art film, crazy women and the male directors (like Alex Ross Perry) who love
them. (Dargis)

'Sleeping With Other People' (R, 1:40) Jason Sudeikis and Alison Brie play
romantically challenged friends whose hang-ups get in the way of their coupledom
in Leslye Headland's would-be screwball comedy, which lacks both jokes and
emotional texture. (Dargis)

'Southpaw' (R, 2:04) Jake Gyllenhaal plays a boxer on the road from ruin to
redemption in this square, preposterous, occasionally effective pugilistic
melodrama, directed by Antoine Fuqua. (Scott)

'Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine' (R, 2:07) Alex Gibney's trenchant
documentary evaluates the man behind the legend, charting Mr. Jobs's
extraordinary record of marketing and innovation, but also presenting a
merciless anatomy of a complicated public character. Packed with details and
incisive interviews, his film elucidates a cultural technological landscape that
is too often taken for granted. (Rapold)

'Straight Outta Compton' (R, 2:22) F. Gary Gray's exultant rap-to-riches story
tracks the group N.W.A., who -- with beats, smarts, corrosive poetry and
powerful rhetoric -- helped introduce gangster rap to an alternately freaked-out
and receptive world. It's a story of ultimate outsiders turned ultimate
insiders, which makes it as blissfully American as apple pie, low riders and
gangster rap itself. (Dargis)

? 'Time Out of Mind' (No rating, 1:57) Oren Moverman's film observes the
drifting life of George Hammond, a middle-aged homeless man played with
heartbreaking reserve by Richard Gere. There is a whisper of a story involving
George's attempt to re-establish contact with his daughter, but Mr. Moverman is
more interested in the moods and rhythms of life on the margins. Ben Vereen, as
George's sometime friend, adds a necessary jolt of lively, impatient wit.
(Scott)

? 'Trainwreck' (R, 2:04) Here, the comic Amy Schumer plays a more vanilla
version of one of her comically flawed women, who aren't as remotely together as
they think. The movie was directed by Judd Apatow from Ms. Schumer's script, and
is often extremely funny, even if it never approaches the radicalness of her
best work. (Dargis)

'The Transporter Refueled' (PG-13, 1:36) In this reboot of the French producer
Luc Besson's action series, the main returning cast member is a souped-up Audi.
The previous star, Jason Statham, has been replaced with the reedy and humorless
Ed Skrein, who substitutes smarm for Mr. Statham's deadpan wit. (Kenigsberg)

'The Visit' (PG-13, 1:34) A ''Hansel and Gretel'' redo for Generation Selfie, M.
Night Shyamalan's latest tracks a brother and sister into the woods, except this
time they're holding camcorders. Squeaking doors, creaking floors and some nice
boos ensue. (Dargis)

'A Walk in the Woods' (R, 1:44) In this low-impact amble through hill, dale and
cinematic nostalgia, two crusty trekkers (Robert Redford and Nick Nolte) are
pushed by age and intimations of mortality. Though the movie largely refuses to
tackle anything weightier than creaking bones and resilient libido, it is
unexpectedly moving to spend time with these titans of cinema as they walk and
sometimes wobble, delivering words that become meaningful because they're lucky
enough to be spoken by Mr. Redford and Mr. Nolte. (Dargis)

'We Are Your Friends' (R, 1:37) If the filmmakers were aiming to mimic the flow
of electronic dance music, they succeeded. The action in this movie, starring
Zac Efron as an aspiring D.J., slowly builds and breaks down, with dance beats
kicking in periodically. Not much resonates here; it's all facile entertainment.
(Nicole Herrington)

'Welcome to Leith' (No rating, 1:26) There are a few moments in ''Welcome to
Leith,'' a documentary about a North Dakota town that resists being taken over
by white supremacists, when the film might be mistaken for a horror movie about
an alien invasion. (Holden)

Film Series

Black Film Pioneer: Conversations with Michael Schultz  (Sundays through Oct. 4)
When Denzel Washington, Samuel L. Jackson and Blair Underwood each made their
feature film debuts, it was Michael Schultz who yelled ''Action!'' Over the
course of four Sundays, the Museum of the Moving Image will present discussions
with Mr. Schultz about topics like his yen for spotting talent and, up next, his
collaborations with Richard Pryor. At 2 p.m., 35th Avenue at 37th Street,
Astoria, Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us. (Eric Grode)

Consequences (Fridays through Dec. 18) Truth be told, this overarching theme for
the Rubin Museum of Art's latest Cabaret Cinema series is fairly accommodating.
With the occasional exception of the Coen brothers at their most fatalistic,
what other filmmaker would claim that their on-screen actions have no reactions?
Still, the museum (which has an accompanying series of public talks about karma)
has assembled some fairly instructive examples, ranging from the obvious (''The
Blue Angel,'' ''Le Jetée'') to the less so (''Night of the Living Dead''). This
week's offering: Luchino Visconti's 1954 melodrama ''Senso,'' which starred
Farley Granger as a 19th-century Austrian lieutenant after the producers
rejected the idea of a young Marlon Brando. Instead, Brando would stay closer to
home and film ''On the Waterfront,'' which won him the Academy Award for best
actor. Consequences! At 9:30 p.m., 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, 212-620-5000,
rubinmuseum.org. (Grode)

'Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome'  (Friday and Saturday) The critical praise given
to this summer's ''Mad Max: Fury Road'' has prompted several looks back at
previous entries in the series. Still, this 1985 sequel -- the third in George
Miller's franchise -- has been somewhat lost in the discussion, despite the
major screen time given to pig feces, which powers the film's Bartertown
setting; a genuinely innovative bungee-cord fight sequence (''Two men enter, one
man leaves''); and Tina Turner as the villainous Aunty Entity. IFC Center looks
to remedy this neglect by wrapping up a three-week ''Max'' nostalgia trip with
these midnight screenings. (Also screening is ''Mad 2: The Road Warrior,'' at
12:20 a.m.) 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village;
212-924-7771, ifccenter.com. (Grode)

Films From Here: Recent Views From the Arab World  (Thursday through Sept. 29)
This tightly curated retrospective (six features and two shorts, all made in the
past three years by filmmakers from North Africa and the Middle East) shows the
beneficiaries of funding from the Arab Fund for Arts and Culture, an independent
grant-making organization. Several of the films feature tantalizing blends of
documentary and fiction, including ''Out on the Street'' (Thursday at 4:30
p.m.), in which 10 Egyptian men recount and then re-enact stories of injustice
within an acting workshop, and ''Challat of Tunis'' (Sept. 25 and 27), which
revisits an unsolved 2003 series of crimes in which 11 women had their buttocks
slashed in the streets of Tunis for dressing immodestly. Several of the
filmmakers will be on hand for post-film discussions. Museum of Modern Art Roy
and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Grode)

'Vittorio De Sica: Attore, Regista, Seduttore' (through Oct. 8) George Clooney,
Robert Redford, Mel Gibson, Kevin Costner: Plenty of leading men have parlayed
their charms into successful directing careers. But only De Sica, a
Clooney-style smoothie in 1930s Italy, has made one of the most influential
films of all time. (Orson Welles doesn't count. He became a movie star in the
process of making his masterwork.) ''Bicycle Thieves'' was just one of several
astonishing films De Sica made in the decade after World War II. Film Forum's
monthlong retrospective will feature a new restoration of that piercing 1948
drama, along with such other Neo-Realist works as ''Shoeshine'' and ''Umberto
D.'' But it also makes room for some of those earlier fripperies (with titles
like ''Two Happy Hearts'' and ''What Scoundrels Men Are!'') and such later
performances as ''The Earrings of Madame de ...'' 209 West Houston Street, west
of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, 212-727-8110, filmforum.org. (Grode)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/movie-listings-for-sept-18-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS., VIA PHOTOFEST)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(89%); MOVIE RATINGS (79%); ASSASSINATION (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%);
ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); SONG WRITING
(69%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); POISONINGS (68%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DOUGLAS (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

$900 Million Penalty for G.M.'s Deadly Defect Leaves Many Cold

BYLINE: By DANIELLE IVORY and BILL VLASIC; Barry Meier contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words


As the number of deaths linked to defective cars made by General Motors has
steadily risen to 124, victims' families have waited for the answer to a burning
question: How will federal prosecutors hold the automaker accountable for its
decade-long failure to disclose the defect?

On Thursday, they got their answer, and many were disappointed.

In a settlement with prosecutors, no individual employees were charged, and the
Justice Department agreed to defer prosecution of the company for three years.
If G.M. adheres to the agreement, which includes independent monitoring of its
safety practices, the company can have its record wiped clean.

And even though General Motors will pay a $900 million penalty, it was 25
percent less than the record $1.2 billion Toyota agreed to pay last year.

''I don't understand how they can basically buy their way out of it,'' said
Margie Beskau, whose daughter Amy Rademaker was killed in an October 2006 crash
in Wisconsin. She added, ''They knew what they were doing and they kept doing
it.''

At a news conference, Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern
District of New York, defended the settlement. ''It has been a challenging case,
for the agencies, for the prosecutors and for me,'' Mr. Bharara said. ''We've
had to think long and hard about the appropriate resolution in this case.''

Mr. Bharara said that the victims had been paramount in the minds of the
prosecutors on the case.

''I met personally with families who lost loved ones in tragic accidents
involving the switch and, I'll tell you, those were among the most searing
moments I've ever spent in my six-plus years as United States attorney,'' he
said.

G.M.'s cooperation, he said, was the reason the settlement was reached after
only 18 months, rather than after four years or more, as in the Toyota case.

''From the moment the top management came forward to disclose the defect in
February of 2014, the company's cooperation and remediation have been fairly
extraordinary,'' Mr. Bharara said, citing G.M.'s creation of a compensation fund
for victims of the defect and its dismissal of 15 employees, among other
factors.

''Good behavior after the fact does not absolve G.M. or any company of
responsibility,'' Mr. Bharara said, ''but companies should be encouraged to act
as G.M. did here to help the truth come out faster.''

Mr. Bharara cited an internal investigation conducted for G.M. as favorable in
determining the penalties paid by the automaker,

The two law firms hired for that inquiry, King & Spalding and Jenner & Block,
had previously done legal work for G.M. And court papers show that Anton R.
Valukas, the chairman of Jenner & Block, who headed the G.M. investigation,
helped represent the automaker in its talks with the Justice Department.

Mr. Valukas declined to be interviewed, and several corporate lawyers said such
arrangements are not unusual because an outside law firm that conducts an
investigation knows the facts of a case. But Deborah L. Rhode, a professor at
Stanford Law School, said the public's interest may suffer when a law firm wears
so many different hats.

''It would be nice to know that the law firm doing the internal investigation
was truly disinterested and didn't have an interest in subsequent
representation'' of the same company, Ms. Rhode said.

The overall tone of the news conference was notably more subdued than the
bravado that accompanied the Toyota announcement last year. At that news
conference, the attorney general at the time, Eric Holder, and Transportation
Secretary Anthony Foxx both attended and spoke, calling Toyota's behavior
shameful. On Thursday, neither Mr. Holder's successor, Loretta Lynch, nor Mr.
Foxx attended.

The complaint filed by prosecutors details what has become a familiar narrative
in the G.M. safety crisis -- employees within General Motors were aware going
back more than a decade of problems with the ignition switch, which is prone to
turning off, cutting the engine and disabling systems like power steering and
airbags.

But prosecutors focused their attention to a relatively short period of time --
only about 20 months from the spring of 2012 to February 2014, when G.M. began
recalling 2.6 million older cars to fix the switch -- even though the first
reports of the problem had been made more than a decade earlier. As awareness of
the problem grew inside the company, the automaker's legal department was
aggressively fighting back against a mounting wave of litigation, even settling
lawsuits.

Mr. Bharara emphasized that individuals could still be charged, but bringing a
case against employees faces higher legal hurdles than in some other industries.
Two employees in particular were singled out in the complaint as playing a
central role in concealing information from regulators, but they were identified
only by a vague job description.

''This knowledge extended well above the ranks of investigating engineers to
certain supervisors and attorneys at the company -- including G.M.'s safety
director and G.M.'s safety attorney,'' prosecutors said in their statement of
facts that accompanied the complaint.

The Justice Department and G.M. declined to comment on the identities of the
safety director and safety attorney. But among those dismissed last year were
Carmen Benavides, the director of product investigations, and William Kemp, a
G.M. lawyer who handled safety matters. Both of their actions as described in
Mr. Valukas's internal investigation and in congressional documents match the
descriptions in the complaint.

Mr. Kemp did not return a message left at his home and Ms. Benavides did not
return an message left at a LinkedIn account matching her name and career
description.

Lawmakers who have been persistent critics of G.M. were unpersuaded by the
settlement.

''This outcome fails to require adequate and explicit admission of criminal
culpability from G.M. and individual criminal actions,'' said Senators Richard
Blumenthal of Connecticut and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats,
in a joint statement. ''This outcome is extremely disappointing.''

G.M. struck a tone of contrition on Thursday. In a meeting with employees at
G.M.'s huge technical center north of Detroit, Mary T. Barra, the chief
executive, again apologized.

''Let's pause for a moment and remember that people were hurt and died in our
cars,'' Ms. Barra told about 1,000 workers gathered in an atrium at the
company's vehicle engineering center. ''That's why we are here.''

Ms. Barra had flown back overnight from the Frankfurt Auto Show to attend the
town hall, and then take questions from reporters.

Her address to workers highlighted all the improvements in safety practices that
G.M. has made since the company first began recalling the defective vehicles.

But she admitted that it will take more than apologies for G.M. -- which went
bankrupt in 2009 and needed a $49 billion government bailout to survive -- to
restore its reputation in the eyes of consumers.

''We accept the penalties being announced today because they are part of being
accountable,'' she said. ''But apologies and accountability do not amount to
much if you don't change your behavior.''

Her address to employees came on a day when G.M. reached another legal
milestone, setting aside $575 million to resolve the cases of about 1,380
people, all represented by Robert C. Hilliard. Mr. Hilliard, a lawyer who is
among those leading the class-action cases against the automaker, said that 45
death cases were among those settled.

Altogether, the private lawsuit settlements resolve more than half the
outstanding private cases against G.M.

In the end, victims said they were unsatisfied by the Justice Department's
announcement.

''I don't see how Mary Barra can sleep,'' said Laura Christian, the birth mother
of 16-year-old Amber Rose, who was killed in a July 2005 crash in Maryland. She
said the deferred-prosecution agreement was like probation.

''We buried our loved ones because G.M. buried a deadly defect,'' Ms. Christian
said. ''And yet today all G.M. has to do is write another check to escape. We
can't escape -- every day I am missing a daughter.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/gm-to-pay-us-900-million-over-ignitio
n-switch-flaw.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pictures of victims of accidents caused by a defect in G.M.
vehicles, displayed at a 2014 hearing in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); LAWYERS (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE REGULATION & POLICY
(73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (66%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS
(60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%); KING & SPALDING LLP (55%); JENNER & BLOCK LLP
(55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS &
ACCESSORIES (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%);
NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Germany Works to Get Migrants Jobs

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Rhea Wessel contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1556 words


PASSAU, Germany --  As Germany struggles with a surge of migrants and has at
least temporarily clamped down on new arrivals, Nematullah Jasor may serve as a
symbol of the way forward.

One afternoon last week, Mr. Jasor, 22, walked with a light step around the
cavernous factory floor of ZF Friedrichshafen, a large German industrial company
that recently hired him as an apprentice in this small town on the border with
Austria that has become a major landing point for migrants.

Just a few years earlier, Mr. Jasor faced threats on his life back home in
Afghanistan, where Taliban insurgents had threatened to kill him if he did not
join the group and stop his computer science studies at the local university.

After learning German quickly and proving to be a skilled employee, Mr. Jasor is
on track for a permanent job once he completes his apprenticeship in making
machine and auto parts. More than any other European country now contending with
an influx of migrants and refugees, Germany -- with Europe's biggest economy, an
aging population and more than a half-million jobs currently unfilled -- sees
the migration wave as not only a challenge but an opportunity.

''Germany will benefit from people like Nematullah,'' said Roland Biebl, Mr.
Jasor's supervisor. ''It's in everyone's interest to integrate them.''

Although Germany has temporarily placed tight controls on the border across the
country's south to stem the tide of people seeking asylum, the government is
intent on assimilating those it lets in. With at least 800,000 migrants expected
this year alone, Chancellor Angela Merkel and the nation's biggest businesses
have been mounting a vocal campaign to get migrants into jobs as a way of
quickly integrating them into German society. Rather than risk letting the
migrants become wards of the state, the idea is to help as many as possible
start contributing to the economy.

Advocates of fast-tracking employment say that Germany, Europe's largest
economy, has enough jobs to accommodate the flood of new arrivals -- and in fact
is facing the threat of a labor shortage and a growing bill for pensions and
health care, as more and more of the country's aging population reaches
retirement. Refugees like Mr. Jasor, as well as many asylum-seekers who have
arrived from Syria, are educated and bring employable skills that could help
alleviate the labor squeeze.

Last week, big employers including Deutsche Post and the automaker Daimler
called for an overhaul of German labor laws to let asylum-seekers get to work
quickly. Ms. Merkel, who met with industry leaders, announced that Germany would
accelerate the asylum process and make it easier for those allowed to stay to
enter the work force. An additional 2 billion euros, or nearly $2.3 billion,
will be spent to help people learn German, which is essential for any job.

On Monday, Germany's four main employers' associations said they supported the
government's decision to temporarily slow the flow of migrants to avoid
burdening the asylum system. But in a joint statement, the organizations, which
represent hundreds of thousands of companies, renewed the call to give approved
migrants faster access to the labor market and to language and skills training.

''That is the best way for permanent integration,'' the organizations said in
the statement.

Some Germans fear that the influx could threaten their own jobs and drive wages
down. Recently, Marine Le Pen, the head of the far-right National Front party in
France, accused Ms. Merkel of encouraging immigration to ''recruit slaves.'' But
political proponents and many businesses see an opportunity to welcome a wave of
motivated, mostly younger people into the German labor force.

''There is something to be said about thinking of refugees not just as victims
but as potential contributors to societies and economies in the future,'' said
Elizabeth Collett, a policy fellow at the Migration Policy Institute Europe,
based in Brussels.

Despite a five-year economic crisis in Europe, unemployment in this country of
82 million is at a 30-year low of 4.6 percent. Nearly 597,000 jobs are open in
health and hospice care, engineering, carpentry, fast food -- the list goes on.

Analysts said Germans and other European nationals were not filling those jobs
because they did not have the right experience or education or, in the case of
low-skilled work, because they did not want the jobs.

The labor shortage has persisted even after tens of thousands of young people
from Greece, Spain and other crisis-hit eurozone economies have flocked to
Germany in recent years to find employment.

''We don't see evidence that refugees will be stealing jobs,'' said Alexander
Wilhelm, a labor market expert at the Confederation of German Employers'
Associations. ''We have record-high underemployment and record-high job
openings. So for the moment, the labor market is capable of giving new
opportunities.''

Ms. Merkel and many German companies say change is possible. They point to the
reunification of East and West Germany and Germany's previous absorption of
European migrants during difficult economic circumstances.

That has not always worked seamlessly.

In the 1960s, ''guest worker'' programs bringing Turks and others to fill
factory labor shortages stoked friction and gave rise to ethnic enclaves.

And not everyone has the requisite skills.

Of the migrants who settled in Germany from 1985 to 2013, for example, 73
percent of men and 48 percent of women wound up working, compared with 83
percent of men and 73 percent of women in the total German labor force,
according to the Cologne Institute of Economic Research.

Migrants coming in now from the Middle East may take longer to learn German or
adapt to European culture, making the transition more difficult, the institute
added. Others may be suffering trauma from war and their harrowing odyssey to
Europe.

Whether the push to employ asylum-seekers proves more than a token gesture
remains to be seen. So far, few German companies have hired more than a handful
of migrants.

Daimler's chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, told German news outlets last week
that the migrants coming now were the kind of workers the country needed. But
his company had taken just four migrants into vocational jobs, a spokesman said,
in a work force of nearly 169,000.

Other companies are doing a bit more. Two hours northwest of Passau, the German
industrial giant Siemens started a pilot project in the spring, taking 10
migrants from Syria and elsewhere as interns at its Erlangen operation, which
has 33,000 employees. This autumn, it plans to expand the program to nine sites
around the country.

At ZF, which has 49,000 workers in Germany and is the largest employer in
Passau, Mr. Jasor is the only refugee to be hired. There are no immediate plans
to seek others, since the company, a powerhouse in gears and transmissions, has
plenty of skilled applicants, said Gernot Hein, a spokesman.

But that could change, he said, especially with Ms. Merkel leading the charge.
''We see it as a freedom project,'' Mr. Hein said. ''We must include refugees in
the labor force and not just leave them on the street.''

That view has made Mr. Jasor fall in love with Germany. After fleeing
Afghanistan in 2011, he took a perilous route through Iran and then Turkey,
where he worked odd jobs to save money and studied German using a Turkish
textbook. Later, a smuggler helped get him through Eastern Europe to the border
of Germany.

''I've been through so many countries, and Germany has the best people,'' said
Mr. Jasor, a sunny, soft-spoken man who teared up as he thought of the parents
he had left behind in Afghanistan. ''No one has made me feel like an outsider.''

Mr. Jasor, who is Muslim, prays regularly, but his German colleagues do not seem
to mind, he said. Out of curiosity, he went to Mass one Sunday at a local
church, and he has returned several times since to learn more about Christianity
and to make friends.

After his shift at ZF ended one recent afternoon, Mr. Jasor made his way to the
migrant home where he lives on the outskirts of Passau. As an apprentice, he now
earns 945 euros a month before taxes, and he pays 208 euros a month to rent a
small room, instead of having the government continue to subsidize it for him.

On the floor of his room, a thin blue mattress lay next to a black carpet
adorned with a red rose. A rickety desk held German language books, which Mr.
Jasor studies at night. The verdant, rolling hills flanking the Danube rise into
view through his small window.

Outside, a cacophony of voices filled the air; 95 migrants from Afghanistan,
Syria, Nigeria and other countries crowded the other rooms, and rows of
strollers and laundry racks lined the hallway. On this day, community volunteers
took the migrants for a cruise on the Danube to see the sights, and now they had
gathered on the ground floor to discuss the trip in German.

Mr. Jasor was one of the few who had a job and could not take the tour. But that
was fine with him.

''I want to work,'' he said. ''That is my dream. I will save money to get my own
apartment and have a family.''

He gazed out the window toward the warm, setting sun.

''This is my future,'' Mr. Jasor said. ''My future is Germany.''

Rhea Wessel contributed reporting.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/international/migrants-refugees-jobs-
germany.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%);
REFUGEES (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); GERMAN CHANCELLORS (78%); MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES
(73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%); BORDER
CONTROL (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); SHORTAGES (68%); AUTOMAKERS
(68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); AGING (67%);
TALIBAN (55%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (54%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE POST AG (51%)

TICKER: DPW (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (51%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR
(51%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SYRIA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Breaking With Tradition, MI5 Chief Gives a Live Interview

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 596 words


LONDON --  The head of Britain's domestic intelligence agency, MI5, appealed on
Thursday for broader legal powers to deal with advances in technologies and what
he described as a more diffuse and serious terrorist threat.

The appeal has been made before. What was unusual this time is that it was made
in the first live media interview ever given by an MI5 director.

The BBC interview, on Radio 4, was more noteworthy for taking place than for
what the director, Andrew Parker, actually said. He and counterparts at MI6, the
foreign-intelligence service, have broken with tradition before to give public
testimony before Parliament and made many of the same points. They emphasize, as
Mr. Parker did on Thursday, that the intelligence agencies report to the
government and to Parliament, gather information widely but in a targeted
fashion, and see their jobs as defending British lives and liberties, not in
violating them.

Mr. Parker said he shared the fears of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey,
about terrorism suspects' ''going dark,'' a term that refers to changes in
technology that make it more difficult to legally intercept communications and
prevent attacks. He said increasing online data encryption meant that the police
and intelligence agencies ''can no longer obtain under proper legal warrant the
communication of people they believe to be terrorists.''

''It's in nobody's interests that terrorists should be able to plot and
communicate out of the reach of any authority,'' Mr. Parker said. ''We're
focused on the people who mean us harm. We're not about browsing through the
private lives of the citizens of this country. We do not have population-scale
monitoring or anything like that.''

He said that the threat level in Britain remained at ''severe,'' meaning that an
attack was ''highly likely,'' given the chaos in the Middle East.

Mr. Parker repeated his call for social media companies and technology
companies, like Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter and communications providers,
to help the intelligence agencies. He said such companies, many of them
American, had what he called an ethical responsibility to come forward if they
had concerns about their users and any possible involvement in terrorism.
Terrorist groups, he said, ''are using secure apps and Internet communication to
try to broadcast their message and incite and direct terrorism amongst people
who live here who are prepared to listen.''

The revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency
contractor, of wide-scale electronic surveillance have prompted criticism of the
intelligence services and fears that rights to privacy have been subverted.

The Conservative government is preparing legislation that is expected to give
the police and security officials new powers, and may extend oversight over them
to the judiciary. The interview with Mr. Parker seemed partly designed to win
public support for the proposals.

It also seemed timed to the release of a new critical report from David
Anderson, a government-appointed ''independent reviewer of terrorism'' laws,
warning that separate legislation to ban extremism could provoke a damaging
backlash among Muslims. In his annual report, Mr. Anderson, a lawyer who is in
his second three-year term in the job, said if the new laws were too widely
drawn, they could play into the hands of people trying to encourage extremism
and terrorism.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/britain-intelligence-agency-mi5-a
ndrew-parker.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (94%); INTERVIEWS (91%); TERRORISM (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(87%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); ETHICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%);
INTERNET & WWW (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%);
DATA SECURITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); CRYPTOLOGY
(66%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (63%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (63%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE
MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING
(63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS &
COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (63%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES
(63%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING &
BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (72%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Defiant, and Still a Spectacle

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 646 words


Madonna let fans see her sweat when her ''Rebel Heart'' tour started its two
nights at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday. She belted ''HeartBreakCity,'' a
bitter, accusatory breakup song, from a staircase as she battled the embraces of
an acrobatic dancer. Then she tossed off a jacket to reveal a sweat-soaked
blouse, and traded heartache for triumph with the first words -- ''I made it
through the wilderness'' -- of ''Like a Virgin.'' She pranced and strutted
through it with some moves from her 1980s videos and opened the blouse to reveal
lingerie and cleavage. The lesson: Madonna the indomitable sexpot would prevail.

That's undeniable. She mentioned, twice, that she first played Madison Square
Garden 30 years ago, saying she felt nostalgic. But while much of her audience
has grown up with her, Madonna, now 57, hasn't allowed herself to become an
oldies act. She filled the set with songs from ''Rebel Heart,'' released this
year, and thoroughly rearranged her early hits.

Through the decades, Madonna's tours have delivered spectacles that push hot
buttons galore: sexuality, power, faith, rebellion and sheer willfulness. They
were all part of the ''Rebel Heart'' show, too. But on this tour, Madonna isn't
confronting her audience as much as sharing her prerogatives with it. The dance
numbers go hopscotching through history and geography, reaching up in the air
and across the arena, simply because they can.

Madonna's set opened with a recorded monologue about wanting to ''start a
revolution''; her voice warned about ''too much creativity being crushed beneath
the will of corporate branding and what's trendy.'' She made her entrance inside
a medieval-looking cage that she would break out of as she sang ''Iconic,'' a
pep talk on self-realization for everyone, and then ''Bitch I'm Madonna,'' a
reminder -- with thundering dubstep bass drops -- that she stands apart. She
commanded a troupe of dancers costumed like samurai warriors, defeating one in
mock combat. Then, almost immediately, she was a rocker with a black Flying V
guitar, playing ''Burning Up'' as something like a Joan Jett song.

She delivered the show's blasphemy quota early, with ''Holy Water,'' calling for
oral sex amid bump-and-grind pole dancers wearing nuns' headgear, and segueing
into ''Vogue,'' with the dancers recasting the Last Supper as a bacchanal.
''Devil Pray'' -- about setting aside drugs for spirituality -- had her both
genuflecting before a priest figure and grinding her hips.

But then she set provocation aside. It was a friendlier Madonna who encouraged a
singalong as she strummed a ukulele through ''True Blue.'' It was a frisky
Madonna who danced through a simulated gas station, climbing on and off the
mechanics, in ''Body Shop.'' It was a touristic Madonna who wore a long ruffled
skirt and extended a flamenco version of ''La Isla Bonita'' into a
Latin-flavored medley of early hits. An earnest Madonna exposed her voice in a
solo rendition, with ukulele, of ''La Vie en Rose.'' And a suavely retro Madonna
started ''Music'' as a chanteuse's torch song before switching to its electronic
beat and flaunting her skimpy rhinestone dress amid jitterbugging dancers.

Madonna's ire was reserved for an ex: in ''HeartBreakCity'' and in a version of
''Living for Love'' that traded the upbeat gospel of the single version for a
brutal bass stomp, as she played matador with men wearing horns. She closed the
main set with another jibe, but a more celebratory one: ''Unapologetic Bitch,''
which brought back the night's opener, the comedian Amy Schumer, to dance along
and, with Madonna's help, flash her underwear.

But Madonna took care not to end on that angry note. She was back, dressed in
the American flag, for ''Holiday,'' sounding like the 1983 original with
pumped-up bass, inviting the world to dance -- a little nostalgic for once, but
unstoppable.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/madonna-returns-to-the-garden-unapo
logetic-and-playful.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Madonna: This singer performed her many hits on Wednesday at
Madison Square Garden. (C1)
 Madonna on Wednesday at Madison Square Garden. Dancers were big parts of the
concert, along with her biggest hits. But she also pulled liberally from ''Rebel
Heart,'' her latest album. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (89%); DANCE (89%); LINGERIE (74%); RELIGION (71%); BRANDING
(50%)

PERSON: MADONNA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fantasies and Fictions

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 811 words


I've been going over what was said at Wednesday's Republican debate, and I'm
terrified. You should be, too. After all, given the vagaries of elections,
there's a pretty good chance that one of these people will end up in the White
House.

Why is that scary? I would argue that all of the G.O.P. candidates are calling
for policies that would be deeply destructive at home, abroad, or both. But even
if you like the broad thrust of modern Republican policies, it should worry you
that the men and woman on that stage are clearly living in a world of fantasies
and fictions. And some seem willing to advance their ambitions with outright
lies.

Let's start at the shallow end, with the fantasy economics of the establishment
candidates.

You're probably tired of hearing this, but modern G.O.P. economic discourse is
completely dominated by an economic doctrine -- the sovereign importance of low
taxes on the rich -- that has failed completely and utterly in practice over the
past generation.

Think about it. Bill Clinton's tax hike was followed by a huge economic boom,
the George W. Bush tax cuts by a weak recovery that ended in financial collapse.
The tax increase of 2013 and the coming of Obamacare in 2014 were associated
with the best job growth since the 1990s. Jerry Brown's tax-raising,
environmentally conscious California is growing fast; Sam Brownback's tax- and
spending-slashing Kansas isn't.

Yet the hold of this failed dogma on Republican politics is stronger than ever,
with no skeptics allowed. On Wednesday Jeb Bush claimed, once again, that his
voodoo economics would double America's growth rate, while Marco Rubio insisted
that a tax on carbon emissions would ''destroy the economy.''

The only candidate talking sense about economics was, yes, Donald Trump, who
declared that ''we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a
socialistic thing.''

If the discussion of economics was alarming, the discussion of foreign policy
was practically demented. Almost all the candidates seem to believe that
American military strength can shock-and-awe other countries into doing what we
want without any need for negotiations, and that we shouldn't even talk with
foreign leaders we don't like. No dinners for Xi Jinping! And, of course, no
deal with Iran, because resorting to force in Iraq went so well.

Indeed, the only candidate who seemed remotely sensible on national security
issues was Rand Paul, which is almost as disturbing as the spectacle of Mr.
Trump being the only voice of economic reason.

The real revelation on Wednesday, however, was the way some of the candidates
went beyond expounding bad analysis and peddling bad history to making outright
false assertions, and probably doing so knowingly, which turns those false
assertions into what are technically known as ''lies.''

For example, Chris Christie asserted, as he did in the first G.O.P. debate, that
he was named U.S. attorney the day before 9/11. It's still not true: His
selection for the position wasn't even announced  until December.

Mr. Christie's mendacity pales, however, in comparison to that of Carly Fiorina,
who was widely hailed as the ''winner'' of the debate.

Some of Mrs. Fiorina's fibs involved repeating thoroughly debunked claims about
her business record. No, she didn't preside over huge revenue growth. She made
Hewlett-Packard bigger by acquiring other companies, mainly Compaq, and that
acquisition was a financial disaster. Oh, and if her life is a story of going
from ''secretary to C.E.O.,'' mine is one of going from mailman to columnist and
economist. Sorry, working menial jobs while you're in school doesn't make your
life a Horatio Alger story.

But the truly awesome moment came when she asserted that the videos being used
to attack Planned Parenthood show ''a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart
beating, its legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest
its brain.'' No, they don't. Anti-abortion activists have claimed that such
things happen, but have produced no evidence, just assertions mingled with stock
footage of fetuses.

So is Mrs. Fiorina so deep inside the bubble that she can't tell the difference
between facts and agitprop? Or is she deliberately spreading a lie? And most
important, does it matter?

I began writing for The Times during the 2000 election campaign, and what I
remember above all from that campaign is the way the conventions of
''evenhanded'' reporting allowed then-candidate George W. Bush to make clearly
false assertions -- about his tax cuts, about Social Security -- without paying
any price. As I wrote at the time, if Mr. Bush said the earth was flat, we'd see
headlines along the lines of ''Shape of the Planet: Both Sides Have a Point.''

Now we have presidential candidates who make Mr. Bush look like Abe Lincoln. But
who will tell the people?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/paul-krugman-fantasies-and-fictions-at
-gop-debate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016
(89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX
INCREASES (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS
(68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); EMISSIONS (64%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); RAND PAUL (58%); SAMUEL
BROWNBACK (58%); JEB BUSH (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); XI
JINPING (50%); JERRY BROWN (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Scuffle in Japan Over Measures to Loosen Limits on Military

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SOBLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 794 words


TOKYO -- Legislators scuffled in Parliament and demonstrators took to the
streets on Thursday as Japan's governing coalition moved to secure final passage
of contentious legislation that would loosen decades-old limits on the country's
military.

The package of 11 bills was still tied up in Parliament's upper house late
Thursday night, past an initial deadline set by the government of Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, who has spent considerable political capital trying to convince a
skeptical public that Japan should play a more assertive role in global military
affairs.

Scenes reminiscent of a rugby match played out in the committee chamber where
lawmakers have been debating the bills for weeks. Opposition politicians tried
to prevent voting by piling on top of the committee chairman and wresting away
his microphone. Lawmakers from the governing party pulled them away and formed a
protective scrum around the chairman to allow him to call the vote. The scenes
were shown live on television by the national broadcaster, NHK.

The committee eventually passed the bills, sending them to the full upper house
for what is likely to be a final, decisive vote. The chamber, which is
controlled by Mr. Abe's Liberal Democratic Party and its ally Komeito, began
deliberations late in the evening and was expected to work through the night to
overcome procedural roadblocks thrown up by five opposition parties.

If passed by the full house, the legislation would allow the Japanese military,
known as the Self-Defense Forces, to cooperate more closely with the militaries
of allies like the United States, by providing logistical support and, in
certain circumstances, armed backup in international conflicts.

It would be a significant shift for a country whose armed forces have not seen
action since World War II. The United States imposed Japan's pacifist
Constitution after its wartime aggression, and antiwar sentiment remains
widespread in Japanese society. In the past, the Self-Defense Forces have played
noncombat roles in United Nations peacekeeping operations and the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan, but the use of force has been limited by law to the direct
defense of Japan.

''It's unfortunate that the bills had to be approved this way, but they are
absolutely necessary to protect the lives and happiness of the people,''
Masahisa Sato, a former military officer and Liberal Democrat who is a member of
the committee, said after the raucous session.

Mr. Abe and other conservatives argue that the strictly defensive security
policy that Japan has followed since the end of the war is inadequate to meet
modern-day threats like the growing military power of China. Critics worry that
abandoning the policy would lead to Japan's becoming involved in unnecessary
foreign wars, and they contend that the legislation violates Japan's
Constitution.

''If bills can be passed in a violent way like that, then our country's
democracy is dead,'' said Tetsuro Fukuyama, a committee member from the
opposition Democratic Party of Japan.

Winning final passage of the legislation would be an important victory for Mr.
Abe, who has dedicated his career to correcting what he sees as an excessive,
outdated national pacifism that is a legacy of Japan's disastrous wartime
experience.

His defense agenda is opposed by a majority of the public, however, according to
opinion polls. Demonstrators gathered in front of the Parliament building on
Wednesday night as the committee moved toward its final session.

Organizers put the number of demonstrators Wednesday night at 35,000, though the
police said the crowd was about half that size. A few braved heavy rain to stay
through the night and into Thursday, and the crowd swelled again on Thursday
night.

Mr. Abe's coalition has enough members in the upper house to pass the bills, but
the opposition is using a number of delaying tactics -- like lodging procedural
objections and blocking governing party lawmakers from entering committee rooms
-- to draw out the process.

Though there is little they can do to prevent the bills' ultimate passage, they
may be hoping to further stoke public sentiment against the bills and inflict
maximum political damage on Mr. Abe, whose support, measured in opinion polls,
has slipped as debate over the legislation drags on.

Parliament's lower house approved the bills in July, under similarly tumultuous
circumstances, and adoption by the upper house would ensure that they become
law. Even if the upper house does not approve the bills, the government could
send them back to the more powerful lower chamber, where it could use its
overwhelming majority to override the upper house.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/asia/japan-military-bills-provoke-scuffl
ing-in-parliament.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS
(90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); PEACEKEEPING (75%); RUGBY (75%);
PRIME MINISTERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CONSERVATISM
(71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Post-Deal Iran Reappraising 'Great Satan'

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words


TEHRAN --  A new struggle is unfolding in Iran, where the top leaders have begun
to tackle the question of how to deal with the United States after having
reached a nuclear agreement with their great enemy.

The supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and President Hassan Rouhani have
been offering starkly opposing visions of Iran's post-deal future, reflecting
their divergent attitudes toward the ''Great Satan.''

''We have announced that we will not negotiate with the Americans on any issue
other than the nuclear case,'' Mr. Khamenei said this month. Speaking to a group
of hard-line students recently he was even more explicit, telling them to
''prepare for the continuation of the fight against America.''

By contrast, Mr. Rouhani said on Sunday that the nuclear agreement, reached
after two years of tortuous negotiations, was ''not the end of the way,'' but
''a beginning for creating an atmosphere of friendship and cooperation with
various countries.''

How the opposing visions are ultimately resolved may be uncertain, but as the
nuclear pact is carried out and the sanctions are lifted, Iran's favorite
scapegoat can no longer plausibly be regarded as the root of all evil in the
world.

''Our Great Satan without sanctions is just not the same anymore,'' said Saeed
Laylaz, an economist and supporter of Mr. Rouhani. ''Perhaps we should use
'lesser Satan' now or something like that.''

In a highly controlled society like Iran, the leaders rarely speak
spontaneously, so there is a certain premeditated ''good cop, bad cop'' aspect
to the public posturing about the United States. But the dueling perspectives
also reflect the problem of fitting the new, softer image of the United States
into Iran's founding ideological narrative.

Thirty-seven years after the revolution, those longing for Iran to have normal
relations with the world, believe their time has finally come, no matter what
the supreme leader is saying. By their lights, change is inevitable, and
Ayatollah Khamenei is just protecting his political flank against the hard-line
clerics and commanders who oppose the nuclear deal.

But other analysts say that misreads the situation, putting a naïvely optimistic
spin on the motivations and intentions of an all-powerful supreme leader who,
while cautious and calculating, remains a highly conservative force.

There are no outward indications that Mr. Khamenei is enthusiastic about
rapprochement between Iran and the United States, these other analysts say. On
the contrary, since August he has used every public speech to make clear that
there will be no such thing, repeating last week that, deal or no deal, the
United States remains the ''Great Satan.''

''This deal is a one-off agreement in our interest,'' said Hamidreza Taraghi, a
hard-line analyst close to Ayatollah Khamenei. ''Not an attempt to mend ties
with America.''

Iran's leader, they add, is a staunch ideologue who often says that he is ''not
a diplomat but a revolutionary,'' and the flexibility he has shown on the
nuclear issue was out of self-interest, a calculated tactic to get sanctions
lifted, not the start of a new era for Iran. To underline his point, he
predicted last week that Israel would not exist in 25 years, drawing
international criticism.

There will be no such thing as direct talks over other issues, like Iraq, Syria
and Yemen. At best, some analysts say, Ayatollah Khamenei is awaiting what he
calls in some speeches ''positive steps'' from the United States. He will
''review'' such actions before considering real relations.

''If they do not leave the region and keep Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in
power, the leader doesn't see any future in having relations with America,''
said one former Revolutionary Guards official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because of his position, adding, ''For now, that does not seem likely
to happen.''

Whatever the effect on foreign relations, Ayatollah Khamenei's genuine distrust
of the United States is casting an increasingly dark shadow over Mr. Rouhani's
ambitions at home, which are always subject to a veto by the supreme leader, who
retains the final word on all matters.

Over the past two years, the president, who came to power promising an end to
Iran's international isolation and a more ''normal'' life, has raised
expectations among Iran's middle class. He has done so while tiptoeing around
the subject of establishing relations with the United States, which has become a
symbol of the changes many people would like to see, such as more personal
freedom and overhauling the archaic justice system.

Right after the nuclear agreement was signed, for example, some in Tehran called
for abolishing the ''death to America'' slogan and predicted the reopening of
the United States Embassy. Neither suggestion gained traction.

Now, in line with Ayatollah Khamenei's recent remarks, the winds seem to be
shifting. Night after night, state television features remarks by American
politicians and Republican presidential candidates bashing the deal. Often,
these are followed by I-told-you-so clips from Ayatollah Khamenei, saying
''America cannot be trusted.''

Mr. Rouhani's supporters are taking note. ''First, I predicted that direct
flights between Tehran and New York would start in some weeks,'' said Mohammad
Javad Mehreghan, a financial expert. ''We were overwhelmed with joy. Now, I
realize it will take years. This country won't change overnight.''

Many say Mr. Rouhani should be content with having prevented war over Iran's
nuclear program, unfrozen the country's assets and opened the door to foreign
investment. ''That has all along been the real mandate given to the president,''
said Nader Karimi Joni, a pro-government journalist. ''People who thought
otherwise have been fooling themselves.''

But the president is persevering, promising better relations with the West, a
better economy and more personal freedom. To the trained Iranian ear, when Mr.
Rouhani talks about more cooperation with ''various countries,'' he means the
United States.

Despite Ayatollah Khamenei's hard line in public, however, most Iranians and
some well-connected analysts say that he is more on Mr. Rouhani's side than he
lets on, and is merely hedging his bets in case something goes wrong. Otherwise,
they say, why would he agree to a nuclear deal at all?

''In the end even the supreme leader wants to have better relations with
America,'' said Farshad Ghorbanpour, a political analyst close to the
government. ''But he is angry over the bad remarks coming out of the United
States, so he wants to wait if the deal works before he allows relations to get
better.''

It was Ayatollah Khamenei himself who drew up the framework for talking to the
United States on the nuclear issue. He allowed direct negotiations to take place
only through a trusted foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif. Iran's original
goal for the talks was not to solve problems with the United States, but to get
sanctions lifted.

There was only one glitch in Ayatollah Khamenei's carefully planned strategy,
when in 2013 an overly enthusiastic Mr. Rouhani accepted a phone call from
President Obama. While the conversation created considerable excitement in the
West, it did not go over well in Iran. Upon arrival in Tehran, Mr. Rouhani was
pelted by hard-liners with eggs and a shoe.

Some Iranian reformist newspapers are predicting hopefully that Mr. Rouhani will
meet Mr. Obama at the United Nations General Assembly this month. In contrast,
last week a Friday Prayer leader said that Mr. Zarif had been told -- for the
time being at least -- to cease any direct negotiations with the United States,
though people close to Mr. Zarif deny this.

Many, perhaps most, Iranians -- having had their hopes for change dashed
numerous times in the past, most recently in 2009 -- have few expectations that
the nuclear agreement will fundamentally change anything.

''The deal will absolutely happen,'' said Mr. Karimi Joni, the journalist. But
there will be no opening of embassies, direct flights to New York or American
investments here, he predicted. ''Unless the supreme leader thinks this is
necessary for the continuation of the system. In that case it will happen
immediately.''

Others are not so sure, convinced that relations with the United States have
been permanently altered, despite the supreme leader's pronouncements.

''Whatever anybody says, America is less of an enemy and less hostile than it
was before,'' said Ghasem Golbaf, the owner and publisher of several magazines.
''The relation will change for the better. It's just inevitable.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/middleeast/post-deal-iran-asks-if-us-is-
still-great-satan-or-something-less.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hassan Rouhani, by a picture of the supreme leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The two have offered starkly opposing views of Iran's
future since reaching a deal on its nuclear program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBRAHIM
NOROOZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (93%); ALI KHAMENEI (89%)

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Voters See Lack of Fire as Problem for Carson

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1139 words


DES MOINES --  Carly Fiorina hit a walk-off homer, helium is leaking from Ben
Carson's balloon and Scott Walker's candidacy is on life support, according to
the Republicans in Iowa who will cast the first votes of the nominating contest
in less than five months.

Oh, and Donald J. Trump is still Donald J. Trump -- what did you expect?

A sampling of a dozen Iowans on Thursday who watched the second Republican
debate -- all of them close followers of the presidential race who are
uncommitted -- did not vary from the emerging national consensus about Mrs.
Fiorina's performance.

Perhaps the most surprising reaction was a feeling that Mr. Carson, who was on
the heels of Mr. Trump in recent Iowa polls, did himself few favors on Wednesday
by refusing to confront Mr. Trump, even on a medical issue like the purported
link between vaccines and autism.

''Carson's demeanor is beginning to make him look weak,'' said Mary Whisenand,
an insurance executive in Des Moines. ''It isn't that I think every presidential
candidate needs to get out there and do hellfire and brimstone, but the optics
are starting to work against him.''

Others said Mr. Carson's responses on policy issues, particularly national
security, sounded mushy. John Wills, an Army veteran of the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, said that Mr. Carson was someone he had considered campaigning for.
But no longer. He criticized Mr. Carson for his response to the question of what
he would have done after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. ''There are smart ways
to do things and there are muscular ways to do things,'' Mr. Carson said.

''I don't know what that means,'' said Mr. Wills, who was elected last year to
the Iowa House in District 1, in the conservative northwest corner of the state.
''If somebody attacks us and we respond by saying we're going to use smart
power, we put ourselves into a position of being not understood and taken
seriously.''

Mark A. Hanson, a supervisor for Dallas County, watched the debate with 100
supporters of Mr. Trump at a barbecue restaurant in West Des Moines. A
Republican activist, Mr. Hanson said the Trump crowd seemed largely new to
politics, and he wondered if many would show up to caucus in February, a
typically low-turnout event that draws party stalwarts. Interest in watching the
debate, he said, faded after 20 minutes. ''At the very beginning there was
interest, but as the night went on they became very disinterested,'' he said.

Tim Recker, a farmer in northeast Iowa, said he had been ''really liking
Trump.'' But on Thursday he was questioning if Mr. Trump's trade policies,
including suggestions of raising tariffs on imported goods, would hurt
agriculture exports.

''He made a comment about, We're taking their stuff and giving beef back and
they don't even want it,'' Mr. Recker said. ''That's not true. They love our
beef.''

Mr. Recker, who farms 1,600 acres of corn and soybeans in Arlington, close to
the border with Wisconsin, said that Mr. Walker, the Wisconsin governor who once
led Iowa polls but was in 10th place in a Quinnipiac University survey last
week, left him feeling indifferent.

Mr. Walker had less speaking time in the CNN debate than any of the other 10
candidates. On a call with donors on Thursday, his campaign manager complained
that CNN had asked Mr. Walker only a few questions, and Mr. Walker himself told
donors he would now focus almost exclusively on Iowa, continuing his tour of all
99 counties.

In Lyon County in the northwest, Mr. Wills predicted that Mr. Walker could have
a comeback.

''Trump is stealing the oxygen right now and that oxygen has depleted out of
Walker, but people are willing to go back to Walker, I believe,'' Mr. Wills
said.

Like voters elsewhere, Iowans were impressed with Mrs. Fiorina's icy comment to
Mr. Trump about his criticism of her appearance. ''I think women all over this
country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,'' Mrs. Fiorina said when asked
about Mr. Trump's attempt to walk back a remark that no one would vote for her
because of her looks.

''She hit it out of the park,'' said C. Edward Brown, chief executive of the
Iowa Clinic in Des Moines.

He added: ''There's going to be a lot more women paying attention to this lady,
and consequently their husbands will too.''

Phil Cavanaugh, a conservative whose favored candidates are Senator Ted Cruz,
Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump, said he was disappointed when candidates, at the
urging of moderators, attacked one another. ''Notice that Ted Cruz and Ben
Carson never did that,'' he said. ''They went ahead and said, This is what we
need to do on the issues.''

Mr. Cruz, who was third in recent Iowa polls behind Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson,
''had a good night,'' Mr. Cavanaugh said. ''He's not mentioned as much in the
media even though he's ahead of Carly. I think he's a stronger, better
candidate. Time will tell.''

Jeb Bush, whose campaign once hoped to compete for business-oriented Republicans
in Iowa but has recently put more of his energy into New Hampshire, did not seem
to make a strong enough impression to sway Iowans.

Mike McInerney, president of the Bull Moose Club in Des Moines, a political
group for young Republican professionals, said Mr. Bush's failure to get an
apology from Mr. Trump for comments about Mr. Bush's wife was telling. Mr.
McInerney, an insurance agent, recalled a maxim of trial lawyers that you never
ask a question without knowing how a witness will respond.

''He asked for a favor without knowing what the answer was going to be, and it
got thrown back in his face,'' Mr. McInerney said. ''He didn't corner him to the
point where Donald Trump has no out.''

At Iowa State University in Ames, four roommates who watched the debate agreed
that Senator Marco Rubio was the winner. ''He seemed not to focus on much of his
past record but seemed to outline, This is my plan, this is what we should be
doing,'' said Evan Monson, a junior from Humboldt, Iowa.

Another competitor in Mr. Bush's lane of establishment Republicans, Gov. Chris
Christie of New Jersey, also made strong impressions with Iowans.

Once a regular visitor to Iowa, Mr. Christie has recently dropped in polls there
and has put most of his energy into New Hampshire. But he may want to consider
calling his travel agent.

''I liked his chiding of Trump and Fiorina for being childish going back and
forth,'' Ms. Whisenand said.

Mr. Brown, an influential business figure in Des Moines, said he had never been
more than lukewarm about Mr. Christie before the debate, but said he came across
better than expected.

''I think he basically pushed open a crack in the door for people to listen to
him more,'' Mr. Brown said.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/politics/carly-fiorina-gets-a-lift-from-iow
ans-after-debate.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Damon Jackson, 39, right, and Abby Rodewald, 17, at a debate
party in Des Moines on Wednesday. Ben Carson had been close to Donald J. Trump
in recent polls in Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MORGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS
& VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (77%); ARMIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%);
EXECUTIVES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS
(63%); VACCINES (54%); AUTISM (53%)

PERSON: BEN CARSON (93%); DONALD TRUMP (93%); CARLY FIORINA (92%); SCOTT WALKER
(88%)

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

U.S. Team Is Delighted to Play Follow the Leader

BYLINE: By LISA D. MICKEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: SOLHEIM CUP; Pg.

LENGTH: 946 words


Members of the United States Solheim Cup team don't hold back when asked how
they feel about playing for their captain, Juli Inkster.

They call her a role model and describe how competitive she is. They know from
personal experience how she hates to lose.

They will also admit how they have been bettered by Inkster, who at 55 still
plays some L.P.G.A. tournaments even though she is old enough to be the mother
of many of the young pros. (She in fact has two 20-something daughters.)

At the Evian Championship in France last week, Inkster tied for 38th, beating
two members of the U.S. team and five members of the European team. Four
Americans and three European team members missed the cut at Evian.

While it is evident that Inkster can still play, she has scaled back her
competitive schedule. She has played only 12 L.P.G.A. tournaments this year,
recording one top-10 finish and missing four cuts.

She has also juggled work as a TV commentator for Fox Sports, handled the
logistics of her role as a Solheim Cup captain and even slipped away to play
some tournaments on the Legends Tour with other former L.P.G.A. stars age 45 or
over.

When Inkster won the Legends Championship in late August, her appearance was not
only a chance to swing her own clubs, but a tip of the cap to other members of
the World Golf Hall of Fame in the field, including JoAnne Carner, Pat Bradley
and Hollis Stacy.

''I grew up playing with them, and I love playing with these gals,'' Inkster
said after her victory. ''These are the ladies who built our tour.''

Inkster is known for her zany sense of humor, but she is also a cunning champion
who knows how to make a point. After lifting the trophy at the Legends
Championship, she had a message for the young players who she knew were
watching.

''If a 55-year-old can win, they can win, too,'' she said.

That was a calculated crank of the engine she hopes to rev up in Germany this
week when her American players attempt to reclaim the Solheim Cup from the
European champions.

The captain's other not-so-subtle messages to her team came earlier this season
on the L.P.G.A. tour, when she tied for 15th and beat five (and tied one) of her
players at the Swinging Skirts L.P.G.A. Classic in San Francisco.

At the Volunteers of America North Texas Shootout in late April, she tied for
seventh and again played better than five of her players. And at the Meijer
L.P.G.A. Classic in late July, won by the American team member Lexi Thompson,
Inkster beat two of her Solheim players with a 15th-place finish. Those results
did not go unnoticed by younger pros.

''She's my role model and the reason I even picked up a club,'' said Paula
Creamer, 29, who was one of Inkster's two captain's picks.

''I can't even describe what it means to have her as our captain,'' added
Creamer, who is making her sixth Solheim Cup appearance and has an overall
record of 12-6-5. ''Not only are we playing for our country, but we're playing
for her.''

The respect Inkster inspires in her team has a long history, directly linked to
her success and longevity as a player.

She has 31 career L.P.G.A. victories, including seven major championships, and
149 top-10 finishes -- one coming this season, five years past Inkster's
half-century mark. Inkster got the ball rolling in her future hall-of-fame
career as the L.P.G.A.'s top rookie in 1984.

''She's a special lady and is very, very deserving of the captaincy,'' said the
five-time U.S. team member Morgan Pressel. ''She's feisty and she loves to
win.''

Creamer added that Inkster was ''the most fierce competitor you'll ever see.''

''I know because she was my alternate-shot partner for the first three years I
played in the Solheim Cup,'' she added.

In addition to her record as a tournament player, Inkster also holds the
distinction as the American player who has earned the most Solheim Cup points
(18) for her side. She holds a 15-12-7 record for a winning percentage of 54.4
percent.

That prompted the American team member Stacy Lewis to ask Inkster last week if
she would be a playing captain this week. Inkster reportedly just laughed.

Inkster trails only Laura Davies of Britain for the most Solheim Cup events
played: Davies played in 12 of the 13 staged; Inkster has competed in nine. She
is tied with Cristie Kerr for the most matches played by an American (34).

For the most matches won in the event's history, Annika Sorenstam and Davies are
tied with 22, followed by Inkster with 15.

Inkster does hold the Solheim Cup's record of the most points scored in singles
competition (7), ahead of Davies (6), and in 2011 became the event's oldest
competitor, at 51 years, two months and 30 days. That year, she was also the
first playing assistant captain.

''She's pretty amazing,'' said the U.S. team member Brittany Lincicome, playing
in her fifth Solheim Cup. ''She will encourage us, but she will also kick our
butts.''

Angela Stanford, also playing in her fifth event, calls Inkster a ''no-nonsense
kind of person,'' and said that playing for a captain who is still in the game
brings a competitive connection with the team.

''With Juli, what you see is what you get and she expects the best from us,''
said Stanford, who hopes to improve on a disappointing 0-4-0 performance at the
2013 event. ''She wants us to show up and get it done.''

Even the veteran European Solheim Cup player Catriona Matthew of Scotland knows
what kind of leader will be stirring the spirits of the American team. At 46,
she has faced Inkster many times over the years.

''I think she'll be a great captain,'' said Matthew, playing in her eighth
Solheim Cup. ''Juli still has the passion and the fire.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/golf/us-team-is-delighted-to-play-follo
w-the-leader-juli-inkster-golf-solheim-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Scapegoats of Venezuela

BYLINE: By NAKY SOTO PARRA.

Naky Soto Parra coordinates leadership training for Liderazgo y Vision, a
Caracas-based NGO. This essay was translated by Kristina Cordero from the
Spanish.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 955 words


CARACAS, Venezuela -- In just over two years, President Nicolás Maduro has
squandered much of the political capital Hugo Chávez built up during his 14
years in office. The dramatic drop in world oil prices last summer has put a
dent in the populist generosity of the governing United Socialist Party of
Venezuela.

The country's gross domestic product has fallen fast since the first quarter.
The inflation rate is in the triple digits -- there is no way of knowing exactly
because the figure is no longer published. Homicide numbers have reached record
levels. There are chronic shortages of basic goods: chicken, meat, car
batteries, antiretroviral drugs.

The government is trying to impose rationing, using fingerprint scanners and
limiting people to buying certain products only one day per week. To buy diapers
you must show your child's birth certificate.

With the economy in free fall and little of Mr. Chávez's charisma, Mr. Maduro
has struggled to reassert the government's authority. For a time, he leaned on
the armed forces, appointing military officers to executive and diplomatic
posts. The ruling party, known by its Spanish initials as the P.S.U.V., has
abused its majority in the National Assembly to place party loyalists at the
head of watchdog agencies. But neither these measures nor official propaganda
and the state's grip over the media could prevent the government's popularity
from continuing to plummet.

Then last month an unexpected opportunity arose: Three Venezuelan military
officers in a shantytown near the city of San Antonio in Táchira state, by the
border with Colombia, were ambushed and shot at by two men on a motorcycle. The
officers were not killed, and the attackers were not identified, yet within
hours Mr. Maduro called the event a paramilitary attack and announced a
crackdown on supposed Colombian smugglers and criminals in Venezuela.

According to the International Organization for Migration, some 604,000
Colombians were living in Venezuela as of 2012, many of them displaced by war at
home years ago or more recently by urban violence and various forms of
extortion. (These figures remain the most reliable today since the Venezuelan
government often inflates its own.)

This is not the first time Colombians have been blamed for our problems; that
also happened when crime rose in the 1980s. But Mr. Maduro has taken the
scapegoating to unprecedented levels after the ambush in San Antonio last month.
The government promptly closed the border crossings in Táchira. Venezuelan
officers began marking the homes of Colombians living in the area, painting the
letter ''R'' (for ''requisar'') on houses to be searched and ''D'' (for
''demoler'') on those slated to be bulldozed. Deportations, ordered with no
semblance of due process, followed.

The government has deported some 1,400 Colombians in the last month, according
to the United Nations -- nearly as many as the total for all of 2014. Over
18,000 Colombians have also left Venezuela on their own initiative. Their fear
of being forcibly expelled is stronger than the fear that brought them here in
the first place.

They have crossed the river that marks the border in some places with whatever
they could carry: a mat, a suitcase, a toy truck -- scraps of the lives they
were leaving behind. On the other side, their sudden presence has overwhelmed
local Colombian authorities and created a humanitarian crisis.

In a speech that startled even jaded observers, the senior P.S.U.V. official
Jacqueline Faría, a former information minister, said the Venezuelan
government's emergency measures were meant to protect ''all those who are
legally in our homeland, whether Venezuelan or not,'' and that ''all those who
are legally on our soil have their human rights guaranteed.'' The implication
was that the rights of people not legally in the country would not be
guaranteed.

President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia has protested that the Colombians being
deported are not being shown minimal standards of respect. He and Mr. Maduro
have been engaged in a war of words. Mr. Santos has alleged that Venezuelan
military aircraft invaded Colombian airspace twice recently; the Venezuelan
government has said the allegation is a fabrication.

By sealing off the border and cracking down on Colombian migrants, the
Venezuelan government is attacking the consequences of its problems rather than
their causes. This government controls the entire economy, through minute
regulations overseen by a cumbersome bureaucratic system, from the production of
goods to their wholesale and distribution. Yet it tries to pass on the blame for
its failures.

Mr. Maduro claims there have been no fewer than 12 conspiracies to assassinate
him. He has resurrected an old territorial conflict with Guyana. He accuses the
foreign governments that criticize him of interventionism. After a trial decried
for ignoring basic procedural safeguards, the well-known opposition leader
Leopoldo López was recently sentenced to more than 13 years in prison for
inciting violence during protests last year. And last week Mr. Maduro ordered
the closure of yet another long section of the border with Colombia.

Colombian migrants are suffering needlessly at the hands of a Venezuelan
government desperately trying to save itself by riling up nationalist sentiment.

''How shameful,'' I've thought to myself this week, while having to stand yet
again for hours and hours in long lines outside grocery stores. On most days in
Maduro's Venezuela I can't find eggs to buy for breakfast, and when I do, I
discover that I can no longer afford them.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/colombian-migrants-are-the-scapegoats-
of-venezuela.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLITICS (78%);
APPOINTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMODITIES SHORTAGES (77%); INFLATION
(77%); PRICES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); SHORTAGES (76%); HOMICIDE
(75%); FINGERPRINTING (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); POULTRY (72%);
BORDER CONTROL (69%); BIOMETRICS (69%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%);
SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); DEPORTATION (67%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (54%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (88%)

CITY: CARACAS, VENEZUELA (73%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); VENEZUELA
(73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Mark Grotjahn's 'Painted Sculpture' Offers the Gorgeously Preposterous

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 372 words


Mark Grotjahn's paintings have long pitted two important strands of early
modernism -- abstraction and masklike Expressionist faces -- against each other
and also against African art, to which both are so indebted. A few years ago, to
his benefit, he started painting on bronze casts of cardboard boxes as well as
canvas. His latest efforts, which he collectively calls ''Painted Sculpture,''
are gorgeously preposterous.

Bigger and more intensely painted, they go beyond the smaller painted bronzes
called ''Masks'' that he showed at the Gagosian Gallery's space on Madison
Avenue in 2012. But both shows confirm that painting on these admittedly fancy
ready-mades has resulted in Mr. Grotjahn's best work since his early butterfly
motifs. They achieve greater emotional power and conceptual ambiguity than most
of what came between.

Tall, thin and on substantial pedestals, the bronzes suggest both masks and
figurative sculptures. They have an African and also (European) medieval
implacability, even though they began life as boxes for flat-screen TVs, and
their torn tops are still visible.

Mr. Grotjahn has cut three apertures into each, suggesting the lopsided mouths
and eyes of previous canvases. He has also affixed them with one, and sometimes
two, cardboard tubes (also bronze) where noses or male genitalia might be. He
then painted on all sides of these objects, mostly with his hands and fingers.
Replete with handprints and crude signatures, these extravagantly textured,
richly colored surfaces celebrate painterly touch while acknowledging its
potential for self-indulgence. Parenthetical titles -- ''Blue van Gogh Cypress,
Mask'' -- cite African masks, Jackson Pollock and the early modernist love of
nature. Julian Schnabel, Lucio Fontana or Cy Twombly are also in the mix.

But it is mostly up to us to sort the shifting parts of these half-alive,
emphatically made things. For example, the two van Gogh-titled paintings
initially made me think of organized Joan Mitchell surfaces. The long noses of
course conjure Pinocchio, suggesting that Mr. Grotjahn's latest hybrids could be
as false as they are true.

Mark Grotjahn

'Painted Sculpture'

Anton Kern Gallery

532 West 20th Street, Chelsea

Through Oct. 29




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-mark-grotjahns-painted-scul
pture-offers-the-gorgeously-preposterous.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Untitled (The Skies Remembered II, French Mask M31.e)'' at
Anton Kern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GROTJAHN AND ANTON KERN GALLERY, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TELEVISION
EQUIPMENT (52%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Fruitless Hunt for Justice

BYLINE: By IOAN GRILLO.

Ioan Grillo, a British journalist who covers Latin America, is the author of
''El Narco: Inside Mexico's Criminal Insurgency.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 931 words


MEXICO CITY -- SEPT. 26 will mark a year since one of the most heinous crimes in
modern Mexico, when police officers and drug cartel hit men are believed to have
abducted 43 students and killed another six students or passers-by in the town
of Iguala. There have been even bigger mass killings by cartels in the past,
also involving the security forces who are supposed to be fighting them. But the
Iguala attacks caused far more outrage because they targeted students, the
police were on the front line, and they were close to the capital.

The images of the missing youths and their distraught families shook Mexican
society, provoking hundreds of thousands to take to the streets demanding
justice. It became a watershed case, emblematic of the killings and
disappearances that have ravaged this nation.

With the world watching, the government of President Enrique Peña Nieto had the
chance to prove it could deliver justice. But the investigation has shown the
deep flaws among Mexico's police force and prosecutors. A report released on
Sept. 6 by a group of experts, appointed by the Inter-American Commission on
Human Rights, concluded that there had been a slow response, possible torture of
suspects, and damage to key evidence and crime scenes. The justice system itself
was put on trial -- and found guilty.

The vices detailed in the report are typical in Mexico. Torture is widespread,
as shown in a recently released video of police officers in Jalisco beating
teenage robbery suspects. Corruption in the security forces is rife, as shown by
the arrest of prison guards and intelligence agents accused of helping the
kingpin Joaquín Guzmán Loera, better known as El Chapo, escape prison through a
tunnel with electric lights and air vents. And investigators are often simply
incompetent, as shown in the daily mishandling of crime scenes.

The result is a double tragedy of horrendous crimes going unpunished while
innocent people rot in jail. Many Mexicans have lost all faith in the justice
system. Even before the report, the families of the victims and many journalists
refused to believe the official account of what happened to the students.

Many Mexicans have no confidence in anything the government says. When Mr.
Guzmán escaped, a survey by the newspaper Reforma found that 54 percent of
respondents didn't accept that he had fled through a tunnel as the government
had announced; people claimed he had walked out the front door. This breakdown
of trust has painful implications. In recent years, thousands of Mexicans have
formed vigilante militias to take justice into their own hands. More unrest may
well follow.

The Mexican government, with the support of the international community, needs
to make a herculean effort to strengthen its justice system and restore some
credibility. And this can begin with a renewed effort to deliver justice in the
Iguala attacks. Mr. Peña Nieto said he had asked investigators to take into
account the findings of the experts' report; now he needs to follow up with
concrete action.

The failures in the Iguala investigation leave doubts about who was involved,
what their motive was, and what happened to the victims. Prosecutors claim that
hit men from the Guerreros Unidos cartel burned the students on a bonfire at a
garbage dump. The authors of the report argue that the evidence shows such a
fire never happened there -- and the search needs to continue. The police found
the charred remains of two of the students, allegedly in a nearby river, but
there has been no sign of the others.

Mexican agents have arrested more than 100 people suspected of having taken part
in the Iguala attacks, including city police officers, the mayor and his wife,
and reputed Guerreros Unidos assassins. Some have confessed. But accusations
that they were tortured undermine the cases against them. If some are the
killers but are freed because of a bungled prosecution, it would only add to the
tragedy. The case needs to be strengthened with solid physical evidence. State
and federal forces also need to be more thoroughly questioned about their
actions on the night of the abductions.

The Iguala report questions the motives behind this brutal attack. The students,
from a nearby teachers' college, had gone to the town to commandeer buses that
they wanted to use to travel to a march in Mexico City. The report recommends
pursuing the theory that students unwittingly took a bus in which heroin or
opium paste was stashed. The Guerreros Unidos produce heroin to supply the surge
in use across the United States.

Whatever drove the killers that night, cartels and corrupt police officers have
a track record of disposing of innocent civilians, sometimes for just being in
the wrong place. After his son was killed by cartel thugs, the poet Javier
Sicilia toured cities across Mexico packed with thousands grieving over their
loved ones. According to a government count, cartels and the security forces
fighting them killed more than 83,000 people between 2007 and 2014. Some
journalists claim it is many more.

The failures in the Iguala investigation have taken a toll on Mr. Peña Nieto,
who has fallen to a 35 percent approval rating. He did not invent the problem of
cartel bloodshed when he took power in 2012. But, as president, he needs to lead
real efforts to fix the justice system during his remaining three years in
power.

And when the United States supports Mexico in fighting cartels, it cannot just
provide hardware like Black Hawk helicopters. It needs to help Mexico rebuild
its institutions from the bottom up.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/mexicos-fruitless-hunt-for-justice.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME
(90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); PRISONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%);
TORTURE (87%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CARTELS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%);
APPOINTMENTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); MISSING PERSONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ROBBERY (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%);
VERDICTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%);
WRITERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (55%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%)

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day Continues His Torrid Play in Third FedEx Cup Event

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 505 words


Jason Day already had seven birdies on his card and one eagle, courtesy of a
shot he holed from 79 yards out of a fairway bunker. He was walking across a
bridge Thursday at the BMW Championship when someone asked him during an
exchange of greetings, ''How are you doing, Jason?''

Jordan Spieth was a few steps ahead of Day, and he could hardly contain his
laughter.

''Really? You're asking him that?'' Spieth said.

Day has never been better. He powered his way around Conway Farms in Lake
Forest, Ill., and was at 10 under par through 17 holes when thunderstorms halted
the opening round. His final shot was a 346-yard tee shot with the wind at his
back that settled in light rough and left him 44 yards from a front pin on No.
9.

Day has to hole that on Friday morning for a 59. And he did not even know it.

''I thought it was a par 72,'' he said, ''so I'm sitting there going, 'Ten
under, there's no chance at all I can get it.' But if it goes in, it goes in.
Right now, I'm just trying to play the best I can. I'm just trying to get off to
a good start.''

He is playing better than anyone at the moment, a winner in three of his last
five tournaments, including his first major. A victory in the third FedEx Cup
playoff event would send him to No. 1 in the world for the first time, and not
many would argue with that.

Day was four shots ahead of the PGA Tour rookie Daniel Berger, who had a
six-under 65. Brendon Todd had a 66. Only 17 players completed the opening
round.

Spieth finally got on track. Coming off consecutive missed cuts that eventually
cost him the No. 1 ranking, he had a hole in one on the par-3 second hole to end
a peculiar drought. It was the first time in 72 holes that he was under par
during any round in a tournament. And then he chipped in from 80 feet for birdie
on the next hole.

Day, a 27-year-old Australian, is 89 under par dating to the British Open. He is
playing so well that he said every round feels like practice.

''No matter what you do, even if you hit a bad shot, it's going to be all
right,'' Day said. ''That's kind of the way it feels.''

It was the best show of the PGA Tour's postseason, even for a Thursday that was
interrupted by a dark and stormy sky north of Chicago. The group of Day, Spieth
and Rickie Fowler -- Nos. 1, 2 and 3 in the FedEx Cup -- attracted an enormous
gallery, and the players delivered one great shot after another.

Fowler, coming off his third win of the year at T.P.C. Boston two weeks ago,
must have felt like a third wheel at the end, though he produced four straight
birdies on his front nine.

INJURED FURYK WITHDRAWS Jim Furyk's status for both the Tour Championship and
the Presidents Cup was uncertain after a left wrist injury forced him to
withdraw from the BMW Championship after just six holes.

Furyk, the FedEx Cup winner in 2010, is in ninth place in golf's playoff race.
Despite pulling out, he has locked up a spot in next weekend's Tour Championship
in Atlanta, which includes the top 30 players in the standings after the BMW.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/golf/jason-day-continues-his-torrid-pla
y-in-third-fedex-cup-event.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Day was at 10 under par through 17 holes in the BMW
Championship when play was halted because of thunderstorms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE
SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%);
TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (86%); RANKINGS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(64%)

PERSON: JORDAN SPIETH (92%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Repatriates Moroccan From Guantánamo, and Approves a Kuwaiti's Transfer

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 915 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration on Thursday announced the repatriation
of a Moroccan man who had been held without trial at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, for
more than 13 years. The transfer reduced the detainee population at the prison,
which President Obama still wants to close before he leaves office, to 115 men.

Also on Thursday, the military disclosed that a six-agency parole-like board had
decided this month to recommend transferring a Kuwaiti man, Faez Mohammed Ahmed
al-Kandari, who had previously been deemed too dangerous to release and who is
the last Kuwaiti being held at Guantánamo. That decision, along with a similar
one last month involving a Libyan, means that 53 of the remaining prisoners are
recommended for transfer if security conditions can be met.

The developments were small signs of life for the administration's effort to
close Guantánamo, which has proceeded in fits and starts amid opposition from
the Republican-controlled Congress and internal bureaucratic turbulence.

The transfer of the Moroccan represents the first time that Defense Secretary
Ashton B. Carter, who by statute must personally approve any transfer, has
permitted a new transfer deal to go through since taking office in February.

Mr. Carter also allowed the resettlement of six lower-level Yemeni detainees to
Oman in June, completing a 10-detainee deal approved by his predecessor, Chuck
Hagel. But Mr. Carter's initial slow pace in approving transfers of lower-level
detainees, even as Mr. Obama has less than a year and a half left in office,
prompted a cabinet-level meeting in July at which the National Security Council
pressed the defense secretary to make decisions, including about transferring
the Moroccan man, more quickly.

A leaked military dossier on the Moroccan, Yunis Abdurrahman Shokuri, 47,
claimed that in 1999 he had helped found an Islamist group for Moroccans that
was separate from Al Qaeda and the Taliban but had ties to them. He told
interrogators that the group was not extremist, the dossier said, though he
acknowledged that it supported Muslims' struggle in Chechnya against the Russian
government.

The dossier said he was among a group of Middle Eastern men captured by
Pakistani forces near the Afghanistan border in December 2001. The United States
took custody of him in early 2002 and transferred him that May to its new
wartime prison at Guantánamo.

Mr. Shokuri's brother was also captured and taken to Guantánamo, but he was
repatriated to Morocco in 2004. In 2009, the six-agency task force unanimously
recommended transferring Mr. Shokuri, too. His departure leaves one Moroccan at
the prison, but he is not recommended for transfer.

After taking custody of Mr. Shokuri on Wednesday, the Moroccan government was
apparently holding him for initial scrutiny. The London-based human rights
organization Reprieve, whose lawyers represented Mr. Shokuri, said he had not
been in contact with them or his family since landing, and it expressed concern
about his safety.

''He must be permitted to see his lawyers and his family without further
delay,'' said Cori Crider, one of the Reprieve lawyers.

Ian Moss, a State Department spokesman for Guantánamo issues, said that Mr.
Shokuri had voluntarily been repatriated to Morocco. Mr. Moss said the United
States had received assurances from the Moroccan government that Mr. Shokuri
would be treated well.

''We conduct a thorough, case-by-case review of each potential transfer in which
we consider all available credible information in making a determination as to
whether a potential transfer can be implemented consistent with our humane
treatment policy,'' Mr. Moss said.

The Obama administration has used a six-agency review process to decide whether
detainees should be transferred, starting with an initial review by a task force
in 2009. Since 2013, representatives from those agencies, including the Defense
Department and the C.I.A., have sat on a Periodic Review Board that re-evaluates
detainees whom the task force deemed too dangerous to release.

The Obama-era process of individual reviews has resulted in a significantly
lower rate of post-release problems than the process used by the George W. Bush
administration after it decided to try to close the prison, according to
statistics released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The
Bush-era process involved bulk repatriations of detainees from countries like
Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan.

The most recent statistics, which the office released several weeks ago and were
current as of July, said that 111 of the 532 detainees released under the Bush
administration were confirmed to have engaged in militant activity after being
released, and 73 were suspected of it, a combined total of about 35 percent. (Of
the 184 problem cases, 73 of the former detainees were either dead or back in
custody.)

Of the 121 transferred under the Obama administration, six were confirmed to
have engaged in militant activity after their release, and six more were
suspected of it -- a combined total of about 10 percent.

Five of the six Obama-era ''suspected'' cases -- a category that can mean there
is only one source of the information -- had been detected in the previous six
months, ending a two-year period in which no former such detainee was newly
identified as problematic.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/politics/us-repatriates-moroccan-detainee-f
rom-guantanamo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESETTLEMENT & REPATRIATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(89%); PRISONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PAROLE (78%); CORRECTIONS
(78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY
(76%); TALIBAN (76%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS
(76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); AL-QAEDA (67%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (62%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%);
SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHUCK HAGEL (78%); ASHTON CARTER (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOROCCO (90%); OMAN
(79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crazy Talk

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 771 words


Eleven presidential candidates had three prime-time hours on the national stage
on Wednesday to tell the American people why they should lead the country.

Nobody forced them to be there. They were there freely, armed with the best
arguments they and their policy advisers had come up with, to make their cases
as seasoned politicians, business leaders and medical professionals -- the
Republican Party's ''A-Team,'' as one of them, Mike Huckabee, said at the
outset.

And that, America, is frightening. Peel back the boasting and insults, the lies
and exaggerations common to any presidential campaign. What remains is a
collection of assertions so untrue, so bizarre, that they form a vision as
surreal as the Ronald Reagan jet looming behind the candidates' lecterns.

It felt at times as if the speakers were no longer living in a fact-based world
where actions have consequences, programs take money and money has to come from
somewhere. Where basic laws -- like physics and the Constitution -- constrain
wishes. Where Congress and the public, allies and enemies, markets and
militaries don't just do what you want them to, just because you say they will.

Start with immigration, and the idea that any president could or should engineer
the mass expulsion of 11 million unauthorized immigrants. Not one candidate said
that a 21st-century trail of tears, deploying railroad cars, federal troops and
police dogs on a continental scale, cannot happen and would be morally obscene.
Ben Carson said, ''If anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to
listen.'' They accepted the need to ''control our borders'' with a 2,000-mile
fence. Even Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, once an immigration moderate,
endorsed the fence. Mr. Carson actually suggested two fences, for double
security, with a road in between. Do these people have to be sent to the Rio
Grande Valley to see how ludicrous a border fence -- over mountains, vast
deserts, remote valleys and private property -- would be? And it won't solve the
problem they are railing against, which doesn't exist anyway. Illegal
immigration has fallen essentially to zero.

On foreign affairs, there was a lot of talk about not talking with bad people.
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said his first act would be to tear up the Iran deal,
throwing the nuclear race back to the ayatollahs and rupturing global alliances
-- but making a point! Carly Fiorina said: ''What I would do, immediately, is
begin rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, I would begin rebuilding the missile defense
program in Poland, I would conduct regular, aggressive military exercises in the
Baltic States. I'd probably send a few thousand more troops into Germany.
Vladimir Putin would get the message.''

We get the message, and it's scary.

Jeb Bush spun a particularly repellent fantasy. Speaking reverently of his
brother the president, he said, ''He kept us safe,'' and invoked the carnage of
9/11. Wait, what? Did he mean George W. Bush, who was warned about the threat
that Al Qaeda would attack? Who then invaded a non sequitur country, Iraq, over
a nonexistent threat?

When the A-Team got around to science and health, many of them promised to help
Americans by killing the program that gives millions of them medical insurance.
One candidate said he felt sure that vaccines had caused an autism ''epidemic.''
The two doctors on the dais did not seriously challenge that persistent,
dangerous myth.

Let loose by the CNN moderators, the candidates spun their visions freely.
Despite an abundance of serious issues to talk about, nobody offered solutions
to problems like child poverty, police and gun violence, racial segregation,
educational gaps, competition in a global economy and crumbling infrastructure.
On looming disasters (the changing climate) and more immediate ones (a possible
government shutdown over, of all things, Planned Parenthood), the debate offered
no reassurance that grown-ups were at the table, or even in the neighborhood.

But we did hear an idea to put Mother Teresa -- Mother Teresa, a penniless nun
-- on our money. Think about that.

''We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight,
many of which will just be words. It will just pass on,'' one candidate said,
wrapping up. ''I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action. But a lot
of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.''

Which was the smartest thing Donald Trump has said all year, and an outcome
America should dearly hope for.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/crazy-talk-at-the-republican-debate.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIGH GULDIG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016
(89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%);
ARMED FORCES (69%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); DOGS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%);
DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (79%); TED CRUZ (76%); BEN CARSON (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN
(58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); MARCO RUBIO (56%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%);
BALTIC STATES (50%); POLAND (50%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Renée Fleming, Up Close

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


Renée Fleming, when she sings, usually seems to be a football field away from
her audiences at the Metropolitan Opera or Carnegie Hall. So it was a charming
revelation to hear her so close up on Wednesday at SubCulture, the cozy,
struggling basement space in the East Village.

The occasion was the release last week of her new album with the Emerson String
Quartet, focusing on music of Weimar-era Vienna, a milieu that has clearly
intrigued Ms. Fleming. (The finale of her Carnegie Hall residency two years ago
was ''Vienna: Window to Modernity.'')

Since that residency, her career has expanded in interesting directions. She
sang the national anthem at the Super Bowl and starred (as an opera diva) on
Broadway in  ''Living on Love.'' She's now helping usher a new work to the stage
-- ''Bel Canto,'' based on the Ann Patchett novel -- as a creative consultant to
the Lyric Opera of Chicago.

Ms. Fleming is stretching herself as a singer, too. While she could get away
with doing only chestnuts like ''O mio babbino caro,'' with the quartet she
visits a lightly traveled corner of the repertory: Berg's ''Lyric Suite,'' Eric
Zeisl's songs and, most intriguingly, Egon Wellesz's richly fretful settings of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning sonnets, translated by Rilke.

It is disappointing that none of those dense, seething, rarely sung Wellesz
works from the album made it onto this brief program, which contained just three
of Berg's six movements; Zeisl's prayerful ''Komm, süsser Tod''; and excerpts
from a documentary being developed about the ''Lyric Suite,'' whose dramatic
back story is suited to cinema.

Not until the 1970s, a half-century after the suite's composition, was an
annotated score discovered that made clear what had long been suspected: The
work is an autobiography in music, chronicling the love affair of Berg and a
friend's wife and culminating in a setting of Baudelaire's despondent ''De
Profundis Clamavi.'' (Berg kept the existence of the lyrics a secret).

Ms. Fleming delivered that setting -- marked ''Largo desolato'' -- with an
intimate clarity devoid of the syrupy scooping in which she's sometimes
indulged. Her voice lightly, icily floated, like the fog from liquid nitrogen,
as she began the second stanza, with its haunting description of a sun without
warmth. The Emerson quartet played with incisive tanginess, and Ms. Fleming,
persuasively inhabiting a cabaret-size space, made her 10 minutes of singing
count.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/review-renee-fleming-up-close-at-su
bculture.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Renée Fleming at SubCulture with the Emerson Quartet: from left,
Eugene Drucker, Philip Setzer, Lawrence Dutton and Paul Watkins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); RECORD RELEASES
(77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL
LITERATURE (61%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Toronto Festival Officials Withdraw 'London Fields'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words


LOS ANGELES -- Toronto International Film Festival officials on Thursday said
they had withdrawn the film ''London Fields'' from their lineup because of a
lawsuit filed on Tuesday by the film's director, Mathew Cullen, against some of
its producers, including Chris Hanley and his Muse Productions company.

In dropping the film, festival programmers cited the legal action and
''uncertainty surrounding the creative vision of the version'' that had been set
for a world premiere in Toronto on Friday. Mr. Hanley and a spokeswoman for the
film did not immediately respond to queries.

In a statement, a spokeswoman for the film said its producers called the
festival cancellation ''an ill-considered decision made against our rights.''
The statement called Mr. Cullen's legal complaint a ''publicity stunt,'' and
said they would ''vigorously oppose it.''

''London Fields'' stars Johnny Depp, Amber Heard, Billy Bob Thornton and others
in a noir thriller based on a novel by Martin Amis. Mr. Cullen, in a suit filed
in Los Angeles County Superior Court, said its producers committed fraud by
substantially changing the movie without his consent and not paying him, among
other things.

Another prominent film, Sydney Pollack's documentary ''Amazing Grace,'' which
was completed after his death in 2008, was earlier withdrawn from the festival
after its subject, Aretha Franklin, filed suit challenging the right of its
producers to portray her in the movie.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/media/london-fields-pulled-from-toron
to-film-festival-over-dispute.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FILM
(90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS
(90%); FILM FESTIVALS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(67%)

PERSON: BILLY BOB THORNTON (79%); JOHNNY DEPP (58%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Keltie Ferris, Woman Warrior

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 423 words


This has been a summer of women warriors: Serena Williams, Angela Merkel,
Charlize Theron's character in ''Max Max: Fury Road,'' and Shaye Haver and
Kristen Griest, the first women to earn the United States Army's elite Ranger
designation. Now, in the final days of summer, painting's warrior women are
advancing, and Keltie Ferris is among them.

Ms. Ferris's new paintings are aggressive and emphatic but also spectral and
expansive. Early rumblings about this show on the Internet compared them with
works by Albert Oehlen and others who make references to digital marks in their
canvases. Yet Ms. Ferris remakes the digital in supremely analog form. What
might read from afar (or in photographs) as pixels are, close up, thick
rectangles of paint applied with a flat-ended brush. These marks distinctly
recall the pointillism of Seurat and Signac, as well as the synthetic vision of
Impressionism: When you step back from the canvas, the image snaps into focus.

Expanding on this, Ms. Ferris melds the geometry of digital media with Native
American patterns and Bauhaus weavings like those by Gunta Stölzl. Spraying,
dotting and scraping recall the practices of Sigmar Polke and Gerhard Richter
and the ethereality of visionary painters like Lee Mullican and Chris Martin.
The freewheeling movement of graffiti is here, and the more restrained,
meandering doodle of Brice Marden, a fellow Yale M.F.A. graduate.

Then there are the body prints: works on paper in which Ms. Ferris pressed her
torso, thighs, hands, feet and face against the surface. These have historical
echoes, too, from Robert Rauschenberg to Yves Klein's ''Anthropometries'' and
David Hammons's politicized body prints. Ms. Ferris was fully clothed when she
made the prints, however, in the jeans-and-work-shirt uniform of the laboring
artist, or, perhaps, the butch lesbian. Repeating bodies in some of the prints
recall Andy Warhol's silk-screen paintings of Elvis Presley, dressed for a movie
role as a cowboy.

Titles are simple but vivid. ''WoVeN'' suggests the complex structures of
weaving and the playfulness of concrete poetry. ''Marksman'' and ''Boxer''
underscore the precision and force of these paintings. (And Ms. Ferris does use
a spray gun to make her work.) But the aggression here isn't destructive, it's
utopian: The record of what it takes to make great and vital painting which, in
turn, inspires others in their upward struggle.

Keltie Ferris

'Paintings and Body Prints'

Mitchell-Innes & Nash

534 West 26th Street, Chelsea

Through Oct. 17




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-keltie-ferris-woman-warrior
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); VISUAL
ARTISTS (76%); ARMIES (73%); US ARMY (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); GAYS &
LESBIANS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (73%); SERENA WILLIAMS (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dovish Tone of Fed's Monetary Policy Statement Surprises Economists

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 943 words


The Federal Reserve appeared surprisingly hesitant to raise interest rates,
experts said on Thursday, following months of anticipation on Wall Street, in
Washington and in corporate boardrooms around the country that a move was
imminent.

A majority of economists on Wall Street and market indicators of investor
sentiment had predicted the Fed would hold off on any move to tighten monetary
policy at the two-day meeting that concluded Thursday afternoon. But several
analysts said the language in the rate-setting committee's statement suggested
that officials were even more cautious than they had thought.

''It felt like a dovish result with a dovish statement,'' said Carl R.
Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust in Chicago. ''Before this meeting,
there was a supposition that they'd set the table for a future move. I didn't
see any silverware in this announcement, and I think October is off the table.''

''I don't think they are in much of a hurry,'' he added. ''The international
situation must have generated a real re-evaluation.''

Still, other experts argued that the central bank is prepared to move as soon as
global conditions improve, illustrating the uncertainty that will persist until
at least the next Fed meeting in late October -- or more likely until the last
gathering of the year for policy makers in mid-December.

''The global deterioration has caught their attention and, clearly, that was the
main factor,'' said Michael Hanson, senior United States economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. ''I don't think this will keep them on hold for an
extended period of time. Both the meetings in October and December remain
live.''

Indeed, traders on Wall Street could not make up their minds Thursday on how to
greet the Fed decision not to enact its first rate increase since 2006. After
initially dropping after the 2 p.m. announcement, stocks quickly rallied by more
than 1 percent, only to fall in the final hour of trading. Major market indexes
finished the day down by about 0.25 percent.

Several analysts said they were struck by the second paragraph in the Fed's
statement, in particular the conclusion that global volatility and economic
events ''are likely to put further downward pressure on inflation in the near
term.''

Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said those
conclusions constituted the major news in Thursday's announcement.

''I'm not surprised they didn't move, but I am slightly surprised that they were
so explicit with their reasoning,'' he said. ''The new stuff is the recent
financial global developments, and for now they are kind of paralyzed.''

Mr. Shepherdson said he expected the United States economy to continue to
strengthen in the months ahead while volatility lessens in China and other
markets, prompting the central bank to finally start tightening in December.

What is important to understand, said Michael Gapen, chief United States
economist at Barclays, is that the Fed has concluded inflation will remain
depressed, even if the other economic fallout from problems abroad is minimal.

''That's significant,'' said Mr. Gapen, who is an outlier on Wall Street in
predicting that the Fed will wait until March 2016 to move. ''Whether or not the
risk materializes, they think it will suppress inflation, and that means they
can let labor markets go a little longer without an increase.''

With wage gains still scarce for most workers, and many having trouble finding
full-time positions despite a 5.1 percent unemployment rate that would normally
signal employers to raise pay, labor unions and liberal economists hailed the
Fed's move as a sign policy makers see continuing slack in the labor market as
much more of a threat than inflation.

''We are pleased that the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates unchanged,''
said Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''We know the economic
recovery still has not reached working families, and even a small increase can
have devastating effects on our economic stability.''

Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the liberal Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities in Washington, said he believes that Janet Yellen, the chairwoman of
the Federal Reserve, is focused on how uneven the recovery in the labor market
has been.

''This doesn't feel like an economy that needs a brake tap,'' he said, adding
that Ms. Yellen ''has been consistently, and thankfully, mindful of the absence
of full employment despite the 5.1 percent unemployment rate.''

With the dollar strengthening by more than 15 percent over the last 12 months
against other currencies, making imports into the United States cheaper,
economic forces are quietly combating inflation through another channel, Mr.
Bernstein noted.

''The appreciation of the dollar has been doing the Fed's work many times
over,'' he said.

Many observers expect the dollar to continue to rise against other currencies,
because of economic weakness in Asia and the relative strength of the American
economy.

On the other end of the political spectrum, conservative economists and
Republicans on Capitol Hill expressed worry that the longer the Fed waits to
make its inevitable move to raise interest rates, the greater the threat that
investors will get cold feet.

Thursday's decision ''has less to do with the underlying weakness of the economy
than the timidity of the Fed to take the first necessary step to normalize
monetary policy,'' said Representative Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on
the Joint Economic Committee. ''As long as the Fed remains fearful to act lest
it be blamed for any economic hiccup, market uncertainty will continue.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/economy/feds-hesitance-not-its-decisi
on-surprises-economists.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%);
MONETARY POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INFLATION
(78%); INTEREST RATES (78%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (56%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Reserve Delays Raising Interest Rates

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words


WASHINGTON --  One of the longest economic expansions in American history
remains so fragile that the Federal Reserve said on Thursday it would postpone
any retreat from its stimulus campaign.

Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's chairwoman, described the decision as a close call
and said the central bank still expected to raise interest rates later this
year. The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate close to zero since late
2008, when the nation's economy was at the depths of crisis.

''The recovery from the Great Recession has advanced sufficiently far and
domestic spending has been sufficiently robust that an argument can be made for
a rise in interest rates at this time,'' Ms. Yellen said at a news conference.

But, she said, ''heightened uncertainties abroad,'' including the Chinese
economy's weakness, had persuaded the bank to wait at least a few more weeks for
fresh data that might ''bolster its confidence'' in continued growth.

The Fed's decision, announced after a two-day meeting of its policy-making
committee, had been widely expected by investors in recent weeks.

Fed officials spent most of the summer suggesting that they wanted to raise
rates in September, only to lose confidence as signs of slowing global growth
weighed on markets.

The 10-year Treasury note yield fell 0.11 percentage points to 2.189 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 0.26 percent to 1,990.20.

There were signs, however, that the Fed might hesitate only briefly. It
separately released economic projections showing 13 of the 17 officials on the
Federal Open Market Committee still expected to raise the benchmark rate this
year.

The Fed has said it is moving toward raising rates because it expects economic
growth to continue, reducing unemployment and eventually raising inflation; on
Thursday, Ms. Yellen said that outlook had not changed.

''There's a tendency among some to think that they're always going to get cold
feet, and I thought Yellen really as much as possible discouraged that kind of
thinking,'' said John L. Bellows, a portfolio manager at Western Asset
Management.

The policy-making committee still has scheduled meetings in October and
December, and Ms. Yellen said a rate increase was possible at either meeting.

One official, Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond, in Virginia, voted to raise rates at the September meeting, the first
dissent this year. The economic projections suggest that Ms. Yellen faces more
disagreements at the Fed's October meeting, given that six officials predicted
the Fed would raise rates at least two times this year, while four said that
they expected no increases.

The latest postponement was welcomed by liberal activists and economists who
argue that the recovery remains incomplete. Representative John Conyers Jr.,
Democrat of Michigan, introduced legislation on Thursday directing the Fed to
push the unemployment rate below 4 percent. While the bill has no chance of
winning approval in the Republican-controlled Congress, Mr. Conyers addressed a
rally organized by the Center for Popular Democracy outside an office building
where Ms. Yellen spoke, joining in a chant of ''Don't raise interest rates.''

Critics expressed concern that the Fed has adopted increasingly ambitious goals
for its stimulus campaign. ''There is always a reason to chicken out,'' said
Dean Croushore, a professor of economics at the University of Richmond. ''The
Fed will lose credibility over time, as it fails to follow its own prior
announcements about when it will increase rates.''

Ms. Yellen, asked about the efforts to put public pressure on the Fed, which
have mounted in recent months, dryly observed, ''We have been receiving advice
from a large number of economists and interested groups.''

She denied that outside pressure had influenced the Fed's decision. She also
said it had not been influenced by concerns about a potential government
shutdown, which could disrupt growth, though she said that it ''would be more
than unfortunate.''

The Fed's decision is probably a ''mixed blessing'' for the global economy,''
Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell, said in an email. Instead of
new pressures, investors must deal with continued uncertainty.

A Fed increase, for example, might have prompted investors to pull money out of
countries like Turkey or Brazil, damaging their economies, and reduced demand
for imports from Europe and other developed countries. But the decision to stand
pat also could weigh on Europe in the short term if it causes the euro to rise
against the dollar, making things harder for exporters.

The American economy is outpacing the rest of the world, and Ms. Yellen said on
Thursday that the Fed did not yet see evidence that growth was slowing.

Fed officials say they believe that labor market conditions have nearly returned
to normal. In the new round of economic projections, officials estimated
unemployment would stabilize next year at 4.8 percent, just below the August
level of 5.1 percent.

Officials also remain confident that inflation will rebound, although perhaps a
little slowly because of the recent downturn in the prices of oil and other
commodities. Since the financial crisis, inflation has remained consistently
below the central bank's 2 percent annual target, lately rising just 0.3 percent
over the previous year.

Fed officials argue that a tighter labor market will lead to higher inflation as
employers are finally prodded to pay higher wages. But, Ms. Yellen said on
Thursday, that will happen more slowly than the unemployment rate might suggest,
because people not counted among the unemployed -- like those who have stopped
looking for work or have taken part-time jobs -- may start looking again as
conditions improve.

James A. Wilcox, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said
that it was difficult to find evidence for a strong connection between inflation
and employment, particularly over the last decade. Inflation fell less than
expected during the recession, and it has increased less than expected in the
aftermath.

''The events of the last 10 years have caused a lot of rethinking and stomach
acid within the Federal Reserve and the research community,'' Dr. Wilcox said.

Recent history has reinforced the more basic point that it takes a lot to change
the underlying pace of inflation. That stability has allowed the Fed to press
its stimulus campaign, but Dr. Wilcox said it also provided a good reason for
the Fed to be wary of allowing inflation to climb, because reversing the trend
could be very painful.

''If the heat builds slowly, and it can only be turned down slowly, then you
have to move ahead of time,'' he said. ''That's why there's sympathy for the
idea of starting to raise rates relatively soon.''

Given the weakness of economic growth, however, Ms. Yellen reiterated on
Thursday that the Fed planned to raise rates more slowly than its past practice.
Fed officials expect the benchmark rate to reach 2.6 percent by the end of 2017.

In June, they predicted the rate would reach 2.9 percent. Officials also expect
the rate to reach a new plateau of about 3.5 percent, less than the June
prediction of 3.8 percent and significantly below the level once regarded as
normal. Such a low plateau would limit the Fed's ability to respond to economic
downturns.

The Fed has already held its benchmark rate near zero much longer than it once
expected. It announced in 2012 that it would keep rates near zero at least until
the unemployment rate fell below 6.5 percent. That threshold was crossed in
April 2014.

Last winter, when the Fed ended its bond-buying campaign, officials pointed to
June as the most likely moment for ''liftoff'' from the so-called zero bound.

Some officials have made clear they are not inclined to wait much longer.

Stanley Fischer, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned in late August
that officials would not be able to postpone a decision until all doubts were
resolved. ''When the case is overwhelming,'' he said, ''if you wait that long,
then you've waited too long.''

Ms. Yellen echoed that warning on Thursday. ''We don't want to wait until we've
fully met both of our objectives to tighten monetary policy,'' she said.

The Fed's hesitation on Thursday echoed events of two years ago, when investors
expected the central bank to announce at its September 2013 meeting that it was
tapering its bond purchases. The Fed demurred, citing uncertainty about economic
conditions.

Instead of September, it acted in December.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/economy/fed-leaves-interest-rates-unc
hanged.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Federal Reserve's headquarters in Washington. After a
two-day meeting, its policy-making committee decided to keep its benchmark
interest rate near zero, where it has been since late 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN
LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B6) CHARTS: What Higher Rates Could Mean: Government
borrowing costs will increase ...
... mortgage rates are also likely to rise ...
... and savers are likely to see higher rates, too. (Sources: Federal Reserve
White House Office of Management and Budget
Reuters
 Bankrate.com) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%);
BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%);
CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); STOCK INDEXES
(89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%);
RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INFLATION
(78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%);
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HISTORY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); LIBERALISM (71%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (62%); WESTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT CO LTD
(52%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL
RESERVE BANKS (62%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%)

PERSON: JANET YELLEN (92%); JOHN CONYERS (58%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clan That Built Cablevision Empire Says Goodbye

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Richard Sandomir contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words


Starting with 1,500 subscribers on Long Island more than 40 years ago, the Dolan
family built one of America's cable fortunes.

But the Dolans also became the family that New Yorkers often loved to hate: the
Dolans, whose Knicks frustrated fans over several fallow decades and whose
company engaged in bitter fights with networks that led to blackouts and
threatened to keep programming like the Oscars and the World Series out of its
customers' reach.

Now the fractious, persistent clan that has loomed large over New York City and
Long Island for decades is bidding goodbye to the company that caused so much
angst, and that made the family rich.

On Thursday the Dolans agreed to sell Cablevision, the cable television empire
that Charles F. Dolan started 42 years ago, to Altice, a European media company,
for $17 billion, including debt. The family sounded almost wistful about the
sale.

''Since Charles Dolan founded Cablevision in 1973, the Dolan family has been
honored to help shepherd our customers and employees through the most
extraordinary communications revolution in modern history,'' James L. Dolan, the
company's chief executive and Charles Dolan's son, said in a statement. ''Now,
nearly half a century later, the time is right for new ownership of Cablevision
and its considerable assets.''

Thursday's sale is a high point in the history of the Dolans, a Midwestern
family that moved to New York in the 1950s and established itself as a pioneer
in the cable industry. In a city of dynasties, the Dolans stood out for
combativeness, willing to fight with the city, with the media companies whose
content flows through their cable network -- and sometimes with one another.

The family is leaving with a hefty payout: The sale to Altice values the Dolans'
collective stake in Cablevision at about $2.2 billion.

With three million customers in the Northeast, Cablevision was never one of the
titans of the cable industry. And it has never been particularly loved, earning
a mediocre customer satisfaction score in a  survey last year. But it has been
the source of cable television and the Internet for millions in the tristate
area for years.

The Dolans certainly are not going away. They still control the Knicks and the
Rangers, as well as Madison Square Garden. And they also control AMC Networks,
the home of ''The Walking Dead'' and other successful shows.

The Dolans' rise began with Charles Dolan, a Cleveland native who made his way
to New York at 26 and founded Teleguide, an information service for hotels. Six
years later he started Sterling Manhattan Cable, becoming the first person to
wire buildings for cable television access. (In 1971, he founded Home Box
Office, which he sold to Time Life.)

Two years after starting the company, the elder Dolan sold Sterling Cable's
Manhattan operations to Time Inc. and focused on his 50 miles worth of Long
Island assets, renaming them Cablevision Systems.

From their stronghold in Bethpage, the Dolans have presided over rises and falls
in Cablevision's fortunes. Once its kingdom stretched over 19 states, though it
now focuses on suburban New York.

Along the way, the Dolans picked up prized assets like Madison Square Garden and
the teams that play in the arena, as well as Newsday, Long Island's newspaper.

In 1995, Charles Dolan handed the reins of the company to James, an unabashedly
brash corporate executive, occasional rock singer and avid sailor.

Cablevision waged bitter battles against content providers like Disney and Fox.

In a fight with ABC in 2010, Cablevision aired ads asking whether its
subscribers wanted to prop up the ''struggling theme parks'' of the channel's
parent, Disney. Then Cablevision let ABC withdraw its channels until the two
reached an agreement just as that year's Oscars telecast started.

The Dolans' stewardship of Madison Square Garden and the Knicks and Rangers has
been marked by turbulence as well.

Fans frustrated by a lack of championships since the family took ownership in
1994 have targeted James Dolan in particular for meddling too much, particularly
with the long-underachieving and turmoil-ridden Knicks.

Yet in familiar fashion, the Dolans were willing to fight hard to protect their
interests, notably in 2005 when Cablevision sued to stop the proposed building
of a $2.2 billion stadium on the West Side of Manhattan for the Jets.
Cablevision spent millions of dollars on ads opposing it.

Cablevision sought a new home for the Garden that would have been part of a $14
billion project to build a new Pennsylvania Station. But the project foundered
in 2008, and the family chose to renovate the current Garden for about $1
billion.

Fights have broken out within the family as well. Few were more bitter than the
battle over Voom, a satellite operator beloved by Charles Dolan and meant to
help transform Cablevision into a national service provider. But James Dolan
went against his father, and persuaded his fellow directors to put Voom up for
sale.

Perhaps the family's biggest defeat came nearly a decade ago when the Dolans
sought to take Cablevision private for $10.6 billion, buoyed by billions of
dollars in cheap bank debt. Shareholders and analysts revolted, arguing that the
family was trying to buy the company on the cheap.

Minority investors roundly rejected the bid in 2007.

Despite the defeat, the Dolans took to heart a central demand by investors: to
split Cablevision into several public companies, letting each business get
valued on its own. Since Madison Square Garden and AMC were spun off, their
stock prices have more than doubled.

''Shareholders were really smart to realize how much value was inside of
Cablevision that management ultimately ended up unlocking,'' said Richard
Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG. ''Shareholders forced the Dolans to share that
value creation.''

Being unpopular hasn't particularly fazed the family.

''Even if your teams are doing lousy and you don't have a good concert, you are
still going to be Madison Square Garden, you are still going to be the
'showplace of America,' '' James Dolan once told New York magazine.

Since the failed takeover attempt, the Dolans have focused on keeping their
company competitive, introducing services like Wi-Fi outside the home and a
low-cost mobile phone service. But the company has had to battle rivals like
Verizon who have made inroads into its turf.

''They were one of the best-performing cable operators until Verizon got
superaggressive and changed the landscape,'' Mr. Greenfield said.

In recent months James Dolan has signaled that Cablevision might finally be for
sale. Ultimately, it was Altice, a European telecom with ambitions to expand in
the United States, that persuaded the Dolans to sell.

''We believe that Patrick Drahi and Altice will be truly worthy successors, and
we look forward to doing all we can to affect this transition for our customers
and employees,'' James Dolan said in his statement. ''We expect that Cablevision
will be in excellent hands.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/the-dolans-the-clan-that-bui
lt-the-cablevision-empire-say-goodbye.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In 1973, Charles Dolan founded what became Cablevision.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY BANK/WIREIMAGE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%);
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); HISTORY (73%);
ACADEMY AWARDS (71%); CUSTOMER RELATIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%);
EXECUTIVES (52%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES DOLAN (93%); JAMES L DOLAN (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Perrigo Urges Shareholders to Reject Mylan's Hostile Bid

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 406 words


LONDON -- The Irish drug maker Perrigo's board of directors urged its
shareholders on Thursday to reject an unsolicited, hostile bid from Mylan,
saying the $27 billion offer undervalued the company.

Mylan, a generic drug maker, first offered to buy Perrigo in the spring and was
consistently rebuffed. On Monday, it took its takeover bid directly to
investors, offering to pay $75 a share in cash and 2.3 of its shares for each
share of Perrigo.

In a news release, Perrigo said the latest offer undervalued the company and did
not adequately compensate shareholders for its ''exceptional stand-alone growth
prospects.''

''The Perrigo board unanimously believes that Mylan's offer substantially
undervalues the company's current cash flows, business and financial platforms
and future growth opportunities,'' Joseph C. Papa, the Perrigo president, chief
executive and chairman, said in a letter to shareholders.

''It presents clear risks and would result in value destruction for
shareholders, including forcing them into a 'corporate governance prison' with
extreme anti-shareholder provisions,'' he added. ''The Perrigo board is not
alone in its belief that this transaction would be detrimental to shareholders,
and numerous third parties, including leading proxy advisers, sell-side analysts
and credit ratings agencies have questioned the economic logic of this
transaction.''

Perrigo makes many of the store-brand over-the-counter drugs sold at pharmacies.
It has about 13,500 employees and posted sales of $4.6 billion in the 2015
fiscal year, which ended in June.

The company moved abroad through a so-called inversion deal in 2013. Previously
based in Allegan, Mich., Perrigo paid $6.7 billion for Elan, an Irish drug
company, and reincorporated in Dublin.

The Mylan offer is conditioned on a majority of Perrigo shareholders agreeing to
sell their shares.

Perrigo shareholders would own about 40 percent of the combined company if the
transaction is consummated. The offer is set to expire Nov. 13.

Mylan, based in Amsterdam, manufactures generic pharmaceuticals, as well as
brand-name medications. It employs about 30,000 people and posted revenue of
$7.7 billion in 2014.

The company, which was previously based in Pennsylvania, reincorporated overseas
after agreeing last year to buy Abbott Laboratories' generic drug business
outside the United States in an all-stock deal that valued business at about
$5.3 billion.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/perrigo-urges-shareholders-t
o-reject-mylans-hostile-bid.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (93%); TAKEOVERS (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); GENERIC
DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY
(90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SHAREHOLDER PROXIES (78%);
EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); PRIVATE LABELS (77%);
CASH FLOW (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%);
OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); GENERIC PRODUCTS
(72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); PHARMACIES (64%); CREDIT RATINGS (51%)

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%);
NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413
IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING
(84%)

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (58%)

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citic Securities, a Pillar of Finance in China, Is in Beijing's Cross Hairs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FORSYTHE; Kiki Zhao contributed research from Beijing.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1386 words


HONG KONG --  With its market dominance, banking talent, global ambition and
sterling political connections, Citic Securities fancied itself the Goldman
Sachs of China.

Citic Securities, the brokerage arm of the biggest state-owned financial
conglomerate, rode China's stock market boom and a surge in corporate borrowing.
The company's stock price tripled in six months.

Now, Citic Securities is in the cross hairs, as Beijing looks into how the
government's aggressive intervention failed to stem a wrenching market fall that
wiped out nearly $5 trillion in stock gains.

On Tuesday, the company said that three of its executives, including its
president, Cheng Boming, were being investigated on suspicion of insider
trading. That followed the announcement in August that eight company employees,
including at least two top executives, were suspected of illegal securities
trading, Xinhua, the official news agency, said at the time.

That a financial company as embedded in the Communist Party elite as Citic
Securities has fallen on hard times highlights the uncertainty in Chinese stock
markets, the broader economy and the political climate in Beijing.

As President Xi Jinping heads to the United States next week for the first state
visit by a Chinese leader in more than four years, his government is striving to
restore confidence in its ability to manage the world's second-largest economy,
after that of America. But the state's panicked response to the stock market
slide and its surprise currency devaluation last month are causing concerns
about China's growth prospects.

In this environment, the usual rules don't seem to apply, putting financial
stalwarts like Citic Securities on shaky ground.

Even the company's political connections have not provided protection. The
Georgetown-educated chairman of Citic Securities, Wang Dongming, is the son of a
former Chinese diplomat. The father of Liu Lefei, a vice chairman, is the
Communist Party's propaganda chief and a member of the ruling seven-member
Politburo Standing Committee.

Citic Securities also finds itself fending off rumors on Chinese websites and on
social media. Shares of the company are off by almost two-thirds since peaking
in late April.

As with much involving the Chinese government, a lack of information is making
it difficult to discern exactly what is happening.

Citic Securities is an important member of the government-controlled ''national
team'' that carries out the will of the state in financial markets. With the
government now trying to prop up the markets, big brokerage firms like Citic
Securities are tasked with buying stocks to help stabilize shares.

Which stocks brokerages are buying and how those purchases are managed is veiled
in secrecy. But some experts on China's financial system worry that such
information could be leaking out, giving some investors an unfair advantage.

''You've got a dreadful situation that the Chinese government's put themselves
in, because there are clearly people in the know about what the government's
intentions are, what it's buying,'' said Fraser J. T. Howie, a longtime banker
in Asia and a co-author of ''Red Capitalism: The Fragile Foundation of China's
Extraordinary Rise.''

''People could easily look to front-run them,'' he added.

In the case of Citic Securities, regulators have said little about the inquiry
in August into the eight corporate officials. But on Tuesday, they made clear
that the president, as well as two other officials, were under investigation for
''insider dealing and leaking inside information,'' the company said in a stock
exchange announcement.

Calls to Citic Securities' board secretary and a press officer went unanswered.

On Aug. 30, the company said it was ''actively initiating measures to
conscientiously probe into problems that may exist in its businesses'' and to
''deeply analyze and resolutely rectify any problems identified.''

The authorities are broadly looking at the role of financial players in the
market rout, adding to the sense of anxiety in the markets.

Late Wednesday, the Communist Party's anti-corruption watchdog agency announced
that an assistant chairman at the main stock market overseer was being
investigated for ''serious disciplinary violations,'' language indicating that a
corruption investigation was underway. Another official at the agency, the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, confessed in late August to insider trading,
forgery and accepting bribes.

A reporter for Caijing magazine apologized in a televised confession for getting
information ''through abnormal channels'' and putting his ''own subjective
views'' in a July article that said the government was considering withdrawing
its support of the market. The editor in chief of Caijing is the brother of the
Citic Securities chairman.

''It seems like the government will not give up until it reaches its goal,''
said Liu Shengjun, the executive deputy director of the Lujiazui Institute of
International Finance at the China Europe International Business School, ''and
that it has to save the market no matter what it takes.''

The dearth of information is breeding rumors, complicating matters for big
players like Citic Securities.

In recent days, Chinese social media, including the Twitter-like Weibo microblog
as well as the WeChat messaging app, swirled with speculation about a Shanghai
private equity company called Zexi Investment, run by Xu Xiang, and who is
called ''China's Carl Icahn'' by financial news media. Two of Zexi's funds, both
partnerships with state-owned companies, have risen more than 300 percent this
year through Sept. 11, defying the broader stock market slump.

Market chatter centered on a Shanghai-based clothing retailer, which reached a
four-year high in August even though it was unprofitable in the first half of
2015. Zexi publicly denied allegations that it had told Citic Securities to buy
a retailer so that its share price would rise, saying in a statement that it had
sold its stake this year, well before the government's market intervention. It
called the speculation ''fabrications from nowhere and malicious attacks.''

Officials at Zexi, the retailer and Citic Securities were not available to
comment on the matter.

It is an uncomfortable new spotlight for Citic Securities.

The brokerage firm's parent, the Citic Group, is one of the most prominent
companies in China. Founded in 1979, the Citic Group originally served as
China's investment arm when the country was just starting to open its economy to
the outside world. The sons and daughters of many of the Communist Party's
senior officials in the 1980s, the so-called eight immortals, served as top
executives at the conglomerate.

Citic Securities, started in 1995, has been the top equity underwriter in China
for years. In the last five years, the brokerage firm has raised more than $30
billion for companies in China, including for marquee players like the
state-owned nuclear power company, according to data from Bloomberg.

Global asset management companies have flocked to Citic Securities as the go-to
broker for Chinese securities, a particularly complex market to navigate. The
company is also expanding outside China, acquiring the CLSA Group in 2013.

Citic Securities is also the biggest shareholder in the Citic Private Equity
Fund Management Company, one of the biggest private equity firms in China, whose
chairman is Mr. Liu, the son of the propaganda chief. The company has made early
investments in big businesses that later had successful initial public
offerings, like the New China Life Insurance Company in 2011.

The chairman of Citic Securities, Mr. Wang, has been cited in the Chinese news
media as saying he wants his company to become known as the Goldman Sachs of
China.

But the official inquiry into Citic Securities shows that there are limits to
political connections in China, especially as industries such as finance become
more professional and competitive, said Mr. Liu of the Lujiazui Institute.

He points to the declining market share of the China International Capital
Corporation, the country's first investment bank, which until October was headed
by the son of a former premier. Its dominance in underwriting shares was
supplanted by Citic Securities in recent years.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/citic-securities-investigati
on-china.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Citic Securities building in Beijing, above, and the
company's president, Cheng Boming, left. Employees of the company, one of
China's biggest securities firms, are under investigation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NG
HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHINA NETWORK/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%);
POLITICS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA
(78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%);
EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DEVALUATION (73%); INSIDER TRADING
(73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Altice's Low-Risk $17.7 Billion Deal

BYLINE: By FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 442 words


Patrick Drahi, the French cable king, appears to be keeping his powder dry after
snapping up Cablevision for $17.7 billion, including debt.

It is the second foray into the United States for his telecommunications
company, Altice, after its recent $9.1 billion acquisition of Suddenlink, and it
will create the market's fourth-largest company.

The valuation of Cablevision, at just under 10 times its adjusted operating cash
flow -- a variant of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebtida -- to June looks high, but savings will help. And it's
important to note that Altice isn't contributing much cash.

The move isn't exactly a surprise given Mr. Drahi's ambitions in the United
States, even if it comes earlier than expected. The deal for Suddenlink hasn't
even closed. The rationale for the larger deal looks similar: Hack costs to the
bone. Cablevision, which operates in the New York metropolitan area, already has
high broadband penetration but seems ripe for Altice's rigorous cost treatment.
Its cable unit delivered Ebitda margins of 32 percent last year -- well below
Suddenlink's 39 percent Ebitda and the mid-to-high 40s achieved in some of
Altice's other subsidiaries.

Altice expects $900 million in synergies, as well as $150 million in savings on
capital expenditures, which would reduce the headline enterprise value to 6.1
times Ebitda. But savings imply an overall margin of 44 percent, Deutsche Bank
analysts say, a tall order given the high content costs in the United States.
There may also be economies of scale from scrunching the two together.

As with the Suddenlink deal, Altice is contributing only a sliver of equity. It
will put in $3.3 billion of cash by issuing shares. The balance will come from
$14.5 billion in new and existing debt at Cablevision, plus cash on hand. BC
Partners and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board have the option to buy 30
percent of the equity, reducing the costs further.

This leaves leverage at Cablevision -- which will retain an independent capital
structure -- at more than seven times. But Altice thinks it can get that down to
4.9 times including synergies.

All this makes the latest multibillion-dollar deal a fairly low-risk proposition
for Altice shareholders. Debt should be equivalent to five times 2016 Ebitda
after the deal, analysts at Goldman Sachs estimate.

Yet there is a clear risk of overreach, considering recent jumbo deals in
Europe. Altice has yet to prove it can make its United States deals work.

Fiona Maharg-Bravo is Reuters Breakingviews Madrid correspondent. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/altices-low-risk-17-7-billio
n-deal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EBITDA (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY
EARNINGS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS
(78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE
(77%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CASH FLOW (73%);
SHAREHOLDERS (72%); BROADBAND (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); PENSION &
RETIREMENT PLANS (70%)

COMPANY: CEQUEL COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS I LLC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
(58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%);
DBETN (JSE) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE
& OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT
ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE
OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%);
SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 39 words


An article on Thursday about the brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev's bid to take over
a rival, SABMiller, misstated, in some copies, the time period over which
SABMiller's shares have fallen more than 11 percent. It is 12 months, not 12
years.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (91%); SABMILLER PLC (90%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (91%); ABI (BRU) (91%); SOSAB (JSE) (90%); SAB (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (91%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


An article on Tuesday about a concert being held at Madison Square Garden in the
hours before a papal Mass there misstated how New York City distributed tickets
for Pope Francis' visit. There were 80,000 tickets available through one
lottery, not 40,000 tickets through two lotteries.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CATHOLIC POPES (87%)

PERSON: POPE FRANCIS I (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about Syria's role as an
arena for diplomacy for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia misspelled, in
some editions, the name of the Ukrainian city from which the lead correspondent,
Neil MacFarquhar, reported. It is Lviv, not Liviv.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (70%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (91%); UKRAINE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Announce Loosening of Business and Travel Restrictions on Cuba

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 389 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration on Friday will announce an array of
regulatory changes to loosen travel, commerce and investment restrictions on
Cuba, according to people familiar with the plans, the latest move forward in
the thaw in relations with Havana.

The rules will allow American companies to open locations in Cuba and will
clarify how they can conduct transactions and finance operations there,
according to a draft submitted to the Office of Management and Budget this
month. The changes will also make it easier for cruise ships and other vessels
to travel to Cuba.

The White House declined to comment on the rules. But one person who had
reviewed them said they were a sweeping set of changes that would raise
expectations among American companies about business opportunities in Cuba and
could increase pressure on Havana to open its economy.

''They've gone farther at one time than most anyone expected,'' said John S.
Kavulich, the president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, who has
read the regulations. ''Not only are companies able to establish a physical
presence in Cuba and hire Cuban workers, but they are also extending loans and
lease payment terms for authorized products.''

Restrictions on food and agricultural products will remain, Mr. Kavulich said,
''but this allows everything else to move in a much more normalized way.''

The White House is working to show momentum in the rapprochement with Cuba
before the Dec. 17 anniversary of Mr. Obama's announcement that he and President
Raúl Castro had agreed to normalize relations between their countries.

The changes come shortly before Pope Francis, who played a pivotal
behind-the-scenes role in the two nations' reconciliation, is to visit Havana
and Washington.

On Thursday, Mr. Obama received credentials from the first Cuban ambassador to
the United States since 1961. The ceremony took place in the Oval Office without
fanfare. The envoy, José Ramón Cabañas Rodríguez, had been the chief of the
Cuban Interests Section in Washington for three years.

The regulatory changes, which were first reported by The Associated Press, are
part of a push by Mr. Obama to use his power to re-establish travel and
commercial ties between the United States and Cuba in the face of congressional
obstacles to lifting the embargo outright.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/politics/first-cuban-envoy-to-us-since-1961
-presents-credentials-at-the-white-house.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US-CUBA DIPLOMATIC RELATIONSHIP (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); CRUISES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING
(78%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); EMBASSIES &
CONSULATES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); AGRICULTURE
(51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAUL CASTRO (58%)

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (94%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abortion Bills Advance, Setting Up a Showdown

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1224 words


WASHINGTON --  Senate Republicans said on Thursday that they would take up
legislation outlawing all abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, and the House
voted to move forward with a bill that would end government financing for
Planned Parenthood, intensifying a fight over abortion that threatened to
paralyze budget talks and force a government shutdown at the end of the month.

Despite the Republicans' push, which was a response to videos showing Planned
Parenthood executives discussing the use of aborted fetuses in medical research,
there were also signs that congressional leaders were counting on a fallback
plan to keep the government functioning temporarily, roughly at last year's
spending levels.

The return to center stage of abortion, an issue that has divided Washington and
the country for generations, signaled just how bitterly partisan the political
climate had recently become -- driven by a powerful and unyielding group of
hard-right lawmakers in the House -- and how difficult it has become for the
White House and congressional leaders to perform even the most basic
responsibilities of governing.

While forestalling a shutdown, a temporary funding measure would set the stage
for a fierce budget fight this fall between President Obama, who says increased
spending is needed to spur economic growth, and Republican congressional
leaders, who believe mandatory cuts have forced restraint on government
spending.

That spending fight could coincide with other battles over the need to raise the
nation's debt ceiling and replenish the Highway Trust Fund, which finances the
construction and maintenance of roads and bridges and will run out of money Oct.
29.

Even as the abortion issue has animated Republicans on Capitol Hill, their
leaders, particularly the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky,
acknowledge that Mr. Obama would refuse to sign any spending legislation that
cuts off funds for Planned Parenthood.

As a result, the Appropriations Committees in the House and Senate have each
drawn up plans for a ''clean'' temporary spending bill, called a continuing
resolution, that would keep the government functioning after the end of the
fiscal year on Sept. 30.

''We have got the C.R. ready to go, a clean C.R.. The only thing we are lacking
is leadership's decision on how long it's going to last, and that's under
discussion,'' the House Appropriations Committee chairman, Harold Rogers,
Republican of Kentucky, said in an interview.

But Mr. Rogers said the Planned Parenthood issue had injected deep uncertainty
into the situation, with some Republicans potentially willing to shutter the
government over it.

''This issue is so explosive, so emotional and has been so publicly discussed
across the country that it's difficult to come to a consensus,'' Mr. Rogers
said. Still, he added: ''Eventually we have got to pass a CR that the president
will sign.''

At a news conference on Wednesday, Mr. McConnell was nonchalant about an
impending shutdown.

''The question was, am I losing sleep?'' Mr. McConnell said, not quite smiling.
''No, I'm not. We're going to fund the government. We're not going to shut the
government down.''

Mr. McConnell said that he was conferring with House leaders over how to
proceed.

''We'll be forced into a discussion about how much we're going to spend,'' Mr.
McConnell said. ''We know our Democratic friends' goal is to spend more on
everything. As all of you know, I've got members who want to spend more on
defense. I put myself in that group as well.''

Republicans have already taken steps to increase military spending without
abrogating previous spending limits by adding $38 billion to a contingency fund
for overseas war operations, which does not count toward the limits.

The White House and Democrats are demanding that any spending increases be
divided equally between military and nonmilitary programs.

To add pressure, the White House and some congressional Democrats have called
this week for ending a tax provision that has granted billions in tax breaks to
wealthy private equity managers -- a move supported by some Republican
presidential candidates.

For his part, the Senate minority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, agreed with
McConnell's desire to avoid halting government operations.

''The Republican leader and I don't see eye-to-eye on much -- but we both
support a clean bill to stop a government shutdown,'' Mr. Reid said on the
Senate floor.

''We all know how this ends,'' he said. ''The Senate will pass a clean
continuing resolution.'' He added, ''So what are we waiting for?''

Republicans, however, showed no sign of relenting in the push against Planned
Parenthood, particularly in the House, where Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio has
been struggling to contain an uprising by rank-and-file conservatives who have
even threatened to try to oust him from his post.

At a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Boehner stressed his party's efforts to
act on the anger over the Planned Parenthood videos.

''We're also standing with the American people to stop these grisly practices
that we have seen from some abortion providers throughout our country,'' Mr.
Boehner said. ''My colleagues on the Democrat side, both in the House and
Senate, should heed what the American people are saying: It's time to stop these
horrific practices and the selling of baby parts in America.''

Federal law already bans the use of tax money for elective abortions, but House
Republicans want to end all government financing for Planned Parenthood, which
provides an array of other women's health services.

The House also voted on Thursday to move forward with a bill that grants added
protections for fetuses born live during attempted abortions, an effort that
many Republicans spoke about in deeply emotional terms.

''Science has shown us earlier and earlier glimpses of tiny unborn human beings
who can feel pain,'' Representative Joe Pitts Jr., Republican of Pennsylvania,
said at a hearing on the bill to cut financing for Planned Parenthood. ''What
must such a baby feel when she is approached by doctors who come to kill rather
than to cure?''

The situation is further complicated by the fact that four Republican senators
are also running for president, and the issue was highlighted in Wednesday
night's debate. Democrats warned that by next week any one of those senators
could single-handedly force at least a short-term government shutdown simply by
exploiting the Senate's procedural rules for debate.

In a sign of increasing engagement by the Obama administration, Mr. Reid and the
House Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi, met with the president at the White House
to discuss strategy on Thursday afternoon.

In a 90-minute meeting, Mr. Obama and the two top Democrats agreed that they
should pursue a short-term funding measure free of extraneous policy provisions,
to provide time for negotiations on a broader deal.

Ms. Pelosi said Democrats were ready to ''be cooperative'' and negotiate with
Republicans. ''I'm ever optimistic that the Republicans know that it was very
damaging to our country when they did this before, and hopefully they won't do
it again,'' she said of a shutdown.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/abortion-bills-advance-setting-up-a-showdow
n.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid, the top Democrats in Congress, at
the White House on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%);
ABORTION LAWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%);
APPROPRIATIONS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWNS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS
(71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE
MAINTENANCE (64%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); MEDICAL
RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%)

PERSON: HAROLD ROGERS (78%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); NANCY
PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bitter Departure by Perelman Shocks Carnegie Hall's Trustees

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words


From the moment Ronald O. Perelman became chairman of Carnegie Hall this year,
the classical music world wondered how a billionaire businessman with a
reputation for combativeness and a fondness for rock drumming would fit at the
helm of the button-down board at the nation's pre-eminent concert hall.

But it still stunned the music industry when Mr. Perelman told a group of his
fellow trustees on Thursday that he would step down next month, rather than run
for re-election.

His swift announced departure, after tangling with members of the Midtown
Manhattan hall's board and staff, leaves bitterness -- and serious charges about
the governance at Carnegie -- in its wake.

Mr. Perelman wrote to his fellow trustees on Wednesday to accuse Carnegie's
long-serving executive and artistic director, Clive Gillinson, of a ''troubling
lack of transparency'' and criticize the board for failing to provide oversight.
He complained that after he moved to briefly suspend Mr. Gillinson last month,
the board had failed to act on its promise to retain a lawyer to investigate his
concerns.

The climax came on Thursday afternoon at a joint meeting of the board's
executive and audit committees, when Mr. Perelman told his fellow trustees that
he believed some of the laws governing nonprofits were not being followed at
Carnegie and expressed frustration that no investigation into his concerns had
been initiated, according to someone familiar with the proceedings, who was
granted anonymity to describe what happened at a confidential meeting.

Mr. Perelman criticized board members for placing ''a premium on avoiding
tension and disagreement,'' the person said, and told them that while he would
serve out his term, he would not run for re-election as chairman at the board
meeting next month. The board then agreed to hire a lawyer to examine his
concerns, which involved how Carnegie vetted what Mr. Perelman called
''related-party transactions'' in looking at deals that posed potential
conflicts of interest.

Carnegie Hall officials did not return calls seeking comment on Thursday.

One member of Carnegie's board said Mr. Perelman might have decided to step
aside next month because he was unlikely to be re-elected. The board member, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the trustees had felt blindsided this
summer when Mr. Perelman briefly suspended Mr. Gillinson. The board member added
that while they would investigate the concerns he raised, they did not believe
that Carnegie had governance or transparency problems, and denied that the board
had been dragging its feet on hiring a lawyer to investigate.

''The message from the Carnegie side is Clive Gillinson was an exemplary
executive director for 10 years, we believe people are innocent until proven
guilty, and we are quite confident that our governance is subject to perfect
scrutiny,'' he said.

Mr. Perelman's reputation as a sharp-elbowed businessman with a penchant for
taking on battles -- he has sued the investment bank Morgan Stanley and the
celebrity art dealer Larry Gagosian, among others -- preceded his rise to
chairman of Carnegie's board. But he also has a long history of philanthropy,
has been a trustee at Carnegie since 1988 and has donated roughly $30 million
over the years to the hall. Its main stage is named for him.

In February, when Mr. Perelman succeeded Sanford I. Weill, who was Carnegie's
chairman for nearly a quarter-century, he raised some eyebrows in classical
music circles by admitting that he was not much of a classical music fan, and by
suggesting that he would push for the hall to stage more pop acts, as it did
decades ago. But Mr. Weill said he was a good choice to lead the board, noting
his generosity to Carnegie and other charities.

''If one gets to know him, I think he's a man of his word,'' Mr. Weill said at
the time. ''He knows about giving back.''

Mr. Weill did not return calls seeking comment on Thursday.

But soon after taking the reins at Carnegie, Mr. Perelman began encountering
problems. In the letter that he emailed to the board on Wednesday, he wrote that
he had initially grown concerned over ''an inability to obtain a full picture of
Carnegie Hall's financial operations, especially as it related to profits and
losses involving performances,'' according to a copy obtained by The New York
Times. And he raised concerns about whether Carnegie was adequately vetting
transactions with potential conflicts of interest.

Such questions have been raised before. When Carnegie began an ambitious $230
million project to renovate the studio towers around the hall to add music rooms
for rehearsals and educational spaces, they hired the firm of Mr. Weill's
son-in-law, Natan Bibliowicz.

The deal that drew Mr. Perelman's attention involved the Warner Music Prize, a
$100,000 award for a young musician that was supposed to be presented on Oct. 27
at a gala performance at Carnegie Hall, benefiting musical education groups,
including at the hall.

The Warner Music Group is owned by a firm founded by Len Blavatnik, who sits on
Carnegie's board. Mr. Perelman's concerns were apparently not about the prize
itself, but about whether Carnegie had properly vetted a project involving a
commercial enterprise controlled by a board member, according to a different
person familiar with the matter, who was granted anonymity to discuss a delicate
issue. (In 2011 Mr. Blavatnik's firm had beat out several other suitors who
wanted to buy the Warner Music Group, including Sony/ATV Music Publishing, which
was working with Mr. Perelman and Guggenheim Partners, an investment firm.)

Shortly before Mr. Perelman's pending departure was made public, the prize
organizers were said to be leaning toward moving the gala out of Carnegie,
according to someone working on the event who was granted anonymity. It was
unclear if his departure would change that.

Christopher Beattie, a spokesman for Mr. Blavatnik's firm, Access Industries,
said in a statement that Mr. Blavatnik and his foundation were longtime Carnegie
supporters, even before he joined the board in 2014, and that they had
contributed about $450,000 in annual donations and to support its opening night
galas, and $1 million to help send the National Youth Orchestra of the United
States of America, which is organized by Carnegie, on tours of China and Europe.

''Mr. Blavatnik is proud of his relationship with Carnegie Hall and its
international standard for excellence in performance,'' Mr. Beattie said.

But it was the prize that started the final clash between Mr. Perelman and Mr.
Gillinson, a former cellist who became the managing director of the London
Symphony Orchestra before he came to Carnegie. In his decade at Carnegie, Mr.
Gillinson focused in part on education, starting a national youth orchestra that
has toured the world with leading conductors, continued to bring leading
performers to the hall, mounted a series of ambitious festivals there and
started a new project to commission some 125 new works over the next five years.

Mr. Perelman wrote in his letter to the board that he had asked Mr. Gillinson to
delay the Warner Prize, only to find that Mr. Gillinson had gone ahead with a
contract for it. He wrote that he and Carnegie's treasurer, Edward C. Forst, had
suspended Mr. Gillinson on Aug. 18. He wrote that the board's executive
committee had reinstated Mr. Gillinson the following day, agreeing to appoint
''an independent lawyer to investigate the concerns we raised.''

But after six lawyers were proposed and vetoed, and nearly a month passed with
no action on the investigation, he said, he grew impatient. That is when he
wrote the full board with his concerns, and called the meeting on Thursday.

Now, after one tenure that lasted nearly a quarter-century, and another that
lasted less than a year, Carnegie will need to find a new chairman as it heads
into its 125th season. That will begin next month with a gala concert featuring
Alan Gilbert conducting the New York Philharmonic and the pianist Evgeny Kissin
on the Ronald O. Perelman Stage.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/ronald-perelman-will-step-down-carn
egie-hall-board.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald O. Perelman has led Carnegie Hall since February.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOROTHY HONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); BOARDS OF
DIRECTORS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%);
LAWYERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AUDITS (66%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (92%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Debate, Republicans Try to Alter Perceptions of Their Performance

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and MATT FLEGENHEIMER; Patrick Healy reported from
Rochester, and Matt Flegenheimer from New York. Ashley Parker contributed
reporting from Las Vegas, and Maggie Haberman and Jonathan Martin from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1081 words


ROCHESTER, N.H. --  As Republican presidential candidates tried to put their
best spin on Wednesday night's debate, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who has
faltered in the polls, went to extra lengths on Thursday to cast his mixed
performance in a positive light, urging donors to buttress an all-out push to
win the Iowa caucuses.

''We need folks to help us out right now,'' he said on a conference call with
donors.

Mr. Walker urged his financial backers to describe his debate answers as
''feisty'' and ''aggressive'' in their conversations with others, but seemed to
concede that the evening had not gone entirely as planned: He placed the blame
for any unflattering assessments on CNN because, he said, he was asked the
fewest number of questions.

Negotiating a debate's aftereffect is a delicate art -- a multipronged scramble
to assuage supporters, call attention to highlights and prove that a campaign's
immediate boasts of victory were more credible than wishful.

The candidates are likely to cross paths again soon, at least offstage: Nearly
all the Republican contenders will make the pilgrimage to South Carolina on
Friday for a forum hosted by the conservative group Heritage Action for America.
(They are not expected to appear together.)

But first, several candidates strove on Thursday to influence how their debate
showings would be rated, crisscrossing the country for public events and
appearing on television to trumpet their performances.

Donald J. Trump followed an uneven debate with an event here in New Hampshire,
where he bragged that he had won the debate and noted that he was ahead of
rivals like Carly Fiorina -- and smiled as his crowd booed her name.

Mr. Trump, taking questions from the audience later, failed to correct a man who
asserted that President Obama was a Muslim -- a break from the practice of
Senator John McCain and some other Republicans who have pointedly told voters
that, no, Mr. Obama is a Christian.

''We have a problem in this country. It's called Muslims,'' the man said,
leading off the question-and-answer session with Mr. Trump. ''We know our
current president is one -- you know he's not even an American.''

Mr. Trump chuckled and said, ''We need this question -- this is the first
question.'' He went on to commiserate with the man about the possible existence
of training camps in the United States to prepare Muslims to attack the West.
''We'll be looking at that and a lot of other things,'' Mr. Trump said,
sidestepping whether such camps existed.

Senator Marco Rubio of Florida was quiet on the campaign trail on Thursday, but
he did tell Fox News in an interview that the debate had been framed like ''a
pay-per-view boxing match,'' and he defended his Senate attendance record after
Mr. Trump poked him over it Wednesday night.

Besides Mr. Walker, perhaps no candidate faced more pressure for a breakout
debate than Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, who stopped in Las Vegas for
a rally on Thursday.

But Mr. Bush drew an anemic turnout, with fewer than 150 supporters (and 40
journalists). He reminded the crowd that Nevada was a caucus state and, alluding
to Mr. Trump's critique of his vitality as a candidate, expressed hope that ''I
will be so brilliant and so eloquent and so high-energy that you sign up.''

Asked afterward why he thought the crowd had been so sparse, Mr. Bush said
simply: ''Three o'clock in the afternoon.''

Meanwhile, Mr. Bush's super PAC extended its advertising spending to $37 million
with a $13 million buy for January and February, two people familiar with the
buy confirmed. That leaves Mr. Bush's allies spending $24 million this year
alone, an unheard-of amount this early in a presidential race, and an indication
of their reaching for a safety valve to change the direction of his campaign.

On two calls with donors, Mr. Bush's aides talked up his debate efforts, saying
they felt he had accomplished what he needed to, staring down Mr. Trump and
forcefully defending his own wife and older brother.

His campaign went a step further, sending out on Twitter an iconic photo of
President George W. Bush standing atop a pile of rubble at the World Trade
Center site almost immediately after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The text read,
''He kept us safe,'' an echo of the candidate's pronouncement during the debate.
(Several critics noted that George W. Bush's presidency did not begin on Sept.
12.)

The Bush campaign also hailed an exchange with Mr. Trump over Mr. Trump's
unsuccessful push for casino gambling in Florida while Mr. Bush was governor.

Mr. Walker's team appeared less pleased with the debate's rhythms. One
Republican close to the Walker campaign said the governor had showed energy in
the debate but expressed doubt that it would alter the trajectory of his
campaign.

In the call with donors, to which a New York Times reporter was given access by
one of the participants, Mr. Walker and his advisers repeatedly stressed that he
had been asked only two questions by the moderators; they said that three other
candidates -- Mr. Trump, Mr. Bush and Ms. Fiorina -- were asked 45 questions in
total.

Mr. Walker said he was ''frustrated with CNN'' for the imbalance of questions.
His campaign manager, Rick Wiley, said he was throwing CNN ''under the bus'' for
its efforts.

The two also spoke bluntly about the importance of winning Iowa. Mr. Wiley said
Mr. Walker was ''planting a flag in Iowa,'' indicating that he would spend the
bulk of his time and money trying to win the state. Mr. Walker has been sliding
in Iowa polls, declining in one from first place in July to 10th place this
month. While he didn't refer to the polls on the call, Mr. Walker said stronger
fund-raising was crucial to ''get us through Iowa, to win Iowa.''

Noting that there were ''a lot of donors who haven't kicked in yet,'' Mr. Walker
said the campaign would ''need help in reaching out'' to them and to other
potential supporters to receive contributions by the end of September, the next
quarterly fund-raising deadline. The totals will be a source of bragging rights
or embarrassment.

''We just got to have the money. We don't have to have the most; we have a lean,
effective strategy in how to organize Iowa,'' Mr. Walker said. ''We've got a
clear strategy going forward -- we've just got to implement it.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/after-debate-republicans-try-to-alter-perce
ptions-of-their-performance.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%);
US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS
& ISLAM (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%);
POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%);
RELIGION (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (88%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); CARLY FIORINA (79%); BARACK
OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Interest in a Borough That Film Forgot

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1339 words


The rat-a-tat of gunfire broke up the news conference on the steps of the Bronx
County Courthouse as the crowd dived for cover.

When the smoke cleared, a man in a vintage suit stood to reclaim the podium.

''Well, I guess not everybody wants me to run for mayor,'' said James Frain, an
actor who plays Theo Galavan, the newest villain in ''Gotham,'' the Fox
Television series that chronicles Batman's early years.

Mr. Galavan's close call was captured during a four-hour shoot behind the Bronx
County Courthouse on the Grand Concourse on a recent afternoon, complete with
fake Gotham news trucks parked along the curb and real police officers directing
traffic. Office workers, teenagers on skateboards and mothers pushing strollers
all stopped to watch. Some pulled out their phones to snap pictures. One woman
called her sister, telling her in Spanish to come over quickly.

''This is awesome because I love the show,'' said Anthony Haskins, 33, a
security guard at a nearby apartment building. ''I've watched it since the
beginning. By being here and seeing it, it's like I'm part of the show.''

Mr. Haskins said he once stumbled on a ''Law & Order'' shoot in Harlem, but was
more excited to find a television crew at work in his own borough. ''This is the
first time I've seen them in the Bronx,'' he said. ''Everything is always being
filmed in Manhattan. It's about time they start filming in the Bronx as well so
everything is not always the same.''

The Bronx has become the latest frontier for the growing presence of the film
and television business in New York City. In 2014, 242 movies and 46 network,
cable and Internet shows were filmed in the city, up from 194 movies and 29
shows the year before, according to the Mayor's Office of Media and
Entertainment.

The growth is fueled heavily by generous state tax credits, which reimburse
production companies 30 percent of qualified costs incurred in the state. Recent
productions in the city have included high-profile shows such as ''The
Blacklist,'' ''The Good Wife'' and ''Inside Amy Schumer.''

Now Silvercup Studios and York Studios, both based in Queens, are expanding in
the Bronx. York plans to build a new production studio on 10 acres of vacant
land in the Soundview neighborhood. About three miles southwest of there,
Silvercup is spending $35 million to convert a warehouse in Port Morris to a
115,000-square-foot film and television production complex.

In announcing the expansion, Stuart Suna, the president of Silvercup Studios,
cited the Bronx's affordability and proximity to transportation lines as well as
renewed interest in the use of Bronx locations such as the Grand Concourse, a
wide boulevard lined with Art Deco buildings, as a backdrop on television shows.

Though Manhattan's skyline and landmarks -- Central Park, Wall Street, the
Empire State Building -- have long been glamorized on television and in film,
the Bronx has often been overlooked. Or it has been cast as the crime-ridden
urban ghetto of the film ''Fort Apache, the Bronx.''

''The Bronx needs more exposure,'' said Shaheed Jarrell, 37, a house painter who
was watching the ''Gotham'' shoot. ''We don't have too many bad parts anymore.
It's been cleaned up a lot.''

Mr. Jarrell may soon see more of his home on screen. Recent productions have
begun to highlight parts of the Bronx, though not necessarily by name. The CBS
series ''Madam Secretary'' used the campus of Fordham University as a stand-in
for that of Georgetown University. And ''The Intern,'' a Nancy Meyers movie
opening this month starring Anne Hathaway and Robert De Niro, includes office
scenes that were shot at Lightbox-NY, a film studio in Hunts Point.

''Orange Is the New Black'' shot a funeral at Pelham Cemetery. ''Marvel's
Daredevil'' filmed at St. Barnabas Hospital. And a new hip-hop drama series
directed by Baz Luhrmann, ''The Get Down,'' recreates the Bronx music scene of
the 1970s with an apartment on Shakespeare Avenue, among other Bronx locations.
Each of these series appears on Netflix.

Cynthia López, the commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Media and
Entertainment, said that as more original content is being produced than ever
before with the proliferation of entertainment outlets, her office has sought to
spread the benefits across the city. ''We want to ensure all five boroughs
participate and benefit from the media development in New York City,'' she said.

In total, the city's film and television industry directly employs about 130,000
people annually, including producers, sound engineers and makeup artists, and
pours billions of dollars into local businesses, from restaurants to dry
cleaners, according to the mayor's office.

Sage General Store, a restaurant in Long Island City, Queens, for example, rings
up about $1,000 a day in sandwich and salad platters, coffee service and other
catering orders for television and film shoots during the week, Leslie Nilsson,
the owner, said

Ms. Nilsson said that when she started her business in 1997, many residents
found her sandwiches with farm-fresh, premium ingredients to be too expensive.
But later, she found fans among the cast and crew of ''The Sopranos'' and ''Sex
and the City,'' which were based nearby at Silvercup Studios. ''We would not
have survived if not for Silvercup Studios,'' Ms. Nilsson recalled.

Ms. López said that the economic benefits of the entertainment industry have
flowed both ways. In addition to tax credits, the city's Made in NY program
offers media productions a discount of at least 10 percent from more than 1,200
local businesses, as well as free advertising on buses, on taxi television
screens and in subway stations.

Ms. López, who recently announced that she will step down in mid-October to
pursue opportunities in the media industry, said that she ''will continue
working to open new doors of entry into the production industry for diverse
communities.'' Luis Castro, the first deputy commissioner, will take over the
post until a new commissioner is appointed by Mayor Bill de Blasio.

''Gotham,'' which is produced by Warner Bros. Television at Steiner Studios at
the Brooklyn Navy Yard, has already proved a boon to the city's economy. In its
first season, the show completed 22 episodes, all in New York. It employed a
cast and crew of about 275 people a week, and hired another 2,458 actors as
extras, with a total New York payroll of $31 million.

The show spent another $24.8 million with local businesses, including $580,000
to a Queens lumberyard for set construction materials and $260,000 for location
rentals in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. It also paid $24,000 to a Bronx dry cleaner,
$16,000 to a Staten Island coffee supplier, and $94,000 for assorted stationery
and forms from Manhattan stores.

''We see there is a serious infusion of resources into the neighborhood, the
community, where the production is set,'' Ms. López said. ''That's one series,
one season.''

As for the Bronx, it had little more than a cameo in the first season of
''Gotham.'' Of 127 location shoots in and around the city, only two were in the
Bronx. In contrast, 44 were in Manhattan, 36 in Brooklyn, 19 in Queens and eight
on Staten Island.

Still, the Bronx courthouse was center stage the other day, as the cast and crew
spent four hours filming a scene that would run about one and a half minutes on
screen. As clouds of artificial smoke blew past the stately columns, the actors
took their places around the podium and the cameras rolled. Suddenly, a police
siren wailed somewhere nearby.

The scene was stopped, then started again. A man walking by on the street cursed
loudly enough that it had to be stopped again.

Bruno Heller, the creator of ''Gotham,'' said he liked coming to the Bronx to
shoot. ''In some ways, it's the most beautiful of the boroughs because it has
grandeur like this and grit,'' he said.

Plus there was the perk of being able to park close by.

''That is golden,'' he said. ''Sometimes in L.A., you'll be taking five
different shuttles to get to your set.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/film-and-tv-industry-is-giving-the-br
onx-more-screen-time.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene in the television show ''Gotham'' was filmed at the
Bronx County Courthouse last month. New York State tax credits have helped draw
film and TV productions to the city. (A23)
 Onlookers near the ''Gotham'' set. Left, Cynthia López, the city's
entertainment and media commissioner, with the show's creator, Bruno Heller.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); FILM
(89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO
PRODUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%);
NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); PROPERTY
VACANCIES (66%); TAX LAW (65%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%); MOVIE FILMING (56%);
TAX CREDITS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Rubio and Fiorina Option

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 817 words


My PBS colleague Mark Shields recently reminded me of the old saying that
Democrats fall in love but Republicans fall in line.

Democrats have historically liked presidential nominees they can go gaga for,
even if they lack experience: Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and John F. Kennedy.
Republicans on the other hand like to nominate the guy who's paid his dues and
already lost a presidential run: Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole, John McCain and Mitt
Romney.

So far this year, the parties have switched love languages. Democratic voters
have become responsible and middle-aged, telling pollsters they want experienced
pols who can work within the system. Republicans are embracing their inner
adolescent.

By a majority of 64 to 30, conservative Republicans tell pollsters they want
their candidate to be an outsider. Republican governors in the debates reel off
long data-filled paragraphs about their accomplishments, and you can feel the
entire Republican electorate doing the bored valley girl eye roll.

Republicans radiate more alienation than the sophomore class at a Berkeley
alternative high school. They have also entered a weird post-material political
space. Many Republicans show little interest in candidates who offer proposals,
but flock to the ones who offer outrageous self-expression.

Donald Trump has emerged as the prankster narcissus. It doesn't matter that he
might not be able to find Syria on a map; he offers America hair, boasting,
misogyny and insult. There's no woman who can't be reduced to a physical object.
The socially insecure rise and applaud as he insults the people they'd never
have the guts to take on themselves.

Republicans used to be split between economic and social conservatives. But this
year the big fight is tactical.

One group wants to rip up the political process and disrupt everything. Renounce
the Iran deal on Day 1, no matter what our allies say. Ignore the Supreme Court
and effectively disallow gay marriage. Shut down the government to defund
Planned Parenthood. Magically deport the 11 million illegal immigrants.

This is more or less the Bobby Jindal-Ted Cruz wing. (During those milliseconds
when Trump is capable of entertaining a policy thought, he wanders into this
camp.)

The others, like Lindsey Graham, John Kasich and Jeb Bush, live within the
confines of reality. You can't actually defund Planned Parenthood or end
Obamacare if you don't control the White House. Offending every global ally on
the first day of a new administration might have some nasty knock on effects.
You can't actually erase the 14th Amendment and end birthright citizenship.

Over the summer the burn-down-the-house crowd had an amazing run, but if this
week's debate is a sign of anything, it is that the party is going to go off on
a different trajectory. The outsiders are about to slide. Trump's Don Rickles
act wears thin. His ego may be galaxy-sized, but his policy ignorance is a void
that overspills the known universe. He's the Wizard of Oz. When the bluster
curtain falls down, what's left is pathetic.

That doesn't mean the party will snap back to its old establishmentarian
tendencies. Bush had several moments to deliver a devastating blow -- like
challenging Trump for going after his wife -- but he couldn't quite turn them
into hot-blooded signature moments. Three hundred and fifty years of WASP
reticence have left habits of gentility and emotional guardedness that inhibit
him, just as they inhibited his father.

When Trump attacked him for his bilingualism, Bush retorted, ''Well, I've been
speaking English and I'll keep speaking English!'' This is not exactly a killer
retort. It's a nice guy's impersonation of a killer retort.

Instead, the party will veer on a course midway between outsider and
establishment. It will probably end up with some hybrid candidate -- sharp of
tongue, gifted in self-expression and yet still anchored in the world of
reality.

That's where Carly Fiorina and Marco Rubio come in. So far, Fiorina has looked
like the most impressive candidate. She has a genius for creating signature
moments. (''If you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to name an accomplishment
of Mrs. Clinton's.'') But her spotty record at Hewlett-Packard probably means
she can't start at the top of the ticket.

Rubio is young and thus uncorrupted, and he is a genius at relating policy depth
in a way that is personal. He has clarity of mind and can sum up a complex
subject -- Russia, the Middle East -- in a way that is comprehensible but not
oversimplified.

This debate was one moment in time, but you can see the vectors of where this
campaign is headed. This is no longer Bob Dole's or George H.W. Bush's G.O.P.
But it's not going to completely lose its mind, either.

It's going to be somewhat the same, but edgier and more renegade. Right now,
Rubio, Fiorina and maybe Chris Christie are best positioned to occupy that
space.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/david-brooks-the-marco-rubio-carly-fio
rina-option.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008
(91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING
(90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2016 (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICS (75%); OBAMA
HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (66%); CITIZENSHIP
(66%); IMMIGRATION (61%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX
MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JEB BUSH (79%); MITT ROMNEY
(79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); JOHN KASICH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN
(78%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Britain: Ex-Foreign Ministers Cleared of Wrongdoing

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 269 words


LONDON -- Two former British foreign ministers, whom undercover reporters
recorded offering to do paid consultancy work for a fictional Chinese company,
were cleared Thursday of breaching Parliament's code of conduct.

Both lawmakers, Malcolm Rifkind, of the governing Conservatives, and Jack Straw,
of the opposition Labour Party, declined to run for Parliament in May's general
elections, but denied any wrongdoing.

Mr. Rifkind, who at the time was chairman of a parliamentary panel overseeing
intelligence, was recorded saying he could have access to any British ambassador
he wanted, while Mr. Straw claimed he had operated ''under the radar'' to
influence European Union policy in the past.

Undertaking paid work for outside companies is not, in principle, against
Parliament's rules, though it has to be declared. Kathryn Hudson, the
parliamentary commissioner for standards, said that it was not clear that the
two men would have broken any rules had they accepted a genuine position of the
type discussed.

In a report, Ms. Hudson also criticized the journalists, saying that had they
''accurately reported what was said by the two members in their interviews, and
measured their words against the rules of the House, it would have been possible
to avoid the damage that has been done to the lives of two individuals.''

The program was defended by its makers. ''Channel 4 'Dispatches' stands by its
journalism; this was a fair and accurate account,'' the broadcaster said in a
statement, adding that the investigation was ''in the public interest and
revealed matters which were of serious public concern.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/britain-parliament-conduct-jack-s
traw-malcolm-rifkind.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN
RELATIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%);
POLITICS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); CONSULTING
SERVICES (73%); WRITERS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: JACK STRAW (74%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Gets New Florist

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIRST DRAFT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 296 words


Hedieh Ghaffarian, an Iranian-born immigrant who was raised in California and
built a successful floral design business, will become the next chief White
House florist, the office of the first lady, Michelle Obama, announced on
Thursday.

Ms. Ghaffarian, who uses the nickname Roshan, will be at the White House for
next week's state dinner for President Xi Jinping of China, but officials said
she would officially start in the East Wing in mid-October.

''Roshan's life story is a powerful reminder that the American dream endures,''
Mrs. Obama said in a statement, ''and the president and I look forward to seeing
her creativity flourish for White House guests to enjoy year-round.''

The previous florist, Laura Dowling, who had been in the position since Mr.
Obama became president in 2009, abruptly departed in March. The White House
eventually issued a statement praising Ms. Dowling's work, calling it ''always
lively and colorful'' and saying it reflected ''not only the season but the
unique and historic rooms which they graced.''

But several news organizations reported that Ms. Dowling had been escorted off
the grounds, and people close to the situation reported clashes between Ms.
Dowling and others inside the White House residence, where the florist works.
Ms. Dowling said in a statement that she was moving on to pursue other
opportunities.

In a statement issued by the White House on Thursday, Ms. Ghaffarian said she
was ''humbled'' and would ''dedicate myself to advancing the tradition of
excellence and elegance in the White House.''

Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and
sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/09/17/iranian-immigrant-is-name
d-white-house-florist/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(53%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); XI JINPING (76%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kentucky: Clerk Loses Another Appeal on Same-Sex Marriage Licenses

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 104 words


The Rowan County clerk, Kim Davis, lost another bid on Thursday to delay
licensing same-sex marriages. Ms. Davis returned to work this week after five
days in jail for defying a court order. She had refused to issue licenses after
the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage; four couples sued her, and a
federal judge ordered her to issue licenses to qualified couples. Her lawyers
now argue that the order should apply only to those four couples, meaning she
would not have to license same-sex marriages while the case is pending. The
United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit rejected that request
Thursday.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/kentucky-kim-davis-loses-another-appeal-on-
same-sex-marriage-licenses.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS
(91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE LAWS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COUNTY
GOVERNMENT (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%);
MARRIAGE LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); APPELLATE DECISIONS
(87%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); APPEALS COURTS (87%); LAWYERS (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS
(85%); JUDGES (85%)

PERSON: KIM DAVIS (92%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

'Black Mass' (With Movie Trailer): Scott Cooper Narrates a Scene

BYLINE: By MEKADO MURPHY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 403 words


In an interview at The Times, the director Scott Cooper answered questions about
his film ''Black Mass,'' featuring Johnny Depp as the Boston crime boss James
(Whitey) Bulger. Following are edited excerpts from that conversation.

Q. What was your approach to making a gangster film?

A. I made ''Black Mass'' with a great deal of trepidation, because many of my
favorite films live in the crime genre. The bar is very high and you really can
only fail if you try to meet that. So it was important for me to tell an
extremely human story.

I didn't want to make a film about criminals who just happened to be humans.
Instead I wanted it to be about humans who just happen to be criminals. My way
to do that was to humanize Whitey Bulger. It would be easy to romanticize him as
a mythical gangster figure. But it was important to me to show as many shades of
him as possible.

Could you talk a bit about Bulger's philosophy and character?

Even though Whitey tells his son in this scene, ''if no one sees it, it didn't
happen,'' he was also known for being very brazen. I think when you grow up as
the most powerful crime figure in the city, and your brother is the most
powerful and ruthless politician in the city, and your childhood friend is
ascending the ranks of the F.B.I., you feel a certain ability to operate with
impunity, to almost be bulletproof.

Your films have all included strong male lead performances. Could you talk about
how you work with actors?

As a former actor, one with an unremarkable career, I really revere actors. I
most want to make them feel very safe in an environment in which they're taking
great artistic risks. Performance is key to all of my films. I never want to be
overly clever with my camera because then the audience realizes that they're
watching a film. In this movie, I wanted it to feel like surveillance, not that
we were living through the characters, but we were living along side them.

I don't like to rehearse. I find that when you overrehearse actors, the
performances tend to become stale and the actors feel like they have a road map
for where the scene is going to go.

I do most of the work with my actors between cut and calling action for the next
time. Oftentimes, when actors don't rehearse, it's like they're walking on a
high wire. It really challenges the performances.

View a trailer for ''Black Mass'':

[Video: Trailer: 'Black Mass' Watch on YouTube.]




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/black-mass-with-movie-trailer-scott-coo
per-narrates-a-scene.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME
(89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (73%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Fight Texas' Birth Certificate Rules

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words


McALLEN, Tex. --  At the Republican debate on Wednesday and throughout the
campaign, candidates led by Donald J. Trump have assailed illegal immigration,
and some have questioned whether children who are born to immigrants in this
country illegally should be considered American citizens.

But here on the Texas border some local officials are engaged in activities that
go beyond talk, enforcing some of the toughest rules in the country limiting the
types of ID parents can show to receive copies of birth certificates. The result
has been a refusal to issue birth certificates to many of the Texas-born
children of immigrants here illegally.

Texas has not directly challenged the citizenship of the children, which is
granted by the 14th Amendment to anyone born in the United States. Many of them
have birth certificates in the state's database. It is just a matter of adequate
identification, the state says.

Organizations that work on behalf of immigrants suspect that nativist sentiments
are being turned into nativist policies, with the goal of making it harder for
people in the country illegally to live and raise families in Texas.

Without a birth certificate, illegal immigrants say they cannot have newborns
baptized, have had difficulty enrolling their children in day care and school
and have lost or fear losing Medicaid coverage and other government services and
benefits for their families. They said officials required birth certificates for
these programs, as proof of parenthood or the child's Texas birth.

Some have older children who have birth certificates but younger children who do
not, because local registrars who used to accept certain types of identification
issued abroad no longer do.

''It's not right,'' said a 34-year-old woman who was denied birth certificates
for two of her children in McAllen, and who asked that her name not be used
because she feared reprisals from the authorities. ''Yes, I'm here illegally.
But I'm the one who committed the crime, not them.''

In court papers, lawyers for Texas disputed some of the claims made by those
denied birth certificates, arguing that not having a copy of a birth certificate
does not prevent a child from attending school or qualifying for Medicaid. And
they say state policies do not discriminate against immigrants but are meant to
ensure that birth records do not fall into the wrong hands.

''Vital records contain private information that is confidential by law,'' said
Chris Van Deusen, a spokesman for the Texas Department of State Health Services,
which oversees the state's Vital Statistics Unit. ''State and local registrars
have a duty to protect that information by ensuring they only release records to
people who are qualified to obtain them.''

Most Texans pick up a birth certificate by showing a driver's license. But
illegal immigrants lack many of the approved forms of identification, such as a
license or foreign passport with a United States visa.

Illegal immigrants and their lawyers said local Texas registrars used to accept
an ID card with a photograph issued to an immigrant by a foreign consulate. The
matrícula, as the Mexican version of the consular ID is known, has been used by
illegal immigrants to open bank accounts in Texas and receive other services.
Although official Texas policy prohibited the use of consular IDs to obtain
birth certificates, the prohibition was not strictly enforced until about 2013,
when state officials in Austin began pressing local records clerks to follow the
protocols, immigration lawyers said.

''People in Austin started tightening the screws,'' said Efrén C. Olivares, a
lawyer with the South Texas Civil Rights Project who represents the parents in
the lawsuit.

The refusal to accept the consular IDs coincided with the tough-on-immigration
stance of Texas Republican leaders, the influx of Central American immigrants at
the border last summer and the state's opposition to President Obama's executive
actions on immigration, which would give temporary reprieves from deportation to
as many as four million immigrants and also permit them to work.

Illegal immigrants and their lawyers said Texas officials had been intentionally
requiring IDs unavailable to them as part of their efforts to bolster border
security. One couple who were denied a birth certificate for their 6-month-old
daughter say in court documents that they were told by a McAllen official that
the requirements became more strict to prevent illegal immigrants from obtaining
legal status through their American-born children.

Mr. Obama's executive actions on immigration, announced in November, would offer
three-year deportation deferrals and work permits to millions of unauthorized
immigrants who have a child who is an American citizen or legal permanent
resident, and who have been living in the United States for five years and have
no serious criminal records.

Texas officials say that immigration status plays no role in determining who is
supplied a birth certificate. They say that the consular ID cards are not secure
because the consulate offices do not verify the documents presented to obtain
them, and that immigrants can use other types of identification to receive
copies of birth certificates. The list includes student IDs, Medicaid cards,
Mexican voter registrations, utility bills and paycheck stubs.

Mr. Van Deusen of the state health services department said the agency had never
accepted consular IDs, but he suggested that local registrars had allowed them
in the past without the state's approval.

''We can't speak to what the practices of each of the more than 450 local
registrars have been over the years,'' he said in a statement. ''If we've
encountered a local registrar that was accepting consular IDs, we've asked him
or her to stop and explained why.''

Illegal immigrants in other states do not appear to have had similar problems
with birth certificates. New Mexico accepts the consular ID cards that Texas
prohibits. California officials said they did not have any policies on the use
of consular IDs to obtain birth certificates. Although Arizona does not accept
consular IDs, officials there said they work with those who lack valid ID,
including allowing witnesses who know the parent and who have proper ID to take
part in the application process. In Nevada, one of the accepted IDs is a
hospital birth record, which many of the Texas families have but the state does
not accept.

''There's no other state that has locked people out the way Texas has,'' said
Jennifer K. Harbury, a lawyer with Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid who is
representing the children in the lawsuit.

Plaintiffs in the suit are about two dozen families from Mexico, Honduras and
Guatemala. The number has grown since the suit was first filed in May and now
includes 28 adults and 32 children. The lawyers for the families said there were
hundreds and possibly thousands of others who had been denied birth
certificates.

''We've had people who've come to us asking for help, but they didn't want to
join the lawsuit because they're afraid,'' Mr. Olivares said. ''They don't want
the potential repercussions of coming out publicly as undocumented.''

One 40-year-old illegal immigrant who was denied a birth certificate for her
9-month-old daughter said she could not work as a result: Day care centers want
a birth certificate, so she remains unemployed because she has no one to watch
the baby. She and other illegal immigrants said they now limit their travels
because they lack a birth certificate. If they drive north, they have to pass
inland Border Patrol checkpoints, and they fear being separated from their
children because they lack proof they are the parents.

Mexico filed a brief in support of the parents suing Texas, with its lawyers
calling the state's actions a violation of international law that introduces ''a
troublesome and discordant element into binational or transnational relations.''

Gov. Greg Abbott expected to discuss the issue with Mexican officials this month
during his visit to Mexico City, but the topic did not come up, a spokesman for
the governor said.

''One thing both sides understand is that the Texas-Mexico relationship is
bigger than any one issue,'' said the spokesman, John Wittman.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/illegal-immigrant-birth-certificates.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An immigrant and her 2-year-old are plaintiffs in a suit over
the ID required for birth documents. (A1)
A 40-year-old woman with her daughter
 both are plaintiffs in a lawsuit. Texas says its rules are an issue of
providing proper ID. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); MEDICAID
(89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%);
INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (74%);
INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); CHILD CARE (72%); LAWYERS (63%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (90%)

CITY: MCALLEN, TX, USA (90%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bergdahl Had 'Severe Mental Disease or Defect,' Lawyer Says at Hearing

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 931 words


SAN ANTONIO --  Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, who faces a possible life sentence for
endangering the soldiers who searched for him after he left his Afghanistan base
in 2009, had a ''severe mental disease or defect'' at the time, one of his
lawyers said Thursday.

The diagnosis was made later by an independent Army psychiatry board, said the
defense lawyer, Lt. Col. Franklin D. Rosenblatt of the Army. Because of his
psychological problems, Sergeant Bergdahl washed out of Coast Guard basic
training three years earlier, Colonel Rosenblatt said, and had to obtain a
waiver to join the Army.

The revelations came during the first day of a hearing in which Army prosecutors
hope to persuade a hearing officer to recommend that Sergeant Bergdahl, 29, be
court-martialed on charges of desertion and misbehavior before the enemy.

Prosecutors say his decision to walk off his base prompted a seven-week manhunt
involving thousands of troops who braved heat, improvised bombs, fatigue and
filth as they conducted raids and other dangerous missions in a fruitless effort
to find him.

Colonel Rosenblatt's statements -- during questioning of Sergeant Bergdahl's
former platoon leader, Capt. John P. Billings -- appeared to foreshadow a
crucial element of the defense team's strategy: to argue that the military
indirectly shares blame for Sergeant Bergdahl's decision to leave his remote
outpost in the middle of the night because officials should have known that he
was mentally unfit for combat.

Colonel Rosenblatt also questioned a former company commander, Maj. Silvino
Silvino, about whether he knew that some of Sergeant Bergdahl's fellow soldiers
had warned a senior sergeant that they ''were concerned about his mental
health.'' Major Silvino testified that he had never been told that.

Sergeant Bergdahl disappeared in Afghanistan on June 30, 2009, and was held
captive by the Taliban for nearly five years, until President Obama agreed to
exchange him for five Taliban detainees in a deal that spurred criticism from
Republicans.

Prosecutors hope to convince the hearing officer, Lt. Col. Mark Visger, an Army
lawyer, that Sergeant Bergdahl, then a private first class, acted with what they
termed ''deliberate disregard'' for the consequences of his actions when he left
the base to seek out a senior commander.

A prosecutor, Maj. Margaret Kurz, sought to portray Sergeant Bergdahl as vain
and selfish, arguing in her opening statement that he had walked off his base
''to bring attention to himself so he could have a private audience with the
general.''

''For 45 days, thousands of soldiers toiled in the heat'' with little rest
during the search, Major Kurz said, adding that the operation to find the
missing soldier meant the military had to neglect its most significant tasks,
partnering with and supporting Afghan security forces and ingratiating itself
with Afghan civilians.

Defense lawyers have previously said that Sergeant Bergdahl left so he could
hike to another base and report undisclosed ''disturbing circumstances'' at his
unit to a high-ranking officer.

Captain Billings testified that he had been shocked and devastated when he
realized that Sergeant Bergdahl was missing.

He said that he had been unaware of any problems with Sergeant Bergdahl,
describing him as ''a great soldier, by all accounts,'' who ''always did
everything he was asked to do.''

But the captain awoke that morning to find that Sergeant Bergdahl had left his
weapon and his night-vision goggles on his cot, with no sign of foul play or
physical scuffle. (Major Kurz said Sergeant Bergdahl had taken a knife, a
compass, snacks and local currency.)

Captain Billings said he had hoped his troops were just playing a trick on him
when they said they could not find Sergeant Bergdahl, as he prepared to send a
message telling his company commander what had happened. Then, he said, his
heart sank when his platoon sergeant told him, ''You should have sent that 10
minutes ago.''

He described a feeling of ''internal franticness'' and ''absolute, utter
disbelief.'' Soon, though, those emotions gave way to a desperate search. He led
a nine-member patrol looking for Sergeant Bergdahl, as company, battalion and
division forces came to the tiny outpost to help.

His platoon searched nonstop for 20 days, all of it off-base and ''outside the
wire,'' Captain Billings testified. His men were weary, frustrated and mentally
exhausted.

''One day bled into the next,'' Captain Billings testified. ''At some point, the
guys just looked at themselves and said, 'When is this going to end?'''

Col. Clinton Baker, who was Sergeant Bergdahl's battalion commander, said the
conditions endured during the search were ''much tougher'' than even Ranger
School, the Army's grueling leadership course -- partly because the soldiers had
to dodge many enemy attacks, including ones using improvised bombs.

''There was no battle rhythm'' during the search, Colonel Baker testified. ''It
was just 'go' all the time.''

The hearing continues Friday, when the defense is expected to call three
witnesses, including Maj. Gen. Kenneth Dahl, who conducted the Army's
investigation into the disappearance.

Sergeant Bergdahl's lead lawyer, Eugene R. Fidell, made a one-sentence opening
statement during Thursday's session that seemed to reveal frustration that the
Army continued to block the release of the unclassified transcript of the
interview his client gave General Dahl.

''The government should make Sergeant Bergdahl's statement available to the
public, not just to you,'' Mr. Fidell told the hearing officer.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/bowe-bergdahl-had-severe-mental-disease-or-
defect-lawyer-says.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Military police officers outside the area of Thursday's hearing
for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OFFENSES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS
(90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); TALIBAN (89%); SENTENCING (78%);
POWS & MIAS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%);
MILITARY TRAINING (73%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (71%); PSYCHIATRY (71%);
BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Max Beauvoir, 79, High Priest of Voodoo in Haiti

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Vladimir Laguerre contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 795 words


Max Beauvoir, a former City College of New York chemistry major who gave up hard
science for magic spirits, spell-casting and ritual animal sacrifices vital to
becoming Haiti's high priest of voodoo, died on Saturday in Port-au-Prince, the
capital. He was 79.

His death was announced by the president of Haiti, Michel Martelly, who
described it as a ''great loss for the country.''

Mr. Beauvoir was in his mid-30s and planning a career in biochemistry when his
grandfather, on his deathbed, stunningly anointed him his successor as a houngan
-- one of the 6,000 or so healers, soothsayers, exorcists and therapists who
outnumbered doctors and Roman Catholic priests in Haiti. The 17th-century
mystical traditions imported by slaves from West Africa and known in Haiti as
Vodou coexist there with Christianity.

''Just as a carnival band went by the house,'' Mr. Beauvoir recalled in a 1983
interview with The New York Times, ''grandfather turned to me and said, 'You
will carry on the tradition.' It was not the sort of thing you could refuse.''

In 2008, when Mr. Beauvoir was 72, Haiti's houngans, frustrated with being
marginalized by their impoverished nation's elite, formed a national federation
and chose him as supreme chief.

''My position as supreme chief in voodoo was born out of a controversy,'' he
said. ''Today, voodooists are at the bottom of society. They are virtually all
illiterate. They are poor. They are hungry. You have people who are eating mud,
and I don't mean that as a figure of speech.''

From a lavish temple and clinic just outside Port-au-Prince, Mr. Beauvoir
lobbied for official recognition for the houngans as healers and sought to
transform the Hollywood image of voodoo from that of shamans pricking effigies
and wrangling zombies to that of priests of a natural order that bonds body and
soul and encompasses a single god, some 400 spirits, reincarnation and countless
raucous and colorful rituals.

In her 1989 book ''The Rainy Season: Haiti Since Duvalier,'' the journalist Amy
Wilentz characterized Mr. Beauvoir as an opportunist with ''the oily manner of a
man whom you wouldn't want to leave alone with your money or your child.''

Yet many Haitians regarded him as the most outspoken defender of a religion that
helped stabilize a fragile society but that was not officially recognized until
2003. They saw him as a polished spokesman who could navigate between African
and Western cultures and insinuate voodooism into Haitian government policy.

To make money, Mr. Beauvoir also practiced voodoo tourism. In 1975 he staged a
ceremony for Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton on their honeymoon. In his memoir
''My Life'' (2004), Mr. Clinton recalled, ''The spirits arrived, seizing a woman
and a man.''

He added: ''The man proceeded to rub a burning torch all over his body and walk
on hot coals without being burned. The woman, in a frenzy, screamed repeatedly,
then grabbed a live chicken and bit its head off.''

Mr. Clinton did not elaborate on whether the man and woman benefited from the
ceremony, except to say, ''Haitians' understanding of how God is manifest in our
lives is very different from that of most Christians, Jews or Muslims, but their
documented experiences certainly prove the old adage that the Lord works in
mysterious ways.''

So, according to his critics, did Mr. Beauvoir.

He was linked with Jean-Claude Duvalier, the dictator who fled the country in
1986 after a popular uprising, and he opposed a democratically elected
successor, Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Mr. Beauvoir fled in the 1990s with his wife
and two daughters to Washington, where he founded a voodoo temple and lived for
about a decade.

François Max Gesner Beauvoir was born in Haiti on Aug. 25, 1936, the son of a
doctor. He earned a degree in chemistry from City College in 1958 and attended
the Sorbonne to study biochemistry.

Returning home in the early 1970s, he applied for a patent to extract cortisone
from the sisal plant and was planning to start production when his grandfather
died and anointed him a houngan.

Survivors include two daughters.

Although he had not been particularly spiritual as a young man, Mr. Beauvoir
became the public face of voodoo and its most prominent promoter, even before he
was chosen as chief priest.

''Haiti has a Western veneer, with an educational system, courts and a
government,'' Mr. Beauvoir said in 1983, ''but this has very little to do with
the way things really work. We should stop being ashamed and recognize what we
are: a country with an African social structure that revolves around the voodoo
community. Voodoo governs everything, our moral codes, the way we rationalize,
eat, cure, and work the land.''

''We have to find a Haitian answer in harmony with what we are,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/17/world/americas/max-beauvoir-haitis-high-priest
-of-voodoo-dies-at-79.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Beauvoir at his home near Port-au-Prince in 2008, the year
he was chosen to be chief priest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (71%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS
(65%); LOBBYING (62%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); MICHEL MARTELLY (57%)

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (94%)

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Officials Urge U.S. to Accept More Syrians

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 650 words


WASHINGTON --  More than 20 former senior officials, including some who served
in prominent positions in the Obama administration, urged the White House on
Thursday to accept 100,000 Syrian refugees, a tenfold increase over an American
commitment made last week.

''We urge that you announce support for a refugees admissions goal of 100,000
Syrian refugees on an extraordinary basis, over and above the current worldwide
refugee ceiling of 70,000,'' they wrote in a letter to President Obama and
congressional leaders.

The United States has accepted about 1,500 refugees from Syria since the start
of the conflict there, and the White House announced last week that it would
take in at least 10,000 more Syrian refugees over the next year. But the letter,
which was signed by former officials from Democratic and Republican
administrations, argued that much more should be done.

''With some four million Syrian refugees in neighboring countries and hundreds
of thousands of Syrian asylum seekers in Europe, this would be a responsible
exercise in burden sharing,'' it says. ''We urge you to take extraordinary
measures, as were taken for refugees from Vietnam, northern Iraq and Kosovo.''

The letter also urges the White House to allocate up to $2 billion to pay for
resettling Syrian refugees and to help support international refugee efforts.
The United States has provided more than $4 billion in humanitarian assistance
for Syrian refugees, but international organizations are struggling with funding
shortfalls.

The former officials who signed the letter include some noteworthy veterans of
the Obama administration: Michèle A. Flournoy, a former under secretary of
defense; Derek Chollet, who served as an assistant defense secretary, Harold H.
Koh, who served as the State Department's legal adviser; and Eric P. Schwartz,
who was a senior refugee official in the State Department.

Signatories who served in Republican administrations include Paul D. Wolfowitz,
a deputy defense secretary in the George W. Bush administration, and Kori Schake
and Richard Fontaine, who worked on the National Security Council under Mr.
Bush.

Several former diplomats who served in the Middle East were also signatories,
including Robert S. Ford, whom Mr. Obama named to serve as ambassador to Syria,
and Ryan C. Crocker, who served as ambassador to Afghanistan under Mr. Obama and
was previously ambassador to Syria and Iraq, among other countries.

Some conservative members of Congress have raised concerns that admitting large
numbers of refugees could pose risks if militants infiltrated their ranks. And
administration officials have cited constraints, including the 18 to 24 months
that it takes the Department of Homeland Security to do background checks. But
the letter asserts that these issues can be managed.

''We have demonstrated that it can be done in the case of the Kurds, the
Kosovars and the Vietnamese,'' said Mr. Schwartz, who coordinated refugee
settlement efforts for such groups during the Bill Clinton administration and
currently serves as the dean of the Humphrey School of Public Affairs at the
University of Minnesota. ''What we need is high-level political leadership. Even
with a responsible D.H.S. vetting process, we can have the capability to
resettle large numbers. For one thing, we need to put more money and people
against these requirements.''

The United States took in 111,000 Vietnamese refugees in 1979. The next year,
that number grew to 207,000. Around the same time, the United States accepted
more than 120,000 Cuban refugees during the Mariel boatlift. But the number of
refugees accepted by the United States dwindled after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.

The United States currently has an overall yearly cap on refugees of 70,000, and
Secretary of State John Kerry told lawmakers last week that the cap should be
increased to as many as 100,000.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/middleeast/ex-officials-urge-white-house
-to-accept-more-syrian-refugees.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESETTLEMENT & REPATRIATION
(77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS
(72%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); CONSERVATISM
(68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); R RICHARD
FONTAINE (55%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN
(79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); VIET NAM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finger-Pointing, but Few Answers, After a Syria Solution Fails

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1205 words


WASHINGTON --  By any measure, President Obama's effort to train a Syrian
opposition army to fight the Islamic State on the ground has been an abysmal
failure. The military acknowledged this week that just four or five
American-trained fighters are actually fighting.

But the White House says it is not to blame. The finger, it says, should be
pointed not at Mr. Obama but at those who pressed him to attempt training Syrian
rebels in the first place -- a group that, in addition to congressional
Republicans, happened to include former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton.

At briefings this week after the disclosure of the paltry results, Josh Earnest,
the White House press secretary, repeatedly noted that Mr. Obama always had been
a skeptic of training Syrian rebels. The military was correct in concluding that
''this was a more difficult endeavor than we assumed and that we need to make
some changes to that program,'' Mr. Earnest said. ''But I think it's also time
for our critics to 'fess up in this regard as well. They were wrong.''

In effect, Mr. Obama is arguing that he reluctantly went along with those who
said it was the way to combat the Islamic State, but that he never wanted to do
it and has now has been vindicated in his original judgment. The I-told-you-so
argument, of course, assumes that the idea of training rebels itself was flawed
and not that it was started too late and executed ineffectively, as critics
maintain.

Either way, it underscored White House sensitivities about the widening Syrian
catastrophe. With more than 200,000 killed in the civil war, a wave of refugees
flooding into Europe, and Russia now flying in arms and troops, the president
finds himself with a geopolitical and humanitarian mess that will most likely
not be settled before he leaves office in 16 months.

Mr. Obama has long considered Syria a quagmire that defies American solutions,
and aides are hoping to keep him from being held responsible for something that,
they argue, he never really had the power to fix. But with images of drowned
children and Russian tanks, the president has come under increasing fire from
multiple directions.

The Russians accuse him of making the crisis worse by opposing the autocratic
government of President Bashar al-Assad in its fight against terrorists like the
Islamic State, also called ISIS or ISIL. Republicans accuse him of passivity and
fecklessness, of sitting back while the conflict spread across the region.

But there is no consensus among critics about what should be done. During
back-to-back presidential debates on Wednesday night, Republican candidates were
divided between those advocating more American involvement and those suggesting
stepping back and letting the Syrians fight it out themselves.

''I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on
the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical
jihadists,'' Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said. ''Well, the president didn't
listen, the administration didn't follow through and that's exactly what
happened. That is why ISIS grew.''

Donald J. Trump, the businessman, and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky went the
other direction, embracing disengagement. ''Syria's a mess,'' Mr. Trump said.
''Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria? Let them fight each other and pick up the
remnants.''

Mr. Paul added, ''Sometimes both sides of the civil war are evil, and sometimes
intervention makes us less safe.''

The idea of bolstering Syrian rebels was debated from the early days of the
civil war, which started in 2011. Mrs. Clinton, along with David H. Petraeus,
then the C.I.A. director, and Leon E. Panetta, then the defense secretary,
supported arming opposition forces, but the president worried about deep
entanglement in someone else's war after the bloody experience in Iraq.

In 2014, however, after the Islamic State had swept through parts of Syria and
Iraq, Mr. Obama reversed course and initiated a $500 million program to train
and arm rebels who had been vetted and were told to fight the Islamic State, not
Mr. Assad's government.

The program was financed last December and started in May with the goal of
training 5,400 in the first year, but military officials said only 100 to 120
had actually been trained. The first 54 graduates suffered a devastating attack
by a Qaeda affiliate in July, forcing the Pentagon to draw up plans to revamp
the program by dropping larger numbers of fighters into safer parts of Syria.

Appearing at a Senate hearing on Wednesday, Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, head of
the United States Central Command, conceded that only four or five trained
rebels were actually fighting now.

''We have to acknowledge that this is a total failure,'' Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, said in response. ''It's just a failure. I wish it
weren't so, but that's the fact. It's time to -- way past time to react to that
failure.''

Military officials said the few trained rebels might still prove useful in
specific roles, like calling in American airstrikes. But the military has had
better results from working with Kurdish forces who have stepped up to fill the
place of American-trained Syrians on the ground, first at Sinjar, then at Kobani
and most recently in the stretch of Syria south of the Turkish border from the
Euphrates River to the Iraqi border.

The White House all but washed its hands of the training program after General
Austin's testimony.

''It is true that we have found this to be a difficult challenge,'' Mr. Earnest
said. ''But it is also true that many of our critics had proposed this specific
option as essentially the cure-all for all of the policy challenges that we're
facing in Syria right now. That is not something that this administration ever
believed, but it is something that our critics will have to answer for.''

Some of those critics said the program failed because it was delayed and
limited. ''The White House plan is two-plus years late and fundamentally flawed
because it restricts volunteers from fighting against Assad, which is their
priority objective,'' said Gen. Jack Keane, a retired Army vice chief of staff.

Some Syrian rebels who asked for American arms in 2011 and 2012 eventually gave
up and allied themselves with more radical groups, analysts said, leaving fewer
fighters who were friendly to the United States. ''The reason it failed is
because we got the politics wrong,'' said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria specialist
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Ryan C. Crocker, a retired career diplomat who was an ambassador to Afghanistan
under Mr. Obama, said the president was right to think a train-and-arm program
would not work. But the president, Mr. Crocker added, should have either
continued to resist it or at least taken ownership of it rather than blame
others for its failure.

''How un-presidential that sounds -- 'We didn't want to do it, we thought it was
unsound but you made us do it,' '' said Mr. Crocker, now dean of the George Bush
School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. ''It's just
indicative of their whole approach to Syria, which is not to have a policy. This
is the worst thing they could say.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/finger-pointing-but-few-answers-after-a-
syria-solution-fails.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT
(89%); SYRIAN CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT
(78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICAL
DEBATES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (68%);
REFUGEES (64%); TERRORISM (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taylor Swift's '1989,'From Ryan Adams

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words


For anyone who acknowledged that Taylor Swift's ''1989'' was a master class in
pop songwriting but thought the album could stand to be a bit more dour and
guitar-driven, there is Ryan Adams. After weeks of teasing on social media, Mr.
Adams announced Thursday that his song-for-song ''1989'' cover album -- ''as
played by the Smiths'' -- would be released digitally on Sept. 21, via his label
PAX-AM.

Ms. Swift, who responded to early chatter about the project by tweeting, ''is
this true??????? I WILL PASS OUT,'' gave an enthusiastic thumbs-up to the news
that the cover songs will see the light of day:

Soon after, the D.J. Zane Lowe of Apple Music's Beats 1 radio premiered Mr.
Adams's acoustic reinterpretation of ''Bad Blood,'' the ''1989'' single that hit
No. 1 on the Billboard chart in May. Mr. Lowe said the full album of ''1989''
covers would be available for pre-order on iTunes at midnight. He also teased an
interview, scheduled for Monday, with Mr. Adams, promising it would feature ''a
very special guest on the phone.''

Mr. Adams first revealed his ''1989'' fixation in early August, when he began
posting clips of his versions to Twitter and Instagram. ''What a song. Damn,''
he wrote of ''Bad Blood.'' As for the rest of the ''tunes,'' he said, ''We're
sandblasting them and they're holding steady.''

Not that Ms. Swift needed the validation: Since its release last year, her
''1989'' has sold more than 5 million units in the United States.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/09/17/ryan-adams-confirms-release-of-tayl
or-swift-cover-album/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SONG WRITING
(89%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Audra McDonald to Miss Three Months of Show

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


Audra McDonald, the star of one of this theatrical season's most-anticipated
musicals, will miss three of the first six months of performances, the
production said this week.

Ms. McDonald, who has won a record six Tony Awards, is to play the actress
Lottie Gee in ''Shuffle Along, Or, The Making of the Musical Sensation of 1921
and All That Followed.'' The show is scheduled to begin performances on March 14
and to open on April 21, just before the Tony Awards deadline; Ms. McDonald will
be out from June 21 to September 25, according to her spokesman, Sean Michael
Gross.

She is then expected to perform in the musical through June 2017, according to
Philip Rinaldi, a spokesman for the show.

Neither Mr. Rinaldi nor Mr. Gross specified the reason for her absence. ''She
has a pre-existing commitment which she has to honor,'' Mr. Rinaldi said.

The show aims both to reprise and to explore the creation of ''Shuffle Along,''
a 1921 jazz musical that has a significant but largely forgotten place in the
history of African-Americans on Broadway. It's a star-studded production, with a
cast that includes Brian Stokes Mitchell, Billy Porter, Brandon Victor Dixon,
and Joshua Henry. George C. Wolfe will direct and wrote a new book, based on an
original book by F.E. Miller and Aubrey Lyles. The music and lyrics are by Noble
Sissle and Eubie Blake.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/09/16/audra-mcdonald-will-miss-three-mont
hs-of-upcoming-broadway-show/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TONY AWARDS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (52%)

PERSON: AUDRA MCDONALD (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Computer Problem Delays American Airlines Flights

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words


American Airlines flights were delayed for several hours on Thursday because of
an unidentified computer problem, just weeks before the company completes its
move to a single reservation system after its merger with US Airways.

The airline said that its latest problems were caused by a network connectivity
issue affecting various computer systems, including its website and airport
check-in counters at three of its biggest hubs: Chicago, Dallas and Miami.

The issue prompted the Federal Aviation Administration to ground American
Airlines and American Eagle flights to and from these airports under a
ground-stop program that lasted for about an hour and 45 minutes.

American said it had fixed the problem, which it did not disclose, but was still
investigating the cause. It ruled out an outside breach of its systems.

Flights resumed with delays that averaged a little over an hour. Six regional
flights were canceled, according to a spokesman for the airline.

Systemwide delays have become common. In April, hundreds of American Airlines
flights were grounded because of a problem in the flight dispatch software that
pilots have on their iPads.

United Airlines has had its share of problems in recent months. In July, a
faulty computer router prevented the airline from checking in passengers,
grounding its fleet. About 150 United flights were delayed in June because of
another computer problem.

American is moving to complete one of the trickiest phases of its merger with US
Airways. (Casey Norton, a spokesman for the airline, said the problem was not
related to the merger integration work.)

American has met most of the major operational and technical goals related to
its 2013 merger. In April, the airline received its single operating certificate
from the F.A.A., meaning all flights now operate under the American call sign,
which pilots use to communicate with air traffic controllers. The airlines also
merged their frequent-flier programs.

But the final step is among the most critical in any airline merger. American
must switch over all future reservations and passenger information from the
system used by US Airways, called Shares, to the system used by American, called
Sabre.

The airline wants to avoid what happened to United in 2012, when problems with
its reservation systems led to months of delays and cancellations after its
merger with Continental Airlines.

American has opted for a three-month ''drain down'' approach rather than a more
abrupt overnight changeover. American started moving all reservations into a
single passenger system in mid-July, and it expects the switch to be completed
on Oct. 17.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/a-computer-problem-delays-american-ai
rlines-flights.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%);
DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); COMPUTING &
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
(73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE
(73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); UNITED
CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR
TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR
TRANSPORTATION (58%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A No-Fly Zone in Syria

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 295 words


To the Editor:

''Each Dot Represents One Person Killed in the Syrian War'' (chart, Sept. 16)
offers a terrifying overview of the scale of the atrocities in Syria. The
numbers are shocking. But they are also prescriptive. The rising death toll in
Syria points to a clear primary perpetrator of war crimes: the dictator Bashar
al-Assad. It also points to a clear solution to stop those crimes: a no-fly
zone.

The leading killer in Syria today is not ISIS or Al Qaeda; it is Mr. Assad.
According to the Syrian Network for Human Rights, in 2015, his forces have
killed seven times the number of people that ISIS has and were responsible for
75 percent of all civilian deaths.

As Mr. Assad's military arsenal has dwindled, he has turned to indiscriminate
aerial warfare. In May, his air forces accounted for more than 65 percent of all
civilian casualties in Syria. In May 2014, that number stood at just 35 percent.

Contrary to Mr. Assad's claims, his forces haven't attacked ISIS; they've
attacked civilians. Ninety-five percent of Syrian regime air attack casualties
are civilians, not ISIS extremists.

Mr. Assad's indiscriminate aerial attacks are killing civilians, destroying
cities and driving the exodus from Syria to Europe. They are also aiding and
abetting terrorist groups. Every barrel bomb that falls on a home, school or
hospital is a recruiting gift for ISIS.

To stop the refugee flow to Europe and end the appeal of terrorist extremist
groups, we need to stop the bombs in Syria and provide the protection that
Syrian civilians need. As the numbers on Syria show, that starts with the
enforcement of a no-fly zone.

NAJIB GHADBIAN

New York

The writer is special representative to the United States and the United Nations
for the Syrian National Coalition.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/a-no-fly-zone-in-syria.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); SYRIAN
CRISIS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEATHS &
DEATH RATES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(74%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (73%); REFUGEES (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT
(73%); AL-QAEDA (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

How the Republican Candidates Did

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 648 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Candidates Use 2nd G.O.P. Debate to Taunt Trump'' (front page, Sept. 17):

The ''debate'' was a giant waste of time. As Gov. John Kasich protested early
on, they needed to focus on issues.

Instead, the questions encouraged finger-pointing and personal confrontations,
requiring the candidates to spend more time defending themselves instead of
informing the American public about how they would address the many important
issues facing our country.

It may have delivered ratings, but despite the efforts of a few other candidates
(notably Ben Carson, Marco Rubio and Carly Fiorina), it quickly degenerated into
little more than a rather silly and uncontrolled mudfight.

ROBERT LILLEY

New York

To the Editor:

During the two Republican debates Wednesday night, it became very clear who the
winners, the losers and the whiner were. I think that the clear winners in the
later debate were Rand Paul, Scott Walker and Carly Fiorina. In the early debate
it was George Pataki. These four Republican candidates for president kept their
cool and, more important, their dignity. All the rest stumbled, were off balance
and were confusing to listen to.

In Donald Trump's case, it was much more serious. He was a bully and not
accurate in his comments. Mr. Paul calmly answered Mr. Trump's insults with
good, clear answers and had a grip on reality. Mr. Walker stayed on point and
was clear and objective. Ms. Fiorina was cool and nailed Mr. Trump with the
comment about all women understanding what he meant when he criticized her
looks. Mr. Pataki was intelligent and clear as to his plans if elected.

The big whiner was Mr. Trump. He got angry and made rude replies when confronted
about his record. Do we think that he can get along with Vladimir V. Putin? Of
course not. ''Would you feel comfortable with Donald Trump's finger on the
nuclear codes?'' the moderator Jake Tapper asked. No, no, no!

TOM KING

Shaftsbury, Vt.

To the Editor:

It was interesting to see Donald Trump brag about his foresight in getting out
of Atlantic City casinos in time. Some would call that ''bailing out'' -- on
commitments to the community, and to his partners in myriad deals. Allies of our
country (and foes) would surely prefer to deal with an American president whose
commitments they could trust.

THADDEUS GORA

Kinnelon, N.J.

To the Editor:

Re ''A New Stage but a Familiar Trump: The Brawler'' (news analysis, front page,
Sept. 17):

The issue is not what Donald Trump thinks about Carly Fiorina's or Rand Paul's
looks. It is about the use of personally demeaning and disrespectful comments in
order to succeed. The definition of verbal bullying includes name calling and
trying to embarrass someone in public. Do we want a candidate for president who
is a verbal bully?

If an employee personally insulted a co-worker in my workplace, there would be
disciplinary action. If my child called another child a loser, stupid or ugly,
he would have gotten a time-out. I suggest that citizens give Mr. Trump a
time-out by withdrawing their support of his candidacy.

JAN MOWDER HUGHES

Garrison, N.Y.

To the Editor:

Gail Collins's column (''Republicans Talk the Talk,'' Sept. 17), as well as your
news articles, give much importance to the debating skills of the Republican
presidential candidates: their applause-getting statements, their ability to
attack and fend off Donald Trump and one another, their ability to make whatever
statements they feel will encourage supporters, their quick solutions to the
myriad problems facing this country.

Are these the necessary qualifications to become our next president?
Presidential debates have become the new ''Dancing With the Stars,'' a show
appealing to the audience's need to find a winner. Give me a poor debater but a
highly qualified candidate for the many challenges facing our country any day.

DORIS FENIG

Floral Park, N.Y.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/debate-no-2-how-the-republican-candida
tes-did.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS &
COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); BULLYING (73%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (93%); DONALD TRUMP (89%); SCOTT WALKER (57%); JOHN KASICH
(57%); BEN CARSON (57%); MARCO RUBIO (54%); RAND PAUL (53%); VLADIMIR PUTIN
(51%)

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Cyberthreats

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 117 words


To the Editor:

I was interested to hear that President Obama is taking unusual steps toward
cybersecurity (''Cyberthreat Posed by China and Iran Confounds White House,''
news analysis, Sept. 16). But it is a bit disconcerting that the United States
is fighting attacks with sanctions rather than with efficient safeguards.

From banks to everyday businesses, global capitalism could quite possibly be
crippled by a coordinated attack on multiple companies and government agencies.
Given that a single person from Britain was able to enter a number of sensitive
government systems, including missile defense, it should be clear that the
problem is not them; it is us.

PETER MUENNIG

Jackson Heights, Queens




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/fighting-cyberthreats.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming Full Circle

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION REVIEW; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 971 words


It's been a slow ride on the fashion merry-go-round this week.

Five days after Givenchy's triumphant 9/11 show on a pier in downtown New York,
there we were again, this time in a tunnel under World Trade Center Plaza, for
yet another collection from a brand owned by the French conglomerate LVMH Moët
Hennessy Louis Vuitton. Whoa! Déjà vu. We're almost back where we began.

What's that all about?

Officially, the debut DKNY show of Maxwell Osborne and Dao-Yi Chow, otherwise
known as the men behind the hip label Public School, who were named back in
April to design the contemporary brand that Donna Karan built.

Symbolically, about a whole lot more, because since after Mr. Osborne and Mr.
Chow took the helm, Ms. Karan retired, LVMH ''suspended'' the Donna Karan main
line, and DKNY became the de facto standard-bearer of the company.

To all intents and purposes, what happens at DKNY now defines the image of a
house that once defined New York fashion.

The decision to hold the first show of the new era in an arm of the Oculus, the
underground shopping mall and food court being developed in the part of the city
formerly known as ground zero, was a direct bid for the soul of the city (if not
as original as it originally may have seemed). The combination of tragedy and
capitalism suggested some interesting possibilities. Show us something we don't
expect.

Or not.

The DKNY that Mr. Osborne and Mr. Chow introduced was perfectly nice, quite
respectful of Ms. Karan's history, tightly conceived and almost entirely bland.
Playing on two basic New York sartorial clichés -- the white T-shirt/button-down
and the pinstriped jacket -- they sliced and diced and deconstructed them into
new-look bodysuits-cum-rompers (they had shorts instead of leotard bottoms) that
popped out of pleated skirts left open at the side, hence rendering a
once-transformative garment into a styling trick.

Asymmetry was everywhere. A nod to one of Ms. Karan's famous ad campaigns was
silk-screened on a coat. The best pieces layered superfine ribbed-knit tank
dresses over white shirting, like grime over a city street, or silk-screened a
patchwork of suiting fabrics onto white twill. There was almost no color.

Out of 41 looks, one was blue, and one was white with a blue print; the rest
were ''cement'' and ''charcoal,'' black and white and navy.

There's often a sense, when new designers arrive at a much-loved brand, that the
first season should be a judicious shuffling in; that change should come softly,
so as not to alienate or offend those who still carry a torch for the time
before. Yet DKNY has been aesthetically adrift for a while now. (What did it
stand for, other than work- and party wear priced for a girl who dreamed of
getting her first big break in the big city?)

And without the main line to dictate their course, Mr. Osborne and Mr. Chow had
an almost unprecedented chance to reinvent accessible New York dressing. That
instead they played it coy instead seems like the most wasted opportunity of
what has been a surprisingly low-energy week.

''It's tough out there,'' said Millard S. Drexler, chief executive of J. Crew,
during that brand's presentation replete with gingham, stripes and madras
separates. True, but that doesn't mean it's time to ratchet down the energy.

Yet black and white have dominated the collections; color feels like a thrill
ride. Between an elongated cream vest, barely fringed at the side, and an onyx
strapless jumpsuit, a dress in tangerine Fortuny-pleated organza crisscrossed
over itself at Boss Women, using its potential transparency as a tease, made a
big impression; ditto a petroleum-toned cocktail sheath in chevrons of beaded
fringe.

Ralph Lauren's blue-and-white ode to an American in Biarritz, complete with
cropped navy captain's jackets, knit maillots, sweeping palazzo pants and
parasol-striped cotton shirting gowns, qualified as a breath of fresh air.

This is one of the reasons Proenza Schouler is always a star attraction: The
designers Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez have a lot of ideas, and they
tend to come out like paintballs on the runway.

Splat! Here's an off-the-shoulder white cotton dress -- pretty, romantic, fresh
-- the fabric cinched aggressively tight at the neck and waist with black ribbon
to expose the flesh underneath. Splotch! Here's a flamenco ruffled crop top with
high-waist toreador pants.

Splat! Here's an exaggerated fisherman's-net dress sprouting feathers caught in
every link. Splotch! Here's an asymmetric crimson fil coupé column with ruffles
cut in and fabric cut out, and enormous black Rorschach blots all around.

What do you see?

Explorations of the meaning of femininity and strength and power, perhaps, and
the role of decoration; some successful, some not so much. Giant metallic pearls
on a sheer silk chiffon dress with a strategically placed groin-girdling ruffle
were a little silly; some of the cotton vests and trousers unflattering. But the
ruffled columns that curved up the body, tracing a new topography, were
terrific.

As were the gleaming cream and ivory bias-cut slip dresses from Francisco Costa
at Calvin Klein, the deconstructed leather aprons dropped from chain-link straps
atop satin shifts, and the two-tone floral prints -- peonies photographed and
abstracted into a blur, juxtaposed against English garden blooms -- in
contrasting shades of pearl and pewter gray.

Also the shredded silk knits embedded with glints of gold chain worn with
slouchy silk trousers; the black silk tuxedo jackets and tunics, seams picked
out in white thread and then split hither and yon; the tufted sweaters and
sequined leathers, and -- well, there was more. Each look built on the other,
constructing a new sort of coolly intelligent glamour. Finally (finally!), it
was kind of a rush.

Turn and turn again.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/fashion/new-york-fashion-week-dkny-calvin-klei
n-ralph-lauren.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, left and right, Proenza Schouler. Far left, DKNY. Near
left, Boss Women. Below, Ralph Lauren. Bottom, Calvin Klein. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN
SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
NOWFASHION
 HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FABRICS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (85%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (85%); LVMH (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (85%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (85%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Seeks Compliance Pledges From U.S. Tech Companies

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR; Nick Wingfield contributed reporting from Seattle and
Neil Gough from Hong Kong.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words


HONG KONG -- The Chinese government, which has long used its country's vast
market as leverage over American technology companies, is now asking some of
those firms to directly pledge their commitment to contentious policies that
could require them to turn user data and intellectual property over to the
government.

The government distributed a document to some American tech companies earlier
this summer, in which it asked the companies to promise they would not harm
China's national security and would store Chinese user data within the country,
according to three people with knowledge of the letter who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

The letter also asks the American companies to ensure their products are
''secure and controllable,'' a catchphrase that industry groups said could be
used to force companies to build so-called back doors -- which allow third-party
access to systems -- provide encryption keys or even hand over source code.

The document underlines the way China is wielding its power over the American
tech industry. Next week, Beijing has also planned a tech forum in Seattle
between China's Internet czar, Lu Wei, and tech companies including Apple,
Facebook, IBM, Google and Uber, in a show of how it can get some of the world's
leading tech players to meet even as President Obama has suggested American
companies are being hurt by anticompetitive Chinese practices. The forum is
timed to coincide with President Xi Jinping's first state visit to the United
States.

The situation is tricky for American tech companies. Many are eager to take
advantage of business opportunities in China before local rivals sew up the
market. But they have to tread carefully given the Chinese government's
sensitivities on issues like censorship and security. Facebook and Google are
among those blocked by China's web filters from offering their core services in
the country, which is the world's biggest Internet market.

It is not clear whether any of the companies invited to the Seattle tech forum
received the pledge. The document was sent by the China Information Technology
Security Evaluation Center, most likely under pressure from China's main
Internet regulator, according to one of the people with knowledge of the letter.

It is also unclear when Chinese officials want a response from the companies on
the pledge, but they may be hoping for some sign during next week's tech forum,
or at an Internet conference hosted by China's Internet regulators later in the
year, these people said.

The Cyberspace Administration of China did not respond to a faxed request for
comment on the pledge.

Uber, Apple, Google, IBM, Microsoft and Facebook did not immediately respond to
requests for comment.

The pledge contains language similar to that in a recently distributed Chinese
national security law. The document begins with the statement: ''Our company
agrees to strictly adhere to the two key principles'' and names them as ''not
harming national security and not harming consumer rights.'' It also asks the
company to make six additional promises -- some seemingly innocuous, like
guaranteeing product safety, and others less so, like volunteering to check that
products are ''secure and controllable.'' That could imply an agreement to cater
products to Chinese surveillance.

Over the last year, Chinese officials have sought to persuade American companies
to support declarations of differing types. In a conference hosted by China's
Internet regulator last year, attendees were given little time to provide
feedback on a declaration that said countries should have the right to make
their own Internet laws, even if those laws mandate censorship and surveillance.
The declaration was ultimately abandoned because of objections.

Signing the new pledge could set a precedent of American tech firms openly
cooperating with Beijing and enabling snooping on users. Conversely, a refusal
could bring fresh restrictions or penalties for companies in China's enormous
market.

For the most part, American firms have sought to follow Beijing's wishes in
China, while lobbying at home for more pushback against Chinese laws that they
say restrict market access and force technology transfers.

To protect their businesses in China, some have transferred intellectual
property and cooperated with would-be Chinese competitors. Some have promised
huge new investments and used jargon favored by the leaders of the Chinese
Communist Party.

In a recent speech, Travis Kalanick, chief executive of the ride-hailing company
Uber, said that progress brought by his company had to be ''in harmony with
stability,'' words often used by Chinese officials to signal the dangers of
social and political unrest. IBM's China marketing materials use phrases like
''building a harmonious society'' and ''the Chinese dream,'' the latter a phrase
coined by Mr. Xi to signify the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.

Earlier this month, Dell pledged to spend $125 billion in China over the next
fiveyears, which is about five times the company's value when it was taken
private in 2013. In June, Cisco pledged $10 billion in investment in China over
the next several years. Qualcomm earlier this year said it would help a Chinese
chip maker develop advanced semiconductor materials, and IBM transferred
intellectual property for one of its lines of servers to a Chinese firm.

Qualcomm declined to comment. Cisco and Dell did not immediately respond to
requests for comment.

''Everyone has assumed that it is easier in the market if you are seen as a
friend of China,'' said Adam Segal, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations. ''People have doubled down on that strategy now that the pressure has
increased so dramatically.''

A report released Thursday by the Information Technology and Innovation
Foundation, an industry research group, took aim at what it described as China's
mercantilist approach to innovative industries. The report said the United
States should establish an industrial intelligence council, create the position
of chief trade enforcement officer and restructure the way reviews of foreign
investments on national security grounds are conducted.

''Disregard for international rules of market-based competition is increasingly
apparent as China continues to develop a robust set of mercantilist policies,
virtually all of which violate the spirit, if not the letter, of the World Trade
Organization's laws,'' the report said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/17/technology/china-tries-to-extract-pledge-of-co
mpliance-from-us-tech-firms.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lu Wei, China's Internet czar, will meet with American
technology leaders next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHANNES EISELE/AGENCE FANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); INTERNET
SERVICE REGULATION (87%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (87%); INFORMATION SECURITY &
PRIVACY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INTERNET FILTERS (73%); CENSORSHIP
(71%); CRYPTOLOGY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%);
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (57%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); CHINA
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); CNIT
(NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE
MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING
(83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS &
COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES
(83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING &
BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%);
SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials WETTERAU, GARY P. MUTUAL OF AMERICA, ITS BOARD OF
DIRECTORS, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF ITS OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, MOURN THE PASSING OF
OUR RESPECTED COLLEAGUE AND FRIEND, GARY P. WETTERAU. FOR 20 YEARS, GARY WORKED
DILIGENTLY AND MADE SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTIONS TO MUTUAL OF AMERICA CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT LLC AS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FIXED INCOME, WHERE HE DISTINGUISHED
HIMSELF AS AN EXPERT IN THE STRUCTURED PRODUCTS AREA OF THE FIXED INCOME
COMMUNITY. GARY SERVED AS A CAPTAIN IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AND WAS AN
ACTIVE SUPPORTER OF THE BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA. WE WILL DEEPLY MISS HIS QUIET,
GENTLEMANLY PRESENCE AND EXTEND OUR MOST SINCERE SYMPATHY TO HIS WIFE, LINDA,
THEIR TWO CHILDREN AND FAMILY. THOMAS J. MORAN, CHAIRMAN AND CEO JOHN R. GREED
PRESIDENT MUTUAL OF AMERICA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY AMIR LEAR CHAIRMAN AND CEO
MUTUAL OF AMERICA CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LLC 1

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 145 words


WETTERAU--Gary P. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all
of its Officers and Employees, mourn the passing of our respected colleague and
friend, Gary P. Wetterau. For 20 years, Gary worked diligently and made
significant contributions to Mutual of America Capital Management LLC as
Executive Vice President Fixed Income, where he distinguished himself as an
expert in the structured products area of the fixed income community. Gary
served as a captain in the United States Air Force and was an active supporter
of the Boy Scouts of America. We will deeply miss his quiet, gentlemanly
presence and extend our most sincere sympathy to his wife, Linda, their two
children and family. Thomas J. Moran, Chairman and CEO John R. Greed President
Mutual of America Life Insurance Company Amir Lear Chairman and CEO Mutual of
America Capital Management LLC 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (96%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%)

COMPANY: MUTUAL OF AMERICA LIFE INSURANCE CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (91%); US AIR FORCE (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (96%)

PERSON: THOMAS J MORAN (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ADLER, MYRON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 234 words


ADLER--Myron. With great admiration and affection, the Board of Trustees and
staff of The Arnold P. Gold Foundation (APGF) remember Myron (Mike) Adler,
beloved husband of devoted trustee, Elaine Adler. Intelligent and wise, kind and
caring, accomplished and remarkably humble, Mike was a champion in his industry
and among his fellow human beings. His name and that of his company, Myron
Manufacturing Corp., became synonymous with product excellence, business acumen
and the highest ethical standards. Locally and abroad, innumerable diverse
charitable endeavors have benefitted from Mike and Elaine's generosity,
including their establishment of the Adler Center for Nursing Excellence at
Ramapo College and the APGF-AACN Nursing White Coat Ceremony. At the heart of
Mike's philanthropy has been a visionary determination to establish unique
opportunities for individuals with aphasia to regain confidence, acquire life
skills and enjoy social happiness. The Adlers created The Adler Aphasia Center
in Maywood, NJ as a model which is currently being replicated nationally and
internationally. We are grateful for the Adler family's leadership on behalf of
Humanistic Healthcare, and for the many good deeds that are Mike Adler's legacy.
With heartfelt condolences to Elaine, the children, the grandchildren and the
entire family. Jordan J. Cohen, M.D., Chairman Richard I. Levin, M.D.,
President/CEO 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%);
PHILANTHROPY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); ETHICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: MYRON MANUFACTURING CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2782 BLANKBOOKS, LOOSELEAF BINDERS & DEVICES (72%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Penalties for Poor Inspire New Orleans Suit

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1266 words


NEW ORLEANS -- Late at night, after the lawyers had gone home, Alana Cain washed
the floors at a downtown firm. One morning, a ring disappeared; Ms. Cain, 26,
was charged and eventually pleaded guilty. The judge ordered her to pay $1,800
in restitution. He also imposed roughly $950 on top of that in court fines and
fees.

She paid in installments, coming to the collections office with $50 every two
weeks for more than a year. Once, after too long a jobless spell, she was late
with her payment. She phoned the court collections officer and told him she was
getting the money. It was in her pocket when the police pulled over the car in
which she was riding, citing a broken taillight. There was already a warrant;
she spent a week in jail before she could see a judge.

On Thursday, Ms. Cain joined five other plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit
against the criminal district court here, among others, alleging that judges and
court officials have been running an ''illegal scheme'' in which poor people are
indefinitely jailed if they fall behind on payments of court fines, fees and
assessments. The suit describes how fees are imposed with no hearing about a
person's ability to pay, and how nearly all components of the local criminal
justice system -- the judges, the prosecutors, the public defenders -- benefit
financially to some degree.

''The extent to which every actor in the local New Orleans legal system depends
on this money for their own survival is shocking,'' said Alec Karakatsanis, a
founder of Equal Justice Under Law, a civil rights group, and one of the lawyers
who filed the suit. The funding arrangements at the court have been particularly
controversial here in recent years, in the wake of allegations of abuses in the
way money raised from defendants has been spent.

But in general, said Mr. Karakatsanis, who filed a similar suit in Ferguson,
Mo., in February and helped force changes to jailing policies in Montgomery,
Ala., last year, ''the effort to fund local court systems on the backs of the
very poor is not an aberration.''

The funding of criminal justice systems through the fining of poor defendants
has drawn intense scrutiny across the country over the past year. This is in
part because the protests in Ferguson highlighted these funding arrangements.
But it is also because the practice has become more widespread, said
Lauren-Brooke Eisen, a lawyer with the Brennan Center for Justice.

''As budgets have grown tighter, jurisdictions and politicians have balked at
tax increases,'' Ms. Eisen said. ''So the burden of revenue for this vastly
expanding criminal justice system has been shifted to those who find themselves
defendants in courts or inmates in prisons.''

A spokesman for the Orleans Parish Criminal District Court did not respond to
repeated requests for comment.

In Louisiana, which has the highest incarceration rate in the country, the state
pays the salaries of the local criminal court judges. Local jurisdictions argue
they do not have the resources to make up all of the remaining costs, leaving
the local criminal justice system well short of the money needed to function
effectively. So legislators have responded by allowing the costs to be pushed
onto the people who find themselves in the system.

''The way Louisiana has funded the criminal justice system is to try and provide
as many user fees as possible to finance it,'' said Rafael Goyeneche, the
president of the Metropolitan Crime Commission, a New Orleans-based watchdog
group. Pointing out that the fees can sometimes be larger than the actual
criminal fine, Mr. Goyeneche said that the system created a clear incentive for
high fees, and even for conviction. ''These Louisiana laws violate the
Constitution,'' he said.

While more than eight out of 10 defendants in the criminal court here qualify as
indigent, the suit alleges that fees are often imposed without hearings to
consider the defendants' ability to pay. This was the case with all of the named
plaintiffs in the suit. One of the plaintiffs is a man kept in jail for weeks
for unpaid debts despite his protests that he had a job waiting that would have
allowed him to earn the money. Another man spent six days in jail on a warrant
issued in error, while a third was told by a collections officer to pay double
every time he was late with a payment.

''It's a failing system, and they know it's a failing system,'' said the third
man, Reynaud Variste, 26, who was arrested in a police raid at his home one
morning this year after he had fallen a few weeks behind in payments connected
to a two-year-old illegal possession case.

The fees can begin accumulating immediately after an arrest, as soon as a bond
is set. While a federal court in 1991 struck down a state law allowing New
Orleans judges to take a percentage of each bond, a subsequent law mostly
reinstituted this arrangement -- but split up the percentage among the other
actors in the criminal justice system.

''Obviously, there is a legal issue there,'' said Calvin Johnson, a retired
chief judge of the Orleans Parish Criminal District Court. But he said those
most likely to protest the arrangement -- the public defenders, the prosecutors
and the sheriffs -- all benefit from it. ''We got all of them in the mix,'' he
said, ''and so they had no interest in saying, 'Judges, y'all can't do it.'''

Mr. Johnson has become an outspoken critic of this structure, but said it
remained a grudging necessity in the absence of any other funding. ''We as a
citizenry, we don't want to pay for the criminal system because we think it only
impacts criminals,'' he said.

The part of the system here that has drawn the most public outrage recently has
been the judicial expense fund. This fund is intended to cover costs -- from
coffee to office supplies to the salaries of court support staff -- unmet by
state and local dollars. It is fed by assessments imposed on individual
defendants at the judge's discretion, and can reach $2,000 per felony charge.

This fund was the subject of a scathing state auditor's investigation in 2012.
It detailed how criminal court judges spent hundreds of thousands of dollars
from the judicial expense fund on premium health benefits. The judges argued
that the fund was not legally considered public money and thus bound by the same
restrictions; the district attorney, in turn, accused the judges of illegally
forcing defendants to pay into the fund or have their probation revoked. The
scandal has since quieted.

Once the fines and fees are set by the judges after conviction, those who cannot
pay immediately are referred to a collections department. This department
determines the schedule for repayment, though ''no inquiry is ever made into a
person's ability to pay,'' and partial amounts are not acceptable, the suit
alleges. If a person misses payments, the suit says, a collections agent will
sign the judge's name to a warrant, and the person then faces potential jail
time with an automatic $20,000 bond required for release. Once arrested, the
suit continues, people can stay in jail for days without notice of a hearing.

Ms. Cain has paid down the restitution she owed but has hundreds of dollars to
go, most of it in judicial expense fund fees. She has no car, has been turned
down for job after job and lives with her mother in a one-bedroom apartment, the
ceiling of which has a gaping hole. But she has not missed a payment since her
jail stay; her mother and sister have scraped together what money they can so
she can keep up.

''It's a struggle,'' Ms. Cain said. ''I must say it is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/suit-alleges-scheme-in-criminal-costs-borne
-by-new-orleanss-poor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alana Cain at the Orleans Parish Criminal Court on Thursday. She
spent a week behind bars for failure to pay court fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM
WIDMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); LITIGATION
(90%); JUDGES (90%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING
(89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS
(77%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION
(71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Ups and Downs of Business and Pleasure

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 878 words


One of the best-directed movies that you can see in New York right now isn't
playing in an art cinema but in a multiplex slab, where a pleasurably different
entertainment has been slipped in among the familiar offerings. ''Office'' is
the latest from the Hong Kong auteur Johnnie To, who, at 60, has directed more
than 50 features. If you've heard of him, it may be because of thrillers like
''PTU'' and ''Triad Election,'' in which his peerless technique, eye for beauty
and grasp of darkness flow as fluidly as his prowling cameras. If Mr. To were an
American, his name would fall from lips as easily as Martin Scorsese's, another
artist alive to cinema's past as well as its present.

Set in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, ''Office'' takes place
largely in a Chinese company, the amusingly named Jones & Sunn, that jumps to
the rhythms of the stock market, its vertiginous ups and downs, its soaring
promises and crushing defeats. The company is on the verge of going public and,
with billions in the balance, there are complications, among them the hush-hush
affair that the married chairman, Mr. Ho (Chow Yun Fat), has been having with
the single-gal chief executive officer, Ms. Chang (Sylvia Chang). After years of
tag-team Machiavellianism, Ho and Chang have drifted apart, their bonds frayed
by the corporate and family intrigues that -- with a lot of singing and a little
dancing -- put a human face on China's authoritarian capitalism.

From the first images in ''Office,'' which opens on a man tending a comatose
woman in a hospital bed, you know that you've entered a place a little to the
left of the usual realism. The hospital, like most of the locations, the homes,
the after-hour joints and the office, is made of see-through geometric forms
instead of solid walls. It's a world of grid patterns and transparency, one that
looks as if it had been made out of framing materials, like a house under
construction or one that's soon to be razed. For a brief moment, the design
evokes the empty stage in ''Our Town'' and the deconstructed sets in Lars von
Trier experiments like ''Dogville.'' But then a multitude of computer-generated
people begins trooping through the credits, suggesting a new kind of army on the
march.

These computer multitudes give way to would-be market warriors like Lee Xiang
(Wang Ziyi), a striver with eyes the size of hubcaps who starts working as an
intern at Jones & Sunn the same day as another newbie, Kat (Lang Yueting). A
willowy wisp with a peekaboo curtain of hair, Kat catches Lee's attention when
she's ushered alone into an express elevator while the rest of the building's
workers serenely line up to ride steerage. Dressed in their regulation business
uniforms (shades of blue, black, gray and white), these other men and women wait
in aligned rows that echo the set's floor-to-ceiling patterning, turning them
into points on an all-encompassing grid. Only Lee's exuberance and a few
close-ups of strappy, polka-dotted shoes suggest the yelp of the individual amid
the herd.

''Office'' is based on Sylvia Chang's popular stage musical,  ''Design for
Living,'' which shares its title with the 1933 Noël Coward play. In the play,
one of Coward's ''glib,'' ''amoral'' characters (his words) confesses: ''It's
all a questions of masks, really; brittle, painted masks. We all wear them as
protection; modern life forces us to.'' Ms. Chang and Mr. To play with some of
the same ideas in ''Office,'' which focuses on a group whose masks are rapidly
slipping off, loosened by modern life and love as well as the collision between
private lives and public lies. Ho and Chang's affair is one lie, but there are
other untruths, including that of capitalism's equally rising boats, which is
why when Lee sings, ''I want everyone to see me doing great,'' there's a stooped
man in the background pushing a load of trash.

At once sharp and exceedingly playful, ''Office'' registers as up to the minute
because of China's economic turmoil. Its smashing look gives visible form to the
idea of China as an enormous machine even as Mr. To nods to other reference
points, from the pinwheeling Busby Berkeley-like formations to the huge office
clock that seems transported from ''Metropolis,'' to Lee's popping eyes and
swooping bangs, which invoke Robert Morse in the 1967 movie musical ''How to
Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.'' The songs in ''Office'' aren't
especially memorable. But it's hard to care too much when you have a director
who knows how to create tension by moving the camera and characters even while
he's delivering a nimble political softshoe with filmmaking dazzle.

Office

Opens on Friday

Directed by Johnnie To; written by Sylvia Chang, based on her play; director of
photography, Cheng Siu Keung; edited by David Richardson; music by Chan Fai
Young; choreography by Yuri Ng; production design by William Chang and Yau Wai
Ming; costumes by Mr. Chang and Lui Fung Shan; produced by Mr. To and Ms. Chang;
released by China Lion Entertainment. In Cantonese, Mandarin and English, with
English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 57 minutes. This film is not rated.

­

WITH: Sylvia Chang (C.E.O. Chang), Wang Ziyi (Lee Xiang), Lang Yueting (Kat) and
Chow Yun Fat (Chairman Ho Chung-ping).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-in-office-by-johnnie-to-ups-and-
downs-of-business.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chow Yun Fat and Sylvia Chang as colleagues and lovers in
''Office,'' directed by Johnnie To. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA LION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (68%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (90%); HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Jazz

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1887 words


Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz. A searchable guide
to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Michael Bates's Northern Spy  (Friday) Mr. Bates, a bassist, has a likably
rugged recent album, ''Northern Spy,'' featuring a trio with Michael Blake on
tenor saxophone and Jeremy Clemons, known as Bean, on drums. Here he plays some
of the same music with Mr. Clemons, Donny McCaslin on tenor and Ben Monder on
guitar. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich
Village, 212-989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com. (Nate Chinen)

Matt Brewer Trio  (Thursday) Mr. Brewer is a bassist of prominence on the
center-left jazz landscape -- and an ambitious composer, as he shows on
''Mythology,'' released in 2014. He leads a trio with Steve Lehman on alto
saxophone and Lage Lund on guitar. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29
Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village; 212-989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com.
(Chinen)

? Bill Charlap Trio  (through Sunday) The pianist Bill Charlap has become one of
our era's most trusted docents of the American songbook -- hear his handiwork
all over Tony Bennett's ''The Silver Lining: The Songs of Jerome Kern,'' due out
in a few weeks -- and he brings the full breadth of his erudition to any
engagement by his trio. Featuring Peter Washington on bass and Kenny Washington
(no relation) on drums, it's a group with almost 20 years of working history,
and many hours logged in this room. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard,
178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, 212-255-4037,
villagevanguard.com. (Chinen)

The Coca-Cola Generations In Jazz Festival  (through Sept. 30) This monthlong
series at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola explores a loose multigenerational theme.
Highlights of the coming week include the singer Carmen Lundy, with Patrice
Rushen on keyboards (Friday through Sunday); the pianist Victor Gould, with Ben
Wolfe on bass and Ralph Peterson on drums (Monday at 7:30 p.m.); the veteran
alto saxophonist Steve Wilson, leading a crew of sharp younger players
(Tuesday); and a 75th birthday celebration for the searching post-bop
saxophonist Gary Bartz (Wednesday and Thursday). At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., late
sessions on various nights at 11:15, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln
Center, 60th Street and Broadway, 212-258-9595, jazz.org. (Chinen)

Coltrane Revisited  (Tuesday through Sept. 26) Timed to coincide with would have
been John Coltrane's 89th birthday, the pianist Steve Kuhn -- one of Coltrane's
sidemen, however briefly -- assembles a respectful cast. Eric Alexander stands
in Coltrane's instrument, tenor saxophone; the rhythm section has Lonnie Plaxico
on bass and Steve Smith on drums. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th
Street, Clinton, 212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Chinen)

Patrick Cornelius Octet  (Sunday) The saxophonist Patrick Cornelius leads an
octet stocked with serious-minded peers -- including the trumpeter Marquis Hill,
the saxophonist John Ellis and the guitarist Miles Okazaki -- in a set primarily
dedicated to ''While We're Still Young,'' a suite inspired by the children's
poetry of A. A. Milne. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street,
Greenwich Village, 212-989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com. (Chinen)

Taylor Eigsti Trio  (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Eigsti is a pianist of
proficiency and modernity, drawn to a streamlined consonance. He leads two trios
next week: one with the bassist Harish Raghavan and the drummer Obed Calvaire
(Wednesday), and another with the bassist Alan Hampton and the drummer Lee
Pearson (Thursday). From 7:30 to 10 p.m., at Smalls Jazz Club, 183 West 10th
Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com. (Chinen)

Josh Evans (Tuesday) A trumpeter with a foothold in exploratory hard-bop, Mr.
Evans has a new album, ''Hope and Despair,'' whose cast includes the tenor
saxophonist Abraham Burton and the pianist David Bryant, two of his band mates
here. Rashaan Carter is on bass, and Eric McPherson on drums. From 9:30 p.m. to
midnight, at Smalls Jazz Club, 183 West 10th Street, West Village,
smallsjazzclub.com. (Chinen)

Peter Evans at the Stone  (Tuesday through Sept. 27) Mr. Evans, a trumpeter with
an expressive command of timbre and texture, works in a range of experimental
settings next week, starting on Tuesday with two sets in collaboration with the
august British saxophonist Evan Parker. Among the other highlights of the
residency is Pulverize the Sound, a collective featuring Mr. Evans, Tim Dahl on
electric bass and Mike Pride on drums, playing an 8 p.m. set on Thursday. At 8
and 10 p.m., Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com. (Chinen)

Eddie Henderson Quintet  (Friday through Sunday) The well-traveled trumpeter
Eddie Henderson has a compelling recent album, ''Collective Portrait,'' that
builds on his accomplishments in the frontier era of jazz-funk. As on the album,
he works here with the veteran saxophonist Gary Bartz and the rock-solid bassist
Doug Weiss; rounding out the group are Kevin Hays on piano and Billy Drummond on
drums. At 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street,
212-864-6662, smokejazz.com. (Chinen)

? José James  (Tuesday through Sept. 27) On ''Yesterday I Had The Blues: The
Music of Billie Holiday,'' the coolly smoldering centennial tribute he released
this year, José James sings Holiday fare at languorous tempos, with a sterling
rhythm team featuring Jason Moran on piano and Eric Harland on drums. Those
partners rejoin him for this weeklong engagement, with the fine bassist Reuben
Rogers. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich
Village, 212-475-8592, bluenote.net. (Chinen)

Jazz Cubano  (Friday and Saturday) Throughout its 20 years on the scene, the
Jazz Gallery has been an incubator for the newer strains of Afro-Cuban jazz.
This two-nighter, part of the club's anniversary festivities, will feature the
saxophonist Yosvany Terry; his brother, the bassist Yunior Terry; the pianist
Osmany Paredes; the percussionist Mauricio Herrera; and an assortment of special
guests. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., the Jazz Gallery, 1160 Broadway, fifth floor, at
West 27th Street, 646-494-3625, jazzgallery.org. (Chinen)

Evan Parker, Ikue Mori, Sylvie Courvoisier, Mark Feldman  (Wednesday) Mr. Parker
is a British saxophonist, now in his 70s, who stands at the forefront of
European free improvisation. He'll be the first among equals in this avant-garde
summit, with Ms. Mori on electronics, Ms. Courvoisier on piano and Mr. Feldman
on violin. At 8 p.m., Roulette, 509 Atlantic Avenue, near Third Avenue, Boerum
Hill, Brooklyn, 917-267-0363, roulette.org. (Chinen)

? Dafnis Prieto Sextet  (Friday through Sunday) A rigorous and virtuosic
drummer, Mr. Prieto -- originally from Cuba -- writes music that puts his
ensemble first, drawing on a great range of influences, from the Antilles and
New Orleans and the American post-1970s avant-garde. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz
Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Ben
Ratliff)

Red Hook Jazz Festival  (Sunday) This proudly grass-roots festival takes place
in a community garden near the industrial Brooklyn waterfront. Rescheduled from
a date in June, this installment will feature a quintet led by the guitarist
Nate Radley; quartets led by the drummer Vinnie Sperrazza and the guitarist
Kenny Wessel; a trio led by the saxophonist and the flutist Eric Person; and the
Mighty Grinders, with Brian Charette on organ, Yotam Silberstein on guitar and
Mark Ferber on drums. From 1 to 6 p.m., Urban Meadow, 19 President Street, at
Van Brunt Street, 917-751-9347, facebook.com/redhookjazzfestival. (Chinen)

Adam Rogers Group Featuring Jimmy MacBride  (Tuesday) As part of the Jazz
Gallery's Mentoring Series, a sort of professionalized Big Brothers Big Sisters
program for up-and-coming players, the veteran jazz-rock guitarist Adam Rogers
will lead a band featuring Jimmy MacBride, a smart drummer in his mid-20s. The
other members of the group, representing a high tier of talent, are the pianist
David Virelles and the bassist Scott Colley. At 9 p.m., Seeds, 617 Vanderbilt
Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, seedsbrooklyn.org.
(Chinen)

? Kurt Rosenwinkel Trio  (Tuesday through Sept. 27) Mr. Rosenwinkel, a
guitarist, favors floating lyricism, a luminous tone and an ultramodern harmonic
language, all reasons for his stature as one of the modern gurus on his
instrument. His current trio features Eric Revis on bass and Nasheet Waits on
drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at
11th Street, West Village, 212-255-4037, villagevanguard.com. (Chinen)

The Royal Bopsters Project  (Friday and Saturday) ''The Royal Bopsters Project''
is the new album by a confab of well-harmonized jazz singers -- Amy London,
Darmon Meader, Dylan Pramuk and Holli Ross -- self-consciously styled after the
effervescent example of Lambert, Hendricks & Ross. The album features a guest
council of jazz-vocal luminaries, including Bob Dorough and Annie Ross, who
rejoin them here. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton,
212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Chinen)

Kendrick Scott Oracle  (Tuesday and Wednesday) ''We Are the Drum'' is the fourth
album (and first for Blue Note) as bandleader by Mr. Scott, a drummer with
Terence Blanchard, Herbie Hancock and others, and a composer making jazz that's
as central to contemporary practice as it comes: rhythmic and interactive,
complex and precise and empathetic. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116
East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Ratliff)

? Jen Shyu: 'Sounds and Cries of the World' (Friday) ''Sounds and Cries of the
World,'' a new album on Pi Recordings, is the result of years of traveling and
studying undertaken by the remarkable improvising singer Jen Shyu. She has
studied traditions of narrative performance in East Timor, Indonesia, Korea and
Taiwan and created an original, flowing piece of work, rendered in new
jazz-related musical idioms, but rooted in old symbols and rituals. At 7 p.m.,
Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, 212-620-5000,
rubinmuseum.org. (Ratliff)

A Tribute to the Big Latin Bands  (Saturday) Harking to the glory days of mambo,
this repertory concert is headlined by the Machito Orchestra, led by Mario
Grillo, Machito's son. Also on the bill are the Mambo Legends, featuring the
veteran bongo player John (Dandy) Rodriguez. Among the evening's special guests
are the Cuban tres master Nelson González, the percussionist Giovanni Hidalgo
and the pianist Emilio Morales. At 8 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing
Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the
Bronx, 718-960-8833, lehmancenter.org. (Chinen)

The Jeff (Tain) Watts Blue 5  (Thursday through Sept. 27) Mr. Watts, a
superdynamic post-bop drummer, has a new album, ''Blue, Vol. 1,'' featuring an
array of compatible partners. Among them are the saxophonist Troy Roberts, the
pianist James Francies and the bassist Orlando Le Fleming, his working band here
-- and the fine guitarist Paul Bollenback, who joins beginning next Friday. At
7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan,
212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/jazz-listings-for-sept-18-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MYLAN CANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); WIND
INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSICAL
THEATER (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's All in the Madcap Greek Chorus

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1220 words


Enter flouncing, the ladies of the chorus. They are wearing flower-festooned
headgear that Carmen Miranda might have thought appropriate for an Easter
parade, with festive smiles to match. Granting that a few of these women are men
in skirts, they otherwise would have fit right into a Broadway musical frolic of
the 1930s, harmonizing and hoofing cheerfully behind a star like Ethel Merman.

Of course it's unlikely that any of Ms. Merman's supporting cast members would
have sung to her about how doomed, flawed and unhappy she was. Had they tried
it, you can imagine that forceful star bellowing, ''Ix-nay on the gloom, kids!''

But for folks like Agamemnon, Clytemnestra and Achilles, a pessimistic,
philosophizing chorus is one of those heavy burdens that ill-fated ancient
Greeks, or at least the thespians who play them, have to live with. And this
chorus is sure more fun to have around than the usual monotonously chanting
sackcloth-and-ashes gang.

A spectacularly made-over Greek chorus is the chief asset of this generally less
confident version of Euripides' ''Iphigenia in Aulis,'' which opened on Thursday
night as part of the Classic Stage Company's Greek Festival. This production
comes from two of contemporary theater's most winningly iconoclastic talents:
the playwright Anne Washburn (''Mr. Burns''), who ''transadapted'' Euripides'
text, and the director Rachel Chavkin (Dave Malloy's ''Preludes'' and ''Natasha,
Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812'').

The mandate Ms. Washburn and Ms. Chavkin have assigned themselves would appear
to be bringing an ancient work out of the shadows and illuminating it in ways
contemporary audiences can grasp, without warping the original. This is not a
wholesale reworking or updating of ''Iphigenia in Aulis,'' an angry tale of
familial sacrifice that is thought to be Euripides' last play, and one he never
completed himself.

Anyone familiar with the sort of Euripides translations taught in college
classrooms will find few radical departures in text, aside from the occasional
anachronistic reference (like ''dynamite''). As usual, the main characters speak
at uninterrupted length, describing both their inner turmoil and the big events
that happen offstage. And the three cast members playing all the major speaking
parts -- Rob Campbell, Amber Gray and Kristen Sieh -- aren't vamping or winking
in their delivery.

Yet as they enact the story of the Troy-bound general Agamemnon's agonized
decision to sacrifice his daughter Iphigenia to the gods to be rewarded with a
good wind for his battle ships, these leading performers seem somehow trapped
between time zones. Occasionally, they teeter on the brink of postmodern parody
or artifice, as if they had handfuls of quotation marks in their pockets they
were just dying to pull out.

Often, though, whether speaking of family legacies and divisions, the gods,
patriotism or their own deaths, they go for a wobbly sincerity that rarely
acquires the emotional force to evoke anything like pity and terror. (Ms. Sieh,
as Iphigenia, is the exception.)

Standing around in quirky, holiday-bright variations on classic Greek costumes
(designed by Normandy Sherwood) amid a handsome shimmery set (by Arnulfo
Maldonado) that suggests a seaside encampment, they appear to be waiting for
some deity from Mount Olympus to swoop down and show them the paths to their
characters.

Mr. Campbell portrays both the general Agamemnon and the vain warrior Achilles
with brooding tough-guy diction that appears to be in homage to the theatrical
locutions of one Christopher Walken. (Could this be because a young Mr. Walken
played Achilles in an Off Broadway ''Iphigenia'' in 1967?) Ms. Gray, an elegant
and affecting presence in ''An Octoroon'' and Ms. Chavkin's production of
''Natasha, Pierre,'' here lacks the regal fury to convince as Agamemnon's wife,
Clytemnestra, and his self-serving brother, Menelaus.

It is Ms. Sieh who seems most at home in the stylistic halfway house of this
production. She is witty in the roles of two semaphoric-gesturing messengers. As
the doomed young Iphigenia, whose reactions to her imminent death progress from
incredulous sorrow to patriotic rapture, she provides a shimmering glimpse into
why this ghastly story still can and should move us.

Her Iphigenia also has the advantage of being allowed to sing. The music for
this production is the work of the Bengsons, the folk-rock husband-and-wife team
who created the musical ''Hundred Days.'' And the Bengsons's keening,
country-inflected score here provides the audience with its sturdiest bridge
between the atavistic then and the 21st-century now.

Which brings us back to that frivolous-looking chorus. It makes its entrance as
a group of giddy day trippers, eager to see the military celebrities who have
gathered on the shores of Aulis, and dancing like tour bus revelers on a Calypso
holiday. (Sonya Tayeh did the choreography).

But as the genuine gravity of the events they are witnessing registers, these
chorus people begin to hum (literally) with a pained empathy for the leading
players. Soon they have thrown off their silly hats and are singing with
terrified violence about the dangers of war to their own homes. And when they
join in with a sorrowful Iphigenia, intoning a lovely aria about the ''eddies
and whirls'' of transitory life, they are everything a chorus -- in the most
classic and transcendent sense -- should be.

Such scenes are strong enough to suggest that this still-inchoate show might
successfully find its true shape as a bona fide musical. And no, it wouldn't
have to be titled, ''Hello, Iphigenia!''

Iphigenia in Aulis

By Euripedes; transadaption by Anne Washburn; directed by Rachel Chavkin; music
and music direction by The Bengsons; choreography by Sonya Tayeh; sets by
Arnulfo Maldonado; costumes by Normandy Sherwood; lighting by Austin R. Smith;
sound by Stowe Nelson; production stage manager, Karyn Meek; production manager,
Amber Mathis. Presented by Classic Stage Company, Brian Kulick, artistic
director; Jeff Griffin, managing director; John C. Hume, general manager. At the
Classic Stage Company, 866-811-4111, classicstage.org. Through Sept. 27. Running
time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: Rob Campbell (Achilles/Agamemnon), Amber Gray (Clytemnestra/Menelaus),
Kristen Sieh (Iphigenia/Old Man/Messengers) and Abigail Nessen Bengson, Ato
Blankson-Wood, Audrey Elaine Hailes, Mark Jaynes, Nike Kadri, Austin Ku and Jo
Lampert (Chorus).

Iphigenia in Aulis

By Euripedes; transadaption by Anne Washburn; directed by Rachel Chavkin; music
and music direction by The Bengsons; choreography by Sonya Tayeh; sets by
Arnulfo Maldonado; costumes by Normandy Sherwood; lighting by Austin R. Smith;
sound by Stowe Nelson; production stage manager, Karyn Meek; production manager,
Amber Mathis. Presented by Classic Stage Company, Brian Kulick, artistic
director; Jeff Griffin, managing director; John C. Hume, general manager. At the
Classic Stage Company, 866-811-4111, classicstage.org. Through Sept. 27. Running
time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

­

WITH: Rob Campbell (Achilles/Agamemnon), Amber Gray (Clytemnestra/Menelaus),
Kristen Sieh (Iphigenia/Old Man/Messengers) and Abigail Nessen Bengson, Ato
Blankson-Wood, Audrey Elaine Hailes, Mark Jaynes, Nike Kadri, Austin Ku and Jo
Lampert (Chorus).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/theater/review-a-modern-makeover-for-iphigenia
-in-aulis.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iphigenia in Aulis: Rob Campbell as Agamemnon and Amber Gray as
Menelaus in this adaptation of Euripides' play at the Classic Stage. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); MUSICAL
THEATER (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); CLASSICS (73%);
MUSIC (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times: For Children

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 3963 words


Brooklyn Book Festival Children's Day

You expect lots of little bookworms at an event celebrating children's reading.
But at Saturday's fair in Downtown Brooklyn, the guests will also include large
worms that have never read a word.

These two dozen night crawlers are traveling with Kevin McCloskey, author of
''We Dig Worms!'' Mr. McCloskey, who digs them in every way, will read from his
book, discuss the creatures and even feature them in a race: The first to crawl
to the edge of a circular mat wins. His workshop, ''Do You Dig Worms?!,'' is one
highlight of the Brooklyn Book Festival's first Children's Day, for ages 2
through 11. (Adolescents shouldn't despair: The main festival, on Sunday, will
devote a stage to young adult reading.)

''We realized that having a second day would really allow us to expand our
programming,'' said Liz Koch, co-producer of the festival. ''At our past
festivals, we'd have one tent for children. This year, we have two stages and
workshops throughout the day.''

At the New York University Polytechnic School of Engineering Auditorium, the fun
will start with ''What Are You Waiting For?,'' a conversation between the
much-loved authors Jon Scieszka and Kevin Henkes; Mr. Henkes will also read from
his latest work, ''Waiting.'' And all day, a Picture Book Stage outdoors on
MetroTech Commons will offer the youngest visitors readings by 11 authors,
including Drew Daywalt (''The Day the Crayons Quit'') and Edwidge Danticat
(''Mama's Nightingale''). (Above, little readers last year.)

Back in the auditorium, picture-book fans can enjoy a competition (this one's
without worms): In ''Illustrators in Action,'' Kevin Sherry, George O'Connor,
Aimee Sicuro, Kazu Kibuishi, Raúl Colón and Frank Morrison will square off.

''The illustrators are given a general theme, like, say, dinosaurs,'' Ms. Koch
said. ''And someone in the audience might say, 'Eating a hot dog,' '' The
artists respond to the prompts, children vote by applause, ''and the artwork is
given away at the end.''

The Young Readers Stage, also on the commons, will offer six presentations,
among them ''Readers Theater of Mystery and Magic,'' in which Chris Grabenstein,
Tracey Baptiste, Emily Jenkins and Sarah Mlynowski read from scripts adapted
from one another's novels. (They encourage audience participation.)

In addition to Mr. McCloskey and his night crawlers, the five workshops in the
N.Y.U. MetroTech Center will include Esther K Smith teaching how to make pop-up
books and Daniel Nayeri instructing in storytelling. (Both are for children 6
and up.)

What unites all the programming, Ms. Koch said, is that ''it allows kids to see
this magic as it's happening.''

(Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., rain or shine. Details are at
brooklynbookfestival.org.)

For Children

'Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces'
(Continuing) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones
in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be
purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing Middle
Eastern artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out
the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel.
This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the
Ottoman period (around 1900) where young archaeologists can dress in costume and
portray early-20th-century immigrants to Palestine. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd
Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

'Brooklyn Sewers: What's Up Down There?' (Through May 29) When it comes to
subterranean infrastructure projects, New York City's subway system seems to get
all the attention. But a group of teenage curators at the Brooklyn Historical
Society would like to introduce you to another underground marvel: Brooklyn's
sewer system, one of the city's oldest and most extensive infrastructure
projects. This exhibition explores engineering conundrums and courtroom battles
and tells the story of the sewer system through photographs, drawings and maps.
128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111,
brooklynhistory.org.

Bubble Do Beatles: 'All You Need Is Love' (Sunday) Picture a free Beatles
concert. That may be even harder to imagine than all the people living life in
peace, but Bubble, an esteemed tribute band, plans to come close at this event,
which helps inaugurate a new arts center: the Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen Center
for Thought & Culture. Made up of five musicians -- even though it's devoted to
the Fab Four -- Bubble will focus this free performance on Beatles songs about
love and hope. At 11 a.m., 18 Bleecker Street, at Elizabeth Street, NoHo,
212-925-2812, sheencenter.org.

Children's Museum of the Arts Free Art Island Outpost  (Saturday and Sunday)
This island fun doesn't require a flight to distant shores. The Children's
Museum of the Arts is offering another summer of free weekend workshops on
Governors Island, exploring a variety of crafts and materials. This season's
programs will be devoted to making works that reflect the importance of nature
and parks, and the human role in both. Children will also recycle and reuse
something that often blights nature -- trash -- by turning it into art. (Through
Sept. 27.) From 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., outside Building 14, Nolan Park,
212-274-0986, cmany.org/schoolsandcommunity/free-summer-programs.

'Connected Worlds' (continuing) Human choices and actions have an impact on the
world's ecosystems, but people usually can't see the effects as they happen.
That isn't true in this new permanent exhibition in the renovated Great Hall of
the New York Hall of Science. Consisting of huge screens (one is 38 feet tall),
the show depicts six interconnected environments with a shared water supply.
With the help of technology that responds to gestures, ''Connected Worlds''
allows children to use simple motions to plant, harvest, cut trees, create
clouds and make other changes in the projected landscapes -- and see how the
native flora and fauna fare. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park,
Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org.

Family Art Tour: Teardrop Park (Sunday) New York City doesn't have an active
volcano, but children will be invited to build one at this free event from the
Battery Park City Parks Conservancy, which will lead them in investigating the
intersection of nature and art. Dorothea Basile, an art historian, will help
visitors explore Ann Hamilton's park sculpture, whose overlapping bluestone
panels recall the earth's tectonic plates. Patricia Nadeau, a scientist from the
American Museum of Natural History, will discuss how the movement of these
plates relates to earthquakes and volcanoes. Then children will make individual
clay volcanoes as well as a larger one, which will erupt at the site, courtesy
of a mix of vinegar and baking soda. From 2 to 4 p.m. in the park, accessible
from Warren or Murray Street, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, 212-267-9700,
bpcparks.org.

Film Forum Jr.: 'Them!' (Sunday) As summer wanes, you can expect to see fewer
ants, but they will still be numerous -- and giant in size and appetite -- on
screen at Film Forum, which is presenting a new restoration of this 1954
science-fiction thriller. Part of a series developed to introduce classic cinema
to children, the movie belongs to a whole genre that imagined what might happen
to ordinary critters when exposed to radiation. It's not for little ones, but
children over 10 should appreciate seeing what scared their forebears in the
Cold War era. (Series runs through Dec. 27.) At 11 a.m., Film Forum, 209 West
Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, 212-727-8110,
filmforum.org.

'Frida's Flora and Fauna' and 'Cooking With Frida' (Through Sept. 27) It's time
to say ''Olé!'' to all kinds of fun: The New York Botanical Garden is honoring
the Mexican artist Frida Kahlo (1907-1954) in its exhibition ''Frida Kahlo: Art,
Garden, Life,'' and it offers more than one program to introduce its youngest
visitors to this famous Latina. In ''Frida's Flora and Fauna,'' at the Everett
Children's Adventure Garden, they can go on a plant scavenger hunt; make
self-portraits, as Kahlo often did; play inside the Casita Azul, a model of her
blue house; and put on shows at Frida's Puppet Theater, with puppets
representing her many pets. In ''Cooking With Frida,'' at the Ruth Rea Howell
Family Garden through Nov. 1, children can explore the raw ingredients of
Mexican cuisine and enjoy cooking demonstrations inspired by Kahlo's
entertaining. ''Frida's Flora and Fauna'' runs weekdays from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m.,
and weekends from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; ''Cooking With Frida'' is on Wednesdays,
Saturdays and Sundays at 2 and 4 p.m.; Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham
Road, the Bronx, 718-817-8700, nybg.org/frida.

'Frolic!' at the Children's Museum of Manhattan (Through Dec. 31) You're never
too young to rock -- and this space proves it. A new pop-up installation at the
museum, ''Frolic!'' uses rock music and a themed décor to stimulate sensory play
and learning in visitors ages 5 and under. In addition to a stage, a pretend
ticket booth and '70s-style props -- including a Volkswagen mini-van to climb
into -- the 1,500-square-foot area has programs of workshops and live
performances to help little ones get into the groove. (The museum is closed for
fall maintenance, reopening on Thursday.) The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd
Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

'From Your Mind to Design: Decorate Free School Supplies' (Saturday) A lot of
school supplies are pretty plain and utilitarian, but they don't have to be.
This workshop at the Museum of the City of New York invites children 6 to 12 to
create covers for this year's textbooks. They will draw inspiration from the
show ''Everything Is Design: The Work of Paul Rand,'' which includes that
designer's advertisements, posters and books. From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Fifth
Avenue at 103rd Street, East Harlem, 212-534-1672, mcny.org.

'The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation'  (Friday through Sunday)
Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion
but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers.
The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son
Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may
even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at
7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; 340
West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

'Go Fish!' (Saturday) Not surprisingly, this free event from the Battery Park
City Parks Conservancy focuses on fish, but since this Saturday is also Turtle
Day, the celebration will honor those creatures, too. Master anglers will help
children cast lines with barbless hooks into New York Bay, and all fish will be
placed in tanks and identified and observed before heading back to their homes.
Naturalists from the Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary will present a program with
live turtles, discussing their evolution and life cycles; young visitors can
handle turtle shells and skulls. The day will also include a drop-in
turtle-related art project; a bird-watching walk; and a performance of ''Hook,
Line and Sinker: Fishing the Hudson River,'' the latest show by Arm-of-the-Sea
Theater, in which giant puppets plumb the river's identity. From 10 a.m. to 2
p.m., Robert F. Wagner Jr. Park, Battery Park City (access at Battery Place),
Lower Manhattan, 212-267-9700, bpcparks.org.

Hispanic Heritage Family Day (Saturday) This weekend Central and South America
are as close as Lower Manhattan, thanks to this free celebration at the
Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian. Children can
embrace life in the Amazon jungle by decorating jaguar masks, coloring creature
pendants and making animal buttons. They can also investigate the roles of
important crops in those regions by watching corn-grinding demonstrations and
the documentary ''The Chocolate Farmer.'' From noon to 4 p.m., 1 Bowling Green,
212-514-3700, nmai.si.edu.

Hudson River Park Wild! (Sunday) There are plenty of wild things in New York,
and not just the ones you meet on the street. Hudson River Park invites young
people and their families to learn about the area's native plants and insects,
as well as the more than 85 species of birds that live within the park's
boundaries. Experienced naturalists lead these free hourlong walks every Sunday
through September. At 9 a.m., meeting at the Christopher Street Fountain, north
of Pier 40, Christopher Street and the West Side Highway, West Village,
hudsonriverpark.org.

'The Hunger Games: The Exhibition' (Through Jan. 3) What enterprising 12- or
13-year-old wouldn't like to foment a little rebellion? Such a visitor can do so
vicariously at this attraction at Discovery Times Square, stepping into the role
of Katniss Everdeen, the teenage heroine of ''The Hunger Games'' and the
ultimate leader of the resistance against her nation's totalitarian government.
Based on the Lionsgate film adaptations of Suzanne Collins's novels, the show
includes costumes and artifacts from the movies, as well as re-creations of
Katniss's journey and interactive, role-playing elements like a gamesmaker's
table and a chance to learn and practice stunt choreography. 226 West 44th
Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com, thehungergamesexhibition.com.

'If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home' (Through Jan. 17) Maps present facts, but
they can also engage the imagination. This new exhibition at the Children's
Museum of the Arts explores the intersection of cartography and art, showing
work that expands upon, redefines or simply refers to maps. Among the eight
artists represented are Matthew Cusik, who makes collages from map fragments;
Joyce Kosloff, who layers images and textured paint onto maps; Loren Munk, who
adds plaques of color and information to street maps; and Nikki Rosato, who
subtracts from maps, cutting away all but roads and rivers. In the museum's
Cynthia C. Wainwright Gallery, 103 Charlton Street, between Hudson and Greenwich
Streets, South Village, 212-274-0986, cmany.org.

'Jack and the Beanstalk' (Saturday and Sunday) Many plants grow in Central Park,
so why not a beanstalk? This one sprouts indoors at the Swedish Cottage
Marionette Theater, which has revived Michael Alogna's adaptation of the classic
fairy tale about Jack, the Giant (here named Milford), Dolly the Cow and the
famous Golden Goose. Bruce Cannon, the theater's artistic director, has revised
the script, and a human actor now also stars in the show, which closes this
weekend. Reservations required. At 1 p.m., 79th Street and the West Drive,
Central Park; 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts.

'Jean-Michel Cousteau's Secret Ocean' (Friday through Thursday) Ever encounter a
goby or a blenny? How about a Christmas tree worm? These small marine species,
often unnoticed and uncelebrated, are among the stars of this new Imax movie at
the American Museum of Natural History. Filmed by Jean-Michel Cousteau, son of
the ocean explorer Jacques Cousteau, and Holly Lohuis, a marine biologist, the
film captures 30 species that are among the tiniest to inhabit the seas.
(Through Jan. 10.) Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at
11:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. Central Park West and
79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

Kite Festival (Saturday) This weekend, sailing will take place in the air as
well as on the waterfront at Brooklyn Bridge Park. This festival will offer
kites for sale, or families can take their favorites from home. The free event
is on the Harbor View Lawn, so pack a picnic. (Cameras are suggested, too.) From
11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Pier 1, Brooklyn Bridge Park, Old Fulton Street, at Furman
Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, brooklynbridgepark.org.

'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe'  (Saturday) If the children of the
Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as
simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn't two hard-working actors be able to play them
and all the characters found there? That's what Chris Boerner and Erin Layton
are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater's first production, le Clanché
du Rand's adaptation of C. S. Lewis's classic novel. (The run is open-ended and
continues on Saturdays.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street,
Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

Mid-Autumn Moon Festival (Saturday) You've probably heard of the cow that jumped
over the moon, but what about the jade rabbit that actually lives there? That
rabbit, a beautiful woman and a brave archer all play roles in the mythology
behind the Mid-Autumn Moon Festival, a Chinese holiday being celebrated at the
Museum of Chinese in America. In addition to hearing the tale, young visitors
can take part in activities that include a moon-theme scavenger hunt; an
investigation and tasting of mooncakes, a traditional confection; and drop-in
workshops to make lanterns, moon paintings and shadow puppets. Chinese Theater
Works will also present ''Tiger Tales,'' a shadow-puppetry production. Noon to 4
p.m., 215 Centre Street, between Howard and Grand Streets, Lower Manhattan,
212-619-4785, mocanyc.org. Space is limited, and advance ticket purchase is
recommended.

Music in Motion (Saturday) That motion is the gentle rocking of a boat for this
series of family neighborhood concerts presented by Bargemusic, the floating
barge at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. As always, the material -- announced
just before the performance -- is chamber music, but these programs differ in
important ways from the regular Bargemusic fare: With unreserved seating, they
last only an hour, include a post-show question-and-answer session with the
musicians and are free. (Through Nov. 28.) At 4 p.m. (doors open at 3:45),
Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006,
bargemusic.org.

Prospect Park Audubon Center Nature Programs (Saturday and Sunday) There's a
whole woodland of wildlife to be discovered in Prospect Park in Brooklyn, and
the park's Audubon Center has increased its Pop-Up Audubon programs, weekends
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., to include two tents with themed nature investigations
in different parts of the park. At the Zucker Natural Exploration Area, whose
September theme is ''Radical Raptors,'' children can learn about migrating birds
of prey, and get an opportunity to dissect an owl pellet; at the tent in the
Nethermead, whose theme is ''Climate Clues,'' they can explore how environmental
change affects the park's ecosystems. Both tents feature nature walks and
opportunities to help the environment. The center is at the boathouse, near the
Lincoln Road and Ocean Avenue park entrance, 718-287-3400, prospectpark.org. All
activities are free.

Shinnyo Lantern Floating for Peace (Sunday) As the saying goes, it is better to
light a candle than to curse the darkness. At this free event, taking place one
day before the International Day of Peace, Shinnyo-en, a Buddhist organization,
invites families to Lincoln Center to make lanterns which they'll inscribe with
individual messages promoting harmony and understanding. The lanterns,
illuminated with LED candles, will be set afloat in the Paul Milstein Reflecting
Pool. The celebration, which culminates with a Buddhist ceremony at dusk, will
also offer performances, including taiko drummers; Decadancetheatre, a hip-hop
crew; and Misty Copeland, principal dancer with American Ballet Theater. From 1
to 8 p.m., Hearst Plaza, 40 Lincoln Center Plaza, between Broadway and Amsterdam
Avenue, bealightforpeace.org.

'Stand Clear of the Closing Doors, Please' (Sunday) When a toy is lost on the
subway, it's usually gone for good. But in this interactive play for
preschoolers, the toy, Catbear, finds its own way home. Presented by Spellbound
Theater, Catbear's journey involves a miniature New York landscape and six
subway lines, each with its own tale. Each 35-minute performance is preceded by
15 minutes of craft activities for small theatergoers. At 10 and 11:15 a.m., Old
Stone House, 336 Third Street, between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, Park Slope,
Brooklyn, brownpapertickets.com/event/2260201.

Stories at the Statue of Hans Christian Andersen  (Saturday) Not everything that
blooms perennially in Central Park is a flower or a tree. Storytelling also
returns there each summer, as the city's Parks and Recreation Department, the
Central Park Conservancy and the Hans Christian Andersen Storytelling Center
bring narrative performers to Andersen's statue every Saturday. The free series,
for ages 6 and older, continues this Saturday with Jim May and Peter Stevenson
telling tales from Haiti and Wales. (Through Sept. 26.) At 11 a.m., inside the
park at 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue, rain or shine, hcastorycenter.org.

Sunday Story Time in Mr. Morgan's Library (Sunday) That Mr. Morgan is none other
than Pierpont (1837-1913), whose library is now a cozy museum. Children ages 3
through 6 are invited there on Sundays to hear about Alice's amazing trip to
Wonderland and what she found there. The program relates to the museum's show
''Alice: 150 Years of Wonderland,'' which includes the book's original
manuscript, along with illustrations and other vintage objects that young
visitors can see in a brief visit after the story. (Through Oct. 11.) From 3 to
4 p.m., 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org.

'Superbunny's Pirate Vacation' (Friday through Sunday) And you thought only
parrots hung out with pirates. In this new musical, based on a book series by
Amber L. Spradlin, Superbunny encounters the buccaneers while he's trying to
save the polluted and trash-filled waters off a tropical island. (He's a bit of
an eco-warrior as well as a superhero.) This busy bunny's adventures -- which
also involve the audience members, who can sing along in a number with the
pirates -- are brought to the stage by the appropriately named Rabbit Hole
Theatricks. The production has a book and lyrics by Michael MacKenzie Wills and
music by Alastair William King. Free performances are on Friday at 11 a.m.;
Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m.; the Actors Fund Arts Center, 160 Schermerhorn
Street, between Smith and Hoyt Streets, Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, 917-563-9830,
rabbitholetheatricks.org.

'A Taste of Magic' (Saturday) Would you like a side of sleight of hand with that
burger? This show, developed by Magnets, a collective of local magicians, brings
wizardry to the dinner table. Taking place at various restaurants, the
presentation includes acts like mind reading and card tricks, which
professionals perform close-up for guests; there's also a cabaret-style show.
And the admission price includes a full meal. (Through Nov. 24.) At 8 p.m., Ben
& Jack's Steakhouse, 225 Fifth Avenue, between 28th and 29th Streets,
atasteofmagicnyc.com.

'A Voyage Through Jewish History'  (Continuing) This journey involves not just
miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish
Children's Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah's tent to
the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way
include giving water to Rebecca's camels, playing the strings on David's harp (a
high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking
part in the exodus from Egypt. (The museum is closed from Tuesday through Sept.
29 because of Jewish holidays.) 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown
Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum. LAUREL GRAEBER




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/spare-times-for-children-for-sept-18-24.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKLYN BOOK FESTIVAL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); FESTIVALS
(89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(73%); FICTION LITERATURE (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Theater

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 4658 words


Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless
otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings,
showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable,
critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.

Previews and Openings

BAM Next Wave  (performances start on Thursday) The surf is high in Brooklyn
with the launch of this autumnal festival of experimental performance work. This
year's lineup includes the director Ivo van Hove's ''Antigone,'' starring
Juliette Binoche; fresh material from the nouveau-cirque artist James Thierrée;
a participatory performance piece form Miranda July and new work from Anne
Bogart, Carl Hancock Rux and Kia Corthron. Various locations on the Brooklyn
Academy of Music campus, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100, bam.org. (Alexis Soloski)

'Barbecue' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Oct. 8) There's more than meat
that's cooking in Robert O'Hara's comedy at the Public Theater. Mr. O'Hara's
''Bootycandy,'' a hit last season, satirized race and sexuality. This new play,
which begins at an awkward party disguising an intervention, joyfully roasts
family, addiction, art and fame. The director Kent Gash brings the lighter
fluid. 425 Lafayette Street at Astor Place, East Village, 212-967-7555,
publictheater.org. (Soloski)

'Clever Little Lies'  (previews start on Friday, opens on Oct. 12) Joe
DiPietro's last comedy, ''Living on Love,'' expired quickly on Broadway, but
maybe he'll serve an ace with this show, which debuted at the George Street
Playhouse. When a father returns from a tennis game with his married son, he
brings troubling news. It's up to matriarch Alice (Marlo Thomas) to save the
match. Westside Theater Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, 212-239-6200,
cleverlittlelies.com. (Soloski)

'Cloud Nine'  (in previews; opens on Oct. 5) A fantasia of sex and sovereignty,
empire and dissolution, Caryl Churchill's landmark play arrives at the Atlantic
Theater under James Macdonald's direction. Set in Victorian Africa and 1979
London, the play explores shifting power dynamics and sexual mores. The cast
includes Brooke Bloom, Sean Dugan, Lucy Owen and Chris Perfetti. Linda Gross
Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org.
(Soloski)

'Daddy Long Legs'  (in previews; opens on Sept. 28) In John Caird and Paul
Gordon's two-character musical, an adaptation of the Jean Webster novel of the
same name, an anonymous benefactor sends an orphan girl to school. The only
catch: She has to write him a letter every month. And this was a time when you
couldn't just let predictive messaging and emojis do all the work. Megan
McGinnis and Paul Alexander Nolan conduct the epistolary romance. Davenport
Theater, 354 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, daddylonglegsmusical.com. (Soloski)

'Dames at Sea'  (previews start on Thursday; opens on Oct. 22) Broadway, ahoy!
Nearly 50 years after it docked at Caffe Cino, this parody of 1930s movie
musicals and the sailors and chorus girls who populated them is dropping anchor
on Broadway. The director and choreographer Randy Skinner captains a cast that
includes John Bolton, Mara Davi and Lesli Margherita. Helen Hayes Theater, 240
West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, damesatseabroadway.com. (Soloski)

'Fondly, Collette Richland'  (in previews; opens on Sept. 28) The hills are
alive with the sound of Sibyl Kempson. The Downtown playwright makes her New
York Theater Workshop debut with this play, in collaboration with Elevator
Repair Service. Set mainly in a grand hotel somewhere in the Alps, it concerns
political insurrection, public radio and the milk of a mysterious pig dog. John
Collins directs the bizarre travelogue. 79 East Fourth Street, East Village,
212-460-5475, nytw.org. (Soloski)

'Fool for Love'  (in previews; opens on Oct. 8) What remains of the West when
the prairies have been paved, the buffalo no longer roam and the only thing a
cowboy can lasso is a bedpost? Sam Shepard explores this decline in his romantic
drama about May and Eddie, former lovers who may also be current siblings. Under
Daniel Aukin's direction, Nina Arianda and Sam Rockwell reprise the roles they
first essayed at the Williamstown Theater Festival last summer. Samuel J.
Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, 212-239-6200, foolforlovebroadway.com.
(Soloski)

'Fulfillment'  (in previews; opens on Monday) Thomas Bradshaw, a playwright who
prides himself on an unstinting devotion to the id, has explored dark territory
before -- slavery, fanaticism, crises of faith. But now he is taking on perhaps
his most threatening subject yet: New York real estate. In this play, directed
by Ethan McSweeny, a successful lawyer sees his life upended when he buys an
apartment. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, 866-811-4111, theflea.org.
(Soloski)

'The Gin Game'  (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Oct. 14) When it comes to
career, James Earl Jones and Cicely Tyson have both played their cards very
well. With any luck their winning streak will continue when they star in the
Broadway revival of D. L. Coburn's Pulitzer prizewinner. They play two nursing
home residents confronting life, loss and regret over hands of gin rummy. Golden
Theater, 252 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, thegingamebroadway.com. (Soloski)

'A Midsummer Night's Dream' (in previews; opens on Sunday) The course of true
love never did run smooth. Will it be especially bumpy when Bedlam Theater's
Eric Tucker attempts it with just five actors? In a production that originally
played the Hudson Shakespeare Festival, a small cast, including the Pearl
Company members Sean McNall and Joey Parsons, plays all the lovers, fairies,
mechanicals, courtiers and more. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street,
212-563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Soloski)

'MotherStruck'  (previews start on Thursday; opens on Oct. 7) When the slam poet
Staceyann Chin turned 35, she realized she wanted a baby. She didn't have a
partner or substantial savings, but she embarked on fertility treatments and has
transformed her successful trek to motherhood into a one-woman show. The
director Cynthia Nixon is midwife to this work, presented by Culture Project and
Rosie O'Donnell. Lynn Redgrave Theater at Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street,
near Lafayette Street, East Village, 866-811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Soloski)

'The New Morality'  (in previews; opens Monday) Harold Chapin's life was not
especially funny. He died as a stretcher-bearer in France during World War I.
But before that early death, he wrote several droll plays, including this
marital comedy, revived by the Mint Theater. A houseboat on the Thames is not a
home to domestic bliss when a wife accuses a neighbor of dallying with her
husband. 311 West 43rd Street, 866-811-4111, minttheater.org. (Soloski)

'Old Times' (in previews; opens on Oct. 6) It's new times for the improbably
suave actor Clive Owen as he makes his Broadway debut in this Harold Pinter
play. He'll play Deeley, a man whose life is upended by a visit from his wife's
former roommate. Or is she something more? Or less? Douglas Hodge directs a cast
that also includes Eve Best and Kelly Reilly. American Airlines Theater, 227
West 42nd Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Soloski)

'The Quare Land'  (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Oct. 1) In this play at
the Irish Rep, a farmer with a relaxed approach to hygiene takes his first bath
in four years. He spends his time in the tub wrangling with a property developer
desperate to buy his field. The actors Peter Maloney and Rufus Collins and the
director Ciarán O'Reilly have a soak in John McManus's drama. DR2 Theater, 103
East 15th Street, 212-727-2737, irishrep.org. (Soloski)

'Spring Awakening'  (in previews; opens on Sept. 27) Plenty of teenagers don't
listen to their parents. Especially the adolescents populating Duncan Sheik and
Steven Sater's musical adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play. But metaphors of
speech, silence and communication should feel particularly rich when Deaf West
brings its new production, which is performed in sign language and spoken
English, to Broadway. Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street,
877-250-2929. springawakeningthemusical.com. (Soloski)

'Ugly Lies the Bone'  (in previews; opens on Oct. 13) Jess has been scarred by
her tours of duty in Afghanistan. Some of these scars are visible -- the weals
and puckers and grafts that mark her face and body -- and some go deeper. In
Lindsey Ferrentino's play, part of Roundabout Underground, Mamie Gummer's Jess
attempts to heal, with a little help from virtual reality. Harold and Miriam
Steinberg Center for Theater, Black Box Theater, 111 West 46th Street,
roundabouttheatre.org, 212-719-1300. (Soloski)

Broadway

'Amazing Grace'  The unusual life story of John Newton (a jaunty Josh Young),
the Englishman who wrote the lyrics to the titular hymn -- he matured from slave
trader and scapegrace to fervently religious clergyman -- is explored in this
earnest but somewhat overstuffed musical with music and lyrics by Christopher
Smith and book by Mr. Smith and Arthur Giron (2:30). Nederlander Theater, 208
West 41st Street, 877-250-2929, amazinggracemusical.com. (Charles Isherwood)

? 'An American in Paris' The ballet luminary Christopher Wheeldon makes a
triumphant debut as a Broadway director with this rhapsodic stage adaptation of
a classic musical with a heavenly Gershwin score. The ballet dancers Robert
Fairchild and Leanne Cope, as the semi-star-crossed lovers, are radiant, and Max
von Essen sings like a dream as an heir who aspires to a nightclub career. Pure
joy (2:30). The Palace Theater. 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, 877-250-2929,
ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)

? 'The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time'  Simon Stephens's
adaptation of Mark Haddon's best-selling novel, about an autistic boy's
coming-of-age, is one of the most fully immersive works ever to wallop Broadway.
Be prepared to have all your emotional and sensory buttons pushed. Marianne
Elliott (''War Horse'') directs the excellent cast, led by Alex Sharp, and the
dazzling technical team (2:25). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street,
curiousonbroadway.com, 212-239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'Finding Neverland'  This musical adaptation of the 2004 biopic about J. M.
Barrie, the creator of ''Peter Pan,'' heightens the film's tidy psychologizing
and life-affirming messages by thickening their syrup and corn quotients. The
show brings to mind those supersize sodas sold in movie theaters. It's mostly
empty calories. Diane Paulus directs a cast led by Matthew Morrison (2:30).
Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ticketmaster.com.
(Brantley)

? 'Fun Home'  This extraordinary musical memory play about a girl and her
father, adapted by Jeanine Tesori (music) and Lisa Kron (book and lyrics) from
Alison Bechdel's graphic novel, occupies that mysterious place where we all grew
up -- the shifting landscape governed by those contradictory creatures, our
parents. Sam Gold directs a nigh-flawless cast in a show that brings fresh
oxygen to Broadway (1:40). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th
Street, funhomebroadway.com, 212-239-6200. (Brantley)

? 'Hamilton'  Yes, it really is that good. Lin-Manuel Miranda's rap-driven
portrait of the rise and fall of Alexander Hamilton, directed by Thomas Kail,
makes us feel the unstoppable, urgent rhythm of a nation being born. A show that
changes the language of the American musical, while offering resounding evidence
that this beleaguered genre is not only surviving but thriving (2:45). Richard
Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, hamiltonbroadway.com.
(Brantley)

? 'Hand to God' Robert Askins's black comedy, about a mild Christian boy whose
hand puppet may (or may not) be possessed by the Devil, is as outlandishly funny
as it is seriously spooky. Steven Boyer gives a bravura performance as the
troubled teenager with the evil imp on his arm, and Geneva Carr is moving as his
addled, newly widowed mother. The play, previously seen in two Off Broadway
runs, has grown even sharper, and more disturbing, in its move uptown to
Broadway (2:00). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200,
handtogodbroadway.com. (Isherwood)

? 'The King and I'  Bartlett Sher's resplendent revival of this Rodgers and
Hammerstein classic, set in the royal court of 19th-century Siam, is both
panoramic and personal, balancing epic sweep with intimate sensibility, lavish
set pieces with exquisitely sung soliloquies. Kelli O'Hara's Anna Leonowens is
something wonderful indeed (2:50). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center,
212-239-6200, lct.org. (Brantley)

'Something Rotten!' This rambunctious show, which weds the Elizabethan theater
and the brassy Broadway musical, dances dangerously on the line between tireless
and tedious. But the large cast, which includes Brian D'Arcy James and Christian
Borle, remains as wired as Adderall-popping sophomores during exam week. Casey
Nicholaw directed this exhausting frolic from Wayne and Karey Kirkpatrick, and
John O'Farrell (2:20). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200,
rottenbroadway.com. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

? 'The Absolute Brightness of Leonard Pelkey'  In James Lecesne's enchanting
solo show, the friends of a happily flamboyant 14-year-old New Jersey boy turn
to the police after he disappears. With great heart and humor, Mr. Lecesne
portrays more than a dozen characters in this sweet, sad, Dickensian show that
returns to the stage after a run at Dixon Place earlier this year. Westside
Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, absolutebrightnessplay.com, 212-239-6200.
(Isherwood)

'Desire: An Evening of Plays Based on Six Stories by Tennessee Williams'  Six
playwrights, including John Guare, Beth Henley and Rebecca Gilman, adapt
Tennessee Williams short stories (mostly written in the 1940s) in this uneven
but mostly uninspired collection of short plays directed by Michael Wilson
(2:20). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org.
(Isherwood)

? 'Drop Dead Perfect'  Returning in a production that played last year, Everett
Quinton is in his old Ridiculous Theatrical Company glory days as a repressed
Florida spinster in this farcical thriller, with tons of TV and old-movie
melodrama, silly double entendres and a Cuban hunk named Ricardo (1:30). Theater
at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, 845-786-2873,
dropdeadperfect.com. (Gates)

? 'The Flick' Annie Baker's Pulitzer Prize-winning play about the beauty and
sadness in the lives of three workers in a run-down movie theater has been
remounted under the deeply focused direction of Sam Gold. Moving, funny,
unforgettable, but definitely a polarizing night at the theater, thanks to Ms.
Baker's quietly observational pacing (3:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow
Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, 212-868-4444,
barrowstreettheatre.com. (Isherwood)

'Isolde' This play about a romantic triangle, from the experimental auteur
Richard Maxwell, returns after having its United States premiere at Abrons Arts
Center in 2014. Taking place, more or less, in a drawing room, Mr. Maxwell's
play encourages us to see a hoary theatrical form with X-ray eyes -- to look for
the plasterboard behind the wallpaper and the skull beneath the skin (1:25).
Theater for a New Audience, Polonsky Shakespeare Center, 262 Ashland Place,
between Lafayette Avenue and Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 866-811-4111,
tfana.org. (Brantley)

'Judy'  The title character never makes an appearance in Max Posner's
pretentious puzzle of a play. And one is thankful, since the rest of the bunch
in this dystopic comedy-drama are extraordinarily wearisome company (2:00). New
Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village, 866-811-4111, page73.org.
(Isherwood)

'Laugh It Up, Stare It Down' An existentialist attempt at light romantic comedy,
Alan Hruska's quaintly absurdist play follows Joe (Jayce Bartok) and Cleo (Katya
Campbell) from first date to probable death. There's a lot of whimsy here and it
would grow more wearing if not for the extravagant pace of Chris Eigeman's
direction and the brisk brightness of the performances (1:30). Cherry Lane
Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, 866-811-4111, laughitupplay.com.
(Soloski)

? 'The Legend of Georgia McBride' An Elvis impersonator (the winning Dave Thomas
Brown) finds a more lucrative calling when he puts on a dress and heels and
becomes a drag star under the tutelage of a maternal mentor, Miss Tracy (the
superb Matt McGrath), in Matthew Lopez's light, sweet comedy (1:45). Lucille
Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, 866-811-4111,
mcctheater.org. (Isherwood)

'Little Thing, Big Thing' The nun and the ex-con are a mismatched duo on the
lam, but Donal O'Kelly's well-populated two-hander is not the moldy caper you
might expect. Performed by Mr. O'Kelly and the impeccable Sorcha Fox, the
sometimes too-loose production by Dublin's Fishamble: The New Play Company is a
cloak-and-dagger comedy with a social conscience. Part of Origin Theater's First
Irish Festival (1:20). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan,
212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Laura Collins-Hughes)

'Love & Money'  A.R. Gurney's slender new comedy-drama finds a well-to-do woman,
played by Maureen Anderman, making plans to give away her considerable fortune
to charity -- she's decided too much money is a curse -- until a young man
(Gabriel Brown) arrives on her doorstep claiming to be a previously unknown
grandson (1:15). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street,
212-244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)

? 'Mercury Fur'  Even those who binge on apocalyptic splatter movies are likely
to be rattled by Philip Ridley's portrait of savage revels in a war-ravaged New
York City. But this New Group production, directed by Scott Elliott, is a
penetrating analysis of how a culture shaped by violence transforms its
inhabitants. It's as intelligent as it is lurid (2:00). Pershing Square
Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, thenewgroup.org.
(Brantley)

'My Son the Waiter: A Jewish Tragedy' Brad Zimmerman's solo show about almost
three decades of working in restaurants while not becoming a famous actor, and
his Jewish mother's shame, is low-key, half-familiar, half-mordant and pretty
delicious (1:30). Stage 72, 158 West 72nd Street, 212-868-4444,
mysonthewaiter.com. (Anita Gates)

'Ruthless!' This spiked Shirley Temple of a show, which first opened in 1992 and
now returns with less fizz, follows the adventures of Tina Denmark (Tori
Murray), a stage-struck prepubescent with occasional homicidal tendencies. But
what must have once seemed wildly satirical could practically pass for
documentary (1:35). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, ruthlessthemusical.com. (Soloski)

? '39 Steps' This century's most tireless and high-profile example of the little
show that could, adapted from Alfred Hitchcock's 1935 movie and seen on Broadway
in 2008, returns for yet another antic struggle with bad guys with bad accents.
Directed by Maria Aitken, with a cast of four playing too many roles to count,
this paradigm of bare-bones theater remains indomitably funny (1:40). Union
Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, 877-250-2929, 39stepsny.com. (Brantley)

? 'Whorl Inside a Loop' The Broadway veteran Sherie Rene Scott, in collaboration
with Dick Scanlan (co-writer and co-director) and Michael Mayer (co-director),
returns to the autobiographical form (well, semi-autobiographical) in this
moving and funny play about her experience working with convicts confronting
their ugly pasts through verbal storytelling (1:40). Second Stage Theater, 305
West 43rd Street, 212-246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

? 'Empire Travel Agency'  This gloriously inventive and appallingly fun
theatrical scavenger hunt is easily the most ambitious and fully realized work
yet from Woodshed Collective. You and three others will dash from location to
location, trying to prevent a mysterious substance from leaching out of New
York. Part Paul Auster, part Alan Moore and part Dan Brown (probably too much
Dan Brown), it's a trip. Take it. Undisclosed location, empiretravelagency.com.
(Soloski)

'Genet Porno' A play in which a pair of rubber phalluses are the most credible
and intriguing performers, Yvan Greenberg's misbegotten performance piece
combines Jean Genet's novel ''Our Lady of the Flowers'' with a pornography
star's YouTube diary. The flaccid result is baldly puerile and aggressively dull
(1:20). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village,
212-352-3101, here.org. (Soloski)

'Our Last Game' Ed Schmidt delivers three locker room speeches to his basketball
team in a show that hustles but lacks star power (1:20). Nord Anglia
International School, 44 East Second Street, East Village, ourlastgame.com.
(Zinoman)

'Ziegfeld's Midnight Frolic' The death by poison of Olive Thomas, the ''Ziegfeld
Follies'' beauty, is at the center of this diffuse, immersive show created by
Cynthia von Buhler (''The Bloody Beginning''). The cast is talented, the
costumes are glittery, and aerialists dangle from above, but the performance
feels less like a theater piece than like an imitation 1920s cabaret show with a
thematically related art installation taking place around it (2:45). (Saturdays
only.) Liberty Theater, behind the Liberty Diner, 234 West 42nd Street,
866-811-4111, speakeasydollhouse.com. (Laura Collins-Hughes)


Long-Running Shows

'Aladdin'  The Disney movie refashioned for the stage, with shtick, sparkles and
silliness cutting the syrup (2:20). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street,
866-870-2717, aladdinthemusical.com.

'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages,
340 West 50th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Beautiful: The Carole King Musical'  Becoming Carole King, song by song by song
(2:25). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' An adaptation of
three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books (:55). Saturdays and
Sundays, Manhattan Movement & Arts Center, 248 West 60th Street, Manhattan,
866-811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.

'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing
African-American pilots (2:30). (Sundays only.) Actors Temple Theater, 339 West
47th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434
Lafayette Street, East Village, 800-258-3626, ticketmaster.com.

'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the
American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Celebrity Autobiography'  (Saturday) Celebrities read selections of the witless
wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous. Saturday
edition's, part of First Irish festival, features Michael Urie, Geraldine
Hughes, Tate Donovan, Jackie Hoffman, Alan Zweibel, Eugene Pack and Dayle
Reyfell. At 9:30 p.m., Stage 72 at the Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street,
celebrityautobiography.com.

'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219
West 49th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210
West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'Fuerza Bruta' This shiny, sensory-overload spectacle from the creators of ''De
la Guarda'' is rife with not especially impressive acrobatics, throbbing music,
many-colored lights and high winds from machines set at storm speed (1:20).
Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, 212-239-6200,
fuerzabrutanyc.com.

'A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder'  A feast of murder, music and merriment
in Edwardian England (2:20). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson
Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Kinky Boots' These boots are made for dancin' -- and stompin' out bigotry
(2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West
45th Street, 800-870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

'Matilda the Musical'  The children's revolution, per Roald Dahl (2:35). Shubert
Theater, 225 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Les Misérables' The celebrated musical about that hard-luck bread-stealer is
back -- again (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30).
Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway (2:30)? Majestic
Theater, 247 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Queen of the Night'  An ultra-lavish immersive theater piece with cocktails, a
meal and a circus-style show (2:45). Diamond Horseshoe at the Paramount Hotel,
235 West 46th Street, 866-811-4111, queenofthenightnyc.com.

'Sex Tips for Straight Women From a Gay Man' Part bachelorette party at
Chippendales, part embarrassing midnight show in Pigalle (1:20). Fridays and
Saturdays at 777 Theater, 777 Eighth Avenue, at 47th Street, 888-841-4111,
sextipsplay.com.

'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30).
(Saturdays and Sundays.) St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, sistasthemusical.com.

'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The
McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111,
sleepnomorenyc.com.

'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum
Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, 800-982-2787,
ticketmaster.com.

'Then She Fell' Go ask Alice (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195
Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-374-5196,
thenshefell.com.

'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street,
800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

Last Chance

'Delirium's Daughters' (closes on Sunday) Nicholas Korn's one-act comedy about
four Italian suitors asking for the hands-in-marriage of three young women is
mostly just silliness, good-natured and competently executed. The ghost has the
best scene (1:10). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street,
212-239-6200, triumvirateartists.com. (Gates)

'The Taming of the Shrew' (closes on Sunday) It takes gumption to stage a comedy
about a husband breaking the will of his hot-tempered wife, even if Shakespeare
wrote it. But the Drilling Company sweetens some of its aftertaste with this
agreeable production, which offers Petruchio (Alessandro Colla) as a New England
fisherman and a Kate (Evangeline Fontaine) of yacht-club stock. The production
has many other players, but it's the romantic leads who give it wings (1:40).
The Upper Terrace in Bryant Park, Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street,
212-873-9050, drillingcompany.org. (Andy Webster)

'They Are Gone But Here Must I Remain' (closes on Saturday) Part multimedia
lecture, all provocation, this rather muddled show from the Sister Sylvester
company is about the power of artists to incite action with images. Using Peter
Whitehead's 1969 film ''The Fall'' to examine contemporary protest and apathy,
the performance is rife with arresting visuals, but its concerns feel
intellectualized, and the chicken wandering the stage is a compelling
distraction (1:30). Jack, 505 1/2; Waverly Avenue, near Fulton Street, Clinton
Hill, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006, jackny.org. (Collins-Hughes)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/theater/theater-listings-for-sept-18-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAITLIN OCHS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ORPHANS (68%); TENNIS (63%); SPORTS (63%)

PERSON: JULIETTE BINOCHE (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Enlivening Bureaucracy

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 441 words


Employees of Brooklyn Borough Hall emerged from their offices on Wednesday
afternoon to the unlikely sounds of dancehall music pulsing through the
building. Down in the light-filled lobby, the dancer and choreographer Blacka Di
Danca was leading a free demonstration and class in that Jamaican-born style.
''I'm going to put you all in my next music video,'' he shouted in time with a
step called the Willie Bounce, addressing a few especially lively onlookers in
the balcony.

The eventful lunch hour was part of the BEAT Festival, which brings performing
arts to nontheatrical sites in Brooklyn -- parks, warehouses, galleries --
highlighting artists with strong ties to the borough. (The acronym stands for
Brooklyn Emerging Artists in Theater.) Blacka Di Danca was born and raised in
the Crown Heights section of the borough, though these days he spends much of
his time teaching and choreographing internationally.

The BEAT organizers aren't always prudent in their pairing of artist and site;
last year's nocturnal performances in Green-Wood Cemetery, for instance,
underutilized that locale. ''Dancehall in Borough Hall'' at first seemed like
another mismatch, the bureaucratic vibes at odds with the dynamism of Blacka Di
Danca and his sidekicks, Janelle Garvey and Aliyah Ali. But as they settled in
for a 15-minute show, followed by a 45-minute class for adventurous audience
members (the rest of us could just observe), the sterility of the space fell
away. And it didn't matter that only a few people were watching; a wiry, daring
dancer with unlimited charisma, Blacka Di Danca can work a crowd of any size.

He seemed most in his element when teaching, breaking down the dipping, swaying,
gyrating steps we had seen in his opening performance: how to do them, what they
mean. The back stories were as compelling as the movements themselves. The Tek
Weh Yuhself -- a pattern of side-to-side, front-to-back footwork, animated by
pulling and pushing arms -- has its roots in ''taking yourself away from a
negative situation,'' he said. In the Nuh Linga (No Linger), the foot draws an
S-shape on the floor while the upper body snakes and fingers snap. Down the
Flank resembles the act of kicking a soccer ball and the Gully Creeper that of
sneaking out at night. In one final demonstration, we learned about the links
between Ska -- an arm-waving, torso-bopping 1960s move -- and its 21st-century
incarnation, Syvah. Excited to the point of giddiness by the history of his
form, Blacka di Danca is keeping it very much alive.

The BEAT Festival continues through Sunday at various locations;
beatbrooklyn­.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/dance/review-blacka-di-danca-shakes-his-w
ay-through-borough-hall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Blacka Di Danca: This choreographer, center, and Janelle Garvey
in Brooklyn Borough Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCERS
(89%); MUSIC (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Bonobos: Back to the Wild,' a Sanctuary's Rehab Mission

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 250 words


''Bonobos: Back to the Wild'' is an uncomfortable mix of fictionalized account
and nature film, but you have to admire the work it documents.

The movie examines the efforts of a conservationist named Claudine André, who
has spent years working to rescue bonobos, a species of great ape in Central
Africa that has been feeling the pressures of poaching, habitat destruction and
war. She runs a sanctuary in the Democratic Republic of Congo for orphaned and
otherwise rescued bonobos, and the film portrays her first efforts to release
some of them back into the wild.

But the film is not a documentary; instead it is, the screen credits say,
''freely adapted from an original idea by Claudine André and the true story of
Beni,'' whatever that means. Beni, a particularly inquisitive bonobo, comes to
the sanctuary as a very young orphan. As he grows, we hear his thoughts via a
cloying voice-over, and they're very human.

The practice of attributing the emotions and aspirations of people to wild
animals is questionable, but it's not uncommon in nature films and TV shows,
especially those trying to appeal to children. For grown-ups, at least, it's
distracting here, and you're never quite sure how much of what you're seeing
actually occurred. But none of that diminishes your admiration for Ms. André and
the staff members at the sanctuary as they labor to preserve bonobos, one animal
at a time.

Bonobos

Back to the Wild

Opens on Friday

Directed by Alain Tixier

1 hour 24 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-bonobos-back-to-the-wild-a-sanct
uarys-rehab-mission.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Claudine André and a baby at her sanctuary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
VANESSA WOODS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMATES (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CONSERVATION
(78%); ANIMALS (77%); ORPHANS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ADULTS (67%);
CHILDREN (51%)

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); CENTRAL AFRICA (90%);
AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Museum Is Reborn, Brick by Brick

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1432 words


HARTFORD -- Hurrah. Another American museum has gotten it right, bracing against
the tide of disastrous new buildings and additions that ruin and sometimes
cripple so many of these institutions.

The cause for celebration is a makeover at the venerable Wadsworth Atheneum
here, which opened its doors in 1844 and is this country's oldest art museum in
continuous operation. It joins a growing list of successful expansions and
refurbishments that may mark the end of an era of architectural indulgence that
began in 1978 with the opening of the National Gallery's East Wing, the putative
mother of useless event spaces that nourish neither art nor the people who love
it.

The roster of recent winners includes museums that have moved house, like the
Whitney and the Parrish Art Museum, with excellent results; others that have
grown significantly, like the Clark Institute and Yale University Gallery of
Art, and some that have repurposed existing space, like the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, knowing not to fix what isn't broken. The Met's galleries for European
painting were recently expanded in its characteristic understated style.

The Atheneum has executed a transformation almost as profound as the Whitney's
without venturing beyond its footprint. When its 1910 Morgan Memorial building,
the largest of five connected structures, reopens on Saturday, it will also
bring back some Old World museum conventions, sharpened by 21st-century
scholarship, self-awareness and panache -- namely an imposing Great
Hall-turned-picture gallery, hung salon-style, and a lavish cabinet of
curiosities. These showstoppers seem designed to draw in and delight seasoned
and new viewers alike.

Much of the credit goes to Susan L. Talbott, who became director in 2008. Plans
for a new wing were shelved in favor of a relatively frugal $33 million plan of
extensive repairs and upgrades. These have made the most of the museum's
structures, enabling it to display its collection as never before. The very
spirit of the place has been renewed: It has a bigger wingspan.

The Morgan Memorial all but disappeared during the last eight or so years, as
most of its galleries were closed either by leaks, or the need to store
displaced artworks. The two-story building reflected the largess of J.P. Morgan,
one of the greatest philanthropists of American museums, who grew up in Hartford
where his father, Junius Spencer Morgan, was a prominent businessman. The son
dedicated his Atheneum wing to the father, supplementing it with gifts of
adjacent real estate for future expansions and finally, after his death, a
substantial gift of art and decorative arts.

Sparkling with color in art and on walls alike, the Morgan building's
reinstalled galleries are stunning and astute. They play to the Atheneum's
strengths by repeatedly combining European painting -- especially Baroque --
with arrays of decorative arts. The rehang has been overseen by two
complementary curators, Linda Roth, curator of European decorative arts and an
Atheneum employee since 1980, and Oliver Tostmann, curator of European art, who
arrived two years ago.

The Great Hall now is probably just like Morgan pictured it. This double-story
space, painted dark blue, presents some 70 American and European paintings great
and so-so, from the 17th to the 19th centuries -- with two 16th-century works by
Tintoretto. Copies are included, like the late 19th-century rendition of
Raphael's 16th-century ''Madonna della Sedia,'' acquired as the genuine article
in 1897 in a robber-baron frame.

Made possible by Renaissance Revival architecture, the Great Hall hanging was
inspired by one of the most singular paintings in an American museum, centered
on the north wall: Giovanni Paolo Panini's ''The Picture Gallery of Cardinal
Silvio Valenti Gonzaga,'' from 1749. This aerial view of a soaring hall hung
cheek-to-jowl with paintings shows the red-robed cardinal studying an earlier
copy of the aforementioned Raphael Madonna.

Mr. Tostmann has dug up smaller related works, including a view of the picture
gallery of the American painter Benjamin West, by John Pasmore II, from around
1821. West is also present in a full-length portrait by Thomas Lawrence and his
own ''Raising of Lazarus,'' from 1780.

In this manner, the installation builds on echoing connections of subject,
color, style or back story. There's a marvelous group of small Dutch paintings
and a wonderful landscape by Aelbert Cuyp and impressive works by Ribera,
Murillo, Frederic Lord Leighton and the lesser known French painter Constance
Mayer (1775-1821), a full-length self-portrait with her father from 1801. An
infectiously urbane Rubens has the Holy Family returning from Egypt as if from
an afternoon stroll.

With some 50,000 objects, the Atheneum is not quite an encyclopedic museum. The
displays in the smaller galleries around the Great Hall form a beautifully
arranged, vividly illustrated Cliffs Notes of Western culture that makes
excellent use of its smatterings of Greek, Roman, Egyptian and medieval art and
slightly more Renaissance Art. The only non-Western art on view on the ground
floor is a handful of Chinese works, including a newly rediscovered Ming
painting on plaster. It was among several works that resurfaced when the
renovation all but forced a thorough sifting of the collection, accompanied by
much reassessment and conservation.

The Big Bang impression of the Great Hall repeats on the second floor with the
expansive Cabinet of Art and Curiosities, which illuminates the genesis of the
public museum in the hands of acquisitive scientists, aristocrats and monarchs
across Europe, especially in the 18th century. It will take several visits to
absorb its illustrated books, paintings and bravura displays of human skill
(Neolithic axes, Egyptian jewelry, Venetian glass) as well as natural wonders
like nautilus shells accessorized with gold. Pullout drawers reveal Persian
manuscript pages and enamel portraits.

The remaining 16 galleries on the second floor begin with one devoted to the
Atheneum's justly renowned early Baroque paintings, centering on Caravaggio's
''Saint Francis of Assisi in Ecstasy,'' and Poussin's only crucifixion, darkened
by age and later additions, but engrossing nonetheless. The museum's great
Zurbarán, of the white-robed Saint Serapion hanging by his wrists, will return
in about a month, from conservation in Spain.

Then commences the great give-and-take between paintings and porcelains, bronzes
and silver. The sense of luxurious consumption crests in the late Baroque
gallery dominated by two large abduction scenes (Helen of Troy, Europa) by Luca
Giordano that overlook a veritable throng of Meissen figurines.

The fever breaks two galleries on, with an especially disparate yet effective
group of paintings from just before and after the French Revolution, grouped
around the large, operatic ''Louis XVI Saying Farewell to His Family'' painted
by the American Mather Brown in 1793, near some Sèvres once owned by Madame de
Pompadour.

I'd like to highlight the paintings worth dwelling on, but nearly all qualify in
some way, creating a personal, egalitarian demeanor unusual for a public
collection, and implying generations of stringent-looking and creative
parsimony. There are of course significant works by well-known artists from
Frans Hals to Toulouse Lautrec, but many paintings seem to have been chosen for
their own, often idiosyncratic, visual effect. The names on the labels ring few
bells. One example must suffice: An 1833 landscape by a German artist named
Georg Heinrich Crola that is dominated by a tree whose branches writhe like
snakes.

And the decorative arts rarely fail to chime in. Among the Atheneum's most
popular paintings is William Holman Hunt's ''The Lady of Shallot'' (around
1890-1905), a late Pre-Raphaelite tour de force of intricacies. Here it has a
perfect comeuppance in a vitrine marked ''Islamic Revival'': a small ceramic
vase both comic and beautiful. Its contrasting areas of saturated magenta and
olive green are sewn together with trompe l'oeil stitches of bright aqua
complete with stretch marks.

With the born-again Atheneum, the large, diverse yet exclusive club of the
Eastern Seaboard's great museums adds a worthy new member. It comes into its own
bearing an important message: Museums must consider carefully and at length what
they already have before slapping on new wings. Connecticut, its capital city
and the Atheneum itself should be proud.

The Wadsworth Atheneum opens on Saturday in Hartford; 860-278-2670,
thewadsworth.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-wadsworth-atheneum-a-master
piece-of-renovation.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wadsworth Atheneum: A German porcelain vase, circa 1918, at the
museum's Morgan Memorial building. (C21)
From top, the Great Hall of the refurbished Morgan Memorial building
the hanging of Murillo's painting of St. Francis Xavier in the Great Hall
and ''Rendezvous at the Hunt,'' circa 1744, Meissen Porcelain Factory.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 William Holman Hunt's ''The Lady of Shalott,'' circa 1890-1905, is among the
Wadsworth Atheneum's most popular paintings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WADSWORTH ATHENEUM
MUSEUM OF ART) (C25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%);
PAINTING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PHILANTHROPY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART
(56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

She'd Be Sad, if She Cared (but She Doesn't)

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 890 words


Lana Del Rey looks out into the world and all she sees are stares. Cold faces,
eyes hard with judgment. And lights, too -- sharp beams that poke like needles
and cut like lasers. For years, she has been scrutinized as intently as she's
been listened to. You would not blame her even a bit for wilting.

Instead, she has hardened, ossified into a thing of refined cool. The more
famous Ms. Del Rey has grown, the more obscure she's become. What was once
something of an elaborate performance has become merely a simple mode of being.

Now, she meets the glares and the harsh lights with ... nothing. Total
blankness. The way that celebrities stand still on the red carpet and fix their
eyes on some far-off point while a violent scrum of photographers fire flash
bombs and shout their names, resulting in picture after picture of sturdy
serenity, that's Ms. Del Rey's everyday. There's no moment she's not above the
fray.

Because of this, ''Honeymoon'' (Interscope), her third major-label album,
achieves a sublimity missing from her first two. She's been angry, and then
bored of being angry, but now she's just bored, and her boredom is entrancing.

There's that taffy voice, resignedly oozing all over the place -- rarely does
Ms. Del Rey check in at something more intense than a yawn. She's not an ornate
singer, but she achieves a great deal with only the many shades of exhaustion.

On ''Salvatore,'' when she ooohs about ''soft ice cream,'' she's a billowy
cloud. On ''Music to Watch Boys To,'' she sighs, ''I like you a lot,'' but her
voice is multitracked, as if arguing with herself whether it's even worth the
bother.

And in several places, she refers to the blues -- the music, but also the color,
and the mood. ''Got my blue nail polish on/It's my favorite color and my
favorite tone of song,'' she sings on ''The Blackest Day.'' On the title track,
she merely exhales: ''Dah-ah-ah-ah-ark bluuuuuuuuue.'' Her blue is the ocean,
and it's clear sky, and it's also blood.

For much of ''Honeymoon,'' she dwells on relationships so toxic they've turned
her into an emotional refusenik. On ''Terrence Loves You,'' she sings, ''I lost
myself when I lost you/And I still get trashed, darling/When I hear your
tunes,'' and on ''High by the Beach,'' she moans, ''We won't survive/We're
sinking into the sand.''

''Religion,'' a love song that would seem to demand preachy fervor, is instead
delivered with a shrug:

'Cause you're my religion, you're how I'm livingWhen all my friends say I should
take some spaceWell, I can't envision that for a minuteWhen I'm down on my
knees, you're how I pray

Ms. Del Rey's weakness remains her narrow field of vision. And her apathy does
tend towards lethargy -- individual songs seep long past their most pungent
moments, and her unwavering vocal approach can induce somnolence.

Apart from the album-closing cover of ''Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood'' and the
T.S. Eliot poem Ms. Del Rey reads during an interlude, all the songs were
written by her with Rick Nowels (Lykke Li, Belinda Carlisle), and the album was
produced by them along with Kieron Menzies.

Together, they have arrived at a solution to a problem that bedeviled Ms. Del
Rey on her first two albums, ''Born to Die'' from 2012, and ''Ultraviolence''
from last year. On ''Born to Die'' especially, she was thwarted by the ambitions
of her producers. Ms. Del Rey was still unsteady as a character, and the
gorgeous, lush production often highlighted how fragmented she was.

Now she is steady, and resolute too. And so the music stays out of the way,
ranging from melancholy to aspirated but never overwhelming, whether it's the
ethereal desert vibes of ''God Knows I've Tried,'' or the piano dirge ''Terrence
Loves You,'' or the exceptional ''High by the Beach,'' which is like an ASAP
Rocky song dubbed onto a fuzzy cassette.

Ms. Del Rey sounds lonely here, and fine with that. Perhaps ''Honeymoon'' is the
first great prison album of the 21st century, her jail being celebrity and the
scrutiny that comes with it. This album's opening couplet is a hilarious troll:
''We both know that it's not fashionable to love me/But you don't go, 'cause
truly there's nobody for you but me.'' And her cover of ''Don't Let Me Be
Misunderstood'' feels wholly earned -- brittle and distant, a sad-sack
meditation on inevitable disappointment.

Her acceptance of her absurd condition is there, vividly, in the incisive
''Freak,'' about life and love under the magnifying glass, which has a woozily
seductive chorus:

Baby, if you wanna leaveCome to CaliforniaBe a freak like me, tooScrew your
anonymityLoving me is all you need to feelLike I do

In the video for ''High by the Beach,'' Ms. Del Rey lolls about in a glorious
house on the Pacific until she's interrupted by a helicopter with a paparazzo
inside. She skips down to the beach, grabs a rocket launcher hidden in the
rocks, and blasts the copter out of the sky, then resumes her blithe bliss.

And so after four years in the limelight, here lounges Ms. Del Rey, immune to
the gravitational pull of the discourse about her. Once a careful invention, she
is now glassy-eyed and glassy-voiced, too cool to care. The result is something
like a dog that, when its leash is tugged, simply lies on the ground and shuts
its eyes: basking in the sun, feeding off its warmth, never giving an inch.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/review-lana-del-rey-honeymoon.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (86%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beltran, Once Central to Mets, Is Now a Key Figure in Another Borough

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 967 words


For anyone who was unaware that the Yankees are locked in a playoff race at a
point in the season when each pitch carries added gravity, there were a couple
of unmistakable signs on Wednesday at Tropicana Field.

They both involved Carlos Beltran, the 38-year-old outfielder who has mastered
the twin arts of economy of movement and self-preservation.

First, Beltran -- on a double by Greg Bird into the right-center-field gap --
did something not often seen this season as he took off from first base. His
stride lengthened, his arms pumped and before long Beltran was at a dead run. If
he did not quite recall the days when he stole 40 bases in a season, Beltran
nevertheless came sprinting, straining and finally sliding into home with an
early lead.

Next, Beltran helped preserve it by doing something even more scarcely seen.
When Logan Forsythe led off the fourth inning by lacing a line drive to right
field, Beltran charged forward, left his feet and made a sliding catch.

If those plays were enough to stir memories for Yankees fans of what once was
for Beltran, his mere presence in right field this weekend at Citi Field is
certain to do the same for Mets fans.

Beltran was a central figure for the Mets the last time they carried playoff
aspirations, from the what-might-have-been 2006 postseason to the stupefying
collapses of 2007 and 2008.

Though the intracity series has an uncommon spice this season, thanks to the
second half of it being played in September for the first time and the status of
both teams as playoff contenders, Beltran, like several teammates, said it was
just another important moment as the Yankees try to catch Toronto in the
American League East.

''For the fans, this type of series are always big and huge,'' said Beltran, who
like his teammate Chris Young and Mets outfielder Curtis Granderson and reliever
Tyler Clippard has played for both teams. ''For us as ballplayers, we
concentrate on playing the game. We don't get caught up on the whole hype.''

Now at the tail end of his career, Beltran nearly spent his prime with the
Yankees instead of the Mets.

As an impending free agent in 2004, Beltran carried the Houston Astros, who had
acquired him in midseason, to the brink of the World Series, hitting eight home
runs during the playoffs. That performance set Beltran up for a big payday, and
the Yankees seemed a likely target -- not just because of their deep pockets but
because they had just gone four years without winning a World Series title and
were watching their own center fielder, Bernie Williams, start to decline.

But while Beltran's agent at the time, Scott Boras, tried vigorously to engage
the Yankees, they had other priorities, such as acquiring starting pitching,
which they did with Randy Johnson and Carl Pavano.

They also wanted to avoid still another hefty luxury tax payment, which they
would have incurred by signing Beltran.

''When you get to be a free agent, you've got to put a list of teams that you
think you could be able to go -- the Yankees were one of them,'' Beltran said.
''But at the end of the day, it's just the team having the interest in the
player. In that case, the Yankees were looking for pitching, so it wasn't like
we got anything close to signing.''

So, Beltran, convinced of the Mets' aspirations with their previous signing of
Pedro Martinez, gladly accepted a seven-year, $119 million contract from them in
early 2005.

A year later, the Mets, and Beltran, were on the verge of the World Series.

He had helped get them there with a strong 2006 season that enabled him to
finish fourth in the National League Most Valuable Player Award balloting.

Still, it was his bases-loaded strikeout for the final out of Game 7 of the
National League Championship Series, a 3-1 loss to St. Louis, that remains in
many minds -- as frozen as he was at the plate by Adam Wainwright's final
curveball.

And while he had strong Septembers in the Mets' back-to-back collapses that
followed 2006 -- he hit .282 with eight homers and 27 R.B.I. in 2007 and .344
with six homers and 19 R.B.I. in 2008 -- he could not prevent his club from
falling apart.

In any case, by necessity, his approach to the game is more calculated.

After signing a three-year, $45 million contract with the Yankees before last
season, Beltran was off to a good start when he tumbled over a wall in a game at
Tampa Bay in late April, jamming his shoulder and wrist. Soon after, bone chips
in his elbow made it too painful for him to play in the outfield. A series of
cortisone shots eased the pain somewhat, but not as much as off-season surgery
did.

Healthy, he plays the game as if he intends to remain that way.

Which means, in the field, he is not close to the Gold Glove center fielder he
was for the Mets. But he does remain a formidable middle-of-the-order bat for
the Yankees and, after a slow start and a stint on the disabled list in early
July with a strained oblique muscle, he has been the Yankees' most consistent
bat over the second half of the season, hitting .320 since July 31.

Beltran also delivered possibly the biggest hit for the Yankees this season: a
pinch-hit, three-run homer that beat Toronto last month.

The Yankees' hitting coach, Jeff Pentland, who has known Beltran since his early
days coming up with Kansas City, said Beltran's bat speed -- once among the
game's quickest -- had picked up in recent weeks after he tweaked his swing
because he was using too much of his upper body.

A year ago, Beltran looked broken down, waiting to have surgery, his season and
the Yankees' a great disappointment. Now, his bat is revitalized, and with the
Yankees in the pennant race, his legs and his glove may be coming to life, too.

It feels good, Beltran acknowledged.

''I feel like I'm doing my job,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/carlos-beltran-once-central-to
-mets-is-now-a-key-figure-for-yankees.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Beltran struck out looking with the bases loaded against
St. Louis to end Game 7 of the 2006 N.L. Championship Series, the Mets' last
playoff appearance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Beltran, homering last week, has been the Yankees' most consistent bat over the
second half, hitting .320 since July 31. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCHULTZ/GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (89%); BASEBALL
TOURNAMENTS (89%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Norway Hails Vikings Again, Minus the Pillaging

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS; Henrik Pryser Libell contributed reporting from Oslo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SELJORD JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1364 words


SELJORD, Norway --  Jeppe Nordmann Garly has for years been a ''recreational
Viking,'' a keen member of a fringe fraternity of would-be Norse warriors who
dress up in 10th-century clothing, attend weekend craft fairs and trade tips
over the Internet on where to pick up an authentic helmet or sword.

He has now become a full-time Viking. Formerly a teacher and jewelry maker in
Denmark, Mr. Garly last month began a new job on a hillside campus in central
Norway as the director of Scandinavia's first government-funded training course
on how to live like a Viking.

Or, that is, a politically correct one, purged of the bloodthirsty aggression
that made the Viking Age a byword for macho violence.

''I am a very peaceful man. I have never plundered anything,'' said Mr. Garly, a
36-year-old Dane whose modest stature, jocular manner and portly figure belie
his enthusiasm for ancient warriors. He does, at least, have a beard.

''Rape and pillage are not part of the curriculum,'' Mr. Garly added.

Also banished from the campus here in Seljord, a pretty lakeside town 115 miles
west of Oslo, are Nazi symbols of Nordic origin, which Nazi Germany and a puppet
fascist government used in Norway during World War II as emblems of their racist
creed.

Instead, students enrolled in the new Viking course at a continuing-education
college in Seljord learn about the Vikings' love of intricate artwork and
beautiful objects. They sew their own Viking-style garments and craft boots from
leather.

Military paraphernalia is studied for its artistry, not its violent purpose.
''Look at the amazing workmanship on this,'' Mr. Garly said, fingering the
interlocking metal rings on a coat of mail.

In a country that awards the Nobel Peace Prize each year and delights in its
reputation for tolerance, the rebranding of Vikings from violent thugs to
peaceable craftsmen is part of a broader resurgence of interest in a historical
period previously embraced mostly by far-right nationalists.

It has helped make pride in the Viking Age respectable at a time when
Norwegians, like many other Europeans, are looking to the past to shore up
identities shaken by alarm over immigration and the impact of globalization.

A Norwegian publishing house has started a new Internet magazine called ''The
Happy Viking,'' a Norwegian film director has just made what is billed as a
Viking blockbuster due for release early next year, and attendance at museums
displaying Viking ships in Oslo and Lofoten has surged.

Even so, Norway, still somewhat squeamish about celebrating a part of its
history hijacked by the Nazis, lags behind foreigners in plundering the Viking
past for inspiration and cash. The television series ''Vikings'' is an
Irish-Canadian production, and the fantasy drama ''Game of Thrones'' was made
for HBO.

Lars Ueland Kobro, a tourism investment adviser, told the Norwegian state
broadcaster NRK that Norway needed to overcome its lingering inhibitions and
embrace the business opportunities offered by the Vikings. He said it was now
''time to invest in large Viking experience centers in Norway.''

Others, however, like Anders Kvale Rue, a Viking fan who leads a group of
amateur enthusiasts from around Seljord called Olaf's Men, cautioned that
Vikings, particularly their symbols and taste for violence, remained a touchy
subject for some.

''Before the Second World War, the whole nation was proud of our Viking
heritage. But after the war it was banned from the public arena for more than 50
years,'' he said. ''We can still feel the negative effects today. Some people
feel disgust with the Viking Age and think that it is connected to racism.''

Mr. Rue and fellow members of his group are all Christians, a faith that early
pagan Vikings frequently attacked with gusto but to which many later converted,
following the lead of Norway's 11th-century king, Olaf Haraldsson.

Mr. Rue, wearing a helmet and carrying an ax and sword during a visit to a
13th-century wooden church in Heddal, said he was delighted when a Somali-born
youth joined a local Viking-inspired scouts group.

The Vikings, he added, were ''big slave traders'' but ''were not racists.''
Their slaves were fellow whites seized during raids in places like England.

But this has not stopped avowed white supremacists from claiming the Viking
heritage as an endorsement of their beliefs.

Norway's wartime leader, Vidkun Quisling, and the far-right Norwegian terrorist
Anders Behring Breivik, now serving a 21-year sentence for the murder of 77
people in 2011, championed the Vikings as heroes of the Aryan race. Stormfront,
a neo-Nazi Internet forum, uses a Viking cross as its logo and features postings
praising the Vikings.

Arve Husby, the principal of the Seljord college, said staff members initially
had doubts about adding the new course: ''Everyone was very skeptical. They
said, 'What is this Viking thing?' ''

But serious interest in Vikings would help push extremists ''onto the
sidelines,'' he said, and reclaim an important part of Norway's past that
included not only slaughter but also major achievements like sailing to North
America about 500 years before Columbus.

Mr. Husby said the college has laid down strict rules that the Viking students
would not engage in ''inappropriate'' activities. Animal sacrifices, violent
sword play, hallucinogenic mushrooms -- which some believe the Vikings used to
pep themselves up for battle -- are all off limits.

Vikings, he said, were sometimes violent but were also ''brave, curious people''
whose history and lifestyle should not be left to right-wing extremists. ''We
have to weaken this link,'' he said.

Another link Mr. Garly, the teacher, would like to diminish is how the image of
Vikings had also been hijacked by heavy metal rock bands, which have often
studded their noisy acts with Viking themes. A recent hit song by Judas Priest,
''Halls of Valhalla,'' recounts Vikings sailing through a storm and creating
''life from death.''

''Vikings have a bad reputation, and everyone thinks they dressed like stand-in
drummers for Kiss,'' Mr. Garly said.

The nine-month course he is leading in Seljord plays down the blood and gore and
focuses instead on the Vikings' technical prowess and craftsmanship.

The course, which costs each student 18,000 kroner, about $2,200, includes a
trip to the English city of York, renamed Jorvik after it fell to the Vikings in
866.

The 14 students -- nine men and five women, all Norwegians -- said they had been
attracted by the opportunity to work with their hands and reconnect with a part
of their country's history that, once cleansed of its gruesome associations,
made them feel proud.

Hammering at an anvil in the campus blacksmith's hut, one student, Alexander
Fredriksen, 20, noted that Vikings had many talents beyond spreading mayhem.

''They were great warriors and very good at killing, but this was just a small
part of what they did,'' he said.

Because the Vikings wrote only short messages in runic script and left no
detailed written account of their exploits, much of their history -- and
terrible reputation -- was shaped by Christian monks and others who suffered at
their hands.

''They miserably ravaged and pillaged everything,'' a monk wrote of a late
eighth-century Viking raid on a monastery on Lindisfarne, an island off the
northeast coast of England. ''Some of the brethren they slew; some they carried
off in chains.''

Their grisly image, however, began to improve, at least in academic circles,
when a revisionist view took hold in recent decades and convinced some
historians that Vikings had been unfairly maligned.

Even some Viking fans worry that this revisionist view has gone too far, pushed
toward what Mr. Rue mocked as ''warrior flower power'' by ''old hippies'' who
want to turn Vikings into new-age peaceniks.

''The politically correct Viking,'' he warned, has become so far removed from
the Viking Age creed of ''keep struggling and never give up'' that ''he does not
really appeal to anybody.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/norway-again-embraces-the-vikings
-minus-the-violence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeppe Nordmann Garly, director of a course on Viking life, and
his girlfriend, Linnea Bang-Madsen, in Seljord, Norway. Below, students
practiced metalworking. (A4)
 Anders Kvale Rue, center, who leads a group of Viking enthusiasts, with his
friends Oystein Rivrud, 52, right, and Mr. Rivrud's son Nils, 20, left, at a
13th-century church in Heddal, Norway. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICIO LIMA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP (A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA
(73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (71%);
CURRICULA (71%); DRAMA FILMS (70%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); CONTINUING EDUCATION
(70%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); GLOBALIZATION (60%);
PUBLISHING (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (88%)

COUNTRY: NORWAY (95%); EUROPE (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (79%); DENMARK (77%);
GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: In 'Veteran,' an '80s Cop Comedy Vibe From South Korea

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 354 words


Ryoo Seung-wan's ''Veteran,'' in which an honest detective takes on the
pampered, sociopathic heir to a family-owned business conglomerate, must have
had plenty of resonance in South Korea. Released in August, nine months after
the daughter of the chairman of Korean Air threw a fit over a bag of nuts and
blew up her career, it is already one of the 10 highest-grossing domestic films
in that country's history.

American audiences are less likely to care about the film's treatment of
chaebols and their undue influence in South Korean society, however, than its
strong debt to 1980s American cop comedies like ''Beverly Hills Cop,'' ''48
Hrs.'' and ''Lethal Weapon.'' (The link to the period is reinforced by the use
of Blondie's ''Heart of Glass'' on the soundtrack in the movie's opening
seconds.)

And it mostly stands up to the comparison. Mr. Ryoo (''The Unjust,'' ''The City
of Violence'') isn't known for his sense of humor, but ''Veteran'' is amusing
throughout, even if the funny scenes are more subdued or go on a beat or two
longer than American viewers are used to. He may not have Walter Hill's or
Richard Donner's gift for melding comedy to action and maintaining a tone of
antic menace, but he delivers a solid, consistently entertaining story
punctuated by the balletic action sequences he's known for. (He also wrote the
screenplay, which is considerably more linear and coherent than the South Korean
norm.)

Hwang Jung-min is cool and capable as the longtime detective whose investigation
of a friend's suicide attempt pits him against the conglomerate's lawyers, thugs
and paid-off policemen; he's a quieter version of the Eddie Murphy or Mel Gibson
cop who plays the fool but is good in a fight. The Korean heartthrob Yoo Ah-in
plays the preening adversary, whose response to being shown up is to humiliate
the nearest woman or assault the nearest pet. Oh Dal-su of ''Oldboy'' and ''The
Host'' steals most scenes he's in as a weary police chief -- he's the real
veteran of ''Veteran.''

Veteran

Opens on Friday

Directed by Ryoo Seung-wan

In Korean, with English subtitles

2 hours 4 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-in-veteran-an-80s-cop-comedy-vib
e-from-south-korea.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hwang Jung-min as a cool and capable detective in ''Veteran.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ ENTERTAINMENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%);
FILM (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%);
SUICIDE (66%); HISTORY (56%)

PERSON: EDDIE MURPHY (55%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Uncle John' Is Steeped in Secrets

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 242 words


The simmering mystery ''Uncle John'' is so subtle, so exquisitely paced and so
determined not to go in any of the obvious directions that it's hard to believe
the film is Steven Piet's first feature. Mr. Piet, who with Erik Crary also
wrote the script, sketches some memorable characters while keeping his
two-pronged story sparse, ominous and deliciously ambiguous.

John Ashton is just right as the inscrutable title character, an older fellow in
a rural town where an unlikable man named Dutch has gone missing. Shortly before
his disappearance, Dutch apparently found Jesus, and he had been visiting
various townspeople, confessing to misdeeds and such. Dutch and John's sister
were an item long ago, but something murky happened to the sister, and perhaps
now something murky has happened to Dutch.

While all of this is being slowly revealed, many miles away in Chicago a young
man named Ben is becoming smitten with a new co-worker, Kate. Alex Moffat and
Jenna Lyng are very watchable as this might-become-a-couple, but what do they
have to do with the goings-on out in the country? Turns out Ben has a beloved
uncle who raised him, a man by the name of John. And when the two young flirters
head his way for an impromptu visit, all secrets will be revealed.

Or will they? It's tantalizing, sublimely creepy stuff that keeps you guessing
even after the credits roll.

Uncle John

Opens on Friday

Directed by Steven Piet

1 hour 54 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-uncle-john-is-steeped-in-secrets
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Ashton plays the enigmatic title character in ''Uncle
John,'' Steven Piet's first feature film. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILMBUFF)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); MISSING PERSONS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: In 'A Trick of the Light,' the German Answer to the Lumière Brothers

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 468 words


France has the aptly named Lumière brothers and their Cinématographe. America
has Thomas Edison and his Kinetoscope. And Germany has the Skladanowsky brothers
and their Bioskop.

''A Trick of the Light,'' from 1995, is a tribute to the Skladanowskys and to
that moment 100 years or so earlier when movies were being born, seemingly all
over the world. Charming without tipping over into the wonderstruck, this movie,
or ''lichtspiel,'' was made by Wim Wenders and students of the University of
Television and Film Munich. (It had not been formally released in the United
States until now.)

Shot mostly with a hand-cranked camera from the 1920s, the silent
black-and-white images, with their little sprocket hops and slightly variable
speed, tell the story of three brothers in Berlin -- Max (Udo Kier), Emil (Otto
Kuhnle) and Eugen (Christoph Merg) -- tinkering, experimenting and having
something that looks suspiciously like fun as they try to capture movement.
Eugen juggling; a (reluctant) boxing kangaroo; the Serpentine dance, with its
circular flutters of white winglike sleeves: These were among the film sequences
that the Skladanowskys showed at the Wintergarten in Berlin in November 1895,
just two months before the Lumières showed their movies in Paris (made, by all
accounts, with a superior process).

With its light silent comedy, Mr. Wenders's film presents movie history as a
meeting of the inventive and the inevitable -- a playful lark. That's reinforced
by the child's-eye narration, delivered by Max's little daughter Gertrud. Soon,
though, the movie tucks away childish things, jumping to the documentary
present-tense of 1995 Berlin, where Gertrud's younger sister Lucie, then 91, was
still living in the house in Pankow. (The family had occupied the house since
1907, a fact that sends the mind tripping gently down corridors of German
history.)

Mr. Wenders and his crew, modern equipment in place -- booms and lights and film
cameras -- interview Lucie, and we see her treasures: the flipbooks that she
says made her father more money than his movies; rolls of decayed film; the
magic-lantern slides he painted. And we ride through 1995 Berlin, a city of
cranes and construction and nonancient ruins that seems a slightly sad, distant
relation of the black-and-white city of this movie's film within a film.

An unforced melancholy hangs over ''A Trick of the Light,'' with its
appreciation of cinema's first days and the try-try-again spirit of its
pioneers. Twenty years on, the melancholy tugs harder, as the technology
celebrated here -- film, running through a camera or flickering on a makeshift
screen -- is itself becoming an artifact of the past.

A Trick of the Light

Opens on Friday

Directed by Wim Wenders

In German, with English subtitles

1 hour 16 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-in-a-trick-of-the-light-the-germ
an-answer-to-the-lumiere-brothers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from Wim Wenders's ''A Trick of the Light,'' about an
early cinema invention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIM WENDERS STIFTUNG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM HISTORY (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (70%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Playthings Put a Country's Ingenuity on Display

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 902 words



Presenting more than 300 playthings dating from the 17th to the early 21st
century, ''Swedish Wooden Toys,'' at the Bard Graduate Center, will be catnip
for anyone interested in antique toys. It's also an excellent occasion to ponder
ideas about toys in general in a time when electronic devices are replacing
traditional, comparatively simple objects for children's entertainment.

Organized by the center's director, Susan Weber, and Amy F. Ogata, an art
historian at the University of Southern California, the show includes diminutive
vehicles of all kinds, from old-time wagons, trains and fully rigged sailboats
to futuristic cars and a rocket ship. There are naturalistic and anthropomorphic
animals, rocking horses, weapons, puzzles, games, dollhouses and architectural
construction kits.

While many of these items were produced by big manufacturers with international
distribution like BRIO and Playsam, many others are one-of-a-kind works. Carved
with exacting delicacy by an unknown artisan around 1900, a miniature baking set
includes rolling pins, spatulas, a ladle and other implements all fitting into a
wooden tray just eight inches long.

Essays by a dozen scholars in the excellent catalog tell several different but
intersecting stories. One is about wood. Today we may think of things made from
wood as special -- natural rather than synthetic, and redolent of old-world
craftsmanship. But when toy manufacturing began to rise in densely forested
Sweden in the mid- to late-19th century, wood was the most commonplace of
materials. Woodworking was widespread, and in the 20th century the country
became internationally known for toys as well as wood furniture. Now, sadly,
wooden toy manufacturing has succumbed to global economics: While they are still
designed in Sweden, toys by the biggest companies are made in Asia.

Another narrative has to do with concerns for the welfare, education and
socialization of children. Toward the end of the 19th century, formal schooling
became compulsory for all Swedish children, and toys were considered by the
progressively minded to have pedagogical and morally elevating value. A section
of the exhibition devoted to educational toys includes abacuses, toy telephones,
a child-size loom and kits for constructing machines, cars and buildings. The
wall label for a Noah's Ark notes that it would have been intended for ''quiet
Sabbath day occupation and instruction in Lutheran Sweden.''

There are interesting stories behind many individual objects, few more so than
that of the Labyrinth game. This now familiar device consists of a perforated
maze on a tilting board through which the player guides a steel marble by means
of control knobs on the side. Designed in the 1940s by Sven Bergling and
produced by BRIO beginning in 1946, it was used in Britain to rehabilitate
fighter pilots wounded during World War II and became a favorite with Swedish
Air Force personnel. Abercrombie & Fitch featured the game in its toy department
in the early 1950s, and it has since been the most widely copied of all BRIO
products.

Among the most appealing objects for contemporary design aficionados will
probably be the minimalist, cartoonlike cars and other vehicles called
Streamliners,  designed by Ulf Hanses for Playsam. The original 1984 design was
featured on a 2005 Swedish postage stamp. While not directly addressed in the
exhibition, Mr. Hanses' extremely simple concept invites thinking about realism
and complexity versus abstraction and simplicity in toys.

An especially striking example of that dichotomy is in the dollhouse section.
Here there's a spectacular four-story dwelling in a repurposed glass-front
display cabinet standing over six feet high. Created in 1912 by an amateur named
John Carlsson when he was just 18, it is filled with finely detailed Victorian
furniture, lights and decorative objects and populated by stylishly dressed
little porcelain people. Most remarkably, it has attached to the outside a
working elevator made of metal and powered by an electric clock motor.

By contrast to Carlsson's busy abode, an all-white dollhouse designed by Eva
Schildt for Playsam in 2008 is free of excess ornament. Standing just under a
foot tall, it has a rounded roof, and its two stories are open to the front with
a circular window on the second floor. That may sound austere, but it is
dreamily evocative, and it would seem to offer as much if not more room for a
child's actively imaginative engagement than more realistic types.

In a catalog essay called ''Designing Wooden Toys in the Age of the
Technological Imagination,'' Nina Stritzler-Levine, the gallery director,
observes, ''Swedish toy manufacturers have reduced their production of wooden
toys in the 21st century in tandem with the growth of technology,'' and she
quotes a Swedish journalist who suggested that BRIO would have to switch ''from
steam locomotives and cute dachshunds to design and cyberspace.''

Parents throughout the modern world may lament their children's captivity by
computer games and videos, but probably there's no going back. So, while this
exhibition is fun, it marks the end of an era, and the questions it indirectly
raises about the future of toys and the shaping of children's minds are sobering
to contemplate.

''Swedish Wooden Toys'' runs through Jan. 17 at Bard Graduate Center Gallery,
Manhattan; 212-501-3023, bgc.bard.edu.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-swedish-wooden-toys-mix-ing
enuity-and-education.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Swedish Wooden Toys: Clockwise from above, a dollhouse with a
motorized elevator made in 1912 by John Carlsson, alongside houses from 1936 and
1944, part of this Bard Graduate Center Gallery exhibition
an articulated elephant by BRIO
a motorcyclist from the 1940s
 and the Labyrinth game, which was used in rehabilitating wounded World War II
pilots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BYRON SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WORLD WAR
II (83%); HISTORY (78%); AIR FORCES (74%); ART HISTORY (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS
(60%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (60%); AFT (FRA) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (60%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING
STORES (60%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (88%); ASIA (77%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Sit on Medical Breakthroughs

BYLINE: By ERIC J. TOPOL and HARLAN M. KRUMHOLZ.

Eric J. Topol is a cardiologist at the Scripps Clinic and a professor of
genomics at the Scripps Research Institute. Harlan M. Krumholz is a cardiologist
at Yale-New Haven Hospital and professor of medicine at Yale.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 846 words


IN this age of instant information, medicine remains anchored in the practice of
releasing new knowledge at a deliberate pace. It's time for medical scientists
to think differently about how quickly they alert the public to breakthrough
findings.

Last week the National Institutes of Health announced that it had prematurely
ended a large national study of how best to treat people with high blood
pressure because of its exceptional results.

In this trial of more than 9,000 people age 50 and older with high blood
pressure, an aggressive treatment strategy to keep systolic blood pressure below
120 was compared with a conventional one aimed at keeping it below 140. The
subjects all had a high risk of heart attacks, stroke and heart failure. The
N.I.H. concluded, six years into a planned eight-year study, that for these
patients, pushing blood pressure down far below currently recommended levels was
very beneficial.

Ending a study early is rather unusual. In such cases, studies are stopped not
by the investigators, but by an independent group of expert scientists who
monitor the trial for evidence of unexpected harm or benefit that requires swift
action. When a trial is halted early it is a surprise to the researchers who
must not only move quickly to notify the participating doctors and subjects, but
also decide how to communicate the results. The usual practice is to make a
public announcement with an interpretation of the findings and then finalize the
database and write the paper.

The N.I.H. followed this playbook, and the media reported that the findings
supported more vigorous treatment of high blood pressure, treatment that could
be lifesaving. It was reported as major news.

The problem is that many details of the study have not been released. It will be
months before the study is presented at a major scientific meeting and possibly
even longer before it is published. All we know at this point is that there was
a 30 percent reduction in heart attacks and strokes and a 25 percent reduction
in deaths. But there are a lot of critical details that have yet to be revealed.
The percent reduction means little without knowing, in absolute numbers, how
many people benefited or how many suffered strokes or heart attacks or died. We
also don't know about the risks of aggressive treatment or the types of patients
who derived particular benefit. Without knowing all this information, it is not
possible for doctors and patients to know how to translate these findings into
action.

But we do already know that aggressive treatment of high blood pressure with
medication carries a risk of fainting and other important side effects. There
are over 79 million Americans with high blood pressure and more than a billion
people affected worldwide. High blood pressure is the most common chronic
medical condition and it carries the risks of heart attack and stroke. Using
additional medications to achieve a goal of less than 120 may cost more money,
possibly expose people to new side effects and, for some patients, lower blood
pressure to dangerous levels.

The new information may justify a more vigorous strategy for treating blood
pressure, but for now doctors and patients have been left with incomplete
results, some headlines and considerable uncertainty about whether to modify
current treatments.

Medicine needs to change its approach to releasing new, important information.
Throughout science we are seeing more rapid modes of communication. The
traditional approach was not to publish until everything was finalized and ready
to be chiseled in stone. But these sorts of delays are unnecessary with the
Internet. Moreover, although all the trial data has yet to be tabulated, an
analysis was considered sufficiently definitive to lead independent experts to
stop the multimillion-dollar study.

We believe that when there is such strong evidence for a major public health
condition, there should be rapid release of the information that led to the
decision to stop the trial. This approach could easily be accomplished by
placing the data on the N.I.H. website or publishing the data on such platforms
as bioRxiv.org, which enables fast, open review by the medical community.

Such transparency would ensure that the public and the scientific community
could see and understand the basis for the decision. While it is still important
to publish the final results in a peer-reviewed journal, the sharing of
available results could ease the time delay inherent in our current publication
process and be more in keeping with the best interests of patients. Data that
was good enough to persuade experts to stop the trial should be good enough to
share.

Kudos to the scientists who conducted such a large, complex and important study
with what will be likely to have lifesaving consequences for a condition that
can be treated easily in most patients. Now the medical community needs to adopt
a new approach in situations like this one to disseminate lifesaving results in
a timely, comprehensive and transparent way. Lives depend on it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/dont-delay-news-of-medical-breakthroug
hs.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK PERNICE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%);
HYPERTENSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%);
CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); STROKES (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS
(72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

On Any Given Thursday: N.F.L. Annexes Another Night

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 597 words


In America, fall Sundays are for pro football. As are Monday nights, of course.

And now, those who aren't die-hard football fans -- but have a spouse, parents
or friends who are -- can scratch Thursday night off the social calendar as
well. Thursday night N.F.L. football, once a rarity, has gradually become a
regular part of the national viewing landscape.

The N.F.L. has always played games on Thanksgiving. And through the early years
of the league, a game would be played now and again on nonholiday Thursdays.

But in the 21st century, the occasional Thursday game turned into five per year,
then seven. And since last year, the N.F.L. has scheduled a Thursday nighter
every week of the season but the last.

Like it or not, the N.F.L. extended weekend is now five days long.

On Oct. 12, 1922, the Rochester Jeffersons lined up against the Akron Pros at
Elk's Field in the newly named National Football League. The game ended in a
13-13 tie when Al Nesser returned a blocked punt for a touchdown. Thursday
N.F.L. football was born.

Despite the occasional weekday foray over the next decades, the phenomenon
really began in October 1978, when the Vikings visited the Cowboys for the first
non-Thanksgiving Thursday game of the Super Bowl era. ABC's ''Monday Night
Football'' team presided, giving the game a big-event feel.

There was complaining about the short rest for the teams, but Vikings Coach Bud
Grant was sanguine. ''If you're one of the contending teams, you've got to play
at odd times,'' he told The Chicago Tribune. ''Teams like us and Dallas are used
to playing at 3 o'clock or on Monday night. It's the cross you bear.'' The
Vikings won, 21-10.

In 2002, a Bon Jovi concert led into a game in East Rutherford, N.J., and the
tradition of a Thursday night season opener began, now generally featuring the
defending champion. Jeremy Shockey made his pro debut for the Giants, but they
lost to the 49ers, 16-13.

The ubiquity of Thursday night football really began in 2006 when the league
added four Thursday games late in the season as a way of boosting the NFL
Network, which at the time was on very few cable systems.

The number of weeks with Thursday games continued to increase incrementally, and
this season there will be Thursday football in every week but the last, in which
every game will fall on Sunday.

Thursday has been an attractive night to the N.F.L. because under the terms of
the 1961 law that gave the league its antitrust exemption, it may not play on
Friday or Saturday during most of the season to protect high school and college
football.

You would not call the Thursday games popular with the teams, exactly. Guard
Josh Sitton of the Packers called them ''stupid'' last year, telling ESPN:
''That's what this league is about, is about making money, which is fine. I like
to make money as well. But, yeah, it's tough on your body, tough on your head.''

Saints Coach Sean Payton was incensed last year when his team was asked to play
on Thursday after a Sunday night game. ''It's foolish,'' he said at a postgame
news conference, despite winning. ''You got three guys that are hurt in there
right now.''

Fans and analysts have complained that the players' short rest makes the games
sloppy and unentertaining.

But television ratings have been good. Every game on CBS last year was the
highest rated program of the night, and the games on the NFL Network were the
highest rated cable shows of the night. That means that Thursday football is
unmistakably here to stay.

Still, Tuesdays and Wednesdays remain pro football free. For now.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/football/on-any-given-thursday-nfl-anne
xes-another-night.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); HOLIDAYS &
OBSERVANCES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); MAMMALS (58%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (55%); DALLAS
COWBOYS (54%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'The Cut' Depicts the Armenian Diaspora Through a Searching Father

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 293 words



Fatih Akin's ''The Cut'' brings the monumental scale of an epic to the Armenian
genocide of 1915 without toning down the murderous cruelty and upheaval of the
events.

The film depicts the forced diaspora and mass suffering through the grueling
search of a bereft, wandering father. Nazaret (Tahar Rahim) is a well-off
craftsman in the Ottoman Empire when he is wrenched away from his family one
night by Turkish soldiers during a mass roundup of Armenian men. He proceeds to
survive forced labor and marches and an execution attempt that cuts his vocal
cords. Reports that his twin daughters may be alive lead him to Aleppo and
refuge in a soap factory; from there, he chases tips overseas to Cuba, the
American South and beyond.

Nazaret's inability to speak makes him especially tragic (and may double as a
reference to the longtime silence maintained by Turkey concerning the genocide).
It's a considerably risky move by Mr. Akin, and it echoes the unevenly balanced
priorities of the film.

Great care is taken with the panoramic vistas of Turkish badlands and richly
detailed interiors, the searchingly cyclical motif of the score and the
portrayal of the wearying, touch-and-go ordeals of encountering friends and
enemies on the road. But there's a recurring -- and frankly mystifying --
shortfall when it comes to the screenplay, by Mr. Akin and Mardik Martin. Too
many scenes feel routine or clichéd, sometimes even those depicting extreme
experiences.

Mr. Akin made his name with the dramatic vim and vigor of films like
''Head-On,'' and one can only wish ''The Cut'' had gone that extra mile.

The Cut

Opens on Friday

Directed by Fatih Akin

In English, Arabic, Turkish, Kurdish and Spanish, with English subtitles

2 hours 18 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-the-cut-depicts-the-armenian-dia
spora-through-a-searching-father.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tahar Rahim as an Armenian refugee in ''The Cut.'' (PHOTOGRAPH
BY GORDON MUEHLE/STRAND RELEASING)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); TWINS &
MULTIPLE BIRTHS (72%); FORCED LABOR (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%)

COUNTRY: ARMENIA (95%); TURKEY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unbeaten Clemson Keeps Louisville Winless

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | COLLEGE FOOTBALL;
Pg. 14

LENGTH: 32 words


Deshaun Watson threw two touchdown passes, Wayne Gallman ran for 139 yards, and
No. 11 Clemson (3-0) held off host Louisville (0-3), 20-17, in the Atlantic
Coast Conference opener for both teams.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/unbeaten-clemson-keeps-louisville-winle
ss.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (81%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Header Gives Borussia Dortmund 10th Straight Win

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SOCCER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 77 words


Borussia Dortmund needed a stoppage-time goal for its 10th straight win to start
the season, beating Krasnodar, 2-1, in the Europa League. Borussia Dortmund's
winner was an unlikely diving header by South Korea defender Park Joo-ho.

Napoli, a semifinalist last season, opened its group stage campaign by routing
Bruges, 5-0. Liverpool was held, 1-1, at Bordeaux, which got an 81st minute goal
from the Brazilian Jussiê to cancel out Adam Lallana's shot in the 65th.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/soccer/header-gives-borussia-dortmund-1
0th-straight-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COMPANY: BORUSSIA DORTMUND GMBH & CO KGAA (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: BVB (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (91%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gasol Leads Spain Past France and Into Final

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASKETBALL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 276 words


Pau Gasol overwhelmed host France, the defending champion, by scoring 40 points
in an 80-75 victory in overtime on Thursday in Lille as Spain advanced to the
final of the European basketball championship and into next year's Rio de
Janeiro Olympics. Spain, the champion in 2009 and 2011, will play the winner of
Friday's semifinal between Serbia and Lithuania. The two finalists qualify
automatically for the 2016 Olympics.

â-  Allie Quigley scored 20 points to help the host Chicago Sky beat the Indiana
Fever, 77-72, in the opener of the W.N.B.A.'s Eastern Conference semifinals.
Elena Delle Donne, the league's most valuable player, had 14 points for Chicago
-- 12 after halftime.

â-  Phoenix Mercury center Brittney Griner has won the W.N.B.A. Defensive Player
of the Year Award for the second straight season. The 6-foot-8 Griner became the
first player in league history to average at least four blocks a game, with 105
in 26 contests.

â-  Courtney Paris of the Tulsa Shock won the W.N.B.A. Peak Performance Award
for rebounding for a second straight season. Paris averaged 9.3 rebounds per
game.

â-  A federal appeals court said a minority owner of the Miami Heat could not
stop a woman from running a scathingly critical blog featuring an unflattering
photo of him. Raanan Katz, a Florida real estate developer, had sought to stop
Irina Chevaldina, a disgruntled former tenant in one of his shopping centers,
from using the ''ugly'' and ''embarrassing'' photo, for which he held the
copyright. But the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit agreed
with a lower court judge that Chevaldina had made fair use of the photo.
(REUTERS)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/basketball/gasol-leads-spain-past-franc
e-and-into-final.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); 2016 RIO SUMMER
OLYMPICS (77%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); JUDGES
(65%); APPEALS (65%); COPYRIGHT (63%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX MERCURY (90%); MIAMI HEAT (54%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (92%); SERBIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA
(73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Colsaerts Sets Pace at Italian Open With a 63

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 39 words


Nicolas Colsaerts had eight straight birdies and finished with a nine-under-par
63 to take the lead in the Italian Open at Golf Club Milano in Monza. Francesco
Molinari was tied for second at 65 with Kristoffer Broberg and Shiv Kapur.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/golf/colsaerts-sets-pace-at-italian-ope
n-with-a-63.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Best Sellers: Filed Under Sports

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 414 words


Here are the best-selling sports books in August 2015, according to the New York
Times best-seller list:

1. THE BOYS IN THE BOAT by Daniel James Brown (Penguin). The University of
Washington's eight-oar crew and its quest for gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.

2. UNBROKEN by Laura Hillenbrand (Random House). An Olympic runner's story of
survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II; a 2014 movie.

3. MY FIGHT / YOUR FIGHT by Ronda Rousey with Maria Burns Ortiz (Regan Arts).
Rousey -- an Olympic medalist in judo, an undefeated Ultimate Fighting
Championship women's bantamweight champion and a Hollywood celebrity -- tells
her story.

4. BARBARIAN DAYS by William Finnegan (Penguin Press). This surfing chronicle
and memoir by a New Yorker writer celebrates a lifelong obsession.

5. YES! by Daniel Bryan and Craig Tello (St. Martin's). Behind the scenes with
the former World Wrestling Entertainment heavyweight champion.

6. SABAN by Monte Burke (Simon & Schuster). A biography of Nick Saban, the
University of Alabama football coach.

7. FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS by H. G. Bissinger (Da Capo Press). The now classic tale
of a season in the life of the Permian High School Panthers of Odessa, Tex.

8. THE BEST TEAM MONEY CAN BUY by Molly Knight (Simon & Schuster). The inside
story of the Los Angeles Dodgers' 2013 and 2014 seasons and how the team was
remade from top to bottom.

9. IT'S GOOD TO BE GRONK by Rob Gronkowski with Jason Rosenhaus (Gallery/Jeter).
The New England Patriots tight end takes readers on a tour of his life, with
stops at his parents' kitchen table, the playing field, the locker room and the
green room.

10. WHEN THE GAME WAS OURS by Larry Bird and Earvin Magic Johnson with Jackie
MacMullan (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt). Two great basketball players discuss
their careers, their long rivalry and their eventual friendship.

And One ...

18. RED SOX RHYMES by Dick Flavin (William Morrow). Sixty-four ''verses and
curses'' inspired by the Boston Red Sox, written by the announcer and poet
laureate for Fenway Park.

Rankings reflect sales for August 2015. The sports titles ranked here are
selected by the editors from among all adult nonfiction books in all print and
electronic formats, as reported to the New York Times best-seller lists for the
previous month. The definition of sports is deliberately broad and inclusive, so
as to reflect all manner of the outdoor sports world, varying from the
professional leagues to personal athleticism.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/the-best-selling-sports-books.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); MARTIAL ARTS
(90%); OLYMPICS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%);
CELEBRITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WRITERS (89%); SPORTS (89%);
WRESTLING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%);
BASEBALL (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); POETRY (73%);
COACHES & TRAINERS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (71%); RUNNING (58%); WORLD WAR II
(56%)

COMPANY: DA CAPO PRESS (68%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (58%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (55%); LOS
ANGELES DODGERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 3424 words


Museums and Sites

American Museum of Natural History: 'Countdown to Zero' (continuing) Smallpox is
the only human disease to have been eradicated, but what about Guinea worm,
polio, malaria and others? This exhibition, presented in collaboration with the
Carter Center, examines international efforts to control and wipe out infection.
Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street,
212-769-5200, amnh.org.

Center for Jewish History: 'Allied in the Fight: Jews, Blacks and the Struggle
for Civil Rights' (through Oct. 9) Told through photos, letters, archival
materials and film, this exhibition looks at the complicated role that Jewish
people played in the American civil rights movement, with a focus on the shared
projects and joint organizational efforts of black and Jewish people in the
fight against injustice. 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district, 212-294-8301,
cjh.org; closed from 2 p.m. Tuesday until 9:30 a.m. Thursday.

'The Fence' (through Oct. 11) This outdoor photo installation stretches along
1,250 feet of Brooklyn Bridge Park's greenway. A sister initiative to United
Photo Industries's ''Photoville'' (also in the park through Sunday), the show
aims to assemble photographers whose work best represents the idea of community
across cultural and geographic boundaries. Old Fulton Street, at Furman Street,
Dumbo, Brooklyn, 718-215-9075, fence.photoville.com; free.

Free Third Fridays at Brooklyn Historical Society (Friday) Every third Friday
through November, the historical society will stay open after hours with free
admission. The program begins this week with a chance to explore the museum's
exhibitions with music, wine and beer (also free). From 5 to 9 p.m., 128
Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111,
brooklynhistory.org.

'Global Citizen: The Architecture of Moshe Safdie' (through Jan. 10) This
touring exhibition, a retrospective of Mr. Safdie's career of more than 50
years, makes its way to New York with new material based on the architect's
recent work related to dense urbanism in Asia. Donald Albrecht from the Museum
of the City of New York organized the material in this show, which also explores
Mr. Safdie's design philosophy that buildings should be extensions of their
physical, historical and cultural contexts. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth
Avenue, at 89th Street, 212-369-4880, nationalacademy.org.

Morgan Library and Museum: 'Alice: 150 Years of Wonderland' (through Oct. 12)
The centerpiece of this exhibition is the original manuscript of Lewis Carroll's
''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,'' traveling from the British Library in
London. Joining the book are letters, drawings, photographs and more that shed
light on how the beloved book came to be, and why it still holds our attention
after 150 years. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008,
themorgan.org.

Museum of Chinese in America: 'Sub Urbanisms: Casino Urbanization, Chinatowns
and the Contested American Landscape' (Thursday through Jan. 31) Stephen Fan, an
architecture professor and curator, examines the trend of Chinese casino workers
in Connecticut converting suburban homes into multifamily communities. This
exhibition is both creative and historical; it takes the present to imagine the
future of housing design while looking back on the events that created the trend
of suburban migration. 215 Centre Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-619-4785,
mocanyc.org.

Museum of the Moving Image: 'How Cats Took Over the Internet' (through January)
Even people who hate cats can't easily get through an hour of browsing online
without coming across some kind of feline clickbait. This exhibition takes a
critical look at and tells the story of how we, as a society, got to this point.
Yes, there are cat GIFs. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens,
718-784-0077, movingimage.us.

National Museum of the American Indian: 'Meryl McMaster: Second Self' (through
Dec. 11) Meryl McMaster, an artist from Canada and a Plains Cree member of the
Siksika Nation, shows her ''Second Self'' photography series, which uses
portraiture to explore the complex ways in which identity is constructed. 1
Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, 212-514-3700, nmai.si.edu; free.

New York Transit Museum Grand Central Terminal Gallery Annex: 'New York's
Transportation Landmarks' (through Nov. 1) It's been 50 years since New York
passed its Landmarks Law, which covers over 30,000 buildings and structures
around the city. To celebrate the anniversary, the New York Transit Museum has
created an exhibition that explores the history of development, use and even
rescue of these landmarks. More information: 212-878-0106,
web.mta.info/mta/museum.

New York Transit Museum: 'Spanning the Narrows: The Verrazano Bridge at 50'
(through fall) Photographs, maps, drawings, models and other archival materials
related to the construction of the bridge (including correspondence from Robert
Moses, who oversaw the project) are part of this exhibition commemorating its
50th anniversary. Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights,
718-694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum.

New-York Historical Society: 'The Hirschfeld Century: The Art of Al Hirschfeld'
(through Oct. 12) This exhibition includes over 100 original drawings by the
illustrator Al Hirschfeld (1903-2003), who was known in particular for his
drawings of celebrities. The show has a special emphasis on his work for The New
York Times, where he was a contributor for more than 70 years. Tickets are
available at the museum or in advance online. 170 Central Park West, at 77th
Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

Old Stone House: 'In Search of One City: Sensing (in)equality' (through Oct. 10)
This exhibition, with a variety of works gathered by the artist Katherine
Gressel, explores the role of artists in investigating, making sense of and
possibly even reconciling problems of income inequality in New York. Art from
the show includes, for example, posters that advise poor people on how to suffer
politely, as well a jukebox that plays interviews with low-wage workers. On view
Fridays from 3 to 6 p.m. and by appointment, 336 Third Street, between Fourth
and Fifth Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 718-768-3195, theoldstonehouse.org.

'Picture This: New Orleans' (Saturday and Sunday) The photographer Mary Ellen
Mark was commissioned by CNNMoney in April to document the ongoing recovery
efforts in New Orleans a decade after Hurricane Katrina. The assignment turned
out to be her last -- Ms. Mark died just after returning. She was 75. Her last
photographs, as well as a related video and slide show of pictures by her former
students, are on display here as part of this multimedia project presented by
CNN and the International Center of Photography. (Through Sept. 27.) Nolan Park,
Building 19A, Governors Island, 212-857-0000, icp.org/exhibitions.

'Sea Level: Five Boroughs at Water's Edge' (through Dec. 31) In its first pop-up
exhibition for the Seaport Culture District, the American Institute of
Architects presents a water's eye view of the city through photos by Elizabeth
Felicella and accompanying essays by Robert Sullivan. The panoramic view of New
York starts at New York Harbor and makes its way along the East River, showing
the shore of each borough along the way. Center @ the Seaport, 181 Front Street,
South Street Seaport, Lower Manhattan, 212-683-0023, cfa.aiany.org.

'Webtoon' (through Oct. 16) This exhibition highlights the culture of Korean
webtoons -- comics specifically made for the Internet. In addition to displaying
the comics, this show will also take a look at the media and commercial products
that have been inspired by popular webtoons. Korean Cultural Service New York,
Gallery Korea, 460 Park Avenue, at 57th Street, Manhattan, 212-759-9550,
koreanculture.org.


Events

92Y Annual Street Festival (Sunday) The 92nd Street Y presents an afternoon of
Broadway, dance, martial arts and more. There's also a kid-friendly stage, with
concerts and student dancers. Visitors can take a peek at 92Y's class offerings,
and raffles provide a chance to join one for free. Other prizes include tickets
to talks, concerts and the upcoming revival of ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' From
noon to 5 p.m., 1395 Lexington Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-415-5500,
92y.org/event/street-festival.

The Big Emmys Quiz Thing (Sunday) This isn't an Emmys party for couch potatoes.
The Big Quiz Thing brings its trivia prowess to Le Poisson Rouge for a live game
show throughout the Emmy Awards, beginning with the red carpet and lasting
throughout the ceremony. During commercial breaks, there will be quick games and
chances to win prizes all night. At 6 p.m., 158 Bleecker Street, Greenwich
Village, 212-505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com, bigquizthing.com.

Crossing the Line 2015 (through Oct. 4) This festival, an interdisciplinary
wonder from the French Institute Alliance Française, returns with nearly a month
of programming that aims to reach all ages and tastes. On Saturday and Sunday,
the artists Gustavo Ciriaco and Andrea Sonnberger present the American premiere
of ''Here Whilst We Walk,'' a performance piece in which participants are
brought together by a giant rubber band. Other highlights include the multimedia
artist Shezad Dawood's ''It Was a Time That Was a Time,'' a postapocalyptic film
shot on the beaches of New York, as well as the artist Elana Langer's pop-up
shops as part of her hybrid performance piece ''What I Live By,'' an exploration
of luxury that attaches a new label to everyday accessories. The pop-up's
schedule, along with the festival's lineup, is at fiaf.org/ctl. At various times
and venues.

El Grito: Mexico's Independence Day (Friday) El Grito de Dolores (Spanish for
''the cry of Dolores'') marked the beginning of the Mexican War of Independence
on Sept. 16, 1810. Mano a Mano: Mexican Culture Without Borders, along with Masa
and the Jaime Lucero Mexican Studies Institute, commemorate the 205th
anniversary with an evening of festivities celebrating Mexican culture and
traditions. At 6 p.m., Church of the Intercession, 550 West 155th Street, near
Broadway, Harlem, 212-587-3070, manoamano.us; free, but reservations are
recommended.

Feast of San Gennaro (through Sunday) This annual tribute to the patron saint of
Naples is also known for its spectacle, food and music. Saturday is the official
feast day, which features a religious procession and the unveiling of what is
being billed as the world's largest gelato cone from Ferrara Bakery and Cafe. At
various times, Grand Street, at Mott Street, Chinatown, 212-768-9320,
sangennaro.org.

German-American Steuben Parade and Oktoberfest (Saturday) Germanic heritage is
on display at this annual parade, which coincides with the beginning of
Oktoberfest (Sept. 19 through Oct. 4). Marching bands, floats and dancers will
make their way down Fifth Avenue, from East 86th to 65th Street, from noon to 2
p.m. Afterward, the party moves to Central Park for Oktoberfest. From 2 to 6
p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, 347-454-2269. More information
is at germanparadenyc.org.

Harlem Healthy Soul Festival (Saturday) The Apollo Theater, as well as 126th
Street behind it, is transformed into a wellness fair with free screenings,
nutritious cooking demonstrations, fitness and more to address health concerns
like obesity, asthma and high blood pressure. The day also features live
entertainment and celebrity appearances, such as music from Erica Campbell and
the D.J. Big Tigger. From noon to 7 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street,
Harlem, harlemhealthy.org; free.

JCC Manhattan Open House (Sunday) This annual event gives the public a chance to
sample the physical fitness and artistic offerings of the JCC. From noon to 6
p.m., the health and wellness center hosts free yoga, dance and cardio classes.
The art studios are open from 3 to 6 p.m., during which time visitors can watch
crafting and cooking demonstrations, or take part in a workshop. Registration is
strongly encouraged. 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, 646-504-5708,
jccmanhattan.org; free.

New York Bike Jumble (Saturday) This flea market is like the used bicycle
section of Craigslist brought to life. Vendors come from up and down the East
Coast to sell beaters, vintage collectibles, accessories and more for a wide
range of prices. From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Old Stone House, 336 Third Street,
between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, nybikejumble.com.

Peking Opera Festival (Sunday) ''The Three Inch Lotus'' makes its American debut
in this festival from the Peking Opera Company of China. Don't expect anything
along the lines of tuneful bel canto; this centuries-old opera form incorporates
a blend of song, dance and acrobatics. ''The Three Inch Lotus,'' a modern opera,
follows the story of a woman who was forced to follow traditions like
foot-binding and arranged marriage. As a mother, she must decide whether to
impose the same restrictions on her daughter. At 2:30 p.m., Skirball Center for
the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich
Village, 866-811-4111, nyuskirball.org; sold out.

'Romeo and Juliet' (Thursday) Lincoln Center is adding dance to its
silver-screen repertoire with the series ''Great American Dance,'' which brings
tapings of past performances to movie theaters across the country. Opening the
series is the San Francisco Ballet production of Prokofiev's ''Romeo and
Juliet,'' staged by Helgi Tomasson and starring Maria Kochetkova, who recently
joined American Ballet Theater as a principal dancer. The film, hosted by Kelly
Ripa and Michael Strahan, will play in three theaters in Manhattan at 7 p.m.;
other locations and details are at lincolncenteratthemovies.org and
855-473-4612.

Videology Presents Movie Trivia (Tuesday) Videology, the Brooklyn bar and
cinema, hosts a free film-themed trivia contest every week. The game varies; you
will want to know theme songs, facts, quotations (especially ones from Nicolas
Cage) and more. The winning team receives a free round of drinks, and there are
chances to win drinks each round. At 8:30 p.m., 308 Bedford Avenue, at South
First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-782-3468, videology.info.

West Side Community Garden Arts and Crafts Festival  (Saturday and Sunday) This
quiet, lush garden tucked in the middle of an Upper West Side block hosts its
annual exhibition and sale of items like jewelry, ceramics, paintings and other
handmade crafts. Both days include performances and programming for children
(Danny the Clown at 12:45 p.m. Saturday) and adults (wine and cheese reception
at 4 p.m. Sunday). From 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., West 89th Street, between
Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, westsidecommunitygarden.org; free.

Spoken Word

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (Thursday) For Mr. Abdul-Jabbar's fiction debut, he took on
the Sherlock Holmes franchise and shifted the focus to the famous detective's
brother, Mycroft. Bryant Park Reading Room's summer season winds down with Mr.
Abdul-Jabbar discussing ''Mycroft Holmes'' with the novel's co-author, Anna
Waterhouse. Afterward he'll sign books (no memorabilia). At 12:30 p.m., Bryant
Park, Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street, 212-768-4242, bryantpark.org;
free.

M.T. Anderson (Wednesday) Mr. Anderson, a National Book Award-winning author,
discusses his nonfiction debut, ''City of the Dead: Dmitri Shostakovich and the
Siege of Leningrad.'' As the book's title suggests, it focuses on the composer's
life, especially when he was writing his famous Leningrad Symphony during World
War II. At 7 p.m., KGB Bar, 85 East Fourth Street, East Village, 212-505-3360,
kgbbar.com.

Jonathan Franzen (Thursday) The 92nd Street Y's Poetry Center opens its 77th
season with Mr. Franzen reading from his latest novel, ''Purity.'' With the
book, which has an intimate plot but a wide-reaching scope, he ''has added a new
octave to his voice,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review for The New York
Times. After the reading, Mr. Franzen will be interviewed by Mark Greif, a
founding editor of the journal n+1. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington
Avenue, 212-415-5500, 92y.org.

Walking Tours

Long Island City Tours: Queens Cool Uncovered (Sunday) The idea behind this tour
is that Queens is due for more attention, starting with Long Island City. The
tour includes highlights of the neighborhood's history and arts scene, with
stops at galleries and crafts and food vendors. The meeting location is given at
registration. At 2:30 p.m., 212-209-3370, bqetours.com.

After Anatevka  (Sunday) At the end of the musical ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' the
Jewish residents of Anatevka are banished from their shtetl and Tevye, the
show's main character, leaves for America with his family. This walking tour is
a sort of sequel: a look at what life in the United States was like for the more
than two million Jews who came from Eastern Europe. And, because the tour is
inspired by ''Fiddler,'' it will include live musical accompaniment from the
violist Nikki Federman as well an appearance by Ben Rappaport, who will be
playing the part of Perchik in the musical's upcoming Broadway revival. At 11
a.m., beginning at the Museum at Eldridge Street, 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East
Side, 212-219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; reservations are required.

Bryant Park Public Tours (Wednesdays) Bryant Park hasn't always been the clean,
open space it is today. This tour provides some insights on its history,
including its darker days as a ''needle park'' in the 1970s, as well as its
award-winning design and maintenance efforts. The tour meets at the fountain at
41st Street at Avenue of the Americas. Registration is required. At 11 a.m.,
Bryant Park, 212-768-4242, bryantpark.org.

Flatiron District Walking Tour (Sundays) This free tour meets at 11 a.m. on the
southwest corner of Madison Square Park, at 23rd Street and Broadway, in front
of the William Seward statue. Sponsored by the Flatiron/23rd Street Partnership;
discoverflatiron.org.

History of Wall Street Tour (weekdays) Stops on this tour, led by Wall Street
Walks, include the New York Stock Exchange, Trinity Church, the Wall Street
Bull, and ground zero and the Sept. 11 memorial. The tours last 90 minutes and
begin at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. (Also at 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.) More
details: wallstreetwalks.com.

Jewish Colonial Manhattan (Sunday) This tour, in the midst of the High Holy
Days, follows the story of 23 Jewish immigrants who came to Manhattan in 1654.
The small group was heavily restricted, and finding work was difficult. Still,
they and future newcomers had to find ways to get by while creating a lasting
Jewish presence with, for example, kosher food and houses of worship. Meets at 1
p.m., in front of the National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green,
Lower Manhattan, 212-242-5762, joycegoldhistorytours.com.

Save the Village (Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday) Last year the Steven Kasher
Gallery in Chelsea put on an exhibition with the photography of Fred W.
McDarrah, who documented the changing scene of Greenwich Village since the
1960s. Now, the spirit of that show has taken the form of this walking tour,
which includes stops at the places McDarrah captured on film: locales like
Washington Square Park and the Stonewall Inn. At 10 a.m.; the tour meets at
Christopher Park, Stonewall Place, at Seventh Avenue, West Village,
savethevillagetours.com.

A Taste of Jewish New York (Sunday) Participants in this tour will get an
insider's look at the customs of the Hasidic residents of Borough Park,
Brooklyn. Highlights include a stop at a lively shopping area and the chance to
try a variety of traditional foods. Modest attire is requested -- no shorts, low
necklines or sleeveless clothing. The tour meets at 9:45 a.m. at Fort Hamilton
Parkway and 44th Street; 718-339-2302, timelinetouring.com.

Union Square: Crossroads of New York (Saturday) Sponsored by the Union Square
Partnership, this free year-round tour focuses on the area's political and
social histories. The walk, led by guides from Big Onion Walking Tours, meets at
2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street
transverse. 212-517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org.

JOSHUA BARONE

Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times should be sent to
weekend@nytimes.com by Friday at 5 p.m. for publication that week. Longer
versions of Around Town and For Children listings are in a searchable guide at
nytimes.com/events.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/spare-times-for-sept-18-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES RUPPMANN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); HISTORY (90%);
EXHIBITIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MALARIA (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SMALLPOX (78%); NATIONAL
LIBRARIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LIBRARIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); CARTER CENTER (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Africa; South Sudan: Scores Are Killed as Fuel Truck Explodes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 272 words


JUBA, South Sudan --  A fuel truck exploded in South Sudan, killing dozens of
people who had converged around the vehicle to siphon fuel, officials said
Thursday.

Eighty-five people were killed in the accidental explosion in Western Equatoria
state on Wednesday, presidential spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny told The Associated
Press. However, the provincial governor, Patrick Raphael Zamoi, cited a much
higher death toll of 176 and said others were critically injured.

"People are still dying; they have not assessed the exact number in the
hospital," Zamoi said.

The explosion happened in Maridi town after the truck veered off the road,
according to Ateny.

Citing local authorities, he said the tanker was "full of petrol" that started
to leak and residents were siphoning off fuel when someone lit a cigarette,
sparking an explosion.

Ateny said the injured were taken to local hospitals, which were overwhelmed.
Some victims were burned beyond recognition, he said.

Layal Horanieh, spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross in
the South Sudanese capital of Juba, said the aid group has sent two burn kits to
Maridi, each with enough equipment to treat at least 50 patients.

Deadly fuel tanker explosions are common in East Africa, where poor residents
living near highways converge around fuel tankers involved in accidents to steal
gas and then sell it.

In June 2013, 29 people were killed and scores injured in an explosion after a
collision between a fuel truck and a passenger van in the Ugandan capital of
Kampala.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/africa/south-sudan-fuel-tanker-explosion
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULK SHIPPING (90%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); ACCIDENTAL
FATALITIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); OIL & GAS
ACCIDENTS (77%); HOSPITALS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS
(67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (56%);
INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (56%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (57%)

CITY: JUBA, SOUTH SUDAN (92%); KAMPALA, UGANDA (92%)

COUNTRY: SOUTH SUDAN (96%); SUDAN (96%); UGANDA (92%); AFRICA (88%); EASTERN
AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Some Kind of Hate,' a Bullying-Revenge Slasher Tale

BYLINE: By HELEN T. VERONGOS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 327 words


Lincoln Taggert, a human target and luckless hero, lives with his abusive,
alcoholic biker father. His mom survives only in Lincoln's sketches, crowned by
a penciled-in halo. His school is no escape.

There, a bully (read sadist) is waiting to dole out pain and humiliation --
until the day Lincoln loses his Zenlike cool. Releasing an almost primal rage,
he sinks his fork satisfyingly into his tormentor's face.

As punishment, Lincoln (Ronen Rubinstein, who set hearts to beating in his
single appearance on ''Orange Is the New Black'') is shipped off to Mind's Eye
Academy, a desert ''school'' for troubled kids that has a habit of losing its
charges.

Just on the other side of the filmy divide between this world and the next, is
another victim of bullies, the one blob of ectoplasm that no one at Mind's Eye
wants to meet: the walking-dead alum Moira, with her greenish pallor and choker
strung with razor blades. She is played by Sierra McCormick, who packs Disney
Channel credentials.

Suffice it to say that the divide is torn, freeing Moira to practice the
passive-aggressive telekinetic torture that is her forte. When she digs a blade
into her arm or slices her own throat, the pain and carnage are also visited on
her chosen victim. Jammy gouts of grenadine blood bubble from her wounds and
theirs, making a hemorrhage of the screen. She kills, but survives.

Watching self-mutilation become a weapon turns sickening fast, and you do not
want to see Moira's thuddingly disgusting technique for inflicting head
injuries. Mind you, she has her reasons.

''Some Kind of Hate'' succeeds at being discomfiting, and Mr. Rubinstein's role
is played well, but the film, directed by Adam Egypt Mortimer, simply does not
cohere. Worse yet, it fails to deliver a thrill -- not even a shiver, except of
revulsion -- rendering all that slasher gore downright anemic.

Some Kind of Hate

Opens on Friday

Directed by Adam Egypt Mortimer

1 hour 23 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-some-kind-of-hate-a-bullying-rev
enge-slasher-tale.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULLYING (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); HEAD INJURIES (64%); FILM
DIRECTORS (62%)

COMPANY: DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Late-Season Series Gives Rivalry an Added Edge

BYLINE: By JAY SCHREIBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 632 words


Since regular-season interleague baseball made its debut in 1997, the Mets and
the Yankees have played each other every season.

In the beginning, it was a single three-game series, one year in the Bronx, the
next in Queens. It quickly expanded to an annual six-game affair, divided
between the two teams' parks, and was always played on weekends.

On a couple of occasions, rainouts led to the Yankees and the Mets playing
spiced-up, day-night, Queens-Bronx doubleheaders, with the teams starting the
day at one address and finishing at the other. And in 2013 and 2014, the teams
switched to a new format -- four games in a row in midweek, two in each stadium.

No matter the construct, one thing remained consistent: All the games took place
in May, June and the first half of July. None were played after the All-Star
break, and none came late enough in a season to directly influence a pennant
race in which the Mets or, more likely, the Yankees were involved.

Until now. Beginning Friday at Citi Field, the Mets and the Yankees will play a
three-game interleague series that will have a direct bearing on both teams'
postseason aspirations.

When they initially met in late April this season (also a first), it was not
clear that the Yankees would be able to rebound from two consecutive campaigns
in which they finished out of the playoffs. Nor was it that apparent that the
Mets would become contenders after six straight seasons in which they finished
under .500.

But that is exactly what both teams have done, and now the question is, What
will happen over the last two weeks of the season? Can the Mets win often enough
to nail down their first division title since 2006? (Their lead shrank just
enough in the last few days to make their fans nervous.)

And can the Yankees surge past the Toronto Blue Jays and capture the American
League East -- or, if not, at least secure home-field advantage for the
wild-card game?

The circumstances make this weekend series so notable. While it is not the
Subway Series of 2000, when the Yankees beat the Mets in five games to capture
their fourth championship in five seasons, it is the next best thing.

Adding to the intrigue are the pitching matchups, which come wrapped in all
sorts of cautionary health issues.

On Friday night, the Mets rookie Steven Matz will make just the fifth start of
his career, and only his third since missing two months with a torn muscle in
his back. It will also be his first outing in such an intense setting, although
he grew up on Long Island and probably knows what to expect from a such a
meaningful Yankees-Mets game.

He will go up against the Yankees' best pitcher, Masahiro Tanaka, who, for the
first time this season, will be making consecutive starts on four days of rest.
Underlining what is at stake, the Yankees also plan to bring back Tanaka a third
straight time on four days' rest -- next Wednesday in Toronto -- despite
concerns about his right elbow.

Saturday's game will match the Mets' Noah Syndergaard, who is on a rookie
innings limit this season, against Michael Pineda, who is now healthy but is
sometimes a mess on the mound. On Sunday night, the Yankees will send out C. C.
Sabathia, who, bad knee and all, is trying to make himself a late-season asset
despite horrible 2015 numbers -- 4-9 record, 4.93 E.R.A. -- against Matt Harvey,
who is under an innings limit that remains a matter of debate in his first
season back from Tommy John surgery.

Harvey will be making his first appearance since he was hit hard by the
Washington Nationals on Sept. 8 in a game the Mets came back to win. The Mets
intend to limit Harvey to five or six innings and then figure out what is next.
Some of that may depend on how this weekend goes, when interleague baseball will
have an unusual edge.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/subway-series-gives-yankees-me
ts-rivalry-an-added-edge.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Masahiro Tanaka (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELSA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Steven Matz (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM McISAAC/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

As Zombie Rumors Fly, China Punishes Social Media Pranksters

BYLINE: By AUSTIN RAMZY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 625 words


A dead alien in the refrigerator. Zombies on the loose. A mythical beast in the
hills.

Scenes straight out of pulp magazines lurk in the back alleys of Chinese social
media, where they can quickly find an eager following and, almost as quickly,
earn a rebuke from skittish authorities.

Science fiction and fantasy tales have been growing in popularity in China,
where some creative efforts have earned official endorsement. Vice President Li
Yuanchao met this week with authors -- including Liu Cixin, who wrote the Hugo
Award-winning novel ''The Three-Body Problem'' -- and called on them to inspire
young people's interest in science and encourage ''faith in realizing the
Chinese Dream,'' the state news agency Xinhua reported.

But even as the Chinese leadership offered praise for the writers, the police
have been less tolerant of social media users' flexing their creativity. Several
people have been punished in the past few years for relaying tales of the
walking undead and extraterrestrial invaders for fear of touching off public
panic.

Here are some of the online rumors that have been met with penalties in China.

There's a Zombie in Guangzhou

Earlier this month, the police in the southern city of Guangzhou published a
notice online that images posted on Weibo of a woman covered in blood and a note
suggesting she was a zombie were fake. The online warning added a reminder for
residents to avoid hallucinogens.

A 21-year-old man from the area with the surname Zhang was given 10 days of
detention for posting the item, the Guangzhou Daily reported. The images were
actually from a film that was shot in Jiangsu Province, the newspaper said.

There's Also a Zombie in That Sarcophagus in Henan

In 2014, photos of a mummified corpse circulated online with suggestions that
they were evidence of a zombie found in the eastern city of Nanjing or in Jianli
County in Hubei Province. The police said the images were of an archaeological
dig the year before in Henan Province that turned up the well-preserved body of
a Qing dynasty official, but no signs of the undead.

Remains discovered in a tomb in Xiangcheng City, in #China 's Henan province..
Astonishingly well-preserved. pic.twitter.com/jd8FNFj3xN -- Ira Vanan
(@irationalme) October 1, 2014

A Mythical Beast Is Roaming Beijing

Also in 2014, photos emerged showing a Gollum-like creature kneeling in a rocky
ravine with a message declaring that it was a ''mythical beast'' discovered in
the Huairou District of Beijing. The local police said the images were merely
candid pictures of an actor in a film who was photographed going to the bathroom
while in costume, the website of People's Daily reported.

ç½'ä¼
"åOE--äº¬æ[#x20ac][#x20ac]æY"æ[#x192][#x160]ç[#x17d]°æ[#x20ac]ªå...½"å¼oç[#x192]
­è®® å®[#x17e]ä¸ºæ[#x2039]ç§'å¹»å¾®ç"µå½±(å[#x203a]¾) pic.twitter.com/fDBd3izyxk
-- æ±Yè¥¿å--æ[#x2dc]OEæ-°é--» (@nanchangxinwen) June 25, 2014

There's an Alien in the Fridge

[Video: Not all tales of alien invasion meet with official approval in China, as
was the case in 2013 when a farmer claimed to have electrocuted an
extraterrestrial.  Watch on YouTube.]

In 2013, a farmer in Shandong Province claimed to have encountered five
extraterrestrial creatures, one of whom was killed by an electric fence. The
farmer's story, and photos of the purported alien corpse he kept in a freezer,
drew widespread attention online. The local authorities investigated and held a
news conference to announce that the dead alien was actually made of rubber,
Southern Metropolis Daily reported. The farmer was sentenced to five days of
detention for disturbing public order, Xinhua reported.

This is the "alien" found in China that had Weibo on fire over last few days.
Farmer who made it is now in jail pic.twitter.com/p5r7CHek2I -- Deirdre Bosa
(@dee_bosa) June 12, 2013




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/asia/as-zombie-rumors-fly-china-punishes
-social-media-pranksters.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); FANTASY
LITERATURE (78%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); FICTION LITERATURE (77%); PHOTO & VIDEO
SHARING (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); ARCHAEOLOGY (61%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); GUANGZHOU, GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HENAN, CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (91%);
GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); JIANGSU, CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA
(79%); EAST CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carl Schorske, 100, Dies; Studied Cultural History

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 883 words


Carl E. Schorske, a professor and scholar whose collection of essays fixing
turn-of-the-century Vienna as the radiating source of modernist thinking won a
Pulitzer Prize in 1981 and remains an exemplar of cultural history, died on
Sunday in East Windsor, N.J. He was 100.

His death, at Meadow Lakes, a retirement community not far from Princeton, where
Professor Schorske taught for many years, was confirmed by his daughter, Anne
Edwards.

A polymath with a gift for communicating complex ideas straightforwardly,
Professor Schorske was renowned for his lectures and classroom presence. In
1966, while at the University of California, Berkeley, he was one of 10 ''great
teachers'' pictured on the cover of Time magazine. A 1969 article in the
Princeton alumni magazine recalled that after the final lecture of his first
course, students stood and applauded.

''He changed my life,'' Michael S. Roth, who studied with Professor Schorske as
a freshman at Wesleyan University in 1976 and is now its president, said in an
interview on Tuesday. In a written remembrance, he called Professor Schorske
''an extraordinary teacher -- erudite, humane and sensitive to the different
ways that students learned.''

Another former student, John Leonard, who became a book critic for The New York
Times, wrote in 1980:

''Twenty years ago, the house I grew up in, metaphorically, was modern European
intellectual history as professed by Carl E. Schorske at the university. Through
Mr. Schorske's windows, dumbfounded, I looked at Rousseau and Goethe, Marx and
Freud. In his drawing room I listened to Bach and managed for the first time to
hear Schoenberg. There must have been, out back, a 19th-century garden with the
obligatory machine in it, and the Expressionists glowering at the Secessionists
and the hardy perennial instincts running wild. It was a wonderful place to
live. Ideas rampaged.''

Mr. Leonard was writing on the occasion of the publication of Professor
Schorske's collection, ''Fin-de-Siècle Vienna: Politics and Culture.'' The book,
written over many years, consists of seven essays, each seating different
aspects of intellectual life within the context of a significant period of
political ferment and social tumult.

In separate chapters, he considered narrative literature, architecture, music,
psychology, painting, philosophy and other disciplines, focusing on Viennese
intellectual figures, among them Sigmund Freud, the playwright and novelist
Arthur Schnitzler, the painter Gustav Klimt, the composer Arnold Schoenberg and
the artist and writer Oskar Kokoschka.

The chapters coalesced into a cogent argument positing Vienna from the late 19th
century until the end of World War I as a crucible of change in Western
intellectual life -- the time and place where the past abruptly receded from
contemporary art and thought, and modernism gained a foothold and momentum.

''Vienna, in the fin de siècle, with its acutely felt tremors of social and
political disintegration, proved one of the most fertile breeding grounds of our
century's ahistorical culture,'' Professor Schorske wrote. ''Its great
intellectual innovators -- in music and philosophy, in economics and
architecture, and, of course, in psychoanalysis -- all broke, more or less
deliberately, their ties to the historical outlook central to the 19th-century
liberal culture in which they'd been reared.''

In 1981, in addition to receiving the Pulitzer for general nonfiction, Professor
Schorske was among the first class of recipients of a MacArthur fellowship, the
so-called genius award.

His book was admired not simply for its potent creative thinking -- ''a model
for interdisciplinary writing, although no one will soon match Schorske's
inquisitive erudition,'' the New Yorker music critic Alex Ross wrote in a blog
post this week -- but also for its author's elegance as a writer.

''Many of us academics write like klutzes,'' Mr. Roth, the president of
Wesleyan, said. ''What Schorske did in each essay was write in a way that lived
up to the intellectual and aesthetic standards of the culture makers he had
studied.''

Carl Emil Schorske was born in the Bronx on March 15, 1915, to Theodore
Schorske, a banker, and the former Gertrude Goldsmith. He grew up and went to
high school in Scarsdale, N.Y. He graduated from Columbia and earned a master's
degree from Harvard before serving in the Office of Strategic Services, a
precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency, during World War II. He returned
to Harvard for his Ph.D.

Professor Schorske, who played the violin and was fond of singing German lieder,
often said that his love of music figured into his thinking and his teaching.
(''I first listened to Wagner and Mahler in his classes,'' Mr. Roth wrote in a
2011 essay.) His other books include ''German Social Democracy, 1905-1917''
(1955) and ''Thinking With History: Explorations in the Passage to Modernism''
(1998), a collection of essays on the evolution of the role of history in 19th-
and 20th-century thought.

Professor Schorske's wife, the former Elizabeth Rorke, died last year after more
than 70 years of marriage. A son, Stephen, died in 2013. In addition to his
daughter, he is survived by three sons, Carl Theodore, John and Richard; three
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/carl-e-schorske-cultural-historian-dies-a
t-100.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl E. Schorske in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HISTORY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS
(89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); POLITICS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT
STORIES (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (65%); FICTION LITERATURE (65%); PSYCHOLOGY
(64%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'September Spring,' a Multimedia Memorial

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 349 words


The Kitchen is in the business of cooking up complicated multimedia work, as it
does in the performance installation ''September Spring.'' Conceived by the Los
Angeles-based artist Sam Falls, it's a memorial to the poet and musician Jamie
Kanzler, who died at the age of 24 in 2013, and whom Mr. Falls refers to as his
godbrother. The two collaborated on music and book projects -- as a poet, Mr.
Kanzler used the nom de plume September Spring; as a musician he called himself
Oldd News -- and the collaboration continues in this show, organized by Lumi
Tan.

Mr. Falls's art has always been about how touch and the passage of time alter
materials. He's made paintings by leaving canvas out in the rain and designed
sculptures that change with exposure to light and viewer interaction. At the
Kitchen, two stacks of carpet-size canvases sit on the gallery floor, separated
by a black scrim. The top canvas on one stack is marked with circles of smeared
paint; on the other are thick dabs of bright color. Each day two performers --
Jessie Gold and Elizabeth Hart, known as Hart of Gold -- execute a 17-minute
dance on the canvases to recorded music composed and sung by Mr. Kanzler. In a
series of carefully choreographed sequences, they spread the paint with their
steps, creating circular patterns and mixing the colors to near-black.

When a painting has been danced to completion, it's hung in the gallery. With
six public performances a week (one a day from Tuesday through Friday, at 5
p.m., and two on Saturday, at 2 and 5 p.m.) through Oct. 3, a total of 24
paintings will be finished, corresponding to the years of Mr. Kanzler's short
life. The whole piece is symbol-driven in this way, in terms set out by Mr.
Falls in a printed statement. The terms themselves (circling patterns, color
blending to black) are not particularly original, nor is the choreography
(ballet plus some rock 'n' roll moves). But the overall effect is moving, the
way ceremonies of mourning that call themselves just that can be.

'September Spring'

The Kitchen

512 West 19th Street, Chelsea

Through Oct. 10




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-september-spring-a-multimed
ia-memorial.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jessie Gold in ''September Spring,'' a performance installation
created by Sam Falls as a memorial to the poet Jamie Kanzler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PAULA COURT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); PAINTING (89%); DANCE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); BALLET (78%);
MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); WRITERS (77%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Romania: Prime Minister Is Indicted in Graft Case

BYLINE: By KIT GILLET

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 322 words


BUCHAREST, Romania -- Prime Minister Victor Ponta of Romania was formally
indicted Thursday, a first for a sitting prime minister here, and will face
corruption charges in Romania's top court.

Mr. Ponta is accused of forgery, money laundering and being an accessory to tax
evasion dating from 2007 to 2008, when he was working as a lawyer, charges he
strenuously denies.

In July, Mr. Ponta, who has been prime minister since 2012, stepped down as
leader of the Social Democrat Party, but has refused to resign as prime minister
despite strong pressure from opposition parties and the country's president,
Klaus Iohannis.

''In my view, the situation is more and more problematic for the prime minister,
for the government and for the Social Democrat Party,'' Mr. Iohannis told
reporters, suggesting that the situation was harming Romania's image abroad.

Mr. Ponta has been struggling since losing a presidential election last
November, but has so far retained the support of his majority coalition. In
June, he survived a no-confidence vote in Parliament, as well as attempts to
lift his parliamentary immunity so that prosecutors could investigate acts of
his while in office.

Mr. Ponta has said that he intends to continue to serve until the next
parliamentary elections, in December 2016.

On his Facebook page on Thursday, Mr. Ponta wrote: ''The IMF says Romania will
overtake the economies of several European countries within three years! I
strongly believe that this is achievable through the work of Romanians and
effective governance,'' adding, ''the only problem of the country is the
obsession of a totally unprofessional prosecutor trying to make a name by
inventing and imagining facts and untrue situations from 10 years ago!''

Mr. Ponta will remain free while on trial. Four other people have also been
indicted in the case.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/romanian-prime-minister-to-face-c
orruption-trial.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (94%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); INDICTMENTS
(91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING
(73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX LAW (72%); IMMUNITY (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(66%); COUNTERFEITING (57%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (88%)

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (97%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Jail Guards Set Up Attack on Inmate, Officials Say

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 605 words


Two Rikers Island correction officers face charges that they settled a personal
score against an inmate by orchestrating an assault on him by a group of four
other inmates and falsifying paperwork to cover up their role in the attack,
officials said on Thursday. The four inmates were also charged.

The charges against Officers Nakia Gales, 39, and Herman Jiminian, 41, include
assault, falsifying records and official misconduct for their suspected role in
the January 2014 attack on Gilbert Bacallao, an inmate at the Vernon C. Bain
Center, a five-story jail barge at Rikers Island nicknamed the Boat. Mr.
Bacallao sustained ''bruising and other injuries'' in the assault, officials
said.

The Bronx district attorney's office said in a statement that the two officers
recruited other inmates housed on the Boat to assault Mr. Bacallao after they
grew angry at him for ''a previous trash-talking session.'' Prosecutors also
accused Officer Gales of having ties to the Bloods, a violent street gang.

''This is a stunning example of correction officers conspiring with the very
inmates they guard to use violence in settling a personal score, according to
the charges,'' Mark G. Peters, the commissioner of the New York City Department
of Investigation, said in a statement. ''There is no tolerance for this type of
thuggish behavior. We will find it; we will root it out; we will see that it is
prosecuted.''

Officer Gales was arraigned on Thursday and pleaded not guilty to all charges,
the district attorney's office said. She was suspended without pay. Officer
Jiminian was scheduled to surrender to the authorities on Friday. If convicted,
prosecutors said, Officers Gales and Jiminian each face up to seven years in
prison.

Norman Seabrook, the president of the Correction Officers' Benevolent
Association, said in a statement: ''We certainly don't condone this type of
behavior and are troubled by these allegations, but these officers have the
right to a vigorous defense under the law and we will make sure that they have
exactly that.''

On Jan. 19, 2014, the Investigation Department said, Officer Gales, who was
seated inside a glass-enclosed operations-and-control room overlooking much of
the jail, instructed Mr. Bacallao to enter a vestibule area so that he could
receive a package. After he was locked inside the vestibule, Officer Gales
allowed four other inmates to enter and assault him. Prosecutors said she wanted
''to teach him a lesson.''

In court on Thursday, prosecutors said that Officer Gales was affiliated with
the Bloods, and pointed to tattoos on her neck as partial proof. Investigators
said two of the four inmates who had been recruited for the assault were members
of the gang.

In a report issued in January, the Investigation Department said that more than
one-third of recently hired correction officers had problems that should have
disqualified them from the job, including criminal histories and gang ties. A
spokesman for the department said the assault on Mr. Bacallao underscored the
urgency of the problem.

The investigation into the alleged roles played by Officers Gales and Jiminian
in the assault began after an emergency response team from the Department of
Correction realized that an account the officers gave of the episode was not
physically possible because of the jail's layout.

Prosecutors identified the inmates who carried out the attack as Percy Ayers,
Troy Roberts, Edwin Martinez and Luis Garcia. Each faces one count of assault in
the second or third degree. None of them are currently being held at Rikers
Island, according to the Investigation Department.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/2-rikers-guards-set-up-attack-on-inma
te-officials-say.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nakia Gales, 39, and Herman Jiminian, 41, guards at Rikers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRECTIONS WORKERS (92%); PRISONS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); POLICE
MISCONDUCT (78%); CONTUSIONS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (72%); GANGS (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Racing Extinction' Charts the Slaughter of Vital Species

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 318 words


If you can watch ''Racing Extinction'' without bawling at least once, then its
director, Louie Psihoyos, suggests you consider that all the tenderly
photographed endangered species that flood its frames are only signposts to the
disappearance of our own.

Noting that our planet's five major extinctions had in common a spike in carbon
dioxide, Mr. Psihoyos worries that the emissions of our own age, aptly dubbed
the Anthropocene, are damaging our oceans in ways that are mostly invisible. And
that the devastating consequences of more direct human behaviors -- like the
mass slaughter of exotic marine life for food and folk medicines -- are also
largely overlooked.

But not if Mr. Psihoyos can help it. Cucumber-cool and with the look of someone
who has seen too much, he and his team don the buttonhole cameras and eco-sleuth
personas familiar to viewers of his dolphin-massacre exposé, ''The Cove''
(2009). Inside illegal Chinese warehouses where skyscrapers of shark fins are
bloodily stacked, and to an Indonesian village where manta rays are butchered
for their gills, he provides gory proof of breathtaking wastefulness.

These scenes are shocking but necessary. Contrasting the ugliness of destruction
with the beauty of its victims is the film's core aesthetic, whether in the
ripple of an ocelot's fur or the dazzling luminescence of the phytoplankton that
provide half of the earth's oxygen.

''When you lose the small things, everything fails,'' Mr. Psihoyos points out,
as we try to erase the image of a terrified shark with nothing but gaping wounds
where its fins had been. Yet it's the film's sounds that really wrench. If
you've ever wondered what a breaking heart sounds like, it's right here in the
futile warble of the last male of a species of songbird, singing for a mate that
will never come.

Racing Extinction

Opens on Friday

Directed by Louie Psihoyos

1 hour 34 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-racing-extinction-charts-the-sla
ughter-of-vital-species.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A projection of an endangered whale in ''Racing Extinction.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ECKMANN/RACING EXTINCTION/OPS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); FISHES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); FILM
DIRECTORS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%)

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 30 words


''There is always a reason to chicken out.''

DEAN CROUSHORE, a professor of economics at the University of Richmond, after
the Federal Reserve postponed any increase in interest rates.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%);
INTEREST RATES (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (83%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Religious Faith Is a Pretext for Abuse

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words


The chief attraction of Colorado City, or so it would seem from the brief entry
on the website of the Arizona Office of Tourism, isn't Colorado City but the
''nearby scenic attractions'' that include the Vermilion and Shinarump Cliffs.
Set at the base of ravishing red cliff mountains, the city and its twin,
Hildale, Utah, look straight out of Canaan. To watch ''Prophet's Prey,'' Amy
Berg's tough and disturbing documentary about a secretive, polygamous Mormon
fundamentalist sect with unsettling roots in the region, is to grasp, perhaps,
the unspoken reason the Arizona tourism office seems to be suggesting that
visitors drive right on by.

The writer Jon Krakauer didn't get the message. As he explains in ''Prophet's
Prey,'' his interest in these particular fundamentalists was sparked when, in
1999, he stopped at a gas station close to Colorado City and Hildale. There, he
saw a group of women dressed in the sort of long prairie dresses that Laura
Ingalls Wilder might have worn if she had liked frocks stitched out of pastel
polyester. This curious sight led him on a journalistic investigation into
Mormonism and its extremes, including the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints (F.L.D.S.), a breakaway sect with thousands of polygamous
true believers in the United States, Canada and Mexico. His book, ''Under the
Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith,'' hit in 2003, but Mr. Krakauer, a
guiding voice in the documentary, is still on the case.

''Prophet's Prey'' was written and directed by Ms. Berg, whose earlier
documentaries include ''Deliver Us From Evil,'' a contemporary horror story
about Oliver O'Grady, a Roman Catholic priest and admitted pedophile who evaded
punishment as he was moved from parish to parish for decades. He was finally
defrocked and deported to Ireland, after doing time in prison.

In ''Prophet's Prey,'' Ms. Berg has found an eerie counterpart to Mr. O'Grady in
the person of Warren Jeffs, a Mormon fundamentalist serving a life sentence for
the sexual assault of two followers, including a 12-year-old girl and a
15-year-old he impregnated. By the time he was on trial, Mr. Jeffs was thought
to have 78 wives, including 12 who were 15 or younger when they wed.

The documentary tracks the rise and fall of Mr. Jeffs, who in 2002 assumed
leadership of the church after the death of his father, Rulon Jeffs. With the
on-camera assistance of Mr. Krakauer and Sam Brower, another dogged
investigator, Ms. Berg fills in a harrowing portrait of Warren Jeffs as a
deluded prophet and serial abuser, especially of girls and women who seem locked
in another century. Their old-timey look will be familiar to fans of the HBO
drama ''Big Love,'' about a polygamous family trying to find a middle way
between faith and the modern world. In ''Prophet's Prey'' there's little
evidence of love in what emerges as a tale of madness and abuse, wealth and
criminality, mixed in with anti-government rhetoric -- all in in the name of
God.

Drawing on archival material, landscape beauty shots and testimonials, including
from former F.L.D.S. members, Ms. Berg has created an unnerving, sometimes
infuriating documentary. She makes smart choices throughout as she weaves
together this chronicle of faith and abuse, but her decision to include an audio
recording that was used at Mr. Jeffs's trial of him allegedly molesting a
12-year-old girl was wrong. This decision contrasts sharply with the scene in
the documentary ''Grizzly Man,'' when an on-camera Werner Herzog listens to --
but doesn't share -- an audio recording of the mauling death of two people. Mr.
Herzog ratcheted up the drama by withholding the recording, but his decision was
also a de facto ethical statement about documentary and the uses of the
suffering of others.

For the most part, though, Ms. Berg gets it right, burying Mr. Jeffs with
persuasive witness testimony and documentation. Along the way, she gestures at
larger, underexplored issues, including the rise of homegrown religious
fundamentalism in the light of rights movements for women and children.
Fundamentalist Mormons are having some kind of moment, including in cable shows
like ''Sister Wives'' and documentaries like this one, which is based on Mr.
Brower's 2011 best seller of the same title. More movies are still to come,
including an adaptation of ''Under the Banner of Heaven'' that is being
developed by Brian Grazer and Ron Howard, two of the executive producers of
''Prophet's Prey,'' and written by a third executive producer, Dustin Lance
Black, who wrote for ''Big Love.'' The story continues.

Prophet's Prey

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Amy Berg, based on the book by Sam Brower; narrated by
Nick Cave; director of photography, Peter Donahue; edited by Brendan Walsh and
Scott Stevenson; music by Mr. Cave and Warren Ellis; produced by Ms. Berg, Mr.
Brower and Katherine LeBlond; released by Showtime Documentary Films. Running
time: 1 hour 45 minutes. This film is not rated.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-prophets-prey-a-documentary-abou
t-mormon-fundamentalists.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Jeffs being escorted to trial in ''Prophet's Prey,'' a
documentary by Amy Berg about a fundamentalist Mormon sect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
BROWER/SHOWTIME)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(91%); FUNDAMENTALISM (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); CULTS & SECTS
(90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLYGAMY
(89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SEX OFFENSES (86%);
TOURISM (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); WRITERS (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS
(73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); CHILD SEXUAL
ABUSE (67%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); PRISONS (66%);
SENTENCING (66%); DEPORTATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (55%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Planter of Mets' Seeds Enjoys Fruition From Afar

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL.

Email: powellm@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 881 words


Do you ever feel pride of authorship as the current edition of the Mets runs
onto the field?

You put that question to Omar Minaya, the former Mets general manager, and he
gives a laugh of pleasure, and deflection. ''You watch Jeurys Familia throw on
Labor Day and Hansel Robles strike out four in two innings, and you're really
happy for them,'' he replies. ''There's a part of you that always sees them as
kids.''

I give general managers a hard time; I acknowledge that. Some of that is
deserved, and sometimes maybe it just looks a lot easier than it is to balance
budgets, contract demands, pushy agents, egomaniacal players and owners, and a
lot of ink-stained reporters.

Sandy Alderson appeared to sleepwalk through one or two trade deadlines, but he
has been fully awake and quite brilliant this time around, and the Mets are
pennant contenders as a result of his moves. When the Wilpons practically pushed
Minaya out a window in the fall of 2010, many New Yorkers grumped that Minaya
had earned his defenestration.

I argued against that at the time. Now the facts argue for more reconsideration.
A bill of indictment against Minaya in 2010 was that he had left the Mets' minor
league system barren of talent.

Let's take a stroll around the current Mets infield. That big power-hitting lug
Lucas Duda at first base? He was a Minaya-era draft pick, as was second baseman
Daniel Murphy, whose hands are iron-coated but whose bat is gold-plated.
Shortstop Ruben Tejada, completing a smart comeback year, was a find from
Panama.

Wilmer Flores, Citi Field's own Fountain of Tears, plays shortstop and second
and swings a handsome bat. Minaya's scouts signed Flores in Venezuela when he
was 16.

Minaya's scouts discovered Juan Lagares, the once and future center fielder,
playing in a softball league in the Dominican Republic. ''We tested his
explosiveness and jumping ability, and he was right there with Carlos Gomez and
Jose Reyes,'' Minaya recalled.

Now we arrive at the golden heart of the matter: pitching. Starters Matt Harvey,
Jacob deGrom, Steven Matz and Jon Niese were Minaya draft picks. In the bullpen,
there is Familia and his heavy fastball and heavier sinker, along with Robles
and Bobby Parnell.

Oh, and Manager Terry Collins? Minaya hired him as a minor league field
coordinator. ''He was going to retire before we hired him,'' Minaya said.

Minaya, now 57, is a baseball lifer, a minor league player of no great talent,
then a keen-eyed scout and general manager. He gives much of the credit for the
good that happened during his Mets tenure to his scouts: Ismael Cruz, Rudy
Terrasas, Ramon Pena, Larry Izzo and others. These treasure hunters discovered
not-so-obvious gems: Matz went in the second round of the 2009 draft, with the
72nd pick; deGrom fell to the ninth round of the 2010 draft, taken with the
272nd pick.

None of this is to diminish the role of Alderson. He made four excellent trades
this season: for Juan Uribe and Kelly Johnson; for Addison Reed; for Tyler
Clippard; and, of course, for Kid Universe, Yoenis Cespedes. Beyond that, the
ecology of a baseball team is not that of a football team.

The Seahawks draft a stud receiver or running back, and he will be judged a
champ or a bust halfway through his rookie season. In baseball, to draft a
player is to embrace guiding a teenager through to adulthood. If all goes well,
if that player masters his off-speed pitches and the stress of the minor leagues
and does not blow out his elbow or end up terminally baffled by the curveball,
he might make his debut in the majors two, three, four years later.

Robles, a fastball thrower out of the Dominican Republic, joined a Mets rookie
league team in 2009 and made his debut this season. Lagares labored for seven
years in the minors; Flores for five; Duda for the better part of four.

Minaya gives repeated credit to Alderson and Paul DePodesta, the Mets' vice
president for player development and amateur scouting. They nurtured and molded
these players into major leaguers. Coaches, managers, minor league batting
coaches -- all are sensei.

''You're just happy to be part of something that is working today; a story is
not written by one man,'' Minaya said. ''If I said I always knew all these kids
would be this good, I'd be lying.''

One general manager's success can become transactional gold for the next. So
Minaya took a calculated gamble and signed a little-known knuckleballer, R. A.
Dickey. He won 20 games and a Cy Young Award for the Mets. Then Alderson smartly
flipped Dickey for Noah Syndergaard and Travis d'Arnaud, two vertebrae in the
spine of the current Mets.

(A writer who resembles this one argued against that Dickey trade, terming it a
potential disaster; this could be adduced as yet more proof that this writer's
crystal ball is permanently cracked.)

After a lifetime in baseball, Minaya now serves as a senior adviser to Tony
Clark, the executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association.
Minaya pays special attention to what will become of the Cuban ballplayers who
cross the straits to America and sometimes upend the American game.

''Cespedes is single-handedly changing the face of a franchise this year,''
Minaya noted.

He did not have to add that the franchise was one he helped build.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/omar-minayas-fingerprints-are-
all-over-these-mets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Omar Minaya, the former general manager, and his scouts drafted
or signed many eventual Mets stars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSE DITTMAR FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SOFTBALL (78%); STADIUMS
& ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (61%); INDICTMENTS (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (78%);
UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Pop

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1633 words


For full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. A searchable guide to
these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

? Alabama Shakes (Saturday) This five-piece group transformed from throwback
novelty to left-of-center pop savants with the April release of ''Sound &
Color,'' a diverse, slippery album that confounded and delighted critics and
debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard charts. The lead singer Brittany Howard, who
is fresh off the release of her own debut album and a spot on the premiere of
''The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,'' remains a formidable live presence. At 7
p.m., Forest Hills Stadium, 1 Tennis Place, at Burns Street, Forest Hills,
Queens, foresthillsstadium.com. (Andrew R. Chow)

? ASAP Rocky and Tyler, the Creator (Tuesday) It almost seems like a sitcom: the
trap lord from Harlem, the introspective gang affiliate from Long Beach, the
punk oddity from Detroit and the caustic goofball from Los Angeles, all sharing
a tour bus. But these four young hip-hop visionaries -- ASAP Rocky, Vince
Staples, Danny Brown and Tyler, the Creator, respectively -- have been putting
out brilliant, twisted, challenging works over the last few years. Long
scrappers and underdogs, they deserve the spotlight of New York's most famous
venue. At 8 p.m., Theater at Madison Square Garden, 800-745-3000,
theateratmsg.com. (Chow)

? Caspian (Saturday) A mostly instrumental post-rock band from Beverly, Mass.,
that takes after Godspeed You! Black Emperor, many of Caspian's songs start in
placid dreamlike spaces that give way to the righteous fury of crunching metal
riffs. The group will release a gorgeously textured album, ''Dust and
Disquiet,'' next week. With Circle Takes the Square. At 9 p.m., Rough Trade NYC,
64 North Ninth Street, at Kent Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn,
roughtradenyc.com. (Chow)

Josh Groban (Saturday) The wildly popular crossover artist will perform
favorites from an assortment of musicals. At 8 p.m., Kings Theater, 1027
Flatbush Avenue, near Tilden Avenue, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, kingstheatre.com.
(Chow)

Lalah Hathaway (Tuesday and Wednesday) The huge-voiced daughter of Donny
Hathaway has been recording for 25 years but only recently started racking up
awards: She won Grammys the past two years for her work with the jazz-fusion
acts Snarky Puppy and Robert Glasper. The gospel artist Jonathan McReynolds
appears with her on Wednesday. At 8 p.m., B.B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West
42nd Street, Manhattan, 800-745-3000, bbkingblues.com. (Chow)

How to Dress Well (Friday) Two of How to Dress Well's compadres in slow-burning
indie R&B, Miguel and the Weeknd, leapt closer to the mainstream this year with
blazing production and some Michael Jackson dance moves. But this 31-year-old
singer, born Tom Krell, hasn't changed gears quite yet, so expect a full
immersion into his wallowing, disarming bedroom music. With Ben Zimmerman. At 8
p.m., Baby's All Right, 146 Broadway, near Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg,
Brooklyn, babysallright.com; sold out. (Chow)

The Jesus and Mary Chain: 30th Anniversary of 'Psychocandy' (Thursday and next
Friday) Jon Pareles knew there was something different in the water when he
reviewed ''Psychocandy'' in 1986. ''The Jesus and Mary Chain has an outside
chance of bringing more noise to the mainstream -- and in the history of rock
and roll, that has always been a good sign,'' he wrote in The New York Times.
Indeed, the seminal album helped usher in the shoegaze craze that peaked in the
early 1990s and remains potent today; bands like Beach House are still trying to
capture what the Jesus and Mary Chain achieved 30 years ago. With the Black
Ryder. At 8 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, 800-745-3000,
terminal5nyc.com. (Chow)

Lewis Del Mar (Monday) Very little is known about this Rockaway Beach-based duo,
who blew up online over the summer with their Soundcloud single ''Loud(y).'' A
clattering, profane, mixed-media anthem, the song raced to number on Hype
Machine's Popular chart. This gig is being billed as the band's first ever -- it
remains to be seen whether the group can conjure its high-wire act in a live
setting. With Julius. At 6:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at
Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, 800-745-3000, mercuryloungenyc.com. (Chow)

? Madonna  (Saturday) Amy Schumer, zeitgeist comedian extraordinaire and opening
act of this performance, was 3 when Madonna writhed her way to infamy at the
first ever MTV Video Music Awards. Regardless, they make an excellent pair, with
their brash sexuality, continuing subversion of cultural norms and delight in
making other people squirm. At 8 p.m., Barclays Center, 620 Atlantic Avenue, at
Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, barclayscenter.com. (Chow)

Holly Miranda  (Friday) In the right mood, on the right stage, the Detroit
singer-songwriter Holly Miranda will belt her absolutely debilitating cover of
Etta James's ''I'd Rather Go Blind.'' Most tracks from her hazy, self-titled
blues-pop solo album, released this year, offer similarly gorgeous torture. At
10:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower
East Side, 800-745-3000, mercuryloungenyc.com. (Stacey Anderson)

The Month in Cabaret The September cabaret season features a two-week engagement
by the heroic, too-seldom-seen Broadway baritone Brian Stokes Mitchell in his
new show ''Plays With Music'' (at Café Carlyle through Sept. 26). Anyone who has
seen his previous nightclub shows can attest that he is a singularly majestic
presence whose voice cascades through many shades into a thunderous bass that
can move mountains. He will be accompanied by a trio led by his longtime pianist
and collaborator, Tedd Firth, with Gary Haase on bass and Mark McLean on drums.
At the same club, the pre-punk cutup Buster Poindexter, a.k.a. David Johansen,
begins a two-week engagement on Sept. 29. The raucous rock 'n' roll lounge
lizard is a phenomenon: A 65-year-old man with the fun-loving heart of a
15-year-old adolescent. Who said youth can't be semi-eternal? (Through Oct. 10.
Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8:45 p.m., with additional shows on Saturday and
Sept. 26 at 10:45 p.m., 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, 212-744-1600,
thecarlyle.com.) At Joe's Pub, the gender-blurring performance artist Justin
Vivian Bond, celebrating 25 years of performances, begins a yearlong
retrospective at Joe's Pub. It starts on Friday with an early work, ''Dixie
McCall's Patterns for Living,'' inspired by the sultry 1950s glamour girl Julie
London (Also on Saturday, next Friday, Sept. 25, 26 and Oct. 2 through 4, at 9
p.m., the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village,
212-967-7555, joespub.com.) For one night only at the Cutting Room, the Cy
Walter Centennial Celebration will present an all-star remembrance of the
eminent, half-forgotten grand style cabaret/jazz piano. (Sept. 27 at 6 p.m., 44
East 32nd Street, Manhattan, 212-691-1900, thecuttingroomnyc.com.) (Stephen
Holden)

Robert Plant and the Sensational Space Shifters (Friday) The golden maned,
lionized singer of Led Zeppelin has aged with grace and verve, as shown on
recent albums with Alison Krauss -- their 2007 album snagged the Grammy for
Album of the Year -- and his latest band, the Sensational Space Shifters. That
group joins him here, on one of the last stops of a huge worldwide tour, for
world-music grooves, Appalachian folk ditties and stadium rock. With the Sonics.
At 8 p.m., Manhattan Center Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street,
Manhattan, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Chow)

Sturgill Simpson (Saturday) The 2015 Governors Ball and Farmborough festivals
had two main things in common: residing on Randalls Island, and a Sturgill
Simpson performance. He's one of the few acts that stays comfortable in both
country and indie crowds, his rollicking three-chord assaults and potent
storytelling beloved by the former, and keen interest in psychedelics and
metaphysical musings intriguing the latter. With Billy Wayne Davis. At 8 p.m.,
Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, 800-745-3000, beacontheatre.com.
(Chow)

Speedy Ortiz and Doomtree (Thursday) In a show of compassion for their fans, the
Massachusetts indie-rock darlings of Speedy Ortiz recently created a hotline to
promote safety at their concerts. The group has been on tour all year supporting
its excellent album ''Foil Deer,'' and will open here for the Minneapolis
hip-hop collective Doomtree, which punches out furious, knotty lyricism. At 8
p.m., Brooklyn Bowl, 61 Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-963-3369,
brooklynbowl.com. (Chow)

Tei Shi (Sunday) On her EP ''Verde,'' released in April, the singer-songwriter
Valerie Teicher, a.k.a. Tei Shi, exploits her voice in all kinds of ways:
whispering, crooning, belting, running it through watery effects and looping it
back again. Her song structures skirt around pop conventions while still
delivering indelible hooks, and she alternates between bombast and sly seduction
during live performances. With Sonnymoon and Salt Cathedral. At 8 p.m., Music
Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000,
musichallofwilliamsburg.com. (Chow)

Young Thug (Friday) The Atlanta rapper has had a roller coaster year, from
putting out of the year's best rap releases (''Barter 6'') to spending some time
in jail and seeing his debut album trapped in record label limbo. Through it
all, he's been an electric, sprightly presence, and is one of the great hip-hop
stylists at the moment. The many features he jumped on this year, most recently
the slick T.I. banger ''Peanut Butter Jelly,'' give him a surplus of wonky
material to pull from. At 9 p.m., the Paramount, 370 New York Avenue, near Elm
Street, Huntington, N.Y, 800-745-3000, paramountny.com. (Chow)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/pop-rock-listings-for-sept-18-24.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH TSUJI/GETTY IMAGES FOR THELONIOUS MONK
INSTITUTE OF JAZZ) (C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES
(89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (86%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GROUPS
& ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); GRAMMY AWARDS
(78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); HIP HOP
CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); GANGS (54%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hungarian Mayor Threatens Migrants in Homemade Action Movie

BYLINE: By ROBERT MACKEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; OPEN SOURCE; Pg.

LENGTH: 467 words


While images of Hungarian riot police officers firing tear gas and water cannons
at migrants along the Serbian border on Wednesday appalled human rights
activists, the mayor of one small town in the south of Hungary remains concerned
that his nation might still seem too welcoming to those fleeing war or poverty.

To remedy this, Laszlo Toroczkai, an ultranationalist with a flair for the
dramatic, released a personal ''Message to illegal immigrants from Hungary'' on
Facebook and YouTube late Wednesday, threatening them with arrest and displaying
his town's security hardware in a video edited in the style of a big-budget
action movie.

[Video: A Hungarian mayor's ''Message to illegal immigrants.'' Watch on
YouTube.]

After a simulated chase sequence filmed from the air -- featuring a helicopter,
a motorcycle and two burly men on horses -- Mr. Toroczkai, mayor of Asotthalom,
uses Google Maps to illustrate that the land route from Serbia to Germany is
longer through Hungary than it is through Croatia and Slovenia. He does not
mention that it is also far more mountainous.

''Hungary is a bad choice,'' he intones at the end of the video. ''Asotthalom is
the worst.''

The video, which was promoted by Mr. Toroczkai's allies in the far-right Jobbik
party, quickly racked up hundreds of thousands of views and admiring comments.

As Szabolcs Panyi of Hungary's Index.hu news site reported, the video was
quickly remixed and mocked by Hungarian bloggers from the opposite end of the
political spectrum.

Before he was elected the mayor of Asotthalom, a village of about 4,000 people
near the border with Serbia, Mr. Toroczkai was well known for his extremist
views as the leader of the 64 Counties Youth Movement, which calls for Hungary
to reclaim the lands outside its current borders ceded after World War I.

In its online propaganda, the movement betrays a fondness for rallies in rural
settings and fascist banners.

[Video: A promotional film made by Hungary's far-right 64 Counties Youth
Movement. Watch on YouTube.]

Despite his aversion to illegal border crossing, Mr. Toroczkai was beaten up by
Serbian nationalists in 2008 after sneaking across the frontier to attend a
rally in the Serbian province of Vojvodina, which is home to a large population
of ethnic Hungarians.

It is not clear who produced his video message, but earlier this week, Mr.
Toroczkai -- who was once expelled from a far-right party as too radical --
posted a link on Facebook to another video, ''made by a friend,'' showing what
he called ''apocalyptic'' scenes at the border. That video was set to music that
seemed to have been borrowed from a video game or action film.

[Video: A vision of chaos at the Hungarian border town of Roszke, endorsed by
the mayor of Asotthalom, Laszlo Toroczkai. Watch on YouTube.]




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/hungarian-mayor-threatens-migrant
s-in-homemade-action-movie.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); RIOTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%);
MAYORS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING
(90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); WORLD WAR I (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); RURAL
COMMUNITIES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); HUNGARY (96%); CROATIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SLOVENIA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Olvidados' Revisits Rightist Terror in South America

BYLINE: By NICOLE HERRINGTON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 344 words


''It's men like these that will keep the backbones of our countries straight.''
In the director Carlos Bolado's ''Olvidados'' (''Forgotten''), those words, a
vote of confidence in two Bolivian generals, are more ominous than noble. These
men are soon rolling up their sleeves to terrorize activists and anyone else
considered a threat to their government.

The campaign, Operation Condor, that inspired this fictional film was a reality
in South America from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s, when right-wing dictators
in Bolivia, Argentina, Chile and several other countries, reacting to a
perceived threat from leftist dissidents, had their political opponents
kidnapped and executed.

The focus in this Bolivian film is mostly on a retired general (Damián Alcázar)
whose memories of his past linger. Convalescing after a heart attack, he
confesses his role in a letter to his son, who apparently was unaware of the
true nature of his father's work. As if echoing a fever dream, ''Olvidados''
frequently lurches back in time, showing the general's role in the persecution
of a group of activists and a journalist (Carloto Cotta) and his pregnant wife
(Carla Ortiz, also a producer of the film and one of its three screenwriters).
At times, the less-than-graceful transitions are accompanied by the crackling
sound of electricity, in case you missed the scenes of detainees' being
electrocuted. (Some of the technical flourishes evoke one of those basic-cable
shows with cheesy re-enactments.)

In dark detention centers overrun with mice, bloodied detainees debate the
dangers of extremism by those on the right and the left as well as what
constitutes a democracy. The opening breezes through archival footage from the
era, dossiers on dictators and newspaper clips. While it would be a tall order
to fully elucidate this complicated history in two hours, ''Olvidados'' is
hamstrung by Mr. Bolado's lack of focused direction and a convoluted plot.

Olvidados

Opens on Friday

Directed by Carlos Bolado

In Spanish, with English subtitles

1 hour 52 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-olvidados-revisits-rightist-terr
or-in-south-america.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%);
MOVIE RELEASE DATES (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%);
PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%)

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); CHILE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing | South; Mississippi: Six-Month Prison Term for Hanging Noose
on Statue

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 509 words


A former University of Mississippi student was sentenced Thursday to six months
in prison for his role in placing a noose around a statue of James Meredith, the
black man who integrated the university in 1962.

The former student, Graeme P. Harris, had previously reached an agreement with
federal prosecutors and pleaded guilty to a single count of using a threat of
force to intimidate students because of their race.

Judge Michael P. Mills of Federal District Court in Oxford, Miss., ordered Mr.
Harris to surrender on Jan. 4, nearly 23 months after an inebriated Mr. Harris
wanted to ''create a sensation on campus using a Confederate flag,'' according
to a court filing.

Joined by two other men, Mr. Harris went from the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity
house to the plaza on the university campus where Mr. Meredith is honored. Once
there, Judge Mills wrote, ''they draped an old Georgia state flag, which is
partially comprised of a Confederate battle flag, and hung a rope around the
neck of the statue.''

''It's James Meredith,'' Mr. Harris said while the men planned the vandalism,
according to another court document. ''People will go crazy.''

Mr. Harris's lawyer, David G. Hill, said in a court filing that Mr. Harris felt
he had been ''mistreated a few years earlier on the basis of his race.'' Mr.
Harris's perceptions, the lawyer argued, were ''only exacerbated and
heightened'' by the fraternity's racially charged environment.

Mr. Hill wrote that Mr. Harris ''was told by the fraternity leaders that no
blacks were allowed in the house socially, that the only blacks allowed here are
'back there,''' meaning in the kitchen.

''At the University of Mississippi, within the walls of the Sigma Phi Epsilon
house, Graeme learned that blatant racism was not only O.K., it was expected,''
Mr. Hill wrote in a filing in which he asked that Mr. Harris be spared prison.

Beaux Carriere, a spokesman for the fraternity's national office, said in an
email on Thursday that Mr. Harris's ''allegations paint a picture that was not
substantiated by our investigation.''

''Members of the chapter attempted to intervene and advised the students not to
go through with their plan,'' Mr. Carriere said. Mr. Harris's behavior, he
added, was ''the antithesis of what our fraternity stands for and requires of
its members.''

The fraternity closed its chapter at the university in April 2014.

In a statement after Mr. Harris was sentenced, Brandi Hephner LaBanc, the
university's vice chancellor for student affairs, said, ''The working
relationship between the university and federal authorities very clearly affirms
that offensive and illegal acts of this nature will not be tolerated on our
campus.''

The Justice Department said Thursday that its investigation was continuing.

One of Mr. Harris's friends was scheduled to plead guilty to a single charge on
Wednesday, but that hearing was postponed. Another man named in court documents
has not been charged.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/man-sentenced-to-six-months-for-role-in-pla
cing-noose-on-ole-miss-statue.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITIGATION (90%);
CORRECTIONS (90%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); US CONFEDERATE FLAG CONTROVERSY
(89%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (89%);
STUDENT HOUSING (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); VANDALISM (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%);
AGREEMENTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SIGMA PHI EPSILON (56%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kane Says He Is Innocent of Sexual Assault

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.H.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 307 words


The Chicago Blackhawks star Patrick Kane, in his first public remarks on the
sexual assault investigation against him, declared on Thursday that he had
''done nothing wrong'' and expected to be absolved.

Kane, a 26-year-old right wing, said it had been an ''incredibly difficult time
for many people'' since the allegation surfaced in early August.

''I cannot apologize enough for the distraction this has caused my family,
teammates, this incredible organization and, of course, our fans,'' said Kane,
who was flanked by team officials including John McDonough, the president and
chief executive; Coach Joel Quenneville; and General Manager Stan Bowman.
''While I have too much respect for the legal process to comment on an ongoing
matter, I am confident, once all the facts are brought to light, I will be
absolved.''

Kane is accused of sexually assaulting a woman at his off-season home outside
Buffalo, according to news reports.

He has not been charged, but the case has shadowed the Blackhawks as they
prepare for a season that begins Oct. 7. The team held the news conference the
day before the start of training camp on the Notre Dame campus.

ISLANDERS TRADE GRABNER The Toronto Maple Leafs acquired forward Michael Grabner
in a six-player trade with the Islanders. The Maple Leafs gave up forwards
Taylor Beck and Carter Verhaeghe, defensemen Matt Finn and Tom Nilsson, and
goaltender Christopher Gibson.

Grabner, 27, has recorded 155 points (95 goals and 60 assists) over 317
regular-season games. He had 13 points last season, playing only 34 games
because of injuries. He is due to make $5 million this season.

Beck had eight goals and eight assists in 62 games for the Nashville Predators
last season. The other players heading to the Islanders played in the American
Hockey League or the Ontario Hockey League last season.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/hockey/blackhawks-patrick-kane-says-he-
has-done-nothing-wrong.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); ICE
HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (74%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); EXECUTIVES
(70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (93%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (55%)

PERSON: CHRIS GIBSON (50%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA
(65%)

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); TENNESSEE, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Discovering Secret Life of Husband Left Behind

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 842 words


The close-up shot that opens ''The New Girlfriend'' evokes a glamorous church
wedding, as lipstick is carefully applied to the impassive face of a beautiful
woman while an organ plays a triumphal ''Here Comes the Bride.'' But it takes
only a moment before you realize that the ceremony is really a funeral.

So begins the French filmmaker François Ozon's playful screen adaptation of a
dark story by the British mystery writer Ruth Rendell. By turns mischievous,
sentimental, subversive and silly, this serio-comic exploration of
cross-dressing, gender fluidity and desire suggests the career-opening salvo of
a cheeky cinematic enfant terrible and not the work of an old hand with well
over a dozen features behind him. But that's one of Mr. Ozon's gifts; he makes
everything old feel new and fresh.

Mr. Ozon has never tried to conceal his influences, foremost among them Alfred
Hitchcock. In ''The New Girlfriend,'' Hitchcock's diabolical sense of humor is
evident in little surprises like the bridal corpse. But here, the master of
suspense's winking hide-and-seek games coincide with Pedro Almodóvar's brazen
rebelliousness in a movie that feels like a fashion editor's glossy tribute to
that Spanish iconoclast. Where androgyny in Mr. Almodóvar's movies is often
raucous, disruptive and provocatively sexualized, in Mr. Ozon's ''The New
Girlfriend,'' it is sweet, unthreatening and almost cozy. A sparkling,
sugar-frosted score by Philippe Rombi supplies a wistful romantic gloss.

The dead woman, Laura (Isild Le Besco), is the childhood playmate of Claire
(Anaïs Demoustier), with whom she sealed a vow of eternal friendship that
culminated in their double wedding to sleek Prince Charmings: Laura to David
(Romain Duris), and Claire to Gilles (Raphaël Personnaz).

Laura's death leaves behind an adorable baby daughter, Lucie. Shortly after the
funeral, Claire pays an unannounced visit to David, finds the front door
unlocked, and comes upon Lucie being rocked in the arms of an unfamiliar woman,
whom she is shocked to discover is really David in a blond wig and one of
Laura's dresses. Her initial distaste quickly gives way to sympathy when David
reveals that his sometime compulsion to cross-dress returned after his wife's
death, and that putting on her clothes is his way of keeping her alive. Lucie
also seems delighted with her feminized papa. Laura, he insists, was comfortable
with his cross-dressing; he assures Claire that he is not gay.

No sooner has Claire adjusted to the revelation than her curiosity is piqued.
Before long, she and David venture out on shopping expeditions, with Claire
providing grooming tips and pointing out David's slips in his effort to pass as
a woman. As his enthusiasm for drag deepens, he assumes a female alter ego named
Virginia. In a magical excursion to a gay bar, he and Claire revel in an
atmosphere of complete acceptance and freedom.

David is a mesmerizing star turn for Mr. Duris, whose resemblance to a young
Mick Jagger (except for the lips) is uncanny. Movie magic makes the diminutive
actor entirely convincing as a haughty 6-foot-plus cross-dresser. In her full
glory, Virginia is a chic honky-tonk siren in high heels with a wicked leer and
eyes that flash with a haughty defiance.

Mr. Ozon, like Hitchcock and Mr. Almodóvar, has always been more interested in
storytelling than in heavy psychological realism. That's why ''The New
Girlfriend,'' despite its forays into gender bending, doesn't feel like a
personal or political statement. It has no axes to grind.

At heart, it is an elevated French farce, a much hipper, more relaxed and
sophisticated update of ''La Cage aux Folles.'' The characters, not the issues,
drive a story about upscale Gallic suburbanites risking social embarrassment,
but little more, if they're discovered.

Mr. Duris's Virginia and Ms. Demoustier's Claire make a delightful couple whose
clandestine friendship is inevitably complicated by deepening mutual sexual
attraction. It is left for us to consider whom Claire desires more, David or
Virginia. ''The New Girlfriend'' never pretends to be more than what it is, a
delicious and frothy fantasia with a teasing erotic frisson.

''The New Girlfriend'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or
adult guardian) for strong sexual content and graphic nudity.

The New Girlfriend

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by François Ozon, adapted from ''The New Girlfriend,'' by
Ruth Rendell; director of photography, Pascal Marti; edited by Laure Gardette;
music by Philippe Rombi; production design by Michel Barthelemy; costumes by
Pascaline Chavanne; produced by Eric and Nicolas Altmayer; released by Cohen
Media Group. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 49 minutes.

­

WITH: Romain Duris (David/Virginia), Anaïs Demoustier (Claire), Raphaël
Personnaz (Gilles), Isild Le Besco (Laura), Aurore Clément (Liz), Jean-Claude
Bolle Reddat (Robert), Bruno Perard (Eva Carlton), Claudine Chatel (Nanny),
Anita Gillier (Nurse), Alex Fondja (Nurse's Aide) and Zita Hanrot (Waitress).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-in-the-new-girlfriend-a-widowers
-secret-life-is-revealed.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anaïs Demoustier as Claire and Romain Duris as David, a widower
who was married to Claire's childhood friend, in ''The New Girlfriend.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY COHEN MEDIA GROUP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MYSTERY &
SUSPENSE FILMS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); WRITERS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL
(65%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Another Danger in a Perilous Journey: Poisonous Mushrooms

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 413 words


LONDON --  Migrants streaming into Europe have braved fierce storms, navigated
turbulent waters, faced down police batons, water cannons and tear gas in
Hungary, and stepped through fields in Croatia strewn with land mines.

Now some of the asylum seekers headed toward Western and Central Europe face
another worry: toxic mushrooms.

Hanover Medical School, an academic hospital in north-central Germany, warned
this week that about 30 migrants had been sickened -- some of them severely --
after eating mushrooms commonly called death caps.

The hospital made and distributed posters in Arabic, Kurdish and other languages
cautioning migrants to avoid the fungus, which is native to Europe and can cause
fatal liver and kidney damage. On Thursday, similar cases of mushroom poisoning
were reported in Münster, about 110 miles west of Hanover. A dozen patients
remained hospitalized on Thursday, three in critical condition, Dr. Michael P.
Manns, chairman of the department of gastroenterology, hepatology and
endocrinology at Hanover Medical School, said in an email.

Desperate migrants traveling for days with little to eat may have resorted to
foraging for food as they made their way across Europe, where they hope to find
asylum.

''Do not collect mushrooms, if you are unfamiliar with edible growing mushrooms
here,'' the Hanover hospital warned in the poster. ''A mushroom you regard from
your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here although they
look similar.''

The death cap (Amanita phalloides) resembles several varieties of edible
mushrooms, making it particularly dangerous to people who are unfamiliar with
the local terrain. The mushroom is found across much of Europe and in the United
States, California in particular. And right now it is in the middle of its
three-month growing season in Europe.

''Since this fungus has no repellent taste and the first symptoms occur only
after several hours, the risk of getting sick form its consumption is extremely
high,'' the hospital said. It urged anyone who had eaten mushrooms and later
experienced nausea, diarrhea or other symptoms to head to the nearest hospital.

The death cap is an invasive species in the United States. It typically poisons
a few people a year in California, often immigrants from Southeast Asia who
confuse it with paddy straw mushrooms from their homelands, according to Anne
Pringle, a biologist at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who studies toxic
mushrooms.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/migrant-refugee-crisis-poisoning-
cases-death-cap-mushrooms.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSHROOMS (94%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (88%);
POISONINGS (78%); WEATHER (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (77%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (76%);
UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (67%); BIOLOGY (65%);
INVASIVE SPECIES (50%)

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (91%);
HUNGARY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Warren Murphy, Writer and Creator of Remo Williams, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg.

LENGTH: 641 words


''Everyone knew why Remo Williams was going to die,'' was how Warren Murphy and
Dick Sapir began ''Created the Destroyer,'' their first gritty thriller, in
1963.

For eight more years, though, both the character Remo Williams, a brash former
Newark police officer, and Mr. Murphy's literary career hovered between life and
death.

''We didn't know anything about publishing,'' Mr. Murphy, who died on Sept. 4,
recalled years later, referring to himself and Mr. Sapir, his co-writer, ''so we
did the usual stupid things, like sending the manuscript off for critique to one
of those alleged literary agent quacks who used to advertise in Writer's
Digest.''

Finally, a secretary at Pinnacle Books, who was a patient of Mr. Sapir's father,
a dentist, volunteered to show the manuscript to a Pinnacle editor. (''What else
are you going to say to a guy who's got a drill in your mouth?'' Mr. Murphy
said.)

The novel was published in 1971. Remo was immortalized. And he did not die: He
survived to return in almost 150 more titles, which sold millions of copies and
inspired a 1985 film, ''Remo Williams: The Adventure Begins,'' with Fred Ward as
Remo and Joel Grey as Chiun, the ancient Korean master of a version of martial
arts called Sinanju.

Mr. Murphy died at 81 at his home in Virginia Beach, Va. The cause was heart
failure resulting from lung disease, his son, Devin, said. His latest novel,
''Bloodline,'' is due this year.

Warren Burton Murphy was born in Jersey City on Sept. 13, 1933. He served in the
Air Force, then worked as a reporter and editor for The Hudson Dispatch and The
Jersey Journal. He was later press secretary to, among others, Mayor Thomas J.
Whelan of Jersey City, who was convicted of extortion in 1971.

''I became a writer when everybody I worked for in Jersey City politics went to
jail,'' Mr. Murphy told The New York Times in 1984. ''I thought God was sending
me a message to find a new line of work.''

''And then,'' he added, ''I went bad and became a novelist.''

He won an Edgar Allan Poe Award, given by the Mystery Writers of America, for
his 1984 novel ''Grandmaster,'' a paperback best seller about two chess
prodigies embroiled in espionage that he wrote with his first wife, Molly
Cochran. He won another Edgar for his ''Pigs Get Fat'' (1985), one of a series
of comedic detective novels whose title character is Devlin (Trace) Tracy.

His ''Legacy'' series followed Remo Williams's offspring.

Both his marriages, to Ms. Cochran and to Dawn Walters, ended in divorce. In
addition to his son Devin, he is survived by another son, Brian; three
daughters, Deirdre Abbotts, Megan Murphy and Ardath Hering; and six
grandchildren.

Mr. Murphy wrote the ''Destroyer'' series on and off with Mr. Sapir, a fellow
journalist, who died in 1987, and later on his own or with other co-authors.

In Hollywood, Mr. Murphy had writing credits for the 1975 Clint Eastwood film
''The Eiger Sanction'' and the Mel Gibson-Danny Glover buddy film ''Lethal
Weapon 2'' (1989).

His cloak-and-dagger adventure novels veered into social satire, the gory and
occasionally the supernatural, but his definition of what was truly frightful
was surprisingly prosaic.

''Terror's not ghosts flying through the walls, going woo-woo-woo,'' Mary
Higgins Clark, the mystery writer, quoted him as saying. ''Terror is when the
party is over and everyone has gone home and at last you can take a deep breath
and you lock the doors and your place is finally empty and quiet, and you turn
out the lights and then you hear the toilet flush upstairs. That's terror.''

Mr. Murphy offered would-be novelists a free primer on his website. One
suggestion was, ''If you could read Page Six of The New York Post or The New
York Daily News every day for a week and not come up with a dozen ideas for a
novel, you might consider finding a new hobby.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/books/warren-murphy-writer-and-creator-of-remo
-williams-dies-at-82.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%);
WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%); MYSTERY &
SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); LITERARY AGENTS (76%); BESTSELLERS (76%); AIR FORCES
(72%); ESPIONAGE (69%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%); EXTORTION (50%); MARTIAL ARTS (50%)

COMPANY: GREY AS (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES
(67%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (54%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Africa; Mozambique: Free of Land Mines After Years of Work

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words


Once contaminated with tens of thousands of land mines from a legacy of war,
Mozambique was officially declared cleansed of those weapons on Thursday after
22 years of work.

The achievement, celebrated at an event in the capital, Maputo, was considered
especially remarkable by disarmament advocates. Some had regarded Mozambique as
so riddled with land mines that clearing them would perhaps take centuries.

A few decades ago, ''many doubted that clearance could be completed in a timely
fashion -- or that it would take hundreds of years,'' said Megan Burke, director
of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines -- Cluster Munition Coalition, a
leading advocacy group.

Most of the clearance work was done by the Halo Trust, a Scotland-based
international organization that helps former conflict zones cleanse themselves
of land mines and other vestiges of war that can kill and maim long after the
combat has stopped. Teams are still at work, for example, clearing World War I
battlefields of unexploded ordnance.

Overall, Halo said in a statement, its workers cleared more than 171,000 land
mines from Mozambique in a decontamination project that began in 1993,
accounting for about 80 percent of the total destroyed.

Destruction of the last-known land mine took place Wednesday and was witnessed
by Cindy McCain, the chairwoman of Halo U.S.A., the group's American branch, and
the wife of Senator John McCain of Arizona. She said in a statement that the
destruction symbolized the end of a dark era for Mozambique, ''once strewn with
the deadly debris of war.''

A former Portuguese colony, Mozambique was consumed by conflict for decades,
first in a war of independence and then a civil war that lasted until 1992 and
left about a million people dead.

While the casualties from leftover land mines in Mozambique have not been
calculated, Human Rights Watch said in a 1994 report that more than 10,000
people had been killed or maimed by these weapons in just the first few years of
peace.

Under an international treaty banning land mines, known as the Ottawa
Convention, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines is
forbidden. Most countries have accepted the treaty. At least 30 countries have
not, including the big powers China, Russia and the United States.

In June 2014, the Obama administration put the United States on a course to
eventually sign the treaty, announcing steps to reduce the American stockpile
and find alternative ways to achieve the tactical military advantages of land
mines.

The United States has been a leading funder of land mine clearance work,
including in Mozambique, which now joins 27 other countries formerly
contaminated with them that are regarded as free of mines.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/africa/after-22-years-of-work-mozambique
-is-free-of-land-mine-peril.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDMINES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ORDNANCE CLEARANCE (90%);
TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING
(78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE
(78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); WORLD WAR I (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); CINDY MCCAIN (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

CITY: MAPUTO, MOZAMBIQUE (90%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: MOZAMBIQUE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); CHINA (79%);
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); SCOTLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brooklyn Book Festival Ushers in a Season of Literary Delights

BYLINE: By NICOLE HERRINGTON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WEEKEND MISER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 636 words


With the arrival this month of works by Jonathan Franzen, Salman Rushdie and
other literary heavyweights, the fall publishing season has come roaring to
life. (So long, summer beach reads.)

The seasonal shift also heralds one of the largest book fairs New York has to
offer, the Brooklyn Book Festival, returning on Sunday for its 10th iteration.
Readers of all types should find something to satiate their tastes: The free
festival will host more than 300 authors (of fiction, nonfiction, poetry and
graphic novels) on 14 stages in and around Brooklyn Borough Hall and Plaza in
Downtown Brooklyn.

Each hour brings a handful of panels, discussions and readings. (For strategic
purposes, the more ambitious attendees may want to use the calendar tool on the
festival's website.) Among the participating authors with new books are Margo
Jefferson (''Negroland''), taking part in a discussion titled ''The Lost Middle
Class'' at 1 p.m. at Brooklyn Law School; Mr. Rushdie (''Two Years Eight Months
and Twenty-Eight Nights'') in conversation with Paul Holdengräber, curator of
Live From the New York Public Library, at St. Francis College at 5 p.m.; Valeria
Luiselli (''The Story of My Teeth'') and Guadalupe Nettel (''The Body Where I
Was Born'') on ''The New Latin American Literature: A View From Within'' at St.
Francis College at 4 p.m.; and Lauren Groff (''Fates and Furies''), who will be
on two panels: one discussing intimacy in literature at 3 p.m. at Borough Hall
and the other a celebration of the mysterious Italian writer Elena Ferrante
(whose final installment of her Neapolitan series arrived this month) at St.
Francis College at 5 p.m.

(From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; rain or shine; brooklynbookfestival.org.)

As if the festival weren't enough of a feast for bookworms, several other
literary events are taking place over the next week. Brace yourself.

Joy Williams will give a free reading of her new collection of short stories,
''The Visiting Privilege,'' at McNally Jackson in SoHo on Saturday at 7 p.m. (In
his review in The New York Times, Dwight Garner called the ''unbelievably
funny'' stories a ''full-tilt tasting menu of misanthropy and guile.'') Mr.
Franzen swings through town to discuss his latest, ''Purity,'' which Michiko
Kakutani of The Times described as having a ''gripping, foot-on-the-gas plot.''
His readings are pricier, but still a bargain: Admission to two of his
appearances (at Barnes & Noble in Union Square next Friday at 7 p.m. and at St.
Joseph's College in Brooklyn on Sept. 26 at 6:30 p.m.) is essentially the price
of the book. At Barnes & Noble, a receipt for the book is required for entrance,
and at St. Joseph's College, the $30 ticket includes the book.

(Mcnallyjackson.com; stores.barnesandnoble.com; greenlightbookstore.com.)

On Wednesday at 6:30 p.m., La Casa Azul Bookstore in East Harlem is hosting PEN
Mingle, a free gathering presented with the local authors Michele Carlo, Dahlma
Llanos-Figueroa, Virginia Grise and Sergio Troncoso. On Thursday at 7 p.m., the
LiterarySwag Book Club will convene for a free discussion at the Strand Book
Store in the East Village, where the subject will be Ta-Nehisi Coates's
''Between the World and Me.'' (The author is not scheduled to attend.) Moderated
by the writer Yahdon Israel, the club's events aim to ''create a culture that
simultaneously celebrates literature and style.''

(Lacasaazulbookstore.com; strandbooks.com.)

On Sept. 28, Ms. Ferrante will be the subject of another discussion, this one at
Symphony Space. Parul Sehgal, an editor at The New York Times Book Review, will
moderate a panel featuring John Waters, Sonali Deraniyagala, Elizabeth Strout
and Judith Thurman; Jenny Slate will be among the actors performing excerpts
from the text.

(At 7:30 p.m.; symphonyspace.org; $25; $15 for 30 and under.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/books/brooklyn-book-festival-ushers-in-a-seaso
n-of-literary-delights.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Brooklyn Book Festival returns Sunday for its 10th
iteration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASSI ALEXANDRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS &
SHORT STORIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES
(75%); POETRY (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); LAW SCHOOLS
(67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Confusion Grows as Solution to Crisis Eludes Europe

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Reporting was contributed by Andrew Higgins in Brussels;
Melissa Eddy in Berlin; Helene Bienvenu in Horgos, Serbia; Palko Karasz in
Budapest; Joseph Orovic in Tovarnik, Croatia; Matthew Brunwasser in Sid, Serbia;
Kristina Bozic in Ljubljana, Slovenia; and Miroslava Germanova in Bratislava,
Slovakia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1492 words


BUDAPEST --  Europe's failure to fashion even the beginnings of a unified
solution to the migrant crisis is intensifying confusion and desperation all
along the multicontinent trail and breeding animosity among nations extending
back to the Middle East.

With the volume of people leaving Syria, Afghanistan and other countries showing
no signs of ebbing, the lack of governmental leadership has left thousands of
individuals and families on their own and reacting day by day to changing
circumstances and conflicting messages, most recently on Thursday when crowds
that had been trying to enter Hungary through Serbia diverted to Croatia in
search of a new route to Germany.

Despite the chaos, there were few signs that European Union leaders, or the
governments of other countries along the human river of people flowing from war
and poverty, were close to imposing any order or even talking seriously about
harmonizing their approaches and messages to the migrants. Instead, countries
continue to improvise their responses, as Croatia did Thursday, and Slovenia --
the next stop along the rerouted trail -- is likely to do in coming days.

The migrants did not shift course to Croatia on a whim. When Hungary effectively
blocked their access on Tuesday with a border crackdown -- which resulted in an
ugly skirmish Wednesday between the police and migrants -- they had few options.

And Macedonian and Serbian officials, along with many aid organizations, were
urging them to circumvent a hostile Hungary and even providing maps and nonstop
bus service to the Croatian frontier. Initially, Croatia's foreign minister,
Vesna Pusic, seemed to encourage them, too.

''They can move freely in this period,'' she said. ''We will try to restore a
decent face to this part of Europe.''

So, since Wednesday morning, more than 11,000 migrants have entered Croatia, and
officials said 20,000 more were already in Serbia, making their way to the
Croatian border and likely to arrive soon -- while untold tens of thousands more
waited in Turkey and Greece for a clear signal about whether to follow.

But what the first arriving migrants found on the Croatian border was only more
fog.

The Croatian interior minister said that the country would abide by European
Union rules and register all arriving asylum seekers and that they could not
simply pass through the country unfettered. Then late Thursday, swamped by the
crush of migrants, Croatia announced that the border would be closed altogether,
indefinitely.

Slovenian officials said that, no matter how many migrants Croatia lets through,
they would register all arrivals and turn back any who do not qualify as
refugees -- a task that Hungary can attest is easier said than done.

But what effect would registering in Croatia or Slovenia have on their ability
to settle later in Germany or elsewhere? Would Slovenia ever let them pass? If
they did, would new border controls in Austria and Germany hold them back?

No one seemed to know.

''We have money, we can buy food and water,'' said Manar Alqawy, 23, who spent
25 days traveling from Syria and found himself thwarted on the Croatian border.
''We can pay taxis, smugglers. Just let us get to Slovenia.''

Hungary, which had declared a ''state of crisis'' along its Serbian border on
Tuesday expanded it Thursday to include Croatia's.

So far, Croatians have welcomed the migrants, said Drago Zuparic, a sociologist
at the Institute for Migration and Ethnic Studies in Zagreb, but that could
quickly turn if the refugee tide grew and extremists hijacked the debate. The
first Syrian refugees reached the Slovenian border crossing at Obrezje Thursday
afternoon, but were halted on the Croatian side while officials decided what to
do next.

A train from Belgrade to Zagreb reached another Slovenian border crossing on
Thursday carrying 200 to 250 migrants. The police took them off the train, but
no one seemed to know on Thursday evening whether they would be returned to
Croatia or allowed to proceed.

''What we expect from the E.U. is to tell us what the form of good European
behavior is,'' said Nebojsa Stefanovic, Serbia's interior minister. ''Is it what
Germany is doing, where refugees are welcomed with medicine and food? Or is it
where they are welcomed with fences, police and tear gas?''

The European Union, Mr. Stefanovic added, ''needs to say not just what the law
is, but what the European norm is, what the values are that Serbia should
share.''

For weeks, government leaders across Europe seemed to think that Germany, the
most prosperous nation in the 28-member bloc and a top destination of choice for
the migrants, would fashion some sort of solution. Germany has not, and perhaps
cannot, and has instead insisted that the arriving migrants be distributed more
evenly among the union's members

Germany has sent its own mixed signals. Even as it champions the asylum seekers,
lawmakers are considering a package of measures that would make it easier to
swiftly deport those who do not qualify as refugees under existing laws. A draft
of the bill, drawn up by the office of Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière and
circulated among German news media on Thursday, also includes efforts to reduce
incentives for migrants to reach Germany, such as providing necessities like
toiletries instead of cash.

On Thursday, Germany also showed the strain, saying it was indefinitely
suspending all train service between Munich and Salzburg, in neighboring
Austria, because the task of searching every train for migrants was wreaking
havoc with schedules. Refugee agencies were struggling with accepting and
processing so many asylum seekers.

And Manfred Schmidt, the president of the Federal Office for Migration and
Refugees, which many blame for inadvertently inciting the latest surge of
refugees and migrants into the Balkans with a Twitter post that seemed to
promise asylum in Germany for all Syrians, announced he was resigning -- for
''personal reasons.''

Yet more than a week after its top executive, Jean-Claude Juncker, called for
''immediate action'' to calm the escalating refugee crisis, the European Union
was still groping for a way around the deep divisions that have blocked joint
action to address Europe's biggest humanitarian crisis since World War II.

In the latest attempt to end the bickering, the bloc said Thursday that it would
hold an emergency summit of leaders in Brussels next Wednesday to revive a
stalled plan to spread the refugees around the continent.

Resistance to that idea -- which has been vehemently opposed by many countries,
including most of the poorer, former Communist states in the east -- was evident
yet again in parliamentary debate Wednesday in Slovakia.

All of Slovakia's top parties, which normally can agree on almost nothing,
concurred that the country should not be obligated to accept refugees.

''We have rejected these quotas for two reasons,'' said Robert Kalinak, the
interior minister. ''They don't solve the situation. It won't work. The ones who
draw Germany in the lottery will be happy, the ones who draw Estonia will be
unhappy.''

Western leaders, particularly in Germany, bristled at what they saw as
opportunistic selfishness among Eastern nations, who are eager to accept money
and help from the West but are not always willing to share a burden.

''The current situation gives the impression that Europe is something people
participate in when there is money, and where one disappears into the bushes
when it is time to take on responsibility,'' said Sigmar Gabriel, head of
Germany's center-left Social Democrats who serves as Chancellor Angela Merkel's
deputy.

Next week's meeting in Brussels follows the failure of a rancorous meeting of
interior ministers on Monday, which left unresolved the plan put forward last
week by Mr. Juncker, the president of the European Council, to distribute
120,000 asylum-seekers around Europe.

Even as Hungary and Serbia continued to snipe over Wednesday's violence, the sun
set slowly Thursday evening over the now serene border crossing of Horgos,
Serbia, site of the clash between migrants and the Hungarian police. More than
2,000 migrants had camped beside the closed crossing on Wednesday, but only
about 200 were left by Thursday evening.

The rest had apparently given up the notion that Hungary would reopen the border
and were trying their luck in Croatia, or elsewhere. But Issa Issa, from Asaka,
Syria, said he had decided to wait it out in Horgos. He had tried calling
friends who left for Croatia and Slovenia, but either they did not answer or
told him that the Slovenian border was blocked.

''This is an important border crossing for Serbia and Hungary,'' he said. ''They
won't leave it closed for long. I'm ready to camp here for a month.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/europe-migrants-refugees.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, migrants on the edge of a cornfield Thursday near the
Serbia-Croatia border outside Sid, Serbia. Migrants are now diverting to Croatia
from Serbia after Hungary closed its border with Serbia, with most of them
trying to reach Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

 Migrants pushed through police lines in Tovarnik, Croatia, to board a train
bound for Zagreb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF J MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES) MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TERRITORIAL &
NATIONAL BORDERS (87%); REFUGEES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (69%); MOTORCOACHES &
BUSES (69%); BORDER CONTROL (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); POLITICAL ASYLUM
(60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); ZAGREB, CROATIA (57%)

COUNTRY: CROATIA (98%); EUROPE (96%); SERBIA (95%); SLOVENIA (94%); HUNGARY
(94%); GERMANY (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%);
AFGHANISTAN (91%); SYRIA (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
(79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials' Pits Hardy Teenagers Against a
Mysterious Organization

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 306 words


Science doesn't yet know how many movies it will take to answer this century's
most pressing question: How will attractive teenagers survive the apocalypse?

''Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials,'' the second in a series about a racially
diverse but otherwise interchangeable set led by a hardy hunk named Thomas
(Dylan O'Brien), throws us right into the action. Stiff, vague bits of
exposition establish that the youths had, indeed, been in some kind of maze. Now
they are in a large industrial compound, saved from a nefarious organization
called WCKD by another mysterious crew led by Janson (Aidan Gillen), a
transparently shady guy himself. The teenagers are among the only people left
immune to a virus that turns humans into zombielike mutants that shriek like
velociraptors.

Thomas discovers that Janson is stringing kids up, unconscious and riddled with
tubes, for some reason related to the virus. That's enough info for him to grab
his friends and skedaddle. Their unlikely jailbreak sends them blinking into a
blasted landscape of ruined skyscrapers and giant sand dunes, like some
combination of Tatooine and Detroit, where they hope to survive long enough to
find a fabled group of resistance fighters.

''The Scorch Trials'' adds nothing new to the unkillable dystopian genre, but
it's at least less ponderous than its predecessor. The many chases and ludicrous
narrow escapes offer respectable doses of adrenaline.

''What do we do now?'' a weary character asks near the end. With one last
rousing speech from Thomas, that's obvious: Make a third movie, due in 2017.

''Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned).
Occasional gun violence and fewer bad words than you would utter under similar
duress.

The Maze Runner

The Scorch Trials

Opens on Friday

Directed by Wes Ball

2 hours 11 minutes




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-maze-runner-the-scorch-trials-pi
ts-hardy-teenagers-against-a-mysterious-organization.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the run in an apocalyptic landscape: from left, Jacob
Lofland, Alex Flores and Dylan O'Brien in ''Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials,''
directed by Wes Ball. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD FOREMAN, JR./TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX
FILM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'The Man Who Saved the World' Recounts a Cold War Near Miss

BYLINE: By DANIEL M. GOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 289 words


Accidental nuclear attacks have been the stuff of high-tech thrillers for a
half-century, at least since ''Fail-Safe'' (1964). But this apocalyptic fiction
almost became fact in 1983, averted only by the doubts of a single Soviet Union
officer.

As vividly portrayed in Peter Anthony's ''The Man Who Saved the World,'' Lt.
Col. Stanislav Petrov was in charge of the Soviet early warning systems
overnight on Sept. 26, 1983. Computerized satellites detected first one, then
other launches -- five in all -- of nuclear missiles by the United States. But
there was no visual confirmation, and Colonel Petrov decided to tell his
superiors they were false alarms, despite being required to report these
''maximum verifications.'' Had he followed protocol, retaliatory strikes would
surely have followed, triggering an American response in kind and mutually
assured destruction.

Somewhat clumsily, this hybrid documentary blends re-enactments of those and
other events with Mr. Petrov's real-life trip to the United States in 2006 to
accept an award from the United Nations. Mr. Petrov is a secretive, unlikable
old pensioner, who softens over time in the presence of his young interpreter
and in meetings with Walter Cronkite, Robert De Niro and Kevin Costner.
Depicting Mr. Petrov's bleak life since the death of his wife, the film reflects
on the links each individual has, willingly or not, to the rest of humanity. ''I
was just at the right place at the right time,'' Mr. Petrov says, a simple truth
that becomes shocking when considering the alternative. For that alone, this
account of a Cold War near miss deserves a wide audience.

The Man Who Saved the World

Opens on Friday

Directed by Peter Anthony

1 hour 45 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-the-man-who-saved-the-world-reco
unts-a-cold-war-near-miss.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanislav Petrov in ''The Man Who Saved the World.'' (PHOTOGRAPH
BY STATEMENT FILM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MOVIE
RELEASE DATES (75%); ARMS RACE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A People Suffered; Their Art Tells the Story

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1350 words


Much art is made for pleasure or profit. Some is made to save lives and souls.
The 15 sensational carved wood figures, standing like thorny trees in a grove,
at the end of ''Kongo: Power and Majesty'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
are examples of art of the rescuing kind. They are sculptural responses to a
slow-motion emergency, one that shaped the history of the African continent and
continues to resonate there today.

For centuries the West assumed that Africa had no history, because none had been
found written down. Instead, it was said to be timeless in the way that the
primitive was timeless: that is, retarded, suspended in backwardness. Call that
a state of innocence; call it savagery. Either way, it was a condition to be
patronized, corrected, exploited. Only beginning in the late 20th century, when
the notion of primitivism came under widespread critical fire, were the
antiquity and dynamism of African cultures acknowledged, and demonstrated in
long-researched exhibitions like this one, which has been organized by Alisa
LaGamma, the curator in charge of the department of the arts of Africa, Oceania
and the Americas.

It begins at a very specific time and place: the coast of Central Africa in
1483, the year a navigator named Diogo Cão, on a pioneering mission for the
Portuguese court, landed near the mouth of the Congo River to scout
possibilities for trade. He carried on board several seven-foot-high limestone
columns carved with a cross and the royal coat of arms. With them, he staked
territorial claims for Portugal in what is now Angola. All but one of those
columns vanished long ago. The sole survivor is at the Met, introducing the
exhibition in much the way that, centuries ago, it introduced Europe to Africa,
and vice versa.

The Portuguese had landed in territory occupied by Kongo peoples, who formed
several separate states ruled by kings in urban courts similar to those of
Europe. And the initial encounter was auspicious, viewed by both sides as a
meeting of equals. Spiritually adventurous and intellectually curious, the Kongo
elite took an avid interest in Christianity and quickly learned the skill of
writing. One of the earliest items in the show is a 1517 letter from the Kongo
king to his Portuguese counterpart requesting a shipment of prayer books and
liturgical instruments.

We know from records that many thousands of such things subsequently flooded
into Africa, though none have been tracked down there. What has been found are
religious images made by African artists after European prototypes. A little
brass Kongo figure of a crucified Christ with starburstlike hands and feet is
one. And Western museums hold a small number of objects that, in the 16th and
17th centuries, traveled from Africa to Europe as souvenirs or gifts, landing in
Medici palaces and cathedral treasuries.

A lot of what has been preserved of this precious export material is in the Met
show, and consists mainly of two types of luxury items: elephant tusks carved
with exquisite geometric patterns (one is from the Palazzo Pitti in Florence),
and woven palm-fiber textile panels incorporating the same abstract designs.
Examples of both float, as if on the sea, in the blue-walled opening gallery.
And they carry history with them. The patterns they share appear in almost
identical form on African ceramics dating to the late Iron Age, and on
ceremonial caps and capes made between the 16th and the early 20th century.

The wearers of such regalia included priests or ritual specialists, who played a
crucial role in governance. The Kongo cosmos was generally understood to be made
up of two realms, one occupied by the living, the other by the ancestral dead.
The priest's job was to maintain communication between the two, and to channel
otherworldly energy through certain charismatic objects, often sculpted figures
called minkisi (singular, nkisi), which policed human behavior and promoted
peace. Social balance and continuance were the highest good, embodied in paired
male and female images, and in the perfect, endless abstract patterns woven in
textiles and inscribed on ivories.

About halfway into the show, however, something appears that throws that balance
off: It's a tusk covered with tiny figures, among them shackled slaves. The
piece is late, probably from the 1880s, but the realities it documents are much
older. The rapport between Europe and the Kingdom of Kongo was brief. Portugal
soon made its colonialist intentions clear. Other Western nations -- France,
Britain, the Netherlands -- aggressively followed its lead. Kongo peoples lost
their gainful position as gatekeepers to the wealth of the continent's interior.

Worse, the effects of the Atlantic slave trade were catastrophic. Africans had
always participated as suppliers. But by the mid-17th-century, Kongo territory
roughly corresponding to modern Angola, Congo and the Congo Republic-- had
itself become a primary source of captives. By 1850, a third of its population
had ended up in chains in the Americas.

Nor was there relief to be found in Africa. There the age of colonialism was
underway. Forced labor was common. With the adult male population reduced by
slavery, the nuclear family, the core unit of Kongo social organization, was
shattered. Traditional occupations, economic structures and value systems, along
with the communal identity they sustained, were radically destabilized.

Religion was what was left. Female power figures, depicted as women of idealized
beauty supporting and nursing infant-size adult males, proliferated. Regal but
tender, they held the promise of fecundity in a withering time, and certain
sculptors made a specialty of them. Two such artists -- called the Master of
Kasadi, the Master of Makaya Vista and the Master of Boma Vonde, for the regions
where they worked -- have been identified by style. Although each adheres to a
fixed image type, their approaches, seen in comparative pieces in the show, are
distinctive in detail and mood.

As expressive as these images were, they could do nothing to prevent the reign
of terror visited on the Kongo world by Belgian colonial rule beginning in the
1870s. At that point, in what feels like a last-ditch move, a shock troop of
male power figures, called Mangaaka, was brought into play. Only around 20 are
known; 15 of those, from collections in Europe and the United States, including
the Met, are in the final gallery.

Just under life-size, they were carved from wood by master artists. Fitted with
animal-hair beards and huge white ceramic eyes, they lean forward, mouths open,
as if looking and listening intently, ready to leap. Their torsos bristle with
pounded-in spikes and nails, each the seal of a vow made or an injustice to be
prosecuted. The source of their energy lies in magical substances -- medicines
-- placed by priests in their hollowed-out bellies and behind their eyes.

Such images are the spiritual equivalent of antibodies, designed to hunt down
and eliminate infection in a social body on the verge of systemic collapse. They
were meant to stop a viral history in its tracks, reverse its course. They were
focused in a way that makes much other art, however ambitious, feel vague in
purpose, a distraction from, rather than an engagement with, the politics of
living and dying. It's a measure of the respect they inspired that all of the
figures, brothers in arms, seem to have had their medicine removed before
leaving Africa. The West would get the form but not the substance of their
might.

They make a memorable conclusion to an unusually tight, idea-filled and
troubling show. When these figures were conceived, the Scramble for Africa was
on full-bore, with Western nations barbarously slicing up and devouring a
continent. That depredation has never stopped, even if some of its participants
have changed, China being the latest scrambler. And Africa's history, embedded
in some of the world's most potent art, goes on.

''Kongo: Power and Majesty'' runs through Jan. 3 at The Metropolitan Museum of
Art; 212  535-7710; metmuseum­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-kongo-power-and-majesty-at-
the-metropolitan-museum-of-art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kongo: Power and Majesty: The exhibition, opening Friday at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, includes this figure from the 19th or early 20th
century. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEU DA CIÊNCIA DA UNIVERSIDADE DE COIMBRA, PORTUGAL)
(C21)
Left, a tusk with engravings, part of the exhibition ''Kongo: Power and
Majesty.'' Right, some religious images on view were made by African artists
after European prototypes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Right, masks on display. Below, sculpted figures called minkisi. Bottom, a
detail of a geometric pattern from one of the figures in the exhibition. The
works in the show date from 1483 and move toward the 20th century, and many of
them contain religious images
the later works were heavily influenced by the slave trade and by the effects of
colonialism. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROSS ART MANAGEMENT, LLC, NEW YORK) (C26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RELIGION (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(85%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

STATE: CONGO RIVER (79%)

COUNTRY: AFRICA (96%); PORTUGAL (93%); EUROPE (93%); ANGOLA (79%); CENTRAL
AFRICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Illustrated Kimonos Celebrate Japan's Once Mighty Military

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 292 words



Enlightened modern people tend to think of war as a repugnant, if sometimes
regrettable necessity. At different times and places, however, it has been
regarded -- and still is for some cultures -- as an enterprise of great moral
and spiritual value. Such a positive perspective is vividly illustrated in this
visually and historically fascinating exhibition of more than 30 Japanese
kimonos with printed images celebrating Japanese military might. All but one are
from the 1930s and early 1940s, the period when Japan invaded Manchuria, waged
war against China and aligned with the Axis powers of Germany and Italy.

Created by unidentified graphic artists for men, women and children, the kimonos
bear lively compositions of utmost sophistication reflecting international
styles like Art Deco and Depression Modern. In patchwork patterns and suavely
muted colors, they depict fighter planes, battleships, antiaircraft artillery,
aerial landscapes, maps and cute children dressed as soldiers.

One of the most striking has scores of red-and-white fields of Japanese flags --
rising suns and simple discs -- overlapping to create an optically buzzing, near
abstraction. A poetic and beautiful woman's kimono shows red-and-yellow
airplanes decorated with cherry blossoms flying angelically this way and that
over a background of horizontal red-and-white stripes. The image on a man's
haori -- a kimono-style jacket -- envisions in black and white a luminous city
of the future with a streamlined zeppelin and airplanes flying over blocky,
modern buildings. War may be terrible, but for its victors it promises heaven on
earth.

'Japanese Propaganda Kimonos, 1905-1941'

Edward Thorp Gallery

210 11th Avenue, at West 25th Street, Chelsea

Through Oct. 17




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/review-illustrated-kimonos-celebra
te-japans-once-mighty-military.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman's haori, circa 1940, at the Edward Thorp Gallery.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDWARD THORP GALLERY, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); ARMED FORCES
(71%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); VISUAL ARTS (69%);
ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (53%)

STATE: NORTHEAST CHINA (56%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); CHINA (56%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Miami Art Museum Appoints a Director

BYLINE: By BRETT SOKOL, HILARIE M. SHEETS and JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 983 words



The offices of Miami's newest art museum are about to become more crowded: The
Institute of Contemporary Art, Miami, has just appointed a new director, Ellen
Salpeter, and added two junior curators.

Ms. Salpeter, the deputy director for external affairs at the Jewish Museum in
New York, said she was anything but daunted by leaving a venerable institution
founded in 1904 for one not even a year old -- and still in temporary quarters,
awaiting the construction of its new 37,500-square-foot home and
15,000-square-foot sculpture garden. ''Having the opportunity to be in at the
beginning with the thinking and strategic planning is very exciting to me,'' she
said.

In a sense, Ms. Salpeter is returning to her roots. She was executive director
of the Thread Waxing Space in New York from 1994 until it closed in 2001. That
nonprofit was a focal point for downtown Manhattan's cultural scene, with key
early shows by artists like Leonardo Drew and Dara Friedman and concerts by a
Who's Who of indie rockers.

Ms. Salpeter said she looked forward to convening a similar stylistic mix in
Miami: ''Art and artists of any persuasion and any medium, whether it's
performing artists, visual artists or poets, have always been in my
wheelhouse.'' The museum is currently hosting a group show of emerging South
Florida artists, including Scott Armetta and Jason Hedges; coming months will
bring solo exhibitions from Shannon Ebner of Los Angeles and the New Yorker John
Miller.

When Ms. Salpeter begins in Miami on Dec. 1, at least she won't have to worry
too much about finances. Irma Braman, co-chairwoman of the museum's board of
trustees, and her husband, Norman, a billionaire auto dealer and longtime civic
activist, are personally funding the construction of the new building. The
museum is also relying solely on other private donors for its $5 million annual
budget. Mr. Braman refused to discuss the building's total cost and played down
an appeal filed by two of the site's neighbors to reverse its city zoning
approval. ''That won't stop us from breaking ground next month and starting
construction,'' with an anticipated museum opening in mid-2017, he said. ''We're
going full blast.'' BRETT SOKOL

Window on the High Line

If millions can stare into your window, why not give them a show? When Ryan Lee
Gallery moved into its third-floor space on West 26th Street in Chelsea in 2014,
with a window at eye level to the High Line, it inaugurated the space RL Window,
with video projections to hook the audience streaming through the elevated park.
Beginning on Oct. 29, it will present its first performance installation,
bringing to life Sandy Skoglund's comically disorienting 1979 photograph
''Hangers.''

A pioneer of staged photography, Ms. Skoglund built the original set for her
breakthrough image, first shown at Castelli Graphics, in her former tenement
studio on Elizabeth Street. There, she taped blue plastic hangers every which
way over aggressively yellow walls and a pink floor, and photographed a young
man in yellow pajamas entering this hallucinatory cabinet of curiosities, also
strewn with rubber duckies, rubber gloves and chairs of the same fluorescent
palette.

''I was imagining that a future culture coming upon these mass-produced objects
might display them as historical artifacts or try to come up with ideas of how
they were used,'' said Ms. Skoglund, who became well known in the 1980s and '90s
for images of people in mundane interiors invaded by, say, green radioactive
cats or giant goldfish that she constructed by hand.

At Ryan Lee, in her first solo show in New York since 2001, she will recreate
the ''Hangers'' tableau, but now oriented toward the High Line rather than a
camera. On Saturdays for the run of the show, a performer will periodically
wander into the room as a stranger in a strange land. ''In some ways, all my
work is a performance, even if it's been private for the camera,'' Ms. Skoglund
said. In the main gallery space, she will exhibit ''True Fiction Two,'' based on
handmade photo collages of people in incongruous places that were first shown at
Castelli in 1987 and later reworked with Photoshop ''to look more
photographic,'' she said.

Jeff Lee, a partner in the gallery, said: ''Handcrafted photography is something
explored by a lot of young artists, and I am really interested in how Sandy's
early body of work is in dialogue with a lot of things happening in contemporary
art. Her trippy psychological spaces and retro color palette are very fresh
again.'' HILARIE M. SHEETS

City of Brotherly 'Amor'

It's not English. But the playful and vibrant design -- four red letters
arranged in a square, the O tilting to the right -- is ubiquitous, and so is its
message: ''Amor.'' This Spanish-language form of Robert Indiana's famous
''Love'' sculpture, a 1998 update of his Pop Art classic, will be unveiled on
Tuesday outside the Philadelphia Museum of Art, about a mile from the tourist
favorite ''Love'' on John F. Kennedy Plaza. The sculptures will be bookends to
Benjamin Franklin Parkway, where Pope Francis is expected to celebrate Mass with
an audience of more than a million on Sept. 27.

Timothy Rub, the museum's director, said that his institution, along with the
Association for Public Art, wanted to commemorate the papal visit with a
sculptural installation. The choice came easily: ''Amor'' means love in both the
pope's native Spanish and the Roman Catholic Church's Latin. The Indiana
sculpture, which is on loan from the Morgan Art Foundation, ''recommended
itself,'' Mr. Rub said.

Come Sept. 28, the pope will be gone, but ''Amor'' will remain for four months.
''This is meant to be a celebration of the pope being here,'' said Penny Bach,
director of the Association for Public Art. ''But on a longer-term basis, it's a
celebration of Philadelphia and its message as an international city.'' JOSHUA
BARONE




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/institute-of-contemporary-art-miam
i-names-ellen-salpeter-as-director.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandy Skoglund's breakthrough 1979 image, ''Hangers.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY SKOGLUND, RYAN LEE, NEW YORK)
 A rendering of the Institute of Contemporary Art, Miami. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ARANGUREN & GALLEGOS, ICA MIAMI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); APPOINTMENTS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(91%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); NEW CONSTRUCTION
(89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); ZONING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); SCULPTURE (73%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POP &
ROCK (67%); BUDGETS (63%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%);
APPEALS (60%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (54%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Asia; India: Diplomat Accused of Rape Leaves the Country

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR; Hari Kumar contributed reporting

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 757 words


NEW DELHI -- A Saudi diplomat accused of rape by two Nepali women who worked at
his home near Delhi has left India, according to the Indian government, which
confirmed that the man had diplomatic immunity from prosecution.

India's Ministry of External Affairs identified the diplomat as Majed Hassan
Ashoor, the first secretary at the Saudi Embassy, in a statement issued late
Wednesday. The statement did not say when Mr. Ashoor had left India.

Attempts to contact the Saudi Embassy on Thursday were unsuccessful, but it had
previously denied the women's accusations.

The two women, who had worked for Mr. Ashoor as maids, said last week that they
had been repeatedly raped, abused and threatened by the diplomat and other men
at his home in Gurgaon, a city near Delhi. They also said they had been confined
to the residence.

The police began an investigation and removed the women from Mr. Ashoor's home
last week, after receiving a tip from an advocacy group. The women, who have not
been identified and who were 50 and 25, police said, have returned to Nepal.

The ministry's statement on Wednesday said that Mr. Ashoor was protected by the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, under which diplomats are immune from
criminal prosecution in the country where they are posted.

Traditionally, India has taken a strong stand on the inviolability of diplomatic
immunity, even when it touched on issues of mistreatment of domestic staff. In
2013, Devyani Khobragade, an Indian diplomat posted in New York, was arrested
and accused of submitting false documents to secure a work visa for her
housekeeper and paying her below the legal wage, but it was Ms. Khobragade's
treatment from the American authorities that provoked a furor in India.

Still, the case involving Mr. Ashoor has hit a nerve because it involves
allegations of rape in India, where sexual violence has been a pressing concern
lately, and because of fears of a rise in trafficking from Nepal since an
earthquake there in April.

G. Parthasarathy, a retired Indian diplomat, said that the Indian government
could have asked the Saudi Embassy to waive diplomatic immunity or expelled the
diplomat from the country. India may have preferred what happened, which was
that the Saudi Embassy withdrew the official, since it would have been reluctant
to provoke Saudi Arabia, Mr. Parthasarathy said.

''We are very sensitive about these matters,'' he said, mentioning the episode
with Ms. Khobragade.

The Criminal Investigation Bureau in Nepal arrested two people on Wednesday
under the Human Trafficking and Transportation Control Act. The two were
suspected of being involved in the recruitment of the women and helping to
connect them to agents in India, said Kiran Bajracharya, a police official with
the Criminal Investigation Bureau. A Nepali agent in Delhi took 100,000 Nepalese
rupees, under $1,000, from an Indian agent for each woman, he said.

The women came in April and June, respectively, from Nepal to India by land,
then later traveled to Sri Lanka, then Jidda, where they stayed for a month, Mr.
Bajracharya said. They ended up coming back to Delhi and working for Mr. Ashoor
in his Gurgaon apartment, though they told the Nepali authorities they were not
paid. It was unclear what they were doing in Saudi Arabia or in India before
they began working for Mr. Ashoor.

Rajendra Man Shrestha, a counsellor at the Embassy of Nepal in New Delhi, said
that the younger woman's husband was sick and needed an operation.

''The victim was motivated by the trafficker that you will be paid by 1,000 in
local money, Saudi money, which is really big money there,'' said Mr. Shrestha,
who spoke to the two women. ''She was convinced.''

Despite the concerns about an increase in human trafficking from Nepal since the
earthquake this spring, official numbers have not risen, said Sunita Nepal,
undersecretary at the human trafficking unit at the Ministry of Women and Child
Social Welfare in Nepal.

The police had been unable to question Mr. Ashoor because of his immunity.
Navdeep Singh Virk, the police commissioner in Gurgaon, said the authorities
would continue to investigate other individuals in connection with the
accusations, based on the women's statements.

''The case will go ahead,'' Deep Kumar Upadhyay, the Nepali ambassador to India,
said in a televised interview with the ANI news agency. He added that it was
''our duty to give justice to the poor victims.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/asia/saudi-diplomat-accused-of-rape-has-
left-india-government-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (92%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%);
EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS
(78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%);
POLICE FORCES (74%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); SEX TRAFFICKING (67%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (61%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); DELHI, INDIA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); NEPAL (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Underdogs or Not, Pressure Is On for Both Teams

BYLINE: By LISA D. MICKEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1090 words


It could be said that parity has arrived at the Solheim Cup.

Beginning with the inaugural event in 1990, the Americans dominated the biennial
match-play competition pitting Europe against the United States, winning five of
the first seven Solheim Cups.

But this year, for the first time in the event's history, many consider the
Americans to be underdogs against the Europeans, winners of the last two
editions.

When competition begins Friday in the 14th Solheim Cup, the United States will
attempt to wrestle away the trophy at the St. Leon-Rot Golf Club in St.
Leon-Rot, Germany.

And while the Americans hold the Solheim Cup record for most consecutive
victories (3), with triumphs in 1994, 1996 and 1998, as well as in 2005, 2007
and 2009, the Europeans have a chance to equal that streak this weekend.

''They've earned the right to carry that cup for the last two Solheims, and now
we have to earn the right to win it back,'' said Juli Inkster, the United States
captain, when she announced her team in August. ''It's been a long time since
we've been the underdogs. The only way to get that back is to go over there and
work hard and play some good golf.''

Both Europe and the United States will bring a mixture of team experience and
youthful firepower to Germany. Inkster added Alison Lee, 20, who has posted six
top-10 finishes as an L.P.G.A. rookie this season, including a tie for sixth
last week at the Evian Championship in France, the final major of the season.

Europe returns two players who were perfect at the 2013 Solheim Cup: Caroline
Hedwall of Sweden went 5-0, while Carlota Ciganda of Spain was 3-0 as a Solheim
rookie.

The American team has three players who have won L.P.G.A. tournaments this year,
while Europe has two L.P.G.A. tournament winners. The Americans hold a slight
edge in world rankings, with six members in the top 25, while Europe has only
two.

Both sides have six members who played college golf in the United States. In
addition, three of the Europeans have competed for the Great Britain & Ireland
team in the Curtis Cup, while eight of the Americans have competed in that
biennial event. Nearly a dozen players on both sides have competed in the
Women's World Amateur Team Championship.

Europe leads 33-23 in combined Solheim Cup points since 2011, while the
Americans lead 172-160 in points scored since the first event in 1990. The
United States leads the series, 8-5, but its last victory was in 2009.

As the defending champion, Europe needs to win only 14 of the total 28 points to
retain the cup. In 2013, the Europeans had earned 10 points after the first two
days of play and then either won or halved all but two of the 12 singles matches
on the final day to finish with a total of 18 points.

''People try to break it down and be scientific, but we just have to play good
golf, make putts, and the rest will take care of itself,'' said the American
player Gerina Piller. ''The goal is to play tough and win holes.''

Her teammate Lizette Salas was frank about the American squad's status.

''On paper, we are the underdogs and we'll be playing on foreign soil,'' she
said, ''but I also want to think that for an extra push, to stay motivated
throughout the week.''

Another American, Stacy Lewis, agreed that her team was the underdog.

''We've certainly had success in the Solheim Cup, but we have lost the last two
and we're playing in Europe this year,'' said Lewis, who is ranked No.3 in the
world. ''They definitely have the momentum in their favor right now.''

Even though Europe has home advantage, is the two-time defending champion and
will benefit from having two Germans, Sandra Gal and Caroline Masson, on their
side to rally local fan support, members of the European team say the Americans
are not the underdogs.

''On paper, it's the American team by far as the favorite, because the Americans
have a lot more wins,'' said Suzann Pettersen of Norway.

Gal said the United States team was ''very strong,'' pointing to the fact that
''more Americans are in the top world rankings.''

Added Masson: ''I think they're going to come here with some fire and Juli will
make sure they're ready to play.''

But the Europeans, even while overshadowed by their opponents statistically,
give themselves a nod for an intangible factor that wins Solheim Cups.

''As a team, I think Europeans are stronger together,'' Petersen said. ''We
always grind it out and make the best team players.''

In fact, the element of team play has been a focus for Inkster ever since she
was awarded the captain's job this summer. She has worked to help her players
bond. She has even had them take personality tests to gauge compatibility.

Most of all, she has watched how team cohesion has helped Europe find success in
recent years.

''They play with a lot of fire, a lot of passion and they go for broke,''
Inkster said. ''They are a good team, and we have our work cut out for us.''

But she added that the Americans were ''going to get back to basics, roll up our
sleeves and go to work.''

Brittany Lincicome has played on two winning and two losing American Solheim Cup
teams, and, like her captain, believes her side has much to learn from the
Europeans.

''They're really good team players,'' she said. ''We play so well individually,
but we need to learn how to play as a team again.''

And even though the event is returning to Europe, Karine Icher of France said
the long-playing St. Leon-Rot course, near Heidelberg, could favor the
Americans.

''It's a long course and maybe it's a small advantage for the American team
because they're long hitters compared to the Europeans,'' Icher said. ''The
Americans also don't give up.''

Inkster is counting on just that from her players, and some of her team veterans
hope to lead the charge.

''We have to take it to them this year,'' Angela Stanford said. ''We can't be
comfortable with any type of lead.''

Her teammate Morgan Pressel pointed out that winning as a team depended on
individual players winning their matches.

''Putting together the team and the pairings is all a big part of this event,
but at the end of the day, you just have to play really well,'' she said.
''That's what happened the last time: The Europeans outplayed us.''

So Europe has the momentum on home turf, and as Spain's Azahara Muñoz noted,
''Now we know we can win.''

But as both teams know, anything can happen in match play when two equally
matched sides compete.

''They are the two-time defending champs,'' Inkster said. ''The pressure is on
them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/golf/underdogs-or-not-pressure-is-on-fo
r-both-teams-golf-solheim-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); GOLF (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); RANKINGS (60%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED
KINGDOM (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Star Who Thrives Under Pressure

BYLINE: By LISA D. MICKEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: SOLHEIM CUP; Pg.

LENGTH: 911 words


At the 2013 Solheim Cup in Colorado, Sweden's Caroline Hedwall did something no
other player had ever done: She notched a 5-0 record.

She played in every match and won them all, leading her European Solheim Cup
team to a first-ever victory on American soil. Hedwall didn't bring the same
swashbuckling style to the team as Norway's Suzann Pettersen, or the veteran
confidence of Scotland's Catriona Matthew, or the electric style of Spain's
Azahara Muñoz. But she did offer a smorgasbord of shots that flattened her
competition like a stack of Swedish pancakes.

Even in 2011, when as a rookie professional she was a captain's pick on Europe's
team, Hedwall helped the squad win points in the last three singles matches,
sealing a 15-13 victory in Ireland.

She was two holes down in singles, but fought back and won the last two holes
against Ryann O'Toole to square her match and earn a half point. That half point
secured Europe's victory.

''She made the winning putts in Colorado and Ireland,'' said Carin Koch, the
European captain this year. ''She has that extra switch to turn on for match
play and she stays so cool in pressure situations.''

Hedwall won four tournaments in 2011 on the Ladies European Tour, finishing as
the L.E.T.'s top rookie and top player that year. She is still looking for her
first L.P.G.A. victory, as well as her first top-10 finish this season.

Now 26, she is back on the European Solheim Cup team despite a lackluster
L.P.G.A. season. In 18 tournaments, she had eight missed cuts and her best
result was a tie for 26, at the Swinging Skirts L.P.G.A. Classic in April. Her
season scoring average is 72.98, with only 16 rounds under par.

But what Hedwall will bring to the Solheim Cup, which starts Friday at the St.
Leon-Rot Golf Club in Germany, is not a quantifiable measurement. What she
offers is a quiet, simmering competitiveness that breeds confidence among her
captains and teammates.

''She is a grinder and a fighter,'' said Annika Sorenstam, the retired Swedish
star who is assisting the European side this weekend. ''She loves the team
atmosphere and she gets all fired up.''

Liselotte Neumann, captain of the 2013 European team, had complete confidence in
Hedwall and sent her out to play in every match.

''It's really hard to win all your matches, but she played great with Anna and
Caroline,'' Neumann said, referring to Anna Norqvist and Caroline Masson. ''She
brought out the best in them and they also brought the best out of her.''

While Hedwall had to adjust quickly to hitting her 7-iron 170 yards at altitude,
at the Colorado Golf Club near Denver, the fact that she figured it out and
trusted her putting produced confidence that trickled down to the rest of the
team.

''To win all five matches in Colorado inspired us all,'' Sorenstam said.

Hedwall's competitiveness is legendary, dating back to her days on the Swedish
national team, as well as at Oklahoma State University, where she played college
golf.

''She is a competitive person who comes alive in the team format,'' said the
L.P.G.A. player Pernilla Lindberg, who was Hedwall's teammate on the Swedish
team and at Oklahoma State. ''She is a great athlete who played lots of sports
growing up, so I think the team format brings out the athlete in her.''

Annie Thurman Young, her coach in Oklahoma, said Hedwall was ''the best player I
have ever coached.''

Hedwall played two years of college golf and won her first college tournament as
a freshman. She posted 15 top-10 finishes, won six college tournaments,
including the 2010 individual N.C.A.A. Division I Championship, and was college
golf's 2010 Player of the Year.

''She's very, very competitive,'' said Young, who is now the head women's golf
coach at Colorado State University. ''We played ping pong and random games when
she was in college and she always wanted to win. You know she's going to be a
good player when she's that competitive off the course.''

Hedwall is also physically strong, which translates into distance on the golf
course, and that advantage is enhanced by her deft putting touch, Young said.

''She's very powerful and has the skills to pull off a number of shots,'' she
said. ''When she hits the ball, it just has a different sound compared to most
other women golfers.''

Young and Lindberg agree that match play suits Hedwall's playing style, making
her an exceptional team player.

''It's the competitive side of her that really comes out in match play,''
Lindberg said. ''She is aggressive and fearless.''

When asked after Europe's triumph in 2013 to explain her 5-0 performance,
Hedwall replied: ''I'm just shaking. It's unbelievable.'' Later in the same
interview she admitted, ''I'm a really bad loser, so I just need to keep on
winning.''

Even after her team's disappointing loss at home, the 2013 United States Solheim
Cup Captain Meg Mallon praised Hedwall. ''She really played some spectacular
golf,'' Mallon said. ''What you're seeing is the future of the Solheim Cup,''
she said, adding: ''You're going to see a lot of these young players going at it
for a long time.''

It hasn't been the best of years for Hedwall, who has wrestled with health and
injury issues. But those who know her say they believe the Solheim Cup will stir
her fire once again.

''I wouldn't be surprised if she came out and played just as well as she did at
the last Solheim Cup,'' Young said. ''She's a good player and this competition
brings out the best in her.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/golf/caroline-hedwall-a-star-who-thrive
s-under-pressure-golf-solheim-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(89%); GOLF (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); TENNIS (78%); ATHLETES (77%)

PERSON: ANNIKA SORENSTAM (58%)

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (92%); SWEDEN (92%); EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%);
NORWAY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

All Blacks Ready to Start Anew at Rugby World Cup

BYLINE: By EMMA STONEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1186 words


WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- A veteran team that has set the standard of play for
years with its free-flowing attack enters a World Cup to defend the title it won
four years before when it ended decades of frustration.

Sound familiar? For New Zealand, there are plenty of parallels between its 2015
Rugby World Cup campaign and what the Spanish soccer team faced in 2014 at the
World Cup in Brazil.

A golden generation of players led Spain to its first major title since 1964
when it won the European Championship in 2008. Two years later, it ended decades
of Spanish misery at the World Cup when it won the tournament for the first
time, in South Africa.

The Spanish soccer team, like New Zealand's rugby team, for years set the
standards in its sport, with its world-class collection of players and tiki-taka
style of quick-pass, offensive soccer.

It successfully defended its title at the 2012 Euro. But Spain's quest for
back-to-back world titles ended in Brazil in embarrassing fashion when it failed
to get beyond the group stages followinglosses to the Netherlands and Chile.

In 2011, New Zealand won the Rugby World Cup for the first time in 24 years.
Since then, it has won 42 of 47 tests, against three losses and two ties.

The All Blacks have been the No.1 team for so long it is hard to remember when
they were not atop the World Rugby standings.

But no rugby team has ever defended a World Cup title successfully, and the All
Blacks have never won a final played outside of New Zealand.

But while New Zealand could suffer the same fate as Spain, it feels much less
likely, as the All Blacks re-enter rugby's biggest stage. The team may have lost
its Rugby Championship title to Australia and played below its usual standards,
but the tournament was shorter than normal this year because of the World Cup.
In addition, New Zealand Coach Steve Hansen tinkered with his teams throughout
the tournament to allow his players to show they deserved a spot on the World
Cup roster.

Hansen is fully aware of the task in front of his team.

''We've been the No.1 side in the world for a long time, and you just can't keep
plodding along, doing what you always do,'' Hansen said. ''You need something
else to get you motivated, and this certainly has got them motivated.''

Hansen has been skilled at introducing new players into the team during the past
four years. Being able to count on a core of talented veterans -- like captain
Richie McCaw, Dan Carter, Ma'a Nonu, Conrad Smith, Tony Woodcock, Keven Mealamu
and Kieran Read -- makes that transition easier.

New Zealand seems to have struck the right balance of youthful exuberance and
veteran experience, something every World Cup team needs.

Of the 31 players heading to the World Cup, 17 will be playing in their first
World Cup, yet the team has a combined 1,484 games of test experience.

Many of those 17 players are first-choice selections at their positions, and
except for Nehe Milner-Skudder, Waisake Naholo and Codie Taylor, all have at
least a year of international rugby under their belts.

But being the best in the world and having the most experienced group of players
does not guarantee success, as the All Blacks know too well.

After winning the inaugural World Cup in 1987, New Zealand suffered more than
two decades of disappointment. The nadir came in 2007, when it was knocked out
in the quarterfinals by France -- the team's earliest-ever exit -- at the
Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, Wales.

Six of the New Zealanders at this year's World Cup played in that tournament,
while many more of the players remember watching it on television.

In a twist of irony, this tournament, like the 2007 one, also sees New Zealand
in probably the weakest of the four pools, and it could meet France in the
quarterfinals in Cardiff.

Hansen said the team would not even talk about the knockout round, or potential
opponents, until it was done with the group stage.

''Everyone remembers 2007, whether you were there watching, or back home
watching,'' Hansen said. ''No one's forgotten it, and it's a great reminder to
all of us that if you don't step up, you go home.''

This World Cup has been touted as probably the most open in the cup's 28-year
history. England, Ireland, Australia, South Africa, Wales and New Zealand are
all title contenders, although New Zealand, by virtue of its performances during
the past four years, and England, with home-field advantage, are seen as the
favorites.

McCaw believes it will be the hardest-ever tournament to win. ''If we go there
thinking it won't be, we're kidding ourselves,'' he said.

While McCaw says the lessons learned in 2007 and 2011 will help, there has been
no talk of defending the 2011 crown -- instead, the team believes, it is a
trophy they must go out and win again.

''You've got 20 teams all on the start line that all believe they can do the
job, and we're just one of them,'' McCaw said. ''This crew is different to the
one in 2011, and the team that gets the job done is the one that gets it right
in the next six weeks, regardless of what happened last week, last year or four
years ago.''

The leadership and presence -- or mana as New Zealanders call it -- that McCaw
exuded in 2011 cannot be underestimated. He played the tournament with a broken
foot and kept the team focused and confident despite the loss of Carter -- and
then Carter's replacements Colin Slade and Aaron Cruden -- to injury.

McCaw will be just as influential this time around, both on and off the field.

''He sets the standards, which is really important I think,'' said the former
New Zealand lock Ian Jones, who played in three World Cups in the 1990s.
''Imagine yourself sitting there about to go and play a test match and Richie
McCaw is sitting next to you. It must give you tremendous confidence to go and
play with a guy who has played 140-odd test matches and been a great leader and
a guy who demands excellence.''

As for the other challengers, Australia, England and Wales have the toughest
road after being grouped together in Pool A along with Fiji and Uruguay, and
only two teams advance from each group.

For France and Ireland, there will be a huge advantage for finishing first in
Pool D -- the winner will avoid a quarterfinal matchup with the first-place Pool
C team, likely to be New Zealand.

It is a similar scenario for England, Wales and Australia in Pool A. Whoever
finishes atop their group is likely to play Samoa or Scotland from Pool B, while
the runner-up will have a likely quarterfinal against South Africa.

But the former Australia captain George Gregan believes the competitive nature
of the Wallabies' group could be an advantage.

''People always call it the Pool of Death, but I think it's also the pool of
strength, because you gain a lot of strength from playing hard games,'' he
explained. ''You then go into the playoffs stage knowing that you're
match-hardened and you've had to deal with pressure situations.

''Ultimately you've got to beat the best teams in the world to become a world
champion, so why not have a couple in your own pool?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/rugby/all-blacks-ready-to-start-anew-at
-rugby-world-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUGBY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%);
FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (58%)

CITY: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (92%)

COUNTRY: NEW ZEALAND (98%); BRAZIL (93%); SPAIN (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%);
AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Rugby World Cup Preview: All Blacks Still the Favorites

BYLINE: By EMMA STONEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 2075 words


The eighth edition of the Rugby World Cup will kick off Friday when the host,
England, takes on Fiji at Twickenham in London.

In all, 20 teams will be competing for the right to hoist the Webb Ellis Cup
after the final on Oct. 31.

The tournament is a grind at six weeks long, with 48 matches to be played in 12
English cities and in Cardiff, Wales. The Millennium Stadium, considered the
home of Welsh rugby, will get more than its fair share of action, with eight
matches, including two quarterfinals.

The early part of the tournament is split into four pools of five teams each,
with the top two teams from each group advancing to the knockout stage.

New Zealand, which won the title in 2011 on home soil, is ranked No.1 in the
world and is favored to repeat. The All Blacks won the inaugural World Cup final
in Auckland in 1987, when it co- hosted the event with Australia, but it has
never won the title while playing abroad. No team has ever won tournaments back
to back.

England, the 2003 champion, will need all the home field advantage it can get,
as it must advance through what most consider the Pool of Death, with Australia,
Wales, Fiji and Uruguay.

Other strong contenders for the title are Australia (winner in 1991 and 1999),
South Africa (2007 winner) and Ireland.


Pool A


Australia

Rugby World Cup record 1987, fourth; 1991, winner; 1995, quarterfinals; 1999,
winner; 2003, runner-up; 2007, quarterfinals; 2011, third.

Key statistic: 24  The last time Australia defeated England at a World Cup was
24 years ago, in the 1991 final. It has lost three times since then, in 1995,
2003 and 2007.

After an awful 2014, Australia seems to be getting back on track. Coach Michael
Cheika has the team playing more physically, but the scrum remains its Achilles'
heel. If the forwards get their job done, then Israel Folau and Kurtley Beale
could provide the game-winning difference.


England

World Cup record 1987, quarterfinals; 1991, runner-up; 1995, fourth; 1999,
quarterfinals; 2003, winner; 2007, runner-up; 2011, quarterfinals.

Key statistic: 20 The number of drop goals by England, the most in World Cup
history and seven more than the next closest team, South Africa.

England will have to cope with the pressure of being the host nation in a
cutthroat pool in which one of the world's top-ranked teams will not reach the
quarterfinals. England has developed into a more well-rounded team under Coach
Stuart Lancaster, but it has little margin for error if it wants to lift the
trophy.


Wales

World Cup record 1987, third; 1991, pool stage; 1995, pool stage; 1999,
quarterfinals; 2003, quarterfinals. 2007, pool stage; 2011, fourth.

Key statistic: 19 years, 166 days The age George North was when he scored two
tries against Namibia in 2011, making him the youngest player to score a try in
a World Cup.

Matches on Sept. 26 against England and Oct. 10 against Australia will determine
Wales's fate. After finishing fourth in 2011, not reaching the knockout stages
this time around would be a bitter blow for Coach Warren Gatland and his team.


Fiji

World Cup record 1987, quarterfinals; 1991, pool stage; 1999, quarterfinal
playoff; 2003, pool stage; 2007, quarterfinals; 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 108 The number of points Fiji scored against the Cook Islands in
its qualifying match for this World Cup. The Cook Islands scored 6.

Fiji showed with its scintillating performances in the Pacific Nations Cup that
it should not be underestimated in the Pool of Death.

It is likely to push its higher-ranked rivals hard, and with its flamboyant
attacking style, Fiji will undoubtedly be one of the most entertaining teams to
watch.


Uruguay

World Cup record 1999 and 2003, pool stage.

Key statistic: 98 The total number of points scored by Uruguay in seven World
Cup games.

Uruguay is back in the tournament for the first time in 12 years, but it will be
without its best player following Rodrigo Capó Ortega's sudden decision to
retire. The 31-man team has only four full-time professional players, so it is
unlikely that Los Teros will cause too many problems for the other teams in the
group.


Pool B


South Africa

World Cup record 1995, winner; 1999, third; 2003, quarterfinals; 2007, winner;
2011, quarterfinals.

Key statistic: 86.2% South Africa's winning percentage at the World Cup. They
have won 25 of 29 matches.

South Africa's buildup has been disrupted by injuries, which contributed to
losses in the Rugby Championship to Australia, New Zealand and Argentina. Always
a threat in the set-piece and at the breakdown, the Springboks now have, in
Handré Pollard, a flyhalf who can unleash the young duo of Damian de Allende and
Jesse Kriel, as well as the veteran winger Bryan Habana.


Samoa

World Cup record 1991, quarterfinals; 1995, quarterfinals; 1999, quarterfinal
playoff; 2003, 2007 and 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 3 The number of players on the team who play in Samoa. The
majority are employed by clubs in England and France.

Samoa looks to have put its off-field issues behind it and has a real shot at
making the quarterfinals. It plays hard, physical rugby, yet also has power and
speed in the backs. Samoa's match against Scotland on Oct. 10 will most likely
decide who progresses to the knockout stages.


Japan

World Cup record 1987, 1991, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011: pool stages.

Key statistic: 1 The only win Japan has managed in seven World Cups was a 52-8
victory against Zimbabwe in a pool-stage match in 1991.

Japan has had a mixed run-up to the tournament, winning the Asian Five Nations
tournament but finishing fourth in the Pacific Nations Cup. The Brave Blossoms
are quick and agile and love to attack carrying the ball, but the test for them
will be matching the bigger teams in the forward exchanges.


Scotland

World Cup record 1987, quarterfinals; 1991, fourth; 1995, quarterfinals; 1999,
quarterfinals; 2003, quarterfinals; 2007, quarterfinals; 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 15  The number of wins Scotland has had in 43 test matches since
the last World Cup.

Scotland has moved away from the dour rugby of previous regimes since the New
Zealander Vern Cotter took over as coach in June 2014. But while there have been
positive signs, wins have been hard to come by. The Scots lost every game in the
Six Nations tournament this year.


United States

World Cup record 1987, 1991, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 38 The total number of points the United States scored in four
pool matches at the 2011 World Cup, the lowest among the 20 teams.

The USA Eagles are without their best-known player, the former captain Todd
Clever. Clever, who posed for ESPN The Magazine in its ''Body'' issue this year,
was axed on the eve of the Pacific Nations Cup, and his rugged play and
leadership skills will be missed. It will be a major surprise if the Eagles make
it beyond the pool stages, with their best chance coming against Japan.


POOL C


New Zealand

World Cup record 1987, winner; 1991, third; 1995, runner-up; 1999, fourth; 2003,
third; 2007, quarterfinals; 2011, winner.

Key statistic: 272  The total number of World Cup tries that New Zealand has
scored, the most by any country and 91 more than No.2 Australia (181).

New Zealand has a good chance to become the first country to win back-to-back
World Cups. It has retained its position at the top of the world rankings since
it won it all in 2011 and has lost just three times in 47 tests since the start
of 2012.


Argentina

World Cup record 1987, pool stage; 1991, pool stage; 1995, pool stage; 1999,
quarterfinals; 2003, pool stage; 2007, third; 2011, quarterfinals.

Key statistic: 64  With 64 test appearances, Juan Martín Fernández Lobbe will be
the most experienced Argentina player at the World Cup.

Always noted for its scrum and bruising forward play, Argentina is starting to
develop a more attacking brand of rugby under Coach Daniel Hourcade. A diet of
regular, tough test matches, thanks to its inclusion in the Rugby Championship,
has also helped the Pumas' development, and the quarterfinals should be a
realistic goal.


Tonga

World Cup record 1987, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 3  The total number of World Cup red cards Tonga has had, the
same as Canada.

Tongan fans provided one of the most memorable experiences at the last World Cup
when they mobbed their team's arrival at the Auckland airport and brought the
city to a virtual standstill on opening night. Opposition teams tend to remember
the Tongans for their ferocious tackling, and it won't be any different this
time.


Georgia

Rugby World Cup record 2003, 2007 and 2011: pool stage.

Key statistic: 7,133  The number of registered rugby players in Georgia. Of the
20 World Cup teams, only Uruguay (6,069) has a lower number.

Georgia won the European Nations Cup, the second-tier continental tournament, in
March for a fifth consecutive time. The Lelos, famed for their powerful scrum
and forward play, are currently ranked 16th in the world, just two spots below
Italy, a Six Nations team. The majority of Georgia's players play their club
rugby in France, and back rower Mamuka Gorgodze will be one to watch.


Namibia

World Cup record 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011: pool stage.

Key statistic: 15 The number of World Cup matches Namibia has played without a
win, the most in the competition's history.

Namibia will struggle to end that losing streak this year. In 2003, it lost to
Australia by a record score of 142-0. If New Zealand hits top gear on Sept. 24,
that record might be beaten.


POOL D


France

World Cup record 1987, runner-up; 1991, quarterfinals; 1995, third; 1999,
runner-up; 2003, fourth; 2007, fourth; 2011, runner-up.

Key statistic: 17  The number of 9/10 combinations that Coach Philippe
Saint-André has used in 40 tests since the last World Cup.

The French were the basket case of the 2011 tournament, when a virtual mutiny
against its coach at the time, Marc Lièvremont, threatened to derail its whole
campaign, yet Les Bleus still reached the final against New Zealand. France has
been underwhelming under its new coach, Saint-André, but it is a World Cup, so
France could spring a surprise, no matter how unlikely that seems.


Ireland

World Cup record 1987, quarterfinals; 1991, quarterfinals; 1995, quarterfinals;
1999, quarterfinal playoff; 2003, quarterfinals; 2007, pool stage; 2011,
quarterfinals.

Key statistic: 0 The number of times that the back-to-back Six Nations champion
has made the World Cup semifinals.

Ireland has been the best team in Europe for the past couple of years, and it
probably has its best chance ever to reach the semifinals. Flyhalf Jonathan
Sexton holds the key to any success, so Irish fans will be praying he stays
healthy in what will be a bruising six weeks.


Italy

World Cup record 1987, 1991, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, pool stage.

Key statistic: 113  The number of tests Sergio Parisse has played for Italy, the
most by any Azzurri player.

Italy has slumped to 14th in the world rankings and had its preparations
disrupted by a players' strike and the loss of the first-choice No.10 Kelly
Haimona to a broken arm. In 15 years of Six Nations rugby, Italy has managed to
beat France twice and Ireland only once, so its chances of making the
quarterfinals are remote.


Canada

World Cup record 1987, pool stage; 1991, quarterfinals; 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007
and 2011: pool stage.

Key statistic: 7  Canada is one of seven World Cup teams that has a New
Zealander as the head coach. The others are New Zealand, Wales, Ireland,
Scotland, Fiji and Georgia.

Canada beat Tonga and tied with Japan at the last World Cup, but it will
struggle to match that success at this year's tournament. It needs to learn how
to win in tight matches after losing recently to late scores against Samoa and
the United States in the Pacific Nations Cup.


Romania

World Cup record 1987, 1991, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011: Pool stage.

Key statistic: 3  Romania tied Georgia for scoring the fewest tries, 3, during
the pool stages of the 2011 World Cup.

Romania did not win a match at the 2011 tournament, the first time since the
1995 World Cup it failed to do so. The Oaks, one of the stronger
forward-oriented teams in second-tier rugby, will hope the inclusion of New
Zealand-born flyhalf Michael Wiringi and Tongan center Paula Kinikinilau will
add some spark in the backs.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/rugby/a-strong-field-awaits-the-all-bla
cks-at-rugby-world-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUGBY (92%); TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%);
SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RANKINGS (89%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (78%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); TRACK & FIELD (73%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%); CARDIFF, WALES (71%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (96%); AUSTRALIA (95%); WALES (94%); FIJI (93%); NEW ZEALAND
(92%); NAMIBIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

5 Players to Watch at the Rugby World Cup

BYLINE: By EMMA STONEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 957 words


Wellington, New Zealand -- Five players to watch at the Rugby World Cup, which
starts Friday in London.

Israel Folau (Australia, fullback)

Folau burst onto the international scene during the British & Irish Lions tour
of Australia in 2013 and has been wowing rugby crowds ever since. The
26-year-old scored 10 tries in 2013, but one of the most memorable images of him
was when Lions winger George North hoisted Folau onto his back and carried the
Australian during the second Lions test. Folau, courtesy of a stint in
Australian Rules football, is the best fullback in the world under the high
ball, but the former rugby league star is also dangerous on the counterattack
where his size, silky running skills and offloading make him as good at creating
tries as he is at finishing them. Folau was a bright light in a difficult 2014
for the Wallabies, and he has been a steady influence at the back during this
year's Rugby Championship as Wallabies Coach Michael Cheika has tried different
players in the playmaking No.10 role in the buildup to the World Cup.

Julian Savea (New Zealand, wing)

Nicknamed ''The Bus'' because of his ability to run over or bounce defenders out
of the way, Savea has been compared with the All Blacks legend Jonah Lomu -- and
the 25-year-old Savea certainly lives up to the hype. He has an impressive
strike rate on the left wing, scoring 30 tries in 35 tests since his debut in
2012. The former All Blacks winger Sitiveni Sivivatu took 48 tests to reach the
same figure, while Lomu ended his international career with 37 tries in 63
tests. Savea's speed, power and vision make him difficult to stop from virtually
anywhere on the field, and his fancy footwork can occasionally be seen before
the match, as the winger has been known to show off a few dance moves during
pregame preparations. He showed up to All Blacks camp overweight, which resulted
in his being put through some grueling training sessions, and he has seen
limited playing time in New Zealand's buildup to its title defense. Still,
expect him to have a big impact in what will be his first World Cup.

Eben Etzebeth (South Africa, lock)

At 6-foot-9 and 257 pounds, it's no wonder that Etzebeth has slipped easily into
the role of enforcer in the Springboks pack. He is regularly compared with
Bakkies Botha, but the 23-year-old Etzebeth, who made his international debut in
2012, has a far better disciplinary record than his predecessor, along with a
better all-round game. While he won't step back from a confrontation, Etzebeth
very rarely crosses the line, preferring instead to use his strength, aggression
and incredible agility for the benefit of the team. He is the perfect foil to
his locking partner Victor Matfield. Etzebeth excels in the lineout and does not
shirk from the hard work in scrums or on defense. He also is hard to stop when
he carries the ball -- as Springboks teammate Bismarck du Plessis learned a
couple of years ago in Super Rugby when he was flung aside like a rag doll by
the charging Etzebeth.

Jonathan Sexton (Ireland, flyhalf)

Sexton has been one of the best flyhalves in the world for the past couple of
years and will be determined to leave his mark on this World Cup after a mixed
tournament in New Zealand in 2011. He played a central role in the British &
Irish Lions' series victory against Australia in 2013 and during Ireland's
back-to-back Six Nations triumphs in 2014 and 2015. Ireland will need him to
stay fit if it wants to add the Webb Ellis Cup to its trophy cabinet. When he's
running the show at No.10, Ireland, whose game plan under Coach Joe Schmidt is
based on structure and accuracy rather than flamboyance, is a much tougher team
to beat. Whether he is running at defenses, raking kicks to the corners or
firing up high balls for his back line to chase, he has a knack of getting his
team to the right areas of the field so his team can attack. His goal-kicking
also will be invaluable. The 30-year-old, who has played 52 tests for his
country, sat out for 12 weeks before this year's Six Nations after suffering a
series of concussions. He returned in a match against France, where the giant
wrecking-ball Mathieu Bastareaud repeatedly sized him up. But despite being left
battered and bloody, Sexton showed his mettle in those exchanges and kicked
Ireland to victory.

Sam Burgess (England, center)

Burgess's inclusion is probably the most debated selection from any of the 20
teams competing in the tournament. Burgess has been picked as a center by Coach
Stuart Lancaster, yet he plays flanker for his club Bath, which moved him there
after only six starts at center. While the 26-year-old excelled in Australia's
National Rugby League, he has not been able to repeat his success since making
the switch to rugby union late last year. Burgess has played two tests for
England. In his first, against France last month, he made two monster tackles
but also spent 10 minutes in the sin bin. In his second outing against Ireland,
he played 20 minutes but made little impact. The former England captain Will
Carling has said Burgess does not yet understand the nuances of playing at
center and that rushing him into a World Cup squad is a huge gamble. But, after
Lancaster made the decision not to consider Manu Tuilagi for the World Cup after
Tuilagi pleaded guilty to three charges of assault and one of criminal damage,
the coach felt he needed the physical presence of the 6-foot-3, 255-pound
Burgess in the back line. ''To win at this level you need physicality,
ball-players and finishers,'' Lancaster said when he announced his team. ''Sam
certainly brings the physicality and is as quick as any of our centers. He is
powerful and understands and reads defenses very well.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/rugby/5-players-to-watch-at-the-rugby-w
orld-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUGBY (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SOCCER
TOURNAMENTS (58%); AUSTRALIAN FOOTBALL (55%)

CITY: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (95%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); ISRAEL (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

In Sydney, a Family Mansion of Many Makeovers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MAPSTONE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 712 words


SYDNEY, Australia -- An estate home built in 1871 for one of Sydney's best-known
retail merchant families is for sale after a fastidious restoration.

Jenner House, which was known as Stramshall when it was designed by a highly
regarded colonial architect, Edmund Blacket, is in Potts Point -- about two
miles east of the Sydney commercial business district.

Despite its location in Australia's second most populous suburb, the home sits
on 1,970 square meters, or 21,200 square feet, of land. The house, with
triple-layered brick walls, has more than 600 square meters of interior floor
space over three levels, and each level features ceilings four meters, or 13
feet, high.

Offers in excess of 20 million Australian dollars, or $14.3 million, are being
sought.

Blacket built Stramshall, a Georgian Regency house, for the Hordern family,
well-regarded merchants. The home's third level was added by another top
architect of the era, Thomas Rowe, in about 1881.

According to Robert Page, a sales agent from Black Diamondz Property Concierge,
the home was occupied by the future King George V of Britain during his time in
the Royal Navy (he visited Australia while serving from 1877 to 1891, before
ascending to the British throne in 1910).

The building has had various uses since.

When Stramshall was first built, its landholding would have stretched to the
waterfront of Elizabeth Bay. Views of the bay and Sydney Harbour, stretching
north toward Clark Island and Sydney Heads, remain.

The Australian government purchased the land in 1940.

The building operated as the Jenner Private Hospital from 1914 until the early
1950s. The Australian Navy, which has an operations base at neighboring Garden
Island, then used the premises until the late 1990s.

The property then passed back into private ownership. The current owners, Wendy
and Terry Mullens, purchased Jenner House, unrenovated, in 2009.

''The navy had put in a lot of dividers and commercial toilets that had to be
removed,'' Mrs. Mullens said. ''But the house that was here was sound.''

The thorough restoration has allowed for luxurious modern touches.

Entry is from ground level. Large numbers of tall windows light the rooms.
Original flooring and ornate cornice work around the light fittings in a
ground-floor sitting room are repeated in other rooms. The same room has one of
the 10 marble fireplaces -- all original French pieces -- scattered throughout
the home.

Also on the ground level is a full commercial kitchen, with handcrafted marble
benchtops and customized stainless steel refrigerators (the generators are in
the cellar, so there is no noise).

Even the kitchen has harbor views, but they are perhaps better enjoyed from the
adjoining large living room, which also leads to a large veranda.

The ground level also has a guests' powder room -- like all the marble areas in
the home, it has under-floor heating -- a cloakroom and a storage room. There is
also a gym and maid's quarters, opening to a deck.

The staircase to the second floor features original parquetry and leads to a
large, light-filled dining room with a Juliet balcony overlooking the gardens
and Elizabeth Bay. There is a kitchenette off the dining room.

There are five bedrooms in the house, including two master suites. Each of the
bedrooms features an en suite bathroom. The master suites have his-and-hers
showers, slipper claw-leg baths and slab marble floors.

Two of the bedrooms, including a master suite, are on the second level. Both
adjoin a large refurbished deck, its railings sandcast in the original pattern.
The laundry room is on this level and features marble benchtops and a big
storage cupboard.

On the upper level is a master suite and two more bedrooms. Another room is
currently an office. The home also has space for six cars, a storage shed that
was built as the hospital gatekeeper's quarters and a lawn area.

''We have enjoyed living in a beautiful home of this heritage significance,''
Mrs. Mullens said, ''and the landholding that it is, in one of the most densely
populated suburbs in Australia,'' makes it special.

The couple intend to buy a similar property in France. ''We've always loved big
old houses, and it is rare to find one like this in Sydney,'' Mrs. Mullens said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/greathomesanddestinations/in-sydney-a-family-m
ansion-of-many-makeovers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); NAVIES (71%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (93%)

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Fortified Farmhouse Built With New World Wealth

BYLINE: By ANDREW ALLEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1033 words


SANT PERE DE RIBES, Spain -- It stands five miles inland from the Costa del
Garraf in Catalonia, but Can Martí, an 1870 Spanish colonial-style farmhouse, is
so imposing that its owners say for many years local fishermen used it as a
navigation point.

With its ochre stucco facade and defensive turrets, the property, in the
municipality of Sant Pere de Ribes, a 30-minute drive from the Barcelona-El Prat
Airport, stands out firmly against the surrounding olive groves and cereal
fields.

The scent of wallflowers and hyacinths from outside drifts through the interior
of the house, which is owned by José Luis Hernández and María Dolores Alba. The
couple, owners of a game and hunting business, have put the property on the
market with Engel & Völkers Sitges for 6.8 million euros, or $7.7 million.

Mrs. Alba said that the colonial background of the house's original owner, Pau
Soler, a man who earned vast wealth from the sugar trade in Cuba in the mid-19th
century, explains many of the property's curiosities.

Like many young men in this area, Soler, later a railway magnate and farmer,
sought his fortune in the Caribbean, as there were few opportunities locally.

Those who returned as rich men from the Antilles during the period were known in
Spain as Indianos, or Indians, and the houses they built, funded with New World
wealth and influenced by Cuban architecture, are still referred to as casas
Indianas.

One of Spain's most famous Indianos hailed from Sitges, three miles away:
Facundo Bacardí, founder of the rum distillery that bears the family name.

Soler returned to Catalonia in his 40s. His determination to protect his fortune
against the bandits who infested the area in the late 1800s explains the turrets
that jut from each corner of the house. These are thick-walled defenses, rather
than decorative fortifications, with gun slits affording commanding views of the
walls.

All of the property's windows are protected with iron bars, particularly the
covered porch near the main entrance, with its Havana-inspired iron grilles.

Fear of bandits also finally explained a feature of the house that once puzzled
Mrs. Alba. Whereas most of the staircase is made of the traditional stone, one
section of the first-story staircase is made of iron and is reinforced in
certain parts.

The mystery was solved when an elderly woman who had worked at the house visited
Mrs. Alba.

''She explained that part of the lower portion of the staircase was originally
designed to be lifted on iron rods to isolate the second floor from attackers.
When she was young she had actually seen it working,'' Mrs. Alba said. Most of
the mechanism to lift the staircase is no longer in place.

The main living room has sliding wooden doors measuring five meters by three
meters, or 16.5 feet by 10 feet; when opened, these offer views across Sitges
and the Mediterranean.

On the other side of the first story of the house is an enclosed gallery, with
views over the Garraf mountain range. To such a room, men in Indiana houses
traditionally retired to smoke cigars and drink the rum for which they had
acquired a taste in Cuba.

Mrs. Alba's father bought the house in the 1980s, and she recalled its being in
poor condition.

''The previous residents occupied only a small part of the house, which they had
turned into a kind of apartment. They abandoned the rest,'' she said. ''Trash
was piled up in some of the rooms.''

The seven main bedrooms on the second floor are set around a central staircase,
and each has an alcove, an en suite bathroom and a dressing room. Wooden frames
that divided the bedrooms had been ripped out.

But as the previous owners had occupied only a small part of the house, which
has 14 bedrooms and a floor area of 2,500 square meters, or almost 27,000 square
feet, much of the property had been left intact.

Mrs. Alba's father, a farmer and horse breeder, restored the original local
stone floors, which had been stripped in some rooms, along with its surrounding
estate of 75 hectares, or 185 acres, and stables for 27 horses.

These days, 7,000 olive trees produce oil of the arbequina variety. A tree in
the kitchen garden provides a different variety of olive, sevillana, for eating.
''We can only water the olive trees by day, because if we water them by night
wild boar are attracted by the water and break open the tubes to drink,'' Mr.
Hernández said.

Josep Maria Fortià, a historical architect based in the city of Girona who is an
expert on casas Indianas, said that this house used an eclectic mix of
architecture mixed with Cuban elements. These include the elaborate ironwork
around the bell and palm and jacaranda trees in the garden.

''The first floor, that space of transition between sun and shade, with its
four-pointed interior arches and Havana ironwork, is also very typical of
Indiana houses,'' he said.

Mr. Fortià said the turrets were of a Cuban military design.

On the first floor of the house are three more bedrooms, a study with English
furniture and an area that is used as a private museum of horse-drawn carriages
collected by Mrs. Alba's father.

Much of the house's original furniture survives, including a luxurious carved
wooden commode with an adjoining bench in one of the bathrooms. The third floor
has four more bedrooms and has exposed ceiling beams made of Scots pine.

Damià Peña, director of Engel & Völkers Sitges, said that although the area was
associated with Indianos, there were few surviving Indiana houses to be found
there.

''It will probably appeal to a horse lover, as it's set up as a stables,'' said
Mr. Peña, who also believes the house's proximity to Sitges, a lively and
artistic town, is likely to be a draw. Whereas Can Martí's price per square
meter is about ?2,200 (the overall asking price also takes into account the
sizable estate), typical frontline properties in Sitges cost from ?7,000 to
?8,000 per square meter, he said.

When Soler embarked for Cuba it was precisely the poverty of Sitges and this
part of the coast that led him to emigrate. This year, however, Sitges was again
ranked by fotocasa.es, one of Spain's leading property portals, as the third
most expensive Spanish municipality.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/greathomesanddestinations/a-fortified-farmhous
e-built-with-new-world-wealth.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); SUGAR MARKETS (69%); DISTILLERIES (50%)

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); HAVANA, CUBA (77%)

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (91%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (91%); CUBA (77%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Arsenal Pays the Price for Prodding the Referee

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; GLOBAL SOCCER; Pg.

LENGTH: 856 words


LONDON --  French players have brought a great deal of stylish élan to Arsenal
during Arsène Wenger's long reign as manager, but perhaps too often that has
been betrayed by an excess of peevishness from those same players.

When Olivier Giroud got himself red-carded for two needless acts of indiscipline
in Croatia on Wednesday night, he handicapped his team by forcing it to play a
man down for more than half the game.

Dinamo Zagreb took full advantage by going on to beat Arsenal, 2-1, in Maksimir
Stadium. It was the first time that Dinamo had beaten an English club and its
first victory in the Champions League since 1999.

Giroud is the fourth Frenchman to be sent off during Wenger's time managing
Arsenal, following dismissals of Gilles Grimandi, Patrick Vieira and Bacary
Sagna. Admittedly, though, that number might seem small, considering Wenger has
managed the London club for 1,073 games.

Giroud is under pressure because, no matter how hard he tries, he is not Thierry
Henry. Then again, no one ever has been his equal or likely will be for Wenger,
because Henry, a World Cup winner with France, scored a record 228 goals for the
Gunners.

Henry was blessed with such speed and an eye for the goal that it makes any
striker, French or not, pale in comparison. He glided while others labored, and
Giroud is not in Henry's class as a finisher.

Giroud's troubled evening in Zagreb followed a decent start in which the
Frenchman rose to make a powerful header that was thwarted with an equally fine
save by Dinamo's Portuguese goalkeeper, Eduardo.

During the next chance he got to shoot, Giroud thought he was fouled in the
goalmouth. The Romanian referee, Ovidiu Hategan, instead awarded a free kick to
the home team, and Giroud shouted at him like an angry child.

He got his first yellow card for his pains.

Referees are human. They feel the intense pressure from the 35,000 home fans in
a place like Zagreb.

And it is unwise to rile the man in the middle, to prod the bear so to speak, as
Giroud continually appeared to do against the referee. Just before halftime, the
Frenchman provoked Hategan one more time and was sent off for a foul that
amounted to little more than a mistimed kick at the ball.

Giroud left, mouthing about the injustice of it all. It left Arsenal facing an
opponent with an extra man -- and against a team that while not in Arsenal's
league in terms of payroll or star power, is one that has not lost in 42
straight matches over all competitions.

Giroud's ejection could have further implications, too. Arsenal has only a few
days to recover before it takes on Chelsea on Saturday in the Premier League,
and it won't be easy for the players who had to put in the extra running to
cover for Giroud's absence to recover in time for the lunchtime kickoff.

Wenger, quite rightly, accepted some blame after the match for his team
selection. With the Chelsea game in mind, he chose to make six changes from the
lineup he will most likely field Saturday. On Wednesday, he rested Petr Cech,
Francis Coquelin, Aaron Ramsey, Héctor Bellerín, Per Mertesacker and Theo
Walcott.

After coming in as a replacement, Walcott scored with a goal reminiscent of the
swiftness and cool finish of Henry. By then it was too late, because an own goal
from Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and a headed goal by Zagreb's Junior Fernandes had
secured the victory.

''My boys had been working, living, and concentrating for this task,'' said
Dinamo Coach Zoran Mamic. ''Arsenal is one of the best teams who ever played
here, but we knew that if we closed the middle of the pitch and stopped their
fast passes, we would be physically up to their level.''

Arsenal lacked the cohesion and the sharpness needed for the occasion and took
the hit. This, though, is in keeping with England's big-money teams of late.
Spending more than a billion dollars in the summer transfer window does not give
the Premier League clubs automatic success in the Champions League. Chelsea's
4-0 win over Maccabi Tel Aviv on Wednesday was the only time an English club won
this week in the tournament.

There are five more games in each group, and Manchester City and Manchester
United will by then have had enough time to integrate the players they
expensively bought in August.

Over the summer, Arsenal made only one major acquisition, getting Cech, a
goalkeeper, from Chelsea. Its failings in the Champions League are not new, but
they are self-inflicted.

Bayern Munich, in the same group as Arsenal, did Wednesday what it invariably
does: score and win. Thomas Müller scored twice and Mario Götze once in a 3-0
victory over Olympiacos in Athens.

Trust in Müller when you need goals. His efforts, however, were eclipsed by an
astounding strike in Rome as Alessandro Florenzi scored from 50 yards out
against Barcelona.

Florenzi was way out on the right sideline when he saw that Barcelona goalkeeper
Marc-André Ter Stegen was off his goal line, and the Roma midfielder lobbed in a
goal.

Though it was stunning in its audacity, Florenzi's goal was worth only one point
for the team in the end, because the game ended in a 1-1 tie.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/soccer/arsenal-and-olivier-giroud-pay-t
he-price-for-prodding-the-referee.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%);
SPORTS AWARDS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SOCCER (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS
(76%); ATHLETES (66%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZAGREB, CROATIA (72%)

COUNTRY: CROATIA (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Reckoning on Sri Lanka War Crimes

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 396 words


The United Nations Human Rights Council released its report Wednesday on
possible war crimes committed during the last years of the Sri Lankan civil war.
As many as 40,000 Tamils were killed by the military during the final months of
the conflict, which ended in 2009. Citing a ''horrific level of violations and
abuses'' in its report, the council concluded that a ''purely domestic court
procedure will have no chance of overcoming widespread and justifiable
suspicions fueled by decades of violations, malpractice and broken promises.''
This is a clear rejection of the proposal made on Monday by Sri Lanka's foreign
minister, Mangala Samaraweera, who told the Council that his government would
set up a truth, justice and reconciliation commission, and draft a new
constitution.

The Sri Lankan government refused any international investigations during the
presidency of Mahinda Rajapaksa, who presided over the military's push to end
the Tamil insurgency in 2009. This led the United Nations to proceed in March
2014 without Sri Lanka's cooperation. When Mr. Rajapaksa was defeated in January
elections, the council delayed its report to allow the new government of
Maithripala Sirisena to come up with plans for national reconciliation and to
work with international investigators.

Mr. Sirisena has promised to heal ethnic and religious divisions. On Sept. 3, an
ethnic Tamil, Rajavarothiam Sampanthan, was named leader of the opposition in
Parliament, the first Tamil to hold the post since 1983. But many Tamils and
others seeking accountability in Sri Lanka have remained rightly skeptical of
the ability of any Sri Lankan government to carry out its own investigation,
punish perpetrators of abuses and guarantee the safety of witnesses. Two
military leaders who oversaw the operations in 2009 -- the army chief of staff,
Jagath Dias, and Field Marshal Sarath Fonseka -- have been promoted under Mr.
Sirisena. Tamils in the north remain under military occupation, and abuses are
alleged to have continued under Mr. Sirisena's government.

In its report, the United Nations council calls for a special court that would
include international magistrates and investigators. This is the only way to
ensure that those who committed war crimes are held accountable and victims get
justice. Mr. Sirisena's government should cooperate in setting up the court
without delay.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/a-reckoning-on-sri-lanka-war-crimes.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR
(90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%);
MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (73%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

COUNTRY: SRI LANKA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

.Little Syria in Lesbos

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN.

You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 819 words


MYTILENE, Greece --  This is where the odyssey to Germany, or Sweden, or just
anywhere that might offer safety, begins for many of the refugees pouring into
Europe -- on the pine-clad Greek island of Lesbos six miles from the Turkish
coast, or about an hour's crossing in a packed inflatable raft.

By night and day they clamber ashore, initially elated to be out of hell
(whether in Syrian form or that of the gun-toting Turkish Mafia taking about
$1,250 per person for the brief sea voyage), but soon worn down by the long
trudge from the north of the island to the port, by bureaucracy, by fatigue and
by lingering trauma.

With their sneakers and denims and backpacks, and American T-shirts and GPS maps
on cell phones (when they get them charged), these desperate people are of our
shrinking world. They are not alien in any sense. They hold up a mirror to what
passes for our culture -- its icons and brands and complacency.

Rank and unwashed, often terrorized by years of war, imploring and dismayed,
their claim for a slither of dignity and decency is irrefutable. To close the
door on them is to revisit humanity's darkest chapters. Amnesiac Hungary will
not be quickly forgiven. Nor will Europe as a whole, nor the United States, if
-- fortress-like -- they fail to offer shelter to the desperate survivors of war
and the West's colossal Syrian hypocrisy.

I found Aisha Alsaddloum, aged 65, in the Kara Tepe transit camp for Syrians on
the outskirts of the port town of Mytilene. She had been traveling with her
family for 20 days from the northeastern Syrian town of Al-Hasakah. ''The
country is gone,'' she told me. ''It is not for living any more. Syria is
ashes.''

Like many Syrians I spoke to -- about 70 percent of the refugees arriving in
Lesbos are from Syria -- she described the sick symbiosis of the barbarians of
Islamic State and what she called ''the system'' (President Bashar al-Assad's
apparatus of terror). Theirs is a pantomime of confrontation: The jihadi
slaughters with swords, Assad with barrel bombs from aircraft, but for the
myriad civilians losing life and limb in the Syrian charnel house it makes no
difference. The message from those who have managed to get out is clear: A
plague on both their houses.

The Kara Tepe camp offers water and food and basic sanitation. It is a better
place to be than the barbed-wire-encircled detention center for Afghans and
other non-Syrian refugees nearby. But it is strewn with refuse, its toilets are
foul and it is overrun with a stream of new arrivals -- pregnant women, little
children on the shoulders of their fathers, wide-eyed teenage boys traveling
alone. By the end of August, about 96,000 refugees and migrants had reached
Lesbos, almost half the Greek total of 205,000, according to the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees.

''We are anticipating 2,000 to 3,000 people a day in Lesbos for the next weeks
or months,'' Tyler Jump of the International Rescue Committee told me. ''The
driver is the conflict in Syria, and until that is solved, people will flee.''

These people have not left by choice. They have left Syria because after more
than four years of war they had no choice.

President Vladimir Putin with his cynical support for Assad, and President Obama
with his empty pledges, and the Saudis and other Sunni gulf monarchies with
their jihad-feeding funding, and Iran with its Assad-buttressing operatives, and
a dysfunctional United Nations Security Council, and a feeble Europe, and
''harmony''-preaching China -- all of them, in their various contributions to
the great Syrian debacle, have created this human flood into Lesbos and on into
the rest of the European Union. Syria is an immense collective failure. What has
changed for the West in the past several weeks is that it has become more
difficult to live in denial of this fact.

Western responsibility is engaged by the unfathomable irresponsibility that has
turned Syria into a slaughterhouse. President Obama has offered to take in
10,000 Syrian refugees; that is a pittance. A Europe of half a billion people
must reject pampered smallness and open its eyes. Desperation cannot be met by
penny-counting calculation, or doors slamming shut.

Yasser Kryyem, who has fled from Ghouta (scene of Assad's unanswered chemical
attack in 2013), told me: ''Death in Syria comes from both sides of the sword.
If you have a beard, you are Islamic State. If you don't, you are with the
regime. They feed off each other. The whole world is playing with us. What has
happened in Syria has never happened anywhere: Only civilians are being killed.
When Assad falls, so will Islamic State.''

He shook his head. ''Obama has been saying since the first days of the
revolution that Assad's days are counted. Well, it will soon be five years.''

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/roger-cohen-hungary-the-refugee-impera
tive.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS
(89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (77%);
MEMORY DISORDERS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (55%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (98%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE
(90%); GERMANY (73%); HUNGARY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brooklyn Heroin Ring Shut Down, Officials Say; 25 Are Charged

BYLINE: By RICK ROJAS; J. David Goodman and Nate Schweber contributed reporting,
and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 908 words


In South Williamsburg, not far from the popular restaurants and gleaming new
condominiums that dot the fast-changing stretch of Brooklyn, the authorities
said a disheveled apartment on Driggs Avenue was the hub for a
heroin-trafficking operation that served the neighborhood and beyond.

Law enforcement officials said the demand for heroin -- cheap and highly
addictive -- has been increasing, and the ring helped meet that demand. In a
month, the authorities said, the ring -- described by the authorities as a
family-run business -- would sell 25,000 packets marked with brands names like
''Knockout,'' ''Killing Time,'' ''Gucci'' and ''Scorpion,'' a particularly
potent strain known for its ''bite.''

On Thursday, prosecutors in Brooklyn announced the ring had effectively been
shut down, after an investigation led to charges against 25 people.

They include a man described by the authorities as the leader of the ring, Josie
Tavera, 24, as well as street dealers, suppliers, distributors and even Mr.
Tavera's mother, who is charged with laundering drug proceeds, officials said.

''There is a growing heroin epidemic in New York and other parts of the country
that's literally killing many of our young people,'' Kenneth P. Thompson, the
Brooklyn district attorney, said at a news conference.

A packet, which sells for $10 or less, contains such a small amount that it
cannot be measured in grams but in grains, of which it contains just a few.
(Just over 15 grains make a gram.) The dependency it causes means an addict can
go through several packets in a day. These factors, Mr. Thompson said, have
created ''a silent but deadly drug plague.''

The investigation into the ring began last year after a tip from an informer,
and it grew to include wiretaps and video and physical surveillance.

Most of the sales took place near the apartment on Driggs Avenue, where Mr.
Tavera lived, but the group had also sold heroin in other parts of Brooklyn,
including Prospect Heights; in Astoria and Ridgewood in Queens; and on Staten
Island, which has been hit especially hard by heroin.

Mr. Tavera's sister, Sheila Taveras, 26, packaged, delivered and distributed the
drug, prosecutors said. His brother, Jose Taveras, 26, and two of his cousins
are accused of supplying the heroin. The authorities said that Mr. Tavera's name
was spelled differently from his relatives' but did not know why.

And his mother, Haydee Cordero, 46, offered ''significant assistance,'' Mr.
Thompson said, including laundering money by depositing the proceeds from the
drug sales into her bank account. The lawyer for Ms. Cordero, Calvin Simons,
declined to comment.

But the ring extended beyond the family, the authorities said. One of those
arrested, Jason Collazo, 36, accused of being a distributor for the group, works
in Midtown Community Court in Manhattan as a community service supervisor.
Prosecutors said he had used his phone at the court to coordinate heroin
transactions.

And Michael Mineo, 37, who is accused of being a dealer on Staten Island, had
trained to be a drug counselor and has an application pending with the New York
State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services, Mr. Thompson said.

Mr. Mineo's lawyer, Greg Zenon, declined to comment on the allegations. But
Peter Guadagnino, the lawyer for Mr. Collazo, disputed the charges. The
allegations, he said, are ''way out of character for him,'' and prosecutors
lacked the evidence to support their claims.

''Right now, there's nothing,'' Mr. Guadagnino said of the evidence, ''and he
maintains his innocence.''

All 25 people named in the 368-count indictment have been arrested. Mr. Tavera,
Jose Taveras, Mr. Collazo and Mr. Mineo have been arraigned and were held in
jail. Ms. Cordero has also been arraigned and was also being held, prosecutors
said. Lawyers for the others either could not be reached or did not respond to
messages requesting comment.

Neighbors on Driggs Avenue said Josie Tavera and his family had been in the
apartment for years, and they had not been a source of trouble. But early
Wednesday morning, police officers smashed down the door and raided the
sixth-floor apartment, the building's manager, Iris Minaya, said.

''What can I say?'' Ernesto Torres, a porter, said. ''I'm surprised, I'm very
surprised.''

Prosecutors said that taking down the ring would not be enough to thwart the
pervasive problem of heroin. ''I can't tell you how many other folks out there
are selling heroin in Brooklyn,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''But I can tell you, we're
determined to chase them all down and put them in prison, where they belong.''

During the news conference, prosecutors played a recording of a phone
conversation between Mr. Mineo and Mr. Collazo, captured by a wiretap. Mr. Mineo
recounted the effects the heroin branded as Scorpion was having on users.

''His face blew up,'' Mr. Mineo said. ''His lips blew up. He was in hives from
head to toe.''

Mr. Collazo laughed on the other end of the line.

''I couldn't stop laughing at him, bro,'' said Mr. Mineo, who added that another
user had told him, ''I feel like I got bit by a scorpion.''

Mr. Thompson said the men had felt ''comfortable enough'' to speak candidly
about the drug, unaware that the authorities were listening.

''It shows you the reckless disregard that they had for the people they were
peddling the poison to,'' he said. But Mr. Thompson added, ''I don't think
they're laughing now.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/25-charged-in-heroin-trafficking-ring
-in-brooklyn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: District Attorney Kenneth P. Thompson announcing the arrests.
The authorities described the ring as a family-run business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%);
RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%);
ARRESTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LAWYERS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MONEY
LAUNDERING (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); WIRETAPPING (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES
(68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Hellions' Reminds Us That Halloween Isn't About the Candy

BYLINE: By KEN JAWOROWSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 296 words


Dora, a young woman terrorized by demonic trick-or-treaters in ''Hellions,'' has
bigger worries than running out of candy.

Even before being left alone on Halloween night, she was feeling uneasy. Earlier
in the day, this high school student learns she is pregnant, and the resulting
anxiety has made her extra jumpy as the first knock sounds at the door.

That setup and other early moments are creepy. Bruce McDonald, the director, is
adept at building dread through spooky noises -- a creaking floorboard, a
sinister whisper -- and claustrophobic sets. Scenes in a basement and attic are
no less unnerving for being almost obligatory, and a few ''What's that behind
her?'' shots create a sense of menace (as do nods to ''Alien'' and ''Rosemary's
Baby'').

Yet as the terror shifts from suggested to explicit, the eeriness wanes and this
supernatural story becomes muddled. Mr. McDonald then piles on the gore, perhaps
to distract from the plot holes. It also doesn't help that the script, by Pascal
Trottier, uses dream sequences that seem designed only to stretch the film to
feature length.

Chloe Rose, as Dora, is convincing enough in a role that's primarily reactive.
Robert Patrick, as a small-town cop, remains dedicated even when making some
blatantly bad decisions. (''Stay here,'' he tells Dora before venturing upstairs
alone. Lifetime spoiler alert: In horror films, such moves never end well.)

A jumbled third act and an indifferent ending ultimately make ''Hellions''
disappointing. But there's a bit of fun to be had in its opening frights, and in
trying to figure out what these costumed little monsters really want. Here's a
hint: It's not a Snickers bar.

KEN JAWOROWSKI

Hellions

Opens on Friday

Directed by Bruce McDonald

1 hour 22 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-hellions-reminds-us-that-hallowe
en-isnt-about-the-candy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chloe Rose in ''Hellions,'' directed by Bruce McDonald.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC MIDNIGHT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); HORROR FILMS (75%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (72%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Milo Hamilton, 88; Brought Baseball to Life

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 494 words


Milo Hamilton, who called baseball for seven major league teams over 60 years
and was best known for calling Henry Aaron's 715th home run, died on Thursday in
Houston. He was 88.

The Houston Astros announced his death. He was their play-by-play announcer from
1985 through the 2012 season.

Mr. Hamilton called games on radio and television but had a special appreciation
of baseball on radio, acquired while growing up in Fairfield, Iowa.

''It's plain and simple: Baseball is a radio game,'' he wrote in his
autobiography, ''Making Airwaves: 60 Years at Milo's Microphone'' (2006). ''Fans
use their imagination while listening to the broadcast to recreate the game.''

His peripatetic career brought him to Atlanta in 1966, the Braves' first season
after their move from Milwaukee. By 1974, baseball was riveted by Aaron's
pursuit of Babe Ruth's career home run record of 714; he had ended the previous
season one short, then started the new season by tying it.

On April 8, the Braves faced the Los Angeles Dodgers at Atlanta-Fulton County
Stadium. Mr. Hamilton had asked that he, not his partner, Ernie Johnson, call
every home run from 700 to 715.

In the fourth inning, Aaron stepped to the plate against Al Downing with one man
on base. He swung on a 1-0 pitch.

''There's a drive into left-center field,'' Mr. Hamilton said with mounting
excitement. ''That ball is gonna be outta here. It's gone! It's 715! There's a
new home run champion of all time, and it's Henry Aaron! The fireworks are
going! Henry Aaron's coming around third. His teammates are at home plate.
Listen to the crowd.''

He said he purposely did not use his trademark phrase, ''Holy Toledo!'' ''It was
not my moment -- it was Hank's,'' he wrote.

Leland Milo Hamilton was born in Fairfield on Sept. 2, 1927. He served in the
Navy during World War II as a broadcaster on Armed Forces Radio. He graduated
from the University of Iowa in 1949 and began sportscasting by calling football
and basketball games for the Iowa Hawkeyes.

He got his first job calling baseball for the St. Louis Browns in 1953, their
final year before relocating to Baltimore. He stayed in St. Louis for a season
to call Cardinals games but then set off on a nomadic path to the booths of the
Chicago Cubs, the Chicago White Sox, the Braves, the Pittsburgh Pirates and the
Cubs again (an unhappy stint in which he feuded with his fellow broadcaster
Harry Caray) before moving to Houston. His 27-year stint with the Astros was his
longest.

His wife, Arlene, and a daughter, Patricia, died before him. His survivors
include a son, Mark.

''You grew up in the Depression and talked about all the records that you
figured would stand forever,'' Mr. Hamilton said on the day he accepted the Ford
C. Frick Award from the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992. ''Then, to know
you would do Aaron's home run -- and then have it happen, and for the next 18
years hear it somewhere at least two or three days a week.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/milo-hamilton-who-brought-base
ball-to-life-dies-at-88.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Milo Hamilton in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J.
PHILLIP/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (58%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS
(55%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(75%); GEORGIA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Opening Night for 'Arsenic and Old Lace'

BYLINE: By MARY JO MURPHY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FRIDAY FILE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 640 words


74 Years Ago

Amy Archer-Gilligan had a habit of doing away with the residents of the
Connecticut nursing home she ran early in the 20th century. She was found guilty
of fatally poisoning one man but was suspected of killing many more. She was
sent to live out her days in a hospital for the criminally insane, where she
died in 1962. A Connecticut writer has been trying to gain access to hundreds of
pages of her medical documents so he can write a book about her, but the State
Supreme Court quashed his hopes this week when it ruled that the papers were not
public records.

So much for the nonfiction tale. A fictional version has been around for a
while: Joseph Kesselring's theatrical war horse, ''Arsenic and Old Lace.''

That play, which opened on Broadway in January 1941, turned Mrs. Gilligan of
Connecticut into the Brewster sisters of Brooklyn -- and it featured Boris
Karloff in his Broadway debut, playing a version of himself.

Brooks Atkinson, reviewing in The Times, wrote that the play was ''swift, dry,
satirical and exciting,'' and that it ''kept the first-night audience roaring
with laughter.''

Not everyone roared. In a letter addressed ''To the Drama Editor'' and published
in The Times shortly after the opening, Jessie Wilcox expressed her outrage:

''Why all the huzzahs and foot-stampings?'' she wrote. ''Should there be
laughter over so tragic a situation?'' She then offered her own story as a
budding playwright under an eminent professor: ''I had submitted to him the
working plans for a farce. The subject was kleptomania. My rating was zero --
the farce consigned to oblivion. Why? 'The subject,' said Professor Baker, 'is
not funny. Kleptomania, any crime, any perversion of the human mind is not a
subject for farce, comedy, burlesque or simple joking.' '' Well, then.

Two days later came a letter dismissive of Ms. Wilcox's objections, which the
writer, Merritt Davis, termed ''Vinegar and Old Hat.''

Mr. Davis addressed the huzzahs, saying that they happened because the critics
and the public were sick of the old murder plays. ''They just don't care WHO
killed Lizzie any more,'' he wrote.

Around this time, Frank Capra's movie adaptation was in production, starring
Cary Grant and the actresses who had starred as the murderous sisters on
Broadway, Josephine Hull and Jean Adair. But there was grumbling in Hollywood.
The Motion Picture Production Code -- the industry's morality police, known as
the Hays office -- was in force at the time, and it had set its sights on
violence in westerns. In an article in The Times with the headline ''A Bit of
Ambiguity About the Number of People a Studio Can Kill,'' Douglas W. Churchill
reported that there were ''mutterings of persecution and class discrimination''
from the Republic studio. ''The studio was ordered by the Hays office to reduce
the number of killings in 'West of Cimarron' from thirteen to 'seven or eight,'
while across the river at Warners, Frank Capra was gayly progressing with
'Arsenic and Old Lace' without interference, and the charming Brewster sisters
were laying away their twelve lonely gentlemen and keeping an eye on their
thirteenth.'' The Hays office wrote to Republic that ''in order to comply with
this you may show some of these people being quite definitely wounded rather
than killed.''

No dice. Republic ''did not regard as generous permission to allow some of the
varmints to writhe in agony on the ground after being filled with lead. Their
customers, they say, want good, straightforward killings, and lots of them.''

This particularly rankled, Mr. Churchill wrote, because ''the Brewster sisters
are continuing to pour out their elderberry wine on the screen with the same
thoughtfulness they displayed on the stage.''

The movie was not released until 1944, but the Times review called it ''good
macabre fun.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/opening-night-for-arsenic-and-old-lace.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); POISONINGS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS
(90%); VERDICTS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (89%); FILM (88%); MURDER (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FILM GENRES (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY
(63%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); SUPREME COURTS (55%); THEATER (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Speed Up the Landmarks Process

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 457 words


Everybody hates a deadline. But the New York City Landmarks Preservation
Commission seems to have a particular problem with them. It has allowed
potential landmarks across the city to sit on its maybe-maybe-not list for
years, sometimes decades, without deciding what to do with them.

With one of the smallest budgets and a tiny, nearly all-volunteer staff, the
commission carries out an important job with deliberative diligence. It has
improved under the efficient leadership of Meenakshi Srinivasan, who is getting
new landmarks designated within months, not decades. But there is a backlog of
nearly 100 properties, most of which have been in limbo for more than 20 years,
some going back nearly 50 years. The landmarks process should never be rushed.
But that is ridiculous.

A bill in the City Council introduced by David Greenfield of Brooklyn and Peter
Koo of Queens seeks to impose sensible deadlines for hearings and a vote: one
year for a building, two for a district of several buildings. More
controversially, the bill decrees that a property rejected for preservation
could not be considered again for five years.

A long hearing in the Council last week was packed with opponents of the bill,
who think imposing deadlines would weaken the preservation process and doom the
city to being remade with soul-less towers. Despite such overwrought testimony,
the hearing was marked by thoughtful consideration, particularly by Mr.
Greenfield and Ms. Srinivasan, of the bill's merits and flaws.

Mr. Greenfield noted that it would be hard to answer why some properties
languished so long, because many original decision makers were long dead. He
made clear that his problem wasn't so much with Ms. Srinivasan, but with her
successors, who could allow inertia and inaction to reassert themselves.

Ms. Srinivasan opposes the bill as written, but she told the committee she
accepts the wisdom of deadlines and is open to compromise on details. She
expressed reservations about a related bill from Daniel Garodnick of Manhattan
to require the commission to maintain a public database of potential landmarks,
which she said could create a big data-management problem. There, too, she said
she was willing to work with him to find ways to get more information before the
public.

Overhauling the landmarks process will take compromise, perhaps by giving the
commission longer -- but still firm -- deadlines, and allowing it to seek
occasional exemptions to the five-year moratorium on reconsidering rejected
buildings.

Credit goes to Mr. Greenfield and Mr. Koo for getting the discussion moving. In
this city that exemplifies energy and forward momentum, a perpetually sluggish,
if not immobilized, landmarking process serves no one well.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/speed-up-new-yorks-landmarks-process.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); VOLUNTEERS
(71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fed Gives Growth a Chance

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 459 words


The Federal Reserve did the right thing on Thursday when it opted not to begin
raising interest rates. By holding steady, the Fed is acknowledging, correctly,
that the economy shows no signs of overheating. Price inflation, for example,
has been below the Fed's 2 percent target for years and shows no signs of
accelerating.

The Fed also acknowledged the dampening effect global economic weakness and
financial-market volatility may have on the American economy. In the past, the
Fed played down those dangers, assuming they would be transitory or bearable. In
the statement released after its policy-making committee meeting, it shifted,
saying international and financial conditions could slow the domestic economy,
making an interest-rate increase to restrain the economy unnecessary, at least
for now.

In one important respect, however, the Fed appears to be doing the right thing
for the wrong reasons.

Judging from its statement and its economic projections, the Fed believes that
the labor market has largely returned to health. That suggests it will be poised
to raise rates as soon as the global headwinds abate.

But the labor market is not healthy, and until it is, rate increases would be
premature. Unemployment, at 5.1 percent in August, is still higher than it was
before the recession. The share of part-time workers who need full-time jobs is
still elevated, while the share of working-age adults with jobs is still well
below its prerecession level. Most telling, broad wage growth -- the clearest
sign of labor market health -- has been virtually nil during the six-year-old
recovery.

The Fed is supposed to conduct policy in a way that fosters full employment,
meaning rates should not be raised until jobs and wages are on a robust growth
trajectory. But it seems more concerned with its mandate to fight inflation.
That focus would be questionable even if there were nascent signs of inflation;
in the absence of any signs, it is indefensible. In fact, inflation has been so
low for so long now, it could run somewhat above the Fed's target for an
extended period without being disruptive and, in the process, allow wages to
grow in line with productivity.

And yet, inexplicably, a majority of Fed officials expect to begin raising rates
later this year.

Congress long ago punted on its responsibility to use fiscal policy to help the
economy. That has put an undue burden on the Fed, in effect making the Fed's
near-zero interest rate the only source of steady policy support for a
struggling economy.

The Fed should not have been put in that position, but that is the position it
is in. It should not compound the problem of inadequate congressional action by
removing its support before the labor market has truly recovered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/the-fed-gives-growth-a-chance.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%);
ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); RECESSION
(77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT
(67%); ADULTS (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

France's Belated Welcome Is Embraced by Few

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1036 words


COURBEVOIE, France --  Fear, belated expressions of welcome and refusals to
yield have all greeted Europe's migrant crisis in France, with the French far
right even comparing the influx to the barbarian invasions in the fourth
century.

But amid the apocalyptic warnings, a wounding fact has been largely passed over
in silence by politicians here: The migrants are voting with their feet, and
they are not choosing France.

National pride barely acknowledges it. But tens of thousands of Syrians and
Iraqis are streaming toward Germany, while only a comparative handful make their
way here. Migrants crowding onto the trains in Hungary shout, ''Germany,
Germany!'' But they do not shout, ''France, France.''

The country's most visible encampment of migrants is perched at Calais, looking
longingly across the Channel toward Britain -- a permanent reproach to the
country in which these migrants are now pitching tents.

''France doesn't create the conditions to make them want to stay,'' said
Jean-François Corty, the head of Médecins du Monde, a nongovernmental
organization that has worked extensively with the migrants at Calais.

But France's relative lack of appeal has not blunted the wariness, or even
fearmongering, about immigration that has helped fuel support for the far right
here.

''Unless the French people take action, the invasion of the migrants will be
every bit the same as that of the fourth century, and could have the same
consequences,'' Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front party,
warned this week.

Experts, analysts and academics dismissed her remark: There is no such invasion
in France, nor is one likely.

Last week, officials from France's refugees office rushed to Munich, seeking
1,000 migrants to relieve some of the pressure on its harried neighbor. But as
thousands crowded into the city, the French officials came back with only 600
people.

It was not, insisted Pascal Brice, the refugee office director, because they
found France unattractive. ''They were doing what all the others were doing,
staying in Germany,'' Mr. Brice said. Besides, he explained, ''there was no more
arrival of refugees'' after Germany closed its borders.

Yet many were already in place there. As Mr. Brice acknowledged, ''There were
thousands of migrants in Munich; we were there to help the Germans.''

The migrants' ''first reaction was surprise'' as the French made their pitch,
Mr. Brice said. ''They didn't expect to find another country there,'' offering
to help.

The surprise should not have been unexpected. France, with its high unemployment
and incendiary political rhetoric about keeping migrants out and borders closed,
has not exactly put out a welcome mat, in economic or emotional terms, said a
number of experts on the question.

There has been no French equivalent of the maternal image of Chancellor Angela
Merkel offering succor. Pro-migrant demonstrations in France have been small
compared with the hundreds of Germans who have flocked to train stations to
help.

''When one isn't doing so well oneself, one is not all that eager to have guests
in one's home,'' said Patrick Weil, a French historian of immigration now
teaching at Yale, noting also the traumatic memory of displacement present in
thousands of German families dating from World War II.

The absence of an embrace has hardly gone unnoticed by the migrants, fewer of
whom are applying for asylum here. From being a European leader for asylum
demands, France slipped to fifth or sixth in the first three months of the year,
Mr. Brice said.

A recent pledge by the French president, François Hollande, to take in an
additional 24,000 migrants over two years -- after refusing for months to
countenance the idea of quotas -- was criticized by the news media in France and
elsewhere in Europe as a drop in the bucket compared with Germany's projection
that it would take in close to a million migrants this year.

The French news media, rueful or defensive, have picked up on the decisive
migrant plebiscite for Germany over France as further evidence of France's
relative decline.

''These migrants who don't dream of France,'' read the front-page headline of Le
Monde on Sunday. The cover of Le Point, a right-leaning weekly newsmagazine,
lamented: ''The Incredible Madame Merkel. If only she were French.''

In Le Figaro, a columnist wrote: ''Values, that was all we had left. And now
we've screwed that up as well,'' before transitioning to the cynic's
interpretation of German generosity: The country's industrialists need help.

Mr. Corty, of Médecins du Monde, noted that the lack of receptiveness to
migrants was more than emotional, but practical as well. Though France receives
about 60,000 demands for asylum annually, the country has only 25,000 places in
welcome centers.

On Thursday morning, French officials moved about 800 migrants, many of them
Sudanese, who were squatting at two outdoor sites in Paris -- near a train
station and local municipal offices -- to reception centers, where they will be
able to make asylum requests, officials said.

''There are a lot of families who say, we don't want to stay out of doors,'' Mr.
Corty said. ''France has not put in good conditions.''

At more than 10 percent, unemployment in France is roughly twice that of Germany
and Britain. And it can take up to two years for an asylum request to be
processed, longer than in some neighboring countries.

But less neutral messages are emanating from France as well. Mayors have been
asked by the interior minister to receive migrants in their towns, but some are
refusing to go along.

In the towns of Belfort and Roanne, the mayors have been quoted as saying they
want only Christian refugees. Other mayors have spoken out loudly about their
financial inability to handle a flood of migrants, or of constituents who are
themselves waiting for subsidized housing.

''Until the last few days, France has not given the impression of wanting to
open its arms to the migrants,'' Mr. Weil said. And ''Mr. Hollande has not been
Mme. Merkel.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/europe/a-belated-welcome-in-france-is-dr
awing-few-migrants.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A migrant from Syria placed a sign in Calais, France, at an
encampment where migrants wait to cross the Channel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE
HUGUEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); CALAIS MIGRANT CRISIS
(78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

COMPANY: BRICE SAS (85%)

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS OF THE WORLD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS,
COATS, & OVERCOATS (85%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); SYRIA (90%); IRAQ (79%);
HUNGARY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FIFA Puts Blatter's Top Deputy on Leave Amid Corruption Investigation

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN and REBECCA R. RUIZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 879 words


Jérôme Valcke, the second-ranking official at FIFA, was placed on immediate
leave and will be investigated for allegations of corruption involving the
black-market sale of World Cup tickets, the association announced Thursday.

FIFA, global soccer's governing body, announced Mr. Valcke's departure in a
brief statement posted on its website. It said that Mr. Valcke had been relieved
of his duties effective immediately and that FIFA had been ''made aware of a
series of allegations involving the secretary general and has requested a formal
investigation by the FIFA Ethics Committee.''

Mr. Valcke has served as secretary general of FIFA for eight years, essentially
acting as the top deputy to Sepp Blatter, the embattled president of the
organization. Mr. Blatter announced in June that he would step down next year
after a series of investigations into the activities of leading soccer
executives resulted in arrests.

Mr. Valcke has previously denied any wrongdoing or unethical behavior. The
latest claims were made by Benny Alon, a former soccer player and longtime
consultant involved with the sale of tickets and tourist packages for high-end
sporting events.

Mr. Alon charged that Mr. Valcke was directly involved in, and stood to profit
from, a scheme to sell tickets for prices well above face value for matches at
World Cup tournaments. Mr. Alon and his associates also said that Mr. Valcke and
FIFA reneged on a contract with Mr. Alon's company that gave it the rights to
sell World Cup tickets at the 2014 tournament, costing the company money.

Mr. Alon made those claims, and others, at a press briefing in Zurich on
Thursday in which he and his colleagues showed members of the news media
documents, including email exchanges between Mr. Alon and Mr. Valcke. The New
York Times received some of the documents ahead of the meeting, and a review
found that some did suggest a relationship between Mr. Valcke and Mr. Alon,
though the documents were incomplete and open to interpretation.

''Jérôme Valcke unequivocally denies the fabricated and outrageous accusations
by Benny Alon of alleged wrongdoing in connection with the sale of World Cup
tickets,'' Mr. Valcke's lawyer, Barry Berke of Kramer Levin, said in a statement
Thursday. ''Mr. Valcke never received or agreed to accept any money or anything
else of value from Mr. Alon.

''As has been reported, FIFA entered into an agreement with Mr. Alon's company,
JB Sports Marketing. That agreement and FIFA's subsequent business dealings with
Mr. Alon were vetted and approved by FIFA and its legal counsel.''

Mr. Valcke is the highest-ranking official to leave FIFA since May, when the
United States announced corruption charges against some of the sport's most
powerful officials.

Mr. Valcke has not been charged with a crime, and for months he had maintained
that he would remain in his position until Mr. Blatter left the FIFA presidency
in February.

Mr. Valcke and other FIFA officials have been under investigation since the
United States unsealed a 47-count indictment in May, charging 14 FIFA officials
and business executives with a range of crimes, including racketeering
conspiracy, money laundering and wire fraud. Four additional people had pleaded
guilty to similar charges in earlier years, prosecutors revealed last spring,
and investigations of FIFA by both the United States and Swiss authorities have
continued since.

Though Mr. Valcke, of France, and Mr. Blatter, of Switzerland, were not named in
the United States' indictment, investigators have scrutinized their actions.

Mr. Valcke was the unidentified ''high-ranking FIFA official'' referred to in
the 162-page indictment who, prosecutors said, authorized a $10 million bank
transfer in 2008 -- an alleged bribe at the heart of the federal case.

Mr. Valcke disputed having any ties to the transaction until June, when he
admitted that he had indeed transferred the money but maintained he had done no
wrong.

American authorities said that the $10 million, officially designated to help
the growth of soccer in the Caribbean, was paid to Jack Warner, a former FIFA
official from Trinidad and Tobago, in exchange for his vote to award the 2010
World Cup to South Africa. Mr. Warner resigned from FIFA amid controversy in
2011 and is among the men indicted by the United States.

In recent months, Mr. Valcke had been defiant in the face of criticism regarding
the transaction.

''You've decided that, after Blatter, I'm the head to be cut?'' he said in June
at a news conference in Russia. ''Fine, say it. But don't use the $10 million.
Because there's nothing about the $10 million where I have made any mistake.''

The leave announced Thursday was not the first time that Mr. Valcke had departed
FIFA after having been caught up in financial controversy. He spent three years
as the organization's marketing director but was fired in 2006 after a New York
judge ruled that he and others had lied repeatedly in negotiations with
MasterCard and Visa over a sponsorship deal.

A federal appeals court threw out the ruling five months later, and FIFA agreed
to pay a settlement to MasterCard in June 2007. That same month, Mr. Blatter
invited Mr. Valcke, who was never charged in that case, to rejoin FIFA as his
right-hand man.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/soccer/top-fifa-executive-jerome-valcke
-placed-on-leave.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jérôme Valcke is the highest-ranking official to leave FIFA
since May, when charges were announced against top officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SERGIO MORAES/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); SOCCER (91%); CORRUPTION (91%); ADMINISTRATIVE
LEAVE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(90%); SPORTS (90%); ETHICS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); SPORTS
MARKETING (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
PRICES (78%); RANKINGS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); LAWYERS
(72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS
(67%); APPROVALS (60%)

COMPANY: KRAMER LEVIN NAFTALIS & FRANKEL LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The California Wildfires: What's Making This Season So Wild?

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1007 words


The fires that have scorched large stretches of California continue to burn on
Thursday, but with lower wind, cooler temperatures and even a little rain, they
are no longer spreading fast, and they pose less of a threat than they did early
in the week.

The Valley Fire northwest of Sacramento and the Butte Fire southeast of the city
had charred more than 143,000 acres by Thursday morning, a fairly small increase
from the day before. The Butte Fire was 49 percent contained, and the Valley
Fire 35 percent.

The largest wildfire in the state, the Rough Fire, in a sparsely populated area
of the rugged southern Sierra Nevada, was also growing only slowly, to 141,000
acres, and firefighters reported having it 67 percent contained, a big
improvement from the day before.

It will be weeks, at least, before those fires are out, and for now, residents
are not able to return to the most badly scorched areas. In addition, thousands
of structures are still considered at risk, and a return of high winds could
undo the progress firefighters have made.

For residents and firefighters, the shift in weather on Wednesday was a welcome
reprieve, if a temporary one; hot, dry weather will return Friday. (The heavy
rain in Los Angeles on Tuesday passed too far to the south to help with the
blazes.)

Two people in Calaveras County were confirmed killed in the Butte Fire, and one
in Lake County in the Valley Fire. Four firefighters suffered burns fighting the
Valley Fire. Here are answers to some questions about the developments:

Q. How much damage has there been so far from these fires?

A. In the past few days, more than 1,000 buildings were destroyed, officials
estimate, though the real number will not be known for a while and will almost
certainly be higher. Fire officials have confirmed at least 585 homes and
hundreds of other structures have been destroyed by the Valley Fire, and there
are areas they have not yet been able to survey. The Butte Fire has destroyed at
least 252 homes and 188 other structures. About 13,000 people were evacuated;
most of them stayed with friends and family, but about 2,700 went to evacuation
centers. For areas that were not burned but were threatened, some evacuation
orders were lifted on Tuesday and Wednesday, allowing thousands of people to
return home..

Q. So just how bad are the fires?

A. Around 700,000 acres have burned this year in California, compared with about
500,000 in a typical year, and the fire season is nowhere near over. Right now,
15,000 people are deployed to fight wildfires across the state. But what has
officials on edge is less the total acreage than how readily new fires start,
and how quickly -- and unpredictably -- they grow. ''We've had fires in
California since the beginning of time,'' said Mark Ghilarducci, director of the
governor's Office of Emergency Services, ''but what we're seeing now that's
different is the extreme rapid spread of the fires, and the extreme
volatility.''

Q. Why is it this bad?

A. Two reasons: drought and heat. Vegetation in California, from the mesquite
scrub in the desert to the tall pines in the Sierra Nevada, is as dry as
kindling after a yearslong drought, the worst in the state's recorded history.
So fire catches more easily, spreads faster and carries farther on the wind.

The state's major reservoirs hold less than half the water they typically
contain at this time of year, many wells have run dry, and underground aquifers
are so depleted that in some places, the ground has been sinking as much as two
inches per month.

Q. With such a severe drought, do firefighters have enough water to do their
work?

A. Yes, but some creativity is required. Ordinarily, pumper trucks and
helicopters with water buckets can tap into the streams, lakes and reservoirs
closest to the flames. But in many places, those sources are now too low to rely
on. Firefighters are making more use of tanker trucks and big, portable plastic
water basins to do what is known as ''water shuttling'' -- moving water close to
the fires. And helicopter pilots are often having to travel farther to find
places to dip their buckets.

Q. How bad have the drought and heat been?

A. Last year was the hottest on record in California, and this has been a hot
summer. But even the hottest weather would not have created the extreme fire
danger the state is seeing if there had been enough rainfall. California is in
the fourth year of a severe drought. One important indicator of its severity
came this spring, when state scientists measured the Sierra snowpack at 5
percent of normal -- no misprint -- the lowest ever recorded. A study published
this week, based on the analysis of tree rings, said the snowpack was at its
lowest point in 500 years.

Q. But haven't people been conserving a lot of water?

A. Yes, and that offers something of a reprieve for the people and farms that
use water, but it does not water all those millions of acres of wild land. Only
nature does that.

Q. Is this about global warming?

A. The governor says it is. Climate scientists say the clearest link is that a
warmer climate causes more evaporation, so that even when rain and snow do fall,
less stays on -- and in -- the ground and the plants. California has had extreme
swings between dry years and wetter ones in the past, but the increasing heat of
recent years is something new.

Q. The areas burning are mostly rural, with ranches, farms and riding stables.
So what has become of all that livestock, not to mention household pets?

A. When people were forced to flee with little warning, especially from the
Valley Fire, many animals were left behind, and no one knows the toll yet. For
those who were able to get their animals out, ''we actually have a very
elaborate, well-coordinated system of volunteers and organizations that take in
farm animals and domestic pets,'' Mr. Ghilarducci said, though he added that
most people take their pets with them. ''Special shelters are set up, and
there's a whole veterinary team that goes in to support that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/californa-wildfires-explainer-valley-and-bu
tte-fires.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); FIRES (90%); SEVERE WIND (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%);
SEVERE WEATHER (78%); BURN INJURIES (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (75%)

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scaling the Highest Peak With Star Power

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 945 words


''Because it's there'' is a perfectly valid justification for climbing an
enormous mountain -- a famous one, at any rate -- but maybe not a good enough
reason to see a movie. Or to make a movie, for that matter. Technically, of
course, a film isn't really ''there'' until someone makes it, and ''Everest,'' a
breathless, large-scale 3-D action spectacle (directed by Baltasar Kormakur)
about an ill-starred attempt to scale the planet's highest peak, was called into
being with impressive star power and technical bravura. It definitely exists.
But it never seems to get anywhere, taking up space and time without managing to
be especially memorable or imposing.

In theory, the stakes should be high and the drama intense, as human beings
battle the brute forces of nature in a life-or-death struggle. But though it
assembles a first-rate cast in a story taken from reality, ''Everest'' feels
icebound and strangely abstract, lacking the gravity of genuine tragedy or the
swagger of first-rate adventure.

This may be partly because one of the film's themes is the commodification of
adventure, the colonization of a wild and dangerous terrestrial spot by tourists
and thrill seekers. The individual climbers who receive most of our attention
are treated with empathy and respect -- the Westerners, that is; the Nepalese
Sherpas who guide and assist them barely figure at all -- but Everest itself is
a mob scene. The feeling of discovery, of primal wonder at the inhuman sublimity
of the mountain, has been compromised. People with a lot of money and little
climbing experience turn the base camp into a virtual trailer park and litter
the upper slopes with discarded ropes, flags and oxygen tanks. Professional tour
leaders are expected to ensure the safety of clients who insist on pushing
toward the summit despite potentially fatal risks.

''Everest'' turns partly on the rivalry between two seasoned climbers: Rob Hall,
a stoic, disciplined New Zealander played by the ever-solid Jason Clarke; and
Scott Fischer, a gonzo American played with marvelous mischief by Jake
Gyllenhaal. Their ascent in the spring of 1996, during which eight people died
and many others suffered severe frostbite, was the subject of Jon Krakauer's
best-selling book ''Into Thin Air.''

This movie, written by William Nicholson and Simon Beaufoy, tells a somewhat
different version of the story, with Mr. Krakauer (Michael Kelly) as a marginal
and not entirely sympathetic character. His participation in the climb as a
writer working on an article for Outside magazine is part of the competition
between Hall and Fischer. Both climbers crave the publicity a magazine feature
would bring, even though Hall is also aware that such attention is contributing
to dangerous and unpleasant conditions on the mountain.

At one point, Krakauer asks members of Hall's expedition why they are there, and
though their answers are potted or evasive, ''Everest'' fills in some of the
blanks. Beck Weathers, a gung-ho Texan played by Josh Brolin, eventually lets
his bravado slip and admits that the malaise that plagues him in daily life
dissipates in challenging conditions at high altitudes. Doug Hansen (John
Hawkes), a quiet postal worker who has tried and failed to reach the top of
Everest before, is seeking a fulfillment that eludes him elsewhere. Yasuko Namba
(Naoko Mori), the only woman in Hall's group, has already climbed six of the
seven highest mountains in the world, and needs Everest to complete the set.

Mr. Kormakur, an Icelandic director whose films include ''Jar City'' and ''2
Guns,'' hits his stride once the preliminary conversations and expository scenes
give way to practical decisions and perilous mishaps. As his camera swoops down
on the climbers from above -- and, on a few vertiginous occasions, from below --
you feel some of the grandeur and terror of their undertaking. They are small,
slow-moving creatures, their bright-colored gear vivid and incongruous amid the
sparkling whites and swirling grays of snow, cloud and wind. Their progress is
grueling and slow, but Mr. Kormakur generates suspense through deft crosscutting
and an accelerating sense of doom.

Down at the base camp, Helen Wilton (Emily Watson), Hall's business partner and
a kind of den mother to his clients, keeps an eye on the weather and an ear on
her two-way radio. From time to time, we peek in on Hall's wife, Jan Arnold
(Keira Knightley), who is pregnant with their first child, and on Peach Weathers
(Robin Wright), who shares her husband's bluff confidence until it's time to
start worrying.

In telling its terrible true story, ''Everest'' gets stuck between celebrating
the indomitability of the human spirit and reckoning with the awful consequences
of hubris and bad luck. It aspires to something large and lofty, but in the end
it's a big pile of rocks, ice and vain and valiant human effort.

''Everest'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Meteorological
brutality.

Everest

Opens on Friday

Directed by Baltasar Kormakur; written by William Nicholson and Simon Beaufoy;
director of photography, Salvatore Totino; edited by Mick Audsley; music by
Dario Marianelli; production design by Gary Freeman; costumes by Guy Speranza;
produced by Mr. Kormakur, Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner, Nicky Kentish Barnes, Brian
Oliver and Tyler Thompson; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours
1 minute.

­

WITH: Jason Clarke (Rob Hall), Josh Brolin (Beck Weathers), John Hawkes (Doug
Hansen), Robin Wright (Peach Weathers), Michael Kelly (Jon Krakauer), Sam
Worthington (Guy Cotter), Keira Knightley (Jan Arnold), Emily Watson (Helen
Wilton) and Jake Gyllenhaal (Scott Fischer).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-everest-revisits-a-fateful-adven
ture-in-3-d.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Clarke, left, as Rob Hall, leader of a May 1996
expedition to the summit in ''Everest,'' directed by Baltasar Kormakur.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES)
 From left, Jake Gyllenhaal, Michael Kelly and Josh Brolin portray climbers in
the ill-starred attempt to climb Everest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASIN BOLAND/UNIVERSAL
PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); CLIMBING (89%); WRITERS (72%); COLD INJURIES (65%);
TRAILER PARKS (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

PERSON: JAKE GYLLENHAAL (57%)

STATE: MOUNT EVEREST (95%); HIMALAYAS (94%)

COUNTRY: NEPAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egypt Bans News of Strike on Tourists

BYLINE: By JARED MALSIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 478 words


CAIRO --  Egypt's chief prosecutor issued a ban on news media coverage in the
case of a weekend attack by the security forces that killed 12 people, including
eight Mexican tourists and their Egyptian guides.

The ban, issued Wednesday night, came after Egypt's foreign minister, Sameh
Shoukry, promised a ''prompt, thorough and transparent investigation'' into the
killings, according to a joint statement with Mexico's foreign minister, Claudia
Ruiz Massieu, who flew to Egypt seeking answers about Sunday's attack.

Critics said the order could be part of an attempt to conceal the findings of
any investigation into the killings.

''The government needs to cover up what really happened over there and basically
not be embarrassed by what the investigation might bring -- information
confirming the role of the army in this sad event,'' said Mohamed Lotfy, the
director of the Egyptian Commission for Rights and Freedoms, an independent
watchdog group.

''Usually when there is such a ban on publication it has do with very tough
cases where one could find evidence or embarrassing information about the
involvement of some government high officials or military strongmen,'' he said
by telephone on Thursday.

The Egyptian government said this week that the crew of a helicopter gunship had
fired on the tourists after taking them for insurgents in Egypt's Western
Desert. The group had stopped for a midday meal in the desert when the attack
took place.

The order applies to both domestic and international news media, including
print, online and broadcast outlets, according to a statement from the
prosecutor's office cited in news reports. It will remain in effect until the
conclusion of an investigation by the Egyptian authorities, the statement said.

At a joint news conference in Cairo on Wednesday, Mr. Shoukry read out a
statement agreed upon with his Mexican counterpart, expressing ''the Egyptian
government's deepest sympathy, regret and condolences to the government and
people of Mexico.''

''I hope that it is fully understood that it is the objective of the Egyptian
government to scrutinize all of the potential circumstances related to this
incident,'' Mr. Shoukry said at the news conference.

Separately on Thursday, family and associates identified two of those killed,
according to news reports. One was Queta Rojas, the founder of a well-known
modeling agency of the same name. Another was Maria Elena Cruz Muñoz, a former
congresswoman from Guadalajara.

Human rights organizations said the killings were a sign of a broader problem of
civilian deaths from the government's operations against insurgents in the
Western Desert and the Sinai Peninsula.

''This killing is symptomatic, and it begs the question: How many times has it
happened, that the army or police killed people by mistake?'' said Mr. Lotfy of
the human rights commission.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/middleeast/egypt-bans-news-coverage-of-k
illings-of-mexican-tourists.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%);
ARMIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%);
REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); DESERTS (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (68%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (89%)

STATE: SINAI PENINSULA, EGYPT (79%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fewer Starts in Housing, but Analysts Are Upbeat

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 310 words


WASHINGTON --  Builders broke ground on fewer houses and apartment complexes in
August, a possible sign that the housing market may be leveling off after
accelerating for much of the year.

Housing starts last month fell 3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
1.13 million homes, the Commerce Department said on Thursday. Construction
activity slowed sharply last month in the Northeast and Midwest, edged downward
in the West and climbed in the South.

Still, homebuilding seems much stronger than a year ago, despite monthly figures
that can be highly volatile. Construction slowed in part because of the
expiration of tax incentives for developers in New York.

''This is a mere blip on the radar,'' said Tom Wind, executive vice president of
home lending at EverBank. ''The housing market's underlying fundamentals remain
on pace for continued recovery.''

Housing starts have climbed a solid 11.3 percent this year to date. Steady job
gains of 2.9 million in the last 12 months are contributing to increased demand
from buyers and renters. And as the recovery from the recession has entered its
seventh year, residential construction has reflected and fueled broader economic
growth.

Developers see favorable demographics helping to sustain demand: Approved
permits rose 3.5 percent in August to an annual rate of 1.17 million.

New construction has yet to fully satisfy demand, a sign that further building
will most likely remain profitable.

Only a 5.2-month supply of new homes is listed for sale, well below the standard
level of six months usually documented in a healthy market. This shortage has
led to rising prices for new and existing homes.

At the same time, median rental prices are rising annually at 4.2 percent --
roughly double the increase in average hourly wages -- as baby boomers downsize
and millennials enter the job market.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/economy/housing-starts-fell-in-august
-but-remained-on-pace-for-recovery.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits
authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source:
Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%);
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); STATISTICS
(90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (78%); CONSTRUCTION
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES
(72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%);
WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

STATE: MIDWEST USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Diabetes Drug Cut Cardiovascular Deaths by 38%, Study Says

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1162 words


For the first time, a widely used modern diabetes drug has been shown to reduce
deaths from cardiovascular disease, a long-sought goal of treatment, researchers
announced on Thursday.

In a clinical trial, the drug -- Jardiance, sold jointly by Eli Lilly and
Boehringer Ingelheim -- reduced the overall risk of having a heart attack or
stroke, or of dying from cardiovascular causes, by 14 percent. Looking only at
cardiovascular deaths, the reduction was 38 percent.

''There are very few therapies we have in cardiovascular medicine that have ever
shown a one-third reduction in the risk of cardiovascular death,'' said Dr.
Steven E. Nissen, chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic,
who was not involved in the study.

Because cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death for people with
diabetes, he said, reducing that rate ''by 38 percent is a landmark result.''

Still, there were some questions about the data. The drug did not reduce the
risk of heart attacks over all by a statistically significant amount, and it
actually seemed to raise the risk of stroke, though not by a statistically
significant amount.

So how did it reduce deaths from cardiovascular causes? One way, not necessarily
expected, was by reducing deaths from heart failure, a condition in which the
heart cannot pump enough blood.

Lilly and Boehringer announced last month that the drug had decreased
cardiovascular problems among trial participants. But the data was not revealed
until Thursday, when it was presented in Stockholm at the annual meeting of the
European Association for the Study of Diabetes and also published by The New
England Journal of Medicine.

Tim Anderson, pharmaceutical analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, tripled
his estimate of Jardiance sales in 2020 to $2.7 billion. Sales of two other
drugs in the same class, known as SGLT2 inhibitors, might also increase even
though there is no data yet showing that they decrease cardiovascular risk.

Those drugs are Invokana from Johnson & Johnson and Farxiga from AstraZeneca.
The findings could hurt sales of some other types of diabetes drugs, including
the Merck blockbuster Januvia.

Lilly's shares rose nearly 7 percent Thursday, to $89.98. Boehringer is
privately held.

The Food and Drug Administration approves diabetes drugs if they reduce blood
sugar levels. It does not require that the drugs be shown to reduce the risks of
the complications of high blood sugar, such as heart attacks, even though that
is the real goal of treatment.

''The F.D.A. has given diabetes drugs a bye,'' said Dr. David M. Nathan,
director of the diabetes center at Massachusetts General Hospital. That is
because some studies started decades ago suggested that controlling blood sugar
did lower the risk of certain complications, like blindness and kidney disease.

But whether the drugs reduce heart attacks and other cardiovascular problems has
been less clear. There was some evidence of benefit in the very long run shown
in those early studies. But there have also been counterexamples, including one
trial several years ago in which more intensive glucose control raised the risk
of death.

In 2007, an analysis by Dr. Nissen suggested that the widely used diabetes drug
Avandia increased the risk of heart attacks. While the finding was disputed, the
F.D.A. began requiring developers of new diabetes drugs to conduct large trials
to rule out the possibility that their drugs increased cardiovascular risk.

Several of those large studies have now been conducted, including one for
Merck's Januvia, and the drugs have generally been found not to raise
cardiovascular risk. But they did not decrease the risks, either -- until this
trial with Jardiance.

The study, paid for by Lilly and Boehringer, involved 7,000 people with Type 2
diabetes who already had cardiovascular disease, so they were at very high risk
of heart attacks and strokes. They were randomly assigned to get either
Jardiance, which is known generically as empagliflozin, or a placebo. The
patients were allowed to take other diabetes drugs as well.

After a median follow-up of about three years, about 10.5 percent of those
getting Jardiance had suffered a heart attack or a stroke, or had died from
cardiovascular causes, compared with 12.1 percent of those getting a placebo.
That works out to about a 14 percent relative reduction in risk.

About 3.7 percent of those getting the drug died from cardiovascular causes
compared with 5.9 percent of those taking the placebo pill, a relative risk
reduction of 38 percent. There was also a 32 percent reduction of risk of death
from all causes and a reduction of 35 percent for hospitalization for heart
failure.

The authors of the study do not think Jardiance's effect comes from its ability
to reduce blood sugar, but perhaps from its ability to reduce blood pressure,
weight and arterial stiffness.

Dr. Bernard Zinman, director of the diabetes center at Mount Sinai Hospital in
Toronto and the principal investigator in the trial, said the results were
particularly impressive because most of the patients were already taking statins
and blood pressure drugs to reduce their cardiovascular risks. Dr. Zinman has
been a consultant to Lilly and Boehringer.

Still, he and other experts stopped short of saying that Jardiance should now be
the treatment of choice, though that might be looked at by committees that write
guidelines. Most important, some experts said, the results of the study might
not apply to the majority of people with Type 2 diabetes, who have a far lower
risk of cardiovascular problems than the people in the trial.

Jardiance and other SGLT2 inhibitors, which work by causing sugar to be excreted
in urine, have side effects like increased urinary tract and genital infections.
Recently, the F.D.A. expressed concerns that one or all of those drugs might
cause bone fractures and a dangerous acid buildup in the blood. In the Jardiance
trial, however, those problems were not seen.

Jardiance, a daily pill, costs about $350 a month, according to the website
GoodRx.

The results could bolster support for the F.D.A.'s policy of requiring large
cardiovascular studies that aim to rule out risks for new diabetes drugs.
Critics say these costly trials are unnecessary and deter companies from
developing drugs for the 29 million Americans with diabetes.

One critic, Dr. Robert E. Ratner, chief scientific and medical officer for the
American Diabetes Association, said he was not dissuaded. He said companies
wanting to prove that their drugs reduce heart risk ''have an intrinsic motive
for pursuing such studies, and they will occur on their own without F.D.A.
mandate.''

But Dr. Ratner said it was unfair and wasteful to single out diabetes for
studies just to prove the absence of risk, without any initial reason to be
concerned. He said that to date, 138,000 patients had been enrolled in such
trials at a cost of at least $2 billion.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/jardiance-a-diabetes-drug-is-shown-to
-reduce-cardiovascular-deaths.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (97%); DIABETES (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS
(90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); CARDIOLOGY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%);
RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
(90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); CLINICAL TRIALS (89%);
CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES
(78%); STROKES (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BLINDNESS (73%);
KIDNEY DISEASE (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (68%); APPROVALS (65%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (64%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); BOEHRINGER
INGELHEIM GMBH (58%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (64%); AZN (STO) (58%); AZN (NYSE) (58%); AZN (LSE) (58%);
LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (PAR) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110
PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS325412
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS
MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS
MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%);
NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836
BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG
PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS
(58%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); NORTHEAST USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Devils Go All In on Use of Analytics (Poker Expert Helps)

BYLINE: By PAT PICKENS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 834 words


Sunny Mehta has been a musician, a professional poker player and an author, and
he has worked in finance. He has lived in New Orleans, Chicago, Miami and Las
Vegas.

But through it all, one constant has remained: his love for the Devils.

So when the owners of the Devils, Josh Harris and David Blitzer, wanted to start
the N.H.L.'s first full-time analytics department last year, Mehta made sense as
its director.

N.H.L. training camps are opening this weekend, and more analytics departments
have sprouted around the league as teams embrace advanced statistics. Mehta will
look to find every edge for the Devils, who are projected by many to be one of
the N.H.L.'s worst teams in the 2015-16 season. In his second year as the
organization's analytics director, Mehta finds himself in a more collaborative
and forward-thinking environment than he did in his first season.

''It's been an interesting year,'' Mehta, 37, said. ''This is a dream job. It's
exciting to be part of the decision making.''

A native of Wyckoff, N.J., Mehta went to the University of Miami's Frost School
of Music as a jazz guitarist and caught on as a musician in New Orleans in the
early 2000s. He taught himself poker there and made money on the side playing at
casinos. He has written two books on poker.

After Hurricane Katrina, Mehta left for Las Vegas to play poker full time. He
lasted six months before heading back to New Orleans, and he spent the next five
years playing poker.

In 2011, Matthew Hulsizer, a prospective owner of the Phoenix Coyotes, was
looking for analytics consultants for the team and approached a group that
included Mehta.

Mehta had become something of a big fish in a small, online-based analytics
pond. Among his friends are Tyler Dellow, a former lawyer and analytics
columnist at Canada's Rogers Sportsnet, whom the Edmonton Oilers hired last year
as an analytics consultant; and Tim Barnes, also known as Vic Ferrari in hockey
analytics circles.

Barnes, now an analytics consultant for the Washington Capitals, is considered
the father of the stat Corsi, which is named after the goalie coach Jim Corsi
and tracks each team's and player's shot attempts, for and against. Corsi has
become a go-to statistic among fans and the hockey news media.

Hulsizer's bid to buy the Coyotes fell through, but he liked Mehta enough to
hire him to work for Peak6, an options trading company based in Chicago. Mehta
spent three years there before a recruiter called him in to interview for the
Devils' newly formed analytics department.

Mehta endured a rigorous interview process as Harris, Blitzer and Lou
Lamoriello, the former general manager, peppered him with questions. Out of a
pool of roughly 500, Mehta got the job as analytics director -- the first such
full-time role on any N.H.L. team.

He might seem an odd choice for a hockey front-office member, but in his mind,
hockey, poker and finance have common elements: They are all about predicting
success rates. His passion for the Devils runs deep. He recalled emptying his
bank account to buy a flight and ticket to watch the Devils win the Stanley Cup
over the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in 2003.

''If it were any of the other 29 teams, I'd still be in Chicago,'' Mehta said,
referring to his job in options trading. ''It was the Devils. I had to check it
out.''

Blitzer and Harris are committed to the analytics, which is why the Devils also
gave Mehta an assistant, Sai Okabayashi, whose official title is data scientist.
The team intends to add to the department down the road.

In May, Lamoriello stepped back from the G.M. role, hiring Ray Shero. After 28
years with the Devils, Lamoriello departed to become the Toronto Maple Leafs'
general manager in July.

As Shero has taken over the organization's reins, Mehta has seen a more
streamlined approach. Mehta has become more involved in the decision-making
process under the new administration. He watches video and compiles data to help
the Devils make decisions about player acquisitions and usage.

''It's getting better, maybe not every day, but every month or every week in
terms of the league,'' Shero said, referring to analytics. ''We're going to
throw a lot of things by these guys. I think a lot of teams are doing that, so I
don't think we're ahead of it, but you certainly don't want to be behind on
it.''

When asked what he looked for specifically, Mehta said, ''I'm looking for
players who will help us win.''

Still, the Devils are coming off their worst 82-game point total since 1988-89,
and they have missed the playoffs three straight seasons. That streak seems
destined to reach four -- the Metropolitan Division has improved, and Shero has
enacted a rebuilding plan.

Mehta understands why many predict the Devils to finish near the bottom of the
Metropolitan Division and Eastern Conference standings. But he warned predictors
of one overlooked fact.

''Never underestimate the randomness of hockey,'' he said. ''It's not impossible
that we exceed expectations.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/devils-go-all-in-on-analytics-ex-poker-
pro-helps.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sunny Mehta helped the Devils start the first full-time
analytics department in the N.H.L. last year. ''This is a dream job,'' he said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POKER (91%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ICE HOCKEY
(89%); MUSIC EDUCATION (78%); GAMBLING (78%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (75%);
HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%);
EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SECURITIES
TRADING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (77%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); FLORIDA,
USA (73%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Elena Delle Donne's M.V.P. Year Includes Mastery of Free Throws

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 500 words


Elena Delle Donne, the newly anointed most valuable player of the W.N.B.A., does
many things well. She led the regular season in scoring and was in the top 10 in
numerous other categories. She led her team, the playoff-bound Chicago Sky, in
minutes, rebounds, blocks and even 3-pointers.

She also has been outstanding in an overlooked category, not always associated
with most valuable players: free throw shooting.

Delle Donne, 26, led the league in both free throws and free throw percentage,
making 207 of 218 shots for 95 percent, including a streak of 58 in a row. She
is the first W.N.B.A. M.V.P. to lead in that category.

Accurate free throw shooting and superstardom do not always go together. An
N.B.A. M.V.P. has led in free throw percentage only six times, including Stephen
Curry last season. (The others are Steve Nash, Magic Johnson, Larry Bird (twice)
and Oscar Robertson.)

Recent free throw leaders like Brian Roberts, Jamal Crawford and Jose Calderon
are not even All-Stars, much less M.V.P. candidates.

Free throw shooting might seem to be the most straightforward of tasks on the
basketball court. But quite a few of the game's best players, like Wilt
Chamberlain and Shaquille O'Neal, were notoriously terrible from the stripe.

More recently, DeAndre Jordan has been a vital part of a good Clippers team and
was a sought after free agent this summer while managing to make only about 40
percent of his free throws. (Paradoxically, he has led the league in field goal
percentage three years running.)

The greatest free throw shooter in W.N.B.A. history was Becky Hammon, who led
the league in percentage six times. Last season, her final one in the league,
she went to the line 35 times and made them all. Hammon has gone on to become
the first full-time female coach in the N.B.A. with San Antonio.

In general, W.N.B.A. players are strong free throw shooters. The league leaders
have shot better than their male counterparts in nine of the last 10 seasons.
Delle Donne's 95 percent this season topped Curry's 91.4 percent.

As a league, the W.N.B.A. shot 79.5 percent this year, better than the N.B.A.'s
75 percent under nearly the same conditions (the women use a smaller ball).

Over three seasons in the league, Delle Donne is 448 for 477 for 94 percent in
77 games, about the length of an N.B.A. schedule. No N.B.A. player with 400
attempts in a season has matched that percentage, the W.N.B.A. noted.

As a rookie in 2013, the 6-foot-5 Delle Donne joined a team that had never had a
winning record and helped it get to the playoffs. Last season, the Sky made the
finals, losing to the Phoenix Mercury.

This year's Sky had the league's third best record and opens the playoffs
Thursday night against the Indiana Fever. The top-seeded Liberty may await in
the league semifinals.

''A W.N.B.A. championship is by far the biggest goal,'' Delle Donne said on ESPN
Wednesday.

The Sky will no doubt be hoping the close games come down to Delle Donne at the
free throw line.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/basketball/elena-delle-donnes-mvp-year-
includes-mastery-of-free-throws.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (56%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (54%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Wild Day That Wasn't: Fed Avoids Tumult but Prolongs Uncertainty

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 835 words


Thursday could easily have been a wild day on Wall Street.

If the Federal Reserve, at a long-anticipated meeting, had decided to raise
interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, a steep sell-off in the
stock market was possible. Conversely, if the Fed kept rates at their ultralow
levels, investors might have cheered its commitment to easy money and gone on a
buying spree.

In the end, the Fed chose not to raise rates. Unexpectedly, the market closed
slightly lower. The muted reaction may be welcome after the turbulence that
roiled stock markets last month. And since investors were betting in certain
markets that the Fed would not raise rates, it made some sense that they did not
react strongly when they got what they expected.

But the stock market's apparent meekness on such a big day may not be as
encouraging as it looks. The Fed's decision not to raise rates, combined with
statements made by Fed officials on Thursday, may have deepened investors' fears
about the strength of the global economy -- and raised new questions about the
Fed's ability to respond to weakness around the world.

''What was problematic is that the Fed introduced a greater measure of concern
about global issues,'' said Jorge O. Mariscal, chief investment officer for
emerging markets at UBS. ''The markets might be saying, 'What does the Fed know
that we don't know?' ''

The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the day down just 5.11
points, or 0.26 percent, at 1,990.20. The Dow Jones industrial average, which
was up as much as 194 points on Thursday afternoon, closed down 65.21 points, at
16,674.74. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index ended the day on a higher note,
up 0.1 percent, to 4,893.95.

Investors sought the safety of government bonds. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction to its price, fell to 2.217
percent, from 2.3 percent. The yield on the two-year Treasury plunged to 0.68
percent, from 0.81 percent.

Expectations about Fed policy have long driven investors' decisions. But the
influence of the Fed grew after the central bank introduced an enormous stimulus
program after the financial crisis to lift the economy. Even though the economy
did not bounce back strongly, investors were encouraged that the Fed would keep
printing money until it got the results it was looking for. And with the Fed
holding rates at their lows on Thursday, investors would seem to have reason to
believe that stocks will keep moving higher as the Fed keeps its foot on the
pedal.

Inflation is well below the Fed's target in the United States, giving it some
reason to delay raising rates -- maybe even into next year, although it will
have two more opportunities before this year ends. Whatever the precise timing,
the Fed also appears to believe that with large developing countries like China
flashing signs of weakness, it should keep rates at low levels to try to ease
global financial conditions and insulate the United States economy from trouble
overseas.

One part of the statement released by the Fed's monetary policy committee in
particular indicated that higher rates might be a long time coming. ''The
committee anticipates that it will be appropriate to raise the target range for
the federal funds rate when it has seen some further improvement in the labor
market and is reasonably confident that inflation will move back to its 2
percent objective over the medium term,'' the statement said.

But the Fed's decision to hold off could be self-defeating. It might stoke fears
rather than allay them, according to some analysts. And investors may start to
believe that the Fed is in effect trying to set monetary policy for both the
economies of the United States and China. That might be hard to pull off.

''China is now the Fed's reaction function,'' Mr. Mariscal said. ''It's another
source of uncertainty.''

Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's chairwoman, on Thursday appeared well aware of the
difficulty of reacting to many different forces in the world economy and in
global markets. She emphasized the existence of ''crosscurrents'' in a press
briefing.

Some Fed watchers in the markets said that the Fed should have raised interest
rates on Thursday -- to dispel the uncertainty that they believe the central
bank has started to create in the markets. Because it chose not to raise rates
on Thursday, investors will be fretting for months about when the big day will
actually arrive. ''It leaves you no different than you were one minute before
the announcement,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells
Capital Management. ''My countdown clock just restarted for 30 days.''

But raising rates could have created far greater uncertainty, by roiling markets
and hammering developing countries when they are vulnerable. Or, as Ms. Yellen
put it, ''Given the significant economic and financial interconnections between
the United States and the rest of the world, the situation abroad bears close
watching.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/daily-stock-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Thursday. (Source: Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC
POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES
(89%); ECONOMIC STIMULUS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%);
ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%);
INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING
MARKETS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

With Cablevision Deal, Altice Considers More Potential Acquisitions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 264 words


The European telecom titan Altice has made no secret that it wants to become the
next big player in the American cable landscape. After Cablevision, however,
what else can it buy?

As the industry consolidates, putting more power into the hands of a small group
of giants, future acquisition targets are smaller and smaller.

Already, Comcast, Charter Communications and now Altice have been steadily
snapping up the major players. Time Warner Cable, the second-biggest cable
operator in the country after Comcast, is poised to be absorbed into Charter, as
is Bright House.

Now Altice has acquired both Cablevision, the jewel of the New York City
metropolitan area, and Suddenlink to vault into the top ranks of the industry.

What else can it buy? The European telecom has held talks with a number of
smaller cable operators, according to people briefed on the matter, which could
go toward a roll-up of the industry and put it on stronger competitive footing
against Comcast and Charter.

The biggest remaining prize is Cox, which is still owned by its founding
eponymous family. With more than four million subscribers, it would provide a
significant boost to Altice's ambitions -- but could also draw scrutiny from
regulators wary of the rapidly contracting industry.

Other potential acquisitions include Mediacom, another privately held cable
company with roughly 1.3 million customers, and Cable One, a publicly traded
operator spun off from Graham Holdings that has about 686,000 subscribers.
Shares in the latter were up nearly 2 percent in early afternoon trading on
Wednesday.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/altice-considers-more-potent
ial-acquisitions.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); HOLDING
COMPANIES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (71%); CITIES (69%)

COMPANY: CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%); CEQUEL
COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS I LLC (56%)

TICKER: CHTR (NASDAQ) (57%); TWC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE
& OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION
SERVICES (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Altice, Reputed to Be a Cost-Cutter, Raises Concern With a Cablevision Deal

BYLINE: By EMILY STEEL and MARK SCOTT; Mark Scott reported from Rome. Nicola
Clark contributed reporting from Paris, and Sydney Ember contributed from New
York.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1369 words


With its $17.7 billion takeover of Cablevision, the European company Altice
solidified its position as a bold new player in the fast-consolidating American
cable market. And its executives promised on Thursday that this was just the
beginning of the company's empire building in the United States, noting the
potential to acquire other cable companies and even mobile networks.

Yet Altice's track record of aggressively cutting costs to increase
profitability in the companies it acquires raised immediate concerns among
consumer advocates, who say that this cost-cutting model has not always resulted
in happy customers when the company's execution does not live up to its
ambitions.

Analysts expected Altice to deploy a similar strategy at Cablevision, citing the
deal's lofty price tag -- roughly $10 billion in cash and the assumption of $7.7
billion in debt -- as well as weaknesses in Cablevision's business and perhaps
overly optimistic expectations of nearly $900 million in savings.

No matter how it proceeds, Altice is entering the market with swagger.

''There's a new sheriff in town, and we're probably going to run it a little
differently,'' Dexter Goei, Altice's chief executive, said in an investor
conference in New York on Thursday.

Altice, which is based in Amsterdam, made its first foray into American cable in
May when it agreed to buy Suddenlink Communications, a cable operator based in
St. Louis, for $9.1 billion.

If Altice's deal for Cablevision is approved, its expanded American operations
would rank among the largest cable operators in the United States, with about
3.7 million video subscribers, behind Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Charter
Communications and Cox Communications.

''Six months ago, we were number nonexistent, so this is moving fast,'' Patrick
Drahi, 52, the French-Israeli billionaire who founded and controls Altice, said
in the investor meeting.

The deal is likely to draw significant concern from United States regulators,
particularly as the number of companies in the broadband and cable television
markets shrinks.

Charter Communications, a cable operator with ties to the billionaire John C.
Malone, has already agreed to buy Time Warner Cable. AT&T recently completed a
$48.5 billion takeover of the satellite television operator DirecTV.

Those deals put control of the country's broadband and entertainment
infrastructure into the hands of a small number of players. Combined, Comcast,
Charter (with Time Warner Cable under its tent) and the new Altice would control
81.2 percent of the cable broadband universe in the United States, according to
SNL Kagan.

Some analysts forecast that if the deal were to spur additional consolidation
among cable operators and television network groups, it could signal more woes
for consumers.

Gene Kimmelman, the chief executive of Public Knowledge, a consumer advocacy
group, and a former antitrust official at the Justice Department, said that he
expected the regulatory focus to shift from individual companies to the cable
industry as a whole, as worries mount over how the companies could increase
prices, control what devices connect to their services and influence the
development of new streaming video services.

''There is a lot of concern about too much power in a few dominant cable
firms,'' Mr. Kimmelman said.

Michael J. Copps, a former Democratic member of the Federal Communications
Commission and an adviser to the Common Cause public interest group, added that
consumers' interests were getting lost as big cable companies kept getting
larger.

''While Wall Street thinks it is fun to watch this battle of the giants, it is
never good news for consumers,'' Mr. Copps said. ''Prices just keep going up. If
these companies have all this money to spend, why don't they go in and build
their own broadband and try for some real competition?''

Under the terms of the deal, Altice has offered $34.90 in cash for each
Cablevision share, a 22 percent premium to the company's stock price on
Wednesday. Altice is also assuming Cablevision debt.

Altice said that it would finance the deal with $14.5 billion of new and
existing debt, as well as with cash reserves.

The deal is expected to close in the first half of 2016.

Altice would also acquire the newspapers Newsday and amNewYork in the deal, as
well as a local television news channel, News 12 Networks.

While the Dolan family, which founded and controls Cablevision, had advocated
keeping Newsday and News 12 Networks during the negotiations, Altice insisted on
including them. Altice executives said they would not sell the news media
properties, even though they were losing money.

''They are a core part of the local community that we will continue to invest
in,'' Mr. Goei said.

The Altice deal does not include other companies controlled by the Dolans,
including AMC Networks, a cable channel company; and the Madison Square Garden
Company, which owns the sports arena, as well as the New York Knicks basketball
team and the New York Rangers hockey team.

James L. Dolan, Cablevision's chief executive, said in a statement that his
family's business, started four decades ago by his father, Charles, would be in
good hands with Altice.

''The time is right for new ownership of Cablevision and its considerable
assets,'' Mr. Dolan said. ''We believe that Patrick Drahi and Altice will be
truly worthy successors.''

On Wall Street, Cablevision's stock closed Thursday afternoon at $32.51, up
almost 14 percent.

Since starting Altice in 2002, Mr. Drahi has earned a reputation for taking on
incumbents in some of Europe's largest markets, and scooping up smaller assets
in countries like Switzerland and Belgium that he has developed into larger
operations.

If the Altice-Cablevision deal is completed, the United States would account for
roughly a third of the company's annual sales.

''My model ideally is to bring the U.S. model to Europe, and the European model
to the U.S.,'' Mr. Drahi said.

In Europe, Altice has built a reputation for ruthlessly reducing operating
costs. Just as it has elsewhere, Altice would size up Cablevision and ''find out
item by item where there is potential improvement,'' said Nicolas Paulmier, a
London-based partner at Cinven, a private equity group that has worked closely
with Mr. Drahi as an adviser and shareholder for more than a decade.

At the same time, analysts said, Altice invests heavily in new infrastructure --
with a focus on upgrading fixed-line networks with the latest fiber-optic
technology. The priority, analysts said, is to provide subscribers with faster
Internet connection speeds at competitive prices.

Mr. Drahi has access to perhaps $30 billion to invest in United States cable
television, some analysts said, and might be better able to pour money into
Cablevision's technology than the Dolan family.

Much of the $900 million in savings that Altice has identified, Mr. Goei said,
would come from streamlining customer service. About 14 million calls each year
to Cablevision's call centers, for example, involved billing questions, he said.

''There are significant opportunities to ramp up and become as efficient as we
can be,'' he said.

In France, where Altice bought mobile operator SFR from Vivendi in 2014 and
combined it with its cable company, Numericable, the integration has been a
mixed success.

Revenue per customer is increasing, in part because of higher subscription rates
and an effort to push customers with broadband access to purchase more expensive
services. But over the last year, SFR-Numericable has also lost more than 1.2
million French subscribers, particularly among prepaid mobile clients, in the
face of heated competition from low-cost competitors.

Through its acquisition of Suddenlink and its deal for Cablevision, if
completed, Altice has created a beachhead for potential future American deals.
Mr. Goei told analysts that Altice might eventually look to float a United
States stock offering for its American assets.

The recent acquisitions represent a natural extension of Altice's global
ambitions, executives said.

''France is 3 percent of the world,'' Mr. Drahi said. ''We have 97 percent of
the world to work on.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/dealbook/altice-cablevision-telecommu
nications-drahi.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The headquarters of Cablevision, which agreed to a sale to
Altice. The European telecommunications giant, founded by Patrick Drahi, left,
has ambitious plans for the U.S. market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED
PRESS
 THIBAULT CAMUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%);
CONSUMER LAW (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); BROADBAND (89%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SUBSCRIPTION
TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EXECUTIVES
(77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSUMER WATCHDOGS (75%);
CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); APPROVALS (71%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); INVESTOR
RELATIONS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SHERIFFS (52%)

COMPANY: CEQUEL COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS I LLC (66%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC
(57%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (53%)

TICKER: CHTR (NASDAQ) (53%); TWC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS517110
WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION
SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (50%)

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Dance

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1913 words


Dance

Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance. A searchable guide
to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Beat Festival  (through Saturday) This festival of site-responsive,
Brooklyn-bred performance fans out across the borough for a fourth year. On
Friday at MetroTech Commons in Downtown Brooklyn, Jamal Jackson Dance Company
shares a lunchtime set with the comedian Robin Cloud. The festival wraps up with
''Ocaso: A Performance Adventure in Manufacture New York,'' which meanders
through a massive warehouse in Sunset Park on Friday and Saturday. Featuring
Chinese Theater Works, Dhira Rauch, Brooklyn's Finest Dance Company and Paul
Tafoya, the eclectic tour includes salsa dance, Chinese opera, trumpeting and a
lecture-performance on technology. A full schedule and details are at
beatbrooklyn.com. (Siobhan Burke)

Camille A. Brown & Dancers  (Tuesday through Sept. 27) Ms. Brown's exuberant
company ushers in the Joyce Theater's season with ''Black Girl: Linguistic
Play,'' a far-reaching exploration of black womanhood with an all-female cast
and live music. In keeping with its commitment to sparking conversation, the
troupe hosts a ''second-act'' dialogue after each performance, inviting
audiences to chat with the artists. Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday
through Sept. 26 at 8 p.m., Sept. 27 at 2 p.m., 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th
Street, Chelsea, 212-242-0800, joyce.org. (Burke)

Gustavo Ciríaco and Andrea Sonnberger  (Saturday and Sunday) It may not be dance
in the conventional sense, but ''Here Whilst We Walk,'' by this
Brazilian-Austrian duo, involves plenty of movement. Be ready to spend time on
foot, in close proximity to your fellow walkers: Bound together by, yes, a large
rubber band, participants take a silent tour of Red Hook, Brooklyn, doubling as
sightseers and, for anyone passing by, a sight to be seen. At 11 a.m., 2 and 5
p.m., starting at Pioneer Works, 289 Van Brunt Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn,
800-982-2787, fiaf.org. (Burke)

? Cloud Gate Dance Theater of Taiwan (through Saturday) In ''Rice,'' this
venerable Taiwanese company pays homage to one of the world's most important
grains -- a staple of Asian agriculture and cuisine as well as a cultural
symbol. The work, choreographed by founding artistic director Lin Hwai-min to
mark the company's 40th anniversary two years ago, showcases Cloud Gate's
celebrated mix of modern dance, ballet, Qi Gong and calligraphy. Rich,
meditative movement is framed by verdant projections of the Taiwanese
countryside and the titular crop. At 7:30 p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House,
Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene,
718-636-4100, bam.org. (Brian Schaefer)

? Jeanine Durning  (through Sept. 26) Ms. Durning's ''To Being,'' in which she
and her dancers move nonstop for more than an hour, making unforeseen use of the
Chocolate Factory's infrastructure, continues through Saturday. In this valiant
piece and its more verbal companion, ''inging'' (Wednesday through Sept. 26),
the choreographer attempts nothing more or less than to be fully in the present,
moment after onrushing moment. It's as absorbing for the audience as it seems to
be for her. At 8 p.m., 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, 718-482-7069,
chocolatefactorytheater.org. (Burke)

? Jack Ferver and Mark Swanson  (Thursday through Oct. 4) In ''Chambre,'' a
performance and installation in the New Museum's underground theater, this
performer-designer team reimagines Jean Genet's play ''The Maids,'' producing a
modern critique of class disparity and celebrity culture. Mr. Ferver, his wry
humor in full force, contributes the text and choreography; Mr. Swanson designed
the many-roomed set, which is on display during museum hours. The presentation
is part of the Crossing the Line Festival. Performances on Thursdays and Fridays
at 7 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m., New Museum, 235 Bowery, between
Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, 877-500-1932, newmuseum.org.
(Burke)

? Miguel Gutierrez  (through Sept. 26) The choreographer Miguel Gutierrez is
preoccupied with getting older, and all the insecurities and social stigma
associated with that inevitable process. He's mined this territory in recent
years in his ''Age & Beauty'' trilogy, the third chapter of which premieres this
week as part of the French Institute Alliance Française's Crossing the Line
Festival. If on par with the previous episodes -- which will also be performed
here -- it's bound to be self-indulgent, chaotic, smart, fun and totally
engrossing. At various times, New York Live Arts, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea,
212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.org. (Schaefer)

Jaamil Olawale Kosoko | anonymous bodies  (Wednesday through Sept. 26) As part
of Gibney Dance's Making Space series, Mr. Kosoko, a Nigerian-American artist
from Detroit, offers ''#negrophobia,'' examining what he calls ''the erotic fear
associated with the black male body.'' A critique of society and self, the work
encompasses confession, chaos and near-collapse, all in the intimate space of
the Agnes Varis Performance Lab. At 7:30 p.m., Gibney Performing Arts Center,
280 Broadway, near Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, 646-837-6809,
gibneydance.org. (Burke)

Joanna Kotze  (through Saturday) The culmination of a two-year residency, ''Find
Yourself Here'' is a collaboration between the Ms. Kotze and visual artists who
are interested in stretching the boundaries of multidisciplinary performance.
The work boasts a bespoke installation comprising projections and other visual
elements by the artists Jonathan Allen, Zachary Fabri and Asuka Goto. They
perform alongside Ms. Kotze, Netta Yerushalmy and Stuart Singer to a live sound
score, creating a dialogue between movement and environment. At 7:30 p.m.,
Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, 866-811-4111,
bacnyc.org. (Schaefer)

Kenneth Kvarnstrom  (Wednesday through Sept. 26) This Finnish-born choreographer
brings his company from Stockholm to Brooklyn, presenting ''Tape'' as part of
the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival. A single musician -- on
lute, theorbo and guitar -- accompanies the dancers in their movement,
monologues and duct-tape application, executed in costumes by the Swedish
fashion designer Astrid Olsson. At 7:30 p.m., Fishman Space, Fisher Building,
321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100, bam.org.
(Burke)

Mark Dendy Projects (Fridays and Saturdays, through Sept. 26) In 2013, Chelsea
Manning forced America to have two complicated and very different public
conversations: One about war crimes and national security; the other about
transgender identity. In ''Whistleblower,'' the choreographer Mark Dendy, who
likes to mix text and movement to dissect social issues, draws from trial
transcripts to imagine Ms. Manning's thoughts during her sentencing for leaking
government documents. In combining legal language with body language, the
political becomes personal and vice versa. At 7:30 p.m., Dixon Place, 161A
Chrystie Street, between Rivington and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side,
866-811-4111, dixonplace.org. (Schaefer)

? Wayne McGregor  (Friday, Saturday and Monday) Jonathan Safran Foer's 2010
novel ''Tree of Codes'' was part book, part sculpture, created by extracting
words from Bruno Schulz's 1934 story collection, ''The Street of Crocodiles.''
That hybrid inspired the British choreographer Wayne McGregor to engage in a
similar process of creative cut-and-paste in collaboration with the visual
artist Olafur Eliasson and the producer-composer Jamie xx. In Mr. McGregor's
''Tree of Codes,'' dancers from his own company, along with several from the
Paris Opera Ballet, interpret the story with his signature relentless, knotty
movement. At 8 p.m., with a matinee on Saturday at 2 p.m., Park Avenue Armory,
643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, 212-933-5812, armoryonpark.org; sold out.
(Schaefer)

? New York City Ballet  (Tuesday through Sept. 29) The company's fall season
begins on a classical note with eight performances of Peter Martins's ''Swan
Lake.'' If you can see just one Odette/Odile, see Sara Mearns, who dances the
dual role on opening night (Tuesday) and next Saturday afternoon, with Tyler
Angle as her prince. Tuesdays through Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Friday at 8 p.m.,
Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sundays at 3 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln
Center, 212-496-0600, nycballet.com. (Burke)

New York Theater Ballet (Saturday and Sunday) It's a busy fall for this
resourceful company, beginning with two programs at Pace University. On Saturday
and Sunday night, the troupe performs works by Pam Tanowitz, Merce Cunningham,
Nicolo Fonte and Agnes de Mille. (Some of those will be reprised on a separate
program at St. Mark's Church, Oct. 1-3.) A Sunday matinee features Donald
Mahler's charming, hourlong ''Cinderella,'' a good choice for kids and parents.
Saturday at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m., Michael Schimmel Center for
the Arts, 3 Spruce Street, between Park Row and Gold Street, Lower Manhattan,
866-811-4111, nytb.org. (Burke)

Queer New York International Arts Festival  (through Sept. 26) Artists from
Bulgaria, Croatia, Morocco, South Africa, Switzerland and the United States
participate in this eclectic performance festival, which seeks to broaden
definitions of ''queer'' in art. Though most of the shows are one-offs, Bruno
Isakovic's ''Disclosures'' settles into Abrons Arts Center for five nights,
exploring issues of privacy and vulnerability through nakedness. At various
times and locations; full schedule at abronsartscenter.org. (Burke)

Traditional Dance From Okinawa, With Live Music  (Friday and Saturday) Okinawan
dance and music, from Japan's southernmost islands, glides into Manhattan
courtesy of the Japan Society. Performed by alumni and faculty members from the
Okinawa Prefectural University of Arts, the program encompasses classical court
dances dating from the 15th to 19th centuries, as well as more recent popular
folk dances known as zo odori. At 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th
Street, Manhattan, 212-832-1155, japansociety.org. (Burke)

'Where Sculpture and Dance Meet: Minimalism from 1961 to 1979'  (Tuesdays
through Saturdays, through Oct. 31) This exhibition at Loretta Howard Gallery
examines the interchange of ideas among choreographers and sculptors in the
1960s and '70s. Sculptures by Ronald Bladen, Donald Judd, Robert Morris, Andy
Warhol and Sol LeWitt share the space with videos of performances by Trisha
Brown, Lucinda Childs, Merce Cunningham, Simone Forti and Yvonne Rainer. 525-531
West 26th Street, Chelsea, 212-695-0164, lorettahoward.com. (Burke)

? Yasuko Yokoshi  (Thursday through Sept. 26) Two worlds, onscreen and onstage,
coexist in Ms. Yokoshi's ''Zero One,'' which kicks off the fall season at
Danspace Project. For the live component, the identical twin sisters Manami and
Sawami Fukuoka bring together their respective backgrounds in Japanese butoh and
Western contemporary dance. The film introduces another pair of artists and
their rituals, Hangman Takuzo and Namiko Kawamura, as Ms. Yokoshi explores what
she calls ''a place beyond control, where the slightest gesture trips the
balance between life and death.'' Thursday at 8 p.m., next Friday and Sept. 26
at 7 and 9:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street,
East Village, 866-811-4111, danspaceproject.org. (Burke)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/dance/dance-listings-for-sept-18-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%);
DANCERS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); BALLET (79%); OPERA (78%); ANNIVERSARIES
(63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 46 words


An Op-Ed article on Sept. 1 about rerunning psychology experiments referred
imprecisely to an initiative called the Reproducibility Project. It was
completed at the Center for Open Science in Charlottesville, Va., not the
University of Virginia (although it was started there).



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (83%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about Taiwan's pre-eminent
performance group, Cloud Gate Dance Theater, referred imprecisely to Taiwan at
two points and in a subheading. As the article correctly noted elsewhere, the
status of Taiwan, an island off mainland China, is in dispute; it is a
separately governed territory that is recognized as part of China. Neither China
nor Taiwan claims that it is a separate country.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (88%); DANCE COMPANIES (88%)

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (97%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


Because of an editing error, an article in some editions on Sept. 8 about the
Yankees' 8-6 victory over the Baltimore Orioles misstated, in some copies, the
elbow in which Yankees pitcher Nathan Eovaldi has inflammation. It is his right
elbow, not his left.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


Because of an editing error, a report in the baseball roundup on Sept. 3, about
the Toronto Blue Jays' 5-1 victory over the Cleveland Indians, misidentified the
location of the game in some copies. It was Toronto, not Cleveland.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (83%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%)

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words


An article on Sept. 7 about the ways Yoenis Cespedes electrified the Mets and
their fans since arriving in a trade misstated the number of seasons that Mets
reliever Jerry Blevins played with Cespedes on the Oakland Athletics. It was
two, not three.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (85%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 46 words


Two pictures with an article on Thursday in the Personal Tech section, about
electronic sleep aids, were reversed. The circular black object at lower left is
the DreamScience device, and the oblong object with the glowing light at upper
right is the Aura Connected Alarm clock.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 91 words


An article in some editions on Wednesday about the death of Adam Purple, a Lower
East Side gardener and activist, misspelled the surname of an artist whose work
Mr. Purple's so-called Garden of Eden was compared to. She is Agnes Denes, not
Dennis. The article also misstated the timing of a protest in which Mr. Purple's
supporters began creating trails of purple footprints leading to the site of the
garden. While one trail may have been created before the garden's destruction,
the campaign took place afterward to call attention to its loss.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 31 words


An article on Saturday about the Spee Club at Harvard moving to admit women
misstated the number of elite all-male clubs at the university. There are eight,
including the Spee, not nine.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Cooties,' Back to School With Zombies and Gore

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 291 words


Is ''Cooties'' funny enough or scary enough or both to override its
distastefulness? Tough call. Depends, really, on how you feel about a blood bath
set in a school, a teacher beating a zombified student to death and name actors
romping through the groves of gross-out humor.

Tainted chicken nuggets served at an elementary school turn its students into
zombies, and -- as if the teacher shortage weren't already bad enough -- a
number of educators are quickly eaten. But a handful survive and spend the movie
alternately running from the little rotters and trying to kill them.

All this mars the first day on the job for Clint, a dorky substitute teacher
played by Elijah Wood --  yes, Frodo from ''The Lord of the Rings.'' And it
happens just when he was striking a spark with another teacher, Lucy (Alison
Pill of ''The Newsroom''), and wondering if he might possibly lure her away from
her cloddish boyfriend and fellow teacher, Wade (Rainn Wilson). Jack McBrayer,
Nasim Pedrad and Jorge Garcia are among the other familiar adult faces.

The role-reversal possibilities inherent in children-prey-on-adults stories
can't really be exploited well when the kids are mere zombies, and in any case
there is a lot of horror comedy around lately. So, though ''Cooties'' has a
reasonable amount of laughs and frights, and though real teachers may find it an
apt allegory for the zombielike charges in their classrooms, it's not really
funny enough to achieve grown-up cachet, and it's too ugly and violent for
younger viewers.

''Cooties'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). A school seized by zombies is a very gruesome place.

Cooties

Opens on Friday

Directed by Jonathan Milott and Cary Murnion

1 hour 28 minutes




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-cooties-back-to-school-with-zomb
ies-and-gore.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%);
CHILDREN (77%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES
(77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES
(77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Comedy

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 746 words


For news about comedy, including critical commentary: nytimes.com/arts. A
searchable guide to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Hannibal Buress  (Sunday) Mr. Buress, who now has his own show on Comedy
Central, returns to familiar territory at the Knitting Factory for a performance
that includes stories, poems and, according to the venue's website, his ''top
200 motivational quotes.'' At 9:15 p.m., 361 Metropolitan Avenue, at Havemeyer
Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, bk.knittingfactory.com, 347-529-6696. (Elise
Czajkowski)

Cambridge Footlights International Tour 2015  (Wednesday) The Footlights,
Cambridge University's theatrical club, has long produced some of Britain's
finest comedians, from Stephen Fry to John Oliver. The troupe brings its current
sketch show, ''Love Handles,'' on a brief North American tour. At 9:30 p.m.,
Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, 307 West 26th Street, Chelsea, 212-366-9176,
newyork.ucbtheatre.com. (Czajkowski)

'The Cast'  (Saturday) This show features some of the Magnet Theater's finest
performers in an entirely improvised play. The show is a mix of on- and offstage
scenes, but the theme varies week to week: For this edition, they'll be
performing in the style of the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright David Mamet. At
10:30 p.m., Magnet Theater, 254 West 29th Street, Chelsea, 212-244-8824,
magnettheater.com. (Czajkowski)

Pete Davidson  (Thursday through Sept. 26) Before joining the cast of ''Saturday
Night Live'' in 2014, the 21-year-old Staten Island native distinguished himself
as a stand-up with brutally honest personal material. Thursday at 7:30 p.m.,
next Friday and Sept. 26 at 7:30 and 10 p.m., Carolines, 1626 Broadway, at 49th
Street, Manhattan, 212-757-4100, carolines.com. (Czajkowski)

? The Eugene Mirman Comedy Festival (Friday through Monday) This quirky
festival, founded in 2008 by the comedian Eugene Mirman and the comedy producer
Julie Smith Clem, has become a favorite of alternative comedians and
comedy-savvy fans. Shows have interesting themes like ''Comics We Think Ruth
Bader Ginsburg Would Enjoy'' and ''An Evening of Entertainment From People With
Black Glasses.'' Among the many performers are John Hodgman, Ophira Eisenberg,
Chris Gethard and Ira Glass. There will also be a taping of the space-comedy
podcast ''StarTalk Live! with Neil deGrasse Tyson,'' on Monday at 8 p.m. At
various times and locations, details are at prettygoodfriends.com/emcf.

Joe Machi  (Sunday) Mr. Machi, a finalist on Season 8 of NBC's ''Last Comic
Standing,'' incorporates both the offbeat presentation of performance art comedy
with the undeniable punch lines of a working club comic. (Also on Sept. 27.) At
7:30 p.m., Carolines, 1626 Broadway, at 49th Street, Manhattan, 212-757-4100,
carolines.com. (Czajkowski)

'Postmen' + '3 Busy Debras'  (Saturday) This double bill features works written
by their respective performers and directed by Jake Fogelnest. ''Postmen,'' a
fast-paced sketch comedy show, stars Matt Barats, Carmen Christopher and Anthony
Oberbeck; ''3 Busy Debras,'' an outrageous play about brunch, features Sandy
Honig, Mitra Jouhari and Alyssa Stonoha. At 8 p.m., Annoyance Theater NY, 367
Bedford Avenue, at South Fifth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-569-7810,
theannoyancenewyork.com. (Czajkowski)

? Rory Scovel  (Wednesday) Mr. Scovel is an exceptionally enjoyable stand-up;
his blend of observational material, absurdist tangents and space-specific
improv make each show a memorable experience. At 9:30 and 11 p.m., Union Hall,
702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, unionhallny.com,
718-638-4400. (Czajkowski)

? Adrienne Truscott  (Wednesday through Sept. 26 and Sept. 30 through Oct. 3)
Ms. Truscott's bold, award-winning show -- which she performs naked from the
waist down, save for footwear -- is an adventurous, hilarious examination of
rape jokes in the modern stand-up scene. At 8 p.m., except for Sept. 26, when it
is at 7 p.m., the Creek and the Cave, 10-93 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City,
Queens, 866-811-4111, creeklic.com. (Czajkowski)

? 'If You Build It'  (Sunday) Kara Klenk hosts this special birthday edition of
her excellent weekly show, with an incredible lineup of stand-up comedians:
Michelle Wolf, John Early, Liza Treyger, Aparna Nancherla, Matteo Lane, Hadiyah
Robinson and Julio Torres. At 8 p.m., Upright Citizens Brigade Theater East, 153
East Third Street, East Village, 212-366-9231, ifyoubuilditcomedy.com.
(Czajkowski)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/comedy-listings-for-sept-18.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%);
FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); WRITERS (76%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (74%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%);
CELEBRITIES (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (63%); PODCASTING (50%)

PERSON: RUTH BADER GINSBURG (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Classical

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 681 words


Full reviews of recent classical performances: nytimes.com/classical. A
searchable guide to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Opera

? 'Otello' (Monday and Thursday) The Metropolitan Opera opens its season with
Verdi's take on Shakespeare's taut tragedy in a production staged by Bartlett
Sher and led by the charismatic conductor Yannick Nézet-Séguin. The muscular
tenor Aleksandrs Antonenko is Otello; the rising soprano Sonya Yoncheva sings
Desdemona. The baritone Zeljko Lucic takes on the role of Iago; the tenor
Dimitri Pittas is Cassio. (Through May 6.) Monday at 6:30 p.m., Thursday at 7:30
p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org.
(Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim)

'Turandot'  (Wednesday) The lavish spectacle of Franco Zeffirelli's glittering,
ornate production of Puccini's ''Turandot'' returns to the house on Wednesday
for the first performance of the season. Paolo Carignani conducts a cast
including the soprano Christine Goerke in the title role, the tenor Marcelo
Álvarez as Calaf and the soprano Hibla Gerzmava as Liu. At 7:30 p.m.,
Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org. (Vivien
Schweitzer)

Classical Music

Christopher Houlihan  (Sunday) This exciting young organist is the first to give
a recital on the newly restored organ of the Co-Cathedral of St. Joseph.
Admission is free for a program of Bach, Vierne, and the New York premiere of
Patrick Greene's ''Steel Symphony,'' which is inspired by the artwork of the
deCordova Sculpture Park and Museum in Massachusetts. At 3 p.m., Co-Cathedral of
St. Joseph, 856 Pacific Street, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn,
stjosephs-brooklyn.org. (David Allen)

Kettle Corn New Music  (Saturday) This enterprising series, dedicated to the
pairing of invigorating contemporary music with comfort snacks, presents New
Morse Code, a duo made up of the cellist Hannah Collins and the percussionist
Michael Compitello, in new works by Caroline Shaw, Osvaldo Golijov, Andy Akiho
and others. At 7 p.m., DiMenna Center for Classical Music, 450 West 37th Street,
Manhattan, kettlecornnewmusic.com. (da Fonseca-Wollheim)

Moving Sounds Festival  (Friday, Saturday and Sunday) This series, organized by
the Austrian Cultural Forum, continues on Friday with Michel Galante conducting
the Argento Ensemble and the violinist Hanna Hurwitz in the Violin Concerto,
''Anahit,'' by the avant-garde Italian composer Giacinto Scelsi. The ensemble,
which has championed the works of the Austrian composer Georg Friedrich Haas
(who uses microtonality to create alluring sonorities and soundscapes) will
perform the American premiere of his ''Introduktion und Transsonation'' on the
lineup, which also includes pieces by the French spectral composer Tristan
Murail. And if you've ever dreamed about strolling through Red Hook while
attached to other walkers with a giant rubber band, now's your chance. On
Saturday and Sunday, as part of the festival, the Brazilian artist Gustavo
Ciriaco and the Austrian artist Andrea Sonnberger will lead listeners on an
hourlong walk to absorb the sounds of the neighborhood. Friday at 7 p.m., Czech
Center New York, Bohemian National Hall, 321 East 73rd Street, Manhattan;
Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., 2 and 5 p.m., Pioneer Books, 289 Van Brunt
Street; 212-319-5300, acfny.org. (Schweitzer)

? New York Philharmonic  (Friday, Saturday, Monday, Thursday) As has become
customary, the Philharmonic opens its season with the Art of the Score, its
series blending live music and movie screenings. On Friday, David Newman
conducts Leonard Bernstein's music for ''On the Waterfront,'' the classic 1954
film featuring Marlon Brando. Nino Rota's score for ''The Godfather'' takes the
stage on Saturday and Monday. And on Thursday there's a more traditional opening
night gala, as Alan Gilbert conducts Beethoven's Seventh Symphony and leads the
ubiquitous Lang Lang in Grieg's equally ubiquitous Piano Concerto. Friday,
Monday and Thurdsay at 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln
Center, 212-875-5656, nyphil.org. (Allen)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/music/classical-opera-listings-for-sept-1
8-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (93%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%);
MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY
(89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%);
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); SCULPTURE (72%); POP & ROCK (70%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (68%)

COMPANY: PM CO (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Schism Over Fire and Brimstone

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words


Religious beliefs evolve, just as people do, in ways good and bad. But they
rarely change quite as suddenly as in ''The Christians,'' Lucas Hnath's softly
mesmerizing drama about a schism that arises in an evangelical megachurch. In
this terrific play about the mystery of faith, and how religion can tear people
apart just as it can bring them together, a revelation experienced by the pastor
causes a potentially disastrous rupture in the congregation.

''The Christians,'' which opened on Thursday at Playwrights Horizons, is the
first important new play of the young fall season. It has been ingeniously
staged by the director, Les Waters, as a stylized Sunday service. We are in a
plush church somewhere in America. A giant white cross, elegantly backlit,
shines from the rear wall. Beams of gleaming wood surround the glass pulpit, and
digital video screens depict celestial-looking visions of clouds bathed in
golden light. A full choir is also present, rising to sing at regular intervals.
Arrayed before them in stately chairs are the church principals: the founding
pastor, Paul (Andrew Garman); his demure wife, Elizabeth (Linda Powell); the
associate pastor, Joshua (Larry Powell); and an elder, Jay (Philip Kerr).

Pastor Paul begins his sermon with what sounds like soothing boilerplate: ''Dear
Lord, bring us together today, bring us together in our hearts and souls and
minds.'' But he soon reveals that his call for solidarity comes from a place of
greater urgency. In a voice hushed with earnestness (honorable earnestness, not
let's-make-fun-of-smarmy-pastor earnestness), Paul explains that he has had a
conversion.

While attending a conference, he heard a missionary speak about a teenage boy in
a violence-riven country who ran into a burning grocery store to save his sister
and subsequently died of his wounds. The idea that because the boy was not saved
in the Christian sense, he would be damned to eternal hell, roiled unpleasantly
in the pastor's consciousness. That night he had a conversation (while on the
toilet!) with God, who revealed that man's traditional conception of hell, with
fires and pitchforks, and Satan presiding with horns, is misguided. Hell is what
man makes of the earth; therefore, Paul announces gravely, it will no longer be
church policy to believe in hell.

It only takes a look at the befuddled faces before us to realize that Pastor
Paul's revelation may not sit easily with some of his flock. Soon Joshua, played
with a powerful sense of confused grievance by Mr. Powell, takes the pulpit to
question Paul. Quoting Scripture, he pushes back against this startling
assertion, which contradicts what these good Christians, under Paul's ministry,
have long been taught.

But Joshua finds Pastor Paul can match him line for line. Paul points out that
the word ''hell,'' as rendered in the Bible, was in the original language the
name of a garbage dump, and that when references are made to sinners going to
hell, the meaning may have been more prosaic: After death, they were thrown on a
trash heap. Although his respect and affection for Paul are clear from his
measured tone, Joshua sees the story of the boy who died as ''a message that our
work is not done, and that we need to not be complacent in these dark end
days.''

Later, the church elder Jay, in what is ostensibly a private conversation (all
the speakers use microphones, though some exchanges are not public), questions
whether Paul would have been so quick to suggest a radical departure from
orthodox belief if the church had not recently paid off its debt and become
solvent. Even Elizabeth, portrayed with a touching sense of sorrowful dignity by
Ms. Powell, finds herself conflicted as her husband's pronouncement reverberates
through the congregation.

Mr. Hnath, author of the plays ''Isaac's Eye'' and ''A Public Reading of an
Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney,'' is one of the freshest
playwriting voices to emerge in the past five years or so. He's also an
adventurous thinker in terms of style and content -- not always the case even
with gifted writers. (Some of the narration is spoken in the play, which works
well but is becoming something of a young playwright's go-to gimmick.) ''The
Christians'' is Mr. Hnath's most penetrating work, but what you take away is the
play's ruminative gravity, and how each character is given an authentic voice
and a complexity of feeling.

''The Christians'' has grown more relevant since I saw it in 2014 at the Humana
Festival, where it had its premiere. Since then we have seen acceptance of gay
marriage -- once a line in the sand for much of mainstream America -- gaining
significant ground, even among some Christians. Mr. Hnath's depiction of a
conservative congregation wrestling with radical new ideas mirrors what's
happening now in churches across the country.

The conflict is explored with a refreshing lack of condescension. It would be
safe to assume that Mr. Hnath's sympathies ultimately lie with Pastor Paul,
whose embracing vision of God's justice would be more likely to strike a chord
with a young playwright living in New York. (One wonders if the pastor's name is
a sly reference to the biblical Paul.) But the sympathy he extends to the other
characters, like a young woman from the chorus who haltingly tells of her
disappointment (the wonderfully natural Emily Donahoe), reverberates with a
strange sweetness throughout the play, much like the traditional hymns that are
sung with rousing heart by the choir. Mr. Hnath sees the drama at hand from all
sides with virtually equal clarity and compassion. (Perhaps not incidentally he
was once a member of an evangelical church, and his mother became a minister.)

Like the embattled Dr. Stockmann of Ibsen's ''An Enemy of the People'' (Mr.
Hnath uses a few lines as an epigraph in the script), Pastor Paul gradually
finds himself with few allies. But in Mr. Garman's forcefully moving
performance, Paul's faith in the truth of his revelation remains solid,
suggesting that while his beliefs may have evolved, his commitment to exploring
the true meaning of his religion has not. Still, one has the sad sense that Paul
may soon discover that among the forms of hell on earth, loneliness is among the
most agonizing.

The Christians

By Lucas Hnath; directed by Les Waters; sets by Dane Laffrey; costumes by Connie
Furr Soloman; lighting by Ben Stanton; sound by Jake Rodriguez; production stage
manager, Marisa Levy; associate artistic director, Adam Greenfield. Presented by
Playwrights Horizons, Tim Sanford, artistic director; Leslie Marcus, managing
director; Carole Fishman, general manager, and Center Theater Group. At
Playwrights Horizons, 212-279-4200, playwrightshorizons­.org. Through Oct. 11.
Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

­

WITH: Emily Donahoe (Jenny), Andrew Garman (Paul), Philip Kerr (Jay), Larry
Powell (Joshua) and Linda Powell (Elizabeth).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/theater/review-in-the-christians-a-schism-over
-fire-and-brimstone.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Christians: Andrew Garman as the pastor of an evangelical
megachurch, in this Lucas Hnath drama at Playwrights Horizons. (C1)
 Andrew Garman as a pastor, left, and Larry Powell as his associate in ''The
Christians,'' staged by the director, Les Waters, as a stylized Sunday service.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS
(90%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); THEATER (77%); WRITERS (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quake and Tsunami Cause Extensive Damage Along Chile's Coast

BYLINE: By PASCALE BONNEFOY and SIMON ROMERO; Pascale Bonnefoy reported from
Santiago, and Simon Romero from São Paulo, Brazil.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 626 words


SANTIAGO, Chile --  Coastal cities in north-central Chile suffered extensive
damage from the powerful earthquake that struck the region Wednesday night,
according to aerial images released on Thursday by the police.

The authorities said Thursday afternoon that at least 11 people were known to
have died as a result of the magnitude 8.3 quake, which shook the ground for
three minutes and was felt in most of the country and beyond. More than one
million people were evacuated from coastal regions to escape the tsunami
produced by the quake, which was centered a few miles offshore.

In Coquimbo, a port 285 miles north of Santiago, fishing vessels and shipping
containers could be seen strewn around the city's downtown area. Wrecked houses
and businesses were visible in images of other affected seaside towns and
cities. Significant flooding was also reported in Illapel, the town around 177
miles north of Santiago that was closest to the epicenter.

Some officials expressed relief that the death toll was not higher, drawing
uneasy comparisons to a magnitude 8.8 earthquake in 2010 that left 525 people
dead, 81 of them after a tsunami struck with no public warning from the
government. Several officials are being prosecuted on charges that they failed
to properly assess the tsunami risk, and the government has adopted new security
procedures and strengthened its emergency response system.

In Paihuano, another town in the Coquimbo region, the earthquake on Wednesday
''generated a lot of fright,'' but was ''fortunately not very harmful in this
sector,'' the mayor, Lorenzo Torres, told reporters. He added that he expected
electricity to be restored to residents before Friday.

President Michelle Bachelet said on Thursday morning that about 100,000 families
lacked electricity. She credited the country's relatively stringent building
codes and coastal communities' swift reaction to the earthquake with saving many
lives.

She declared a state of emergency in the Coquimbo region, where 70,000 homes
were still without power. The region will be under the control of Gen. Schafik
Nazal, commander in chief of the Army's Second Motorized Division.

Even so, Some Chileans said that the government needed to do more to build
public trust and confidence in its response to earthquakes, which are common in
the country. Confusing and contradictory official statements after the 2010
earthquake left many people in the danger zone when the tsunami struck, and four
government officials were later charged with involuntary manslaughter.

Ms. Bachelet visited the Coquimbo region on Thursday and said that emergency
response teams were assessing the damage.

In 2010, critics accused her of being too slow to impose a state of emergency
and deploy troops when looting broke out in the disaster zone, but this time
there have been no reports of disorder.

''People seek higher ground automatically, because the 2010 quake showed them
the government and institutions were not properly prepared,'' said Marcelo
Lagos, director of the Tsunami Research Laboratory at the Catholic University in
Santiago. ''After that experience, people no longer believe in the authorities.
This is an opportunity for Chile's institutions and the president herself to
validate themselves in front of emergencies.''

Others see progress in Chile's earthquake preparations. ''This time the
government's reaction was adequate, and better than in 2010,'' said Michel De
L'Herbe, an emergency management consultant.

Still, he said, there was more to do. He said that the national emergency
management bureau, known as Onemi, remained weak and needed greater powers.
''Communities have reacted well, but this spontaneous reaction must be
systematized,'' Mr. De L'Herbe said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/americas/chile-earthquake-damage.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A grounded fishing boat on Thursday in the Chilean port of
Coquimbo, north of Santiago. There were at least 11 deaths as a result of
Wednesday's earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN BERNETTI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (92%); TSUNAMIS (91%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); STATES OF
EMERGENCY (89%); CITIES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%);
FEBRUARY 2010 CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%);
DEATHS (77%); MANSLAUGHTER (72%); POWER FAILURES (71%); ARMIES (70%); MARINE
VESSELS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); FAMILY (65%); INVOLUNTARY
MANSLAUGHTER (60%)

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (59%)

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%)

COUNTRY: CHILE (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Why Chile's Latest Big Earthquake Has a Smaller Death Toll

BYLINE: By PASCALE BONNEFOY and PATRICK J. LYONS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 512 words


Chile, one of the most seismically active countries in the world, has been
struck by three major earthquakes of magnitude 8 or greater in the past five
years. The first, in February 2010, killed 525 people, including those who died
in the tsunami it spawned. But only 11 people have so far been reported killed
in the latest, which struck on Wednesday.

Why is the toll so much lower this time?

The latest earthquake was not as powerful.

Though the earthquake on Wednesday was quite strong, at magnitude 8.3, it
released only about a third of the energy of the magnitude 8.8 quake in 2010,
one of the strongest recorded in modern times. (Magnitude is measured on a
logarithmic scale.)

It affected a more focused area.

The 2010 quake struck off the central coast and directly affected large cities
and populous areas, including resort areas crowded with vacationers. At least
one-third of the country's coastline suffered significant damage from the
tsunami it created, and more minor damage was reported as far away as San Diego
and Tokyo. Almost all of Chile lost power. By contrast, the latest quake and its
tsunami have mainly affected a single, less densely populated region, Coquimbo.

Coastal residents were better prepared.

Since the 2010 quake, there have been many earthquake drills and dry runs, and
evacuation routes have been clearly marked up and down the coast. As a result,
though the latest quake's tsunami did extensive physical damage in several
coastal cities and ports, very few people were in harm's way when the waves hit.
In 2014, when a magnitude-8.2 quake struck off northern Chile, Coastal areas
were evacuated quickly and efficiently.

Warnings were issued promptly.

In 2010, no tsunami alert was issued, and national leaders prematurely told the
public that they could return to their homes. Residents in coastal areas knew to
head for higher ground, but many visitors did not. Since then, the government
has issued immediate preventive tsunami warnings and has been much more cautious
about sounding the all-clear, as seen in the 2014 quake and again this week.

Strong building codes are enforced.

In poorer, developing countries like Haiti or Nepal, major quakes are often
devastatingly deadly, with thousands of people killed by collapsing buildings,
bridges and dams. It used to be that way in Chile, too, but decades of
prosperity have raised construction standards, and the country has learned
through hard experience to set and enforce stringent building and safety codes
along the lines of those used in California. Because of this, Chile's modern
buildings tend to fare well in quakes, though historical structures and those in
rural areas may still be vulnerable.

Emergency response has been improved.

Since 2010, the National Seismic Center in Chile has been operating around the
clock, as have many of the regional offices of the government's national
emergency bureau. More robust sea-level monitoring systems and better procedures
to help coordinate the efforts of public and private agencies have also made a
difference.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/americas/chile-earthquake-tsunami-impact
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL
DISASTERS (89%); FEBRUARY 2010 CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE (79%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN
EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY &
TOURISM (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS
& STRUCTURES (67%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (65%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

All the Ballpark's a Stage

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1227 words


SEOUL, South Korea --  It was halfway through the first inning of a recent
Doosan Bears home game when Han Jae-kwon first climbed onto the performance
stage just above the first-base line at Jamsil Baseball Stadium. He had watched
the first three outs from the stands, nervously tapping his foot. But now,
having tied a traditional Korean robe over his baseball uniform, he looked
confident, almost solemn, as he performed a sequence of bows on his hands and
knees toward the spectators.

After the formal introduction, Han popped back to his feet and grabbed a
microphone. Cavorting on the platform, stretching his arms into operatic poses,
he yelled, again and again, ''Doosan!'' Each time, fans chirped back,
''Fighting!'' Drums thundered nearby.

''And one last time, from the very bottom of your hearts: Doosan!'' he said,
before throwing off the flowing white garment.

Han's job does not have an exact equivalent in the English-speaking baseball
world and therefore does not have a widely accepted English-language name. The
Korean name, eungwondanjang, translates basically to ''cheer leader,'' which, of
course, connotes something different. Some English speakers and writers use
''cheermaster,'' though Koreans tend to be unfamiliar with that term.

Regardless of what they are called, the people who play Han's role are the
individuals most responsible for creating the dizzying atmospheres inside East
Asian baseball stadiums, where songs and chants rarely cease over several hours
of play. Even in a 1-2-3 inning, a home crowd might stand and sing numerous
songs with accompanying hand motions. Over the course of this game, Han led fans
through dozens of songs with his booming voice, a flick of his hand or foot, or
even just a facial expression.

''It's almost like conducting an orchestra,'' Han said, in Korean. ''When I
raise a hand, everyone raises that same hand. If I say something, everyone
repeats it in unison.''

In the second inning, the stands were already pulsating. Every player in the
league has at least one personalized song featuring simple lyrics -- his name
and perhaps a phrase of encouragement -- set to the melody of a piece of popular
music. For each hitter, sound engineers cue up a backing track, drummers bang
out the beat and cheerleaders pantomime the motions. Facing them, the
cheermaster gesticulates like a dance instructor teaching a gigantic class.

It helps that Korean names -- generally with three or, less commonly, two
syllables -- are exceptionally easy to bend into sports chants.

Han's favorite song belongs to Jung Soo-bin, the Bears' boyish-looking center
fielder. Borrowing the melody of the Beach Boys' ''Surfin' U.S.A.,'' it features
separate, intertwining parts for the male and female fans. When designated
hitter Hong Sung-heon, 38, came up to bat for the first time, the Doosan fans
sang his name to the melody of ''What's Up?'' a 1993 hit by 4 Non Blondes. Hong
loves the song when he is playing well; when he slumps, he hates it.

''Korean stadiums are like karaoke parlors,'' Hong said. ''American stadiums
feel like parks where you go for a quiet picnic with your kids.''

In the third inning, a boy wearing glasses walked over and handed Han a bag of
Honey Butter Chip, a trendy but hard-to-find snack in South Korea. Han added it
to the gifts he had already received: a pack of throat lozenges, a soda and a
woven bracelet. Later, a woman brought over 10 iced coffees for Han and his
co-workers; less than five minutes after that, an older man walked over with
eight more coffees, making Han laugh.

Cheermasters in South Korea are minor celebrities, and Han, 36, has felt his
life change since starting the job last season. Baseball has experienced a
renaissance in South Korea over the last decade, and the profile of cheermasters
has risen accordingly. Han is recognized outside the ballpark, and he joked that
he feels self-conscious now when drinking in bars.

But fans can be fickle with their affection. Heo Ji-wook, the stadium announcer
for the slumping LG Twins, said he had seen fans take out their frustrations on
Choi Dong-hoon, the team's first-year cheermaster, aiming sarcastic jeers at him
when he asked them to sing. LG shares Jamsil stadium with Doosan, and Choi, 27,
offers a smaller, gentler counterpoint to Han's more physical, thumping style.

''I'm obsessed with getting better,'' said Choi, who reviews film of every game
the next morning.

In the bottom of fourth inning, after left fielder Kim Hyun-soo pounded a
three-run homer, Han started doing forward rolls across the stage. Confetti shot
into the air as the cheerleaders hopped onto the platform to dance. It was
Doosan's first rally, and when it was over, Han plopped back into his seat.
Sweat poured down his face.

As the fifth inning got underway, on the other side of the stands, Cho Ji-hoon,
the cheermaster for the Lotte Giants, was dancing before a drove of visiting
fans. Cho is admired among his peers for his cheering skills and his business
acumen. Cheermasters in South Korea work for agencies that sign contracts with
clubs to provide in-game entertainment services. But Cho, who has been with
Lotte for a decade, heads his own agency. He has his own following and can draw
a big crowd when he has an autograph event.

''He's the best,'' said Han, gesturing across the diamond.

By the sixth inning, the cheering had been reverberating relentlessly for hours.
Most players enjoyed the songs, Hong said later, but a few occasionally asked
for the volume to be lowered. Foreign players, in particular, can take a few
weeks to adjust to the noise.

''With the songs and atmosphere, I would get so amped up that people were
finally like, 'Hey, you need to calm down,' '' said Jim Adduci, a Canadian
outfielder in his first season with Lotte.

Adduci's song, which interpolates the frenzied theme of a 1990s children's
cartoon called ''Duchi and Puku,'' is one of the quirkier ones in the league.
Songwriting tends to be a collaborative effort between the cheermasters and the
agencies, with the clubs having final approval over what is used. When a player
joins a new team, the clubs may negotiate the transfer of the song. If not, the
melody might get recycled.

In the seventh inning, Han was massaging his neck and grimacing. He had done a
sprinting and jumping routine, and one hard landing seemed to aggravate a
herniated disk. A while back, he ruptured his left Achilles' tendon. Han was
hurting, but the game, and his job, were heating up.

In the eighth, Han asked fans to turn on their cellphone lights and wave them
for a slow song, and as the top of the ninth began, he remained on the stage as
Doosan tried to get the game's last three outs. When the Bears did, securing a
5-3 win, he led the crowd through a rousing victory song that he was proud to
have helped compose. As he walked off the stage, fans surrounded him. Several
yelled out that he had done a good job, and a flock of them lined up to have
photographs taken with him.

''You might say he has a nuanced appeal,'' Yoo Chang-geun, the Doosan stadium
announcer, said with a smile. ''He is not particularly good-looking. He has a
bit of a Shrek vibe. And yet, everyone likes him.''

Han's face betrayed some anxiety as he viewed the logjam of fans. But then he
lingered for several minutes, posing for pictures with each one.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/where-the-dugout-is-a-stage-an
d-baseball-is-a-reason-to-sing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a role peculiar to South Korean baseball, Han Jae-kwon leads
fans through cheers for the Doosan Bears, in this case during a home game
against the Hanhwa Eagles.
Bears supporters at Jamsil Baseball Stadium responding to Han's efforts. His
job, which some call cheermaster, earns him fans of his own and, occasionally,
small gifts (far left). (B9)
Han Jae-kwon preparing to take his post for the Doosan Bears, on a stage along
the right-field line, where the team also has cheerleaders.
 Each professional team in South Korea has an equivalent to Han, above. The
crowd, left, follows his actions and sings along, and the spectacle can be
distracting, especially to foreign players. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEAN CHUNG FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); MUSIC (89%); SPORTS FANS
(89%); CHEERLEADING (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); COACHES & TRAINERS (77%);
LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (74%); DANCE (72%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); DANCE EDUCATION (66%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (59%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Captive,' Based on a Hostage Crisis With a Spiritual Twist

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 284 words


Why choose between product placement and plot point when you can have both at
once? Based on actual 2005 events, the inspirational thriller ''Captive''
recounts how a fugitive, Brian Nichols (David Oyelowo), and his captive, Ashley
Smith (Kate Mara), are affected at a crucial moment by Rick Warren's best seller
''The Purpose Driven Life.'' The magic happens toward the end of the film, when
she reads aloud to him from the book and something clicks inside his head.

Long before that point, Jerry Jameson, the film's director and a veteran of TV
dramas and 1970s disaster and exploitation fare, efficiently introduces Ashley
as a meth addict getting back on track. Her fateful day at work and with her
daughter is intercut with Brian's pulse-pounding escape from a courthouse during
his rape trial. Brian commits multiple murders before grabbing Ashley and
imprisoning her in her own house during the subsequent manhunt.

What follows is a lopsided mix of thriller moments -- Mr. Oyelowo might as well
be auditioning for an action-movie role -- and cooped-up hostage drama. Mr.
Jameson finds some unpredictable pressure points in the suspense, but Brian is
so erratic that his seeing the light through Ashley's reading comes almost as an
afterthought. Ms. Mara is effectively brittle and then brave, but she's stuck
with being a walking self-help illustration.

A credit-sequence television clip of Mr. Warren and the real Ms. Smith with
Oprah Winfrey makes the entire movie feel like the strangest book infomercial in
memory.

''Captive'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for mature themes,
violence and substance abuse.

Captive

Opens on Friday

Directed by Jerry Jameson

1 hour 37 minutes




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/movies/review-captive-based-on-a-hostage-crisi
s-with-a-spiritual-twistthat-ended-after-a-spiritual-reading.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kate Mara and David Oyelowo in the thriller ''Captive.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN KLANFER/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS
(78%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS
(76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (74%); INFOMERCIALS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%);
TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); METHAMPHETAMINE (54%); SEXUAL
ASSAULT (53%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leader of Parliament in Burkina Faso Challenges Coup

BYLINE: By HERVÉ TAOKO; Sewell Chan and Hannah Olivennes contributed reporting
from London, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 925 words


OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso --  Military officers overthrew the government of
Burkina Faso on Thursday, plunging the West African country into chaos and
violence, while the leader of the country's transitional parliament denounced
the coup and declared himself the interim president. The coup was apparently led
by allies of the country's longtime ruler, who was toppled in October.

Gen. Gilbert Diendéré took control of the country, according to a military
spokesman. General Diendéré is a close ally of the former president, Blaise
Compaoré, who was in power for 27 years until last fall.

The crisis began Wednesday evening when members of the Presidential Security
Regiment stormed a cabinet meeting and seized the interim president, Michel
Kafando, and the prime minister, Isaac Zida, along with other officials. They
also raided the newsroom of Radio Omega, a station that was central in reporting
news of the 2014 uprising, forced the journalists to cut off the signal, and set
their offices on fire.

On Thursday morning, the military spokesman, Lt. Col. Mamadou Bamba, appeared on
television to make a statement on behalf of what he called the National Council
for Democracy.

Colonel Bamba said it was necessary to ''put an end'' to the temporary
government, which he said had deviated from the goals of the October revolt. He
confirmed that Mr. Kafando had been removed, and that the National Transition
Council, the equivalent of Parliament, had been dissolved.

Supporters of Mr. Kafando and Mr. Zida assembled in protest Thursday in various
neighborhoods here, yelling, ''Free the hostages!'' They were dispersed by
warning shots from military patrols that crisscrossed the capital. At least
three people were killed.

The authorities ordered the country's borders sealed, canceled flights and
imposed a curfew from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m., beginning Thursday. Robert Sangaré,
director of the largest hospital in Ouagadougou, said eight people had been
admitted with serious wounds. Labor unions called for a strike. Protesters set
on fire the house of Jean-Baptiste Natama, a politician who intended to run in
elections scheduled for Oct. 11. Mr. Natama had been critical of the
transitional government, but he has not been directly linked to the coup.

The whereabouts of Mr. Kafando, Mr. Zida and two other officials who were seized
in the coup -- Augustin Loada, the work and pensions minister, and René Bagoro,
the housing and urban affairs minister -- were unknown.

Chérif Sy, the leader of the National Transition Council, issued a statement
Thursday declaring himself president in opposition to the military coup. He
called on the military officers to abandon their attempts to seize power from
the transitional authorities. On Wednesday evening, he had called the events a
''serious attack on the republic and its institutions.'' He exhorted ''all
patriots to defend the motherland.''

At the United Nations, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and other top officials
strongly condemned the military takeover, demanding that the coup organizers
release their hostages and allow the political transition to resume.

''The secretary general deplores the violence reported in the country and calls
on the Burkinabé defense and security forces to exercise restraint and ensure
respect for the human rights and security of all Burkinabé citizens,'' Mr. Ban's
office said in a statement. ''Those responsible for the coup d'état and its
consequences must be held accountable.''

The high commissioner for human rights, Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, said in a
statement from his Geneva offices, ''The arrest and detention of the president,
the prime minister and two ministers of the transitional government by members
of the Presidential Security Regiment is unacceptable.''

The office of President François Hollande of France also condemned the takeover
and called for all those arrested to be freed, Reuters reported. Burkina Faso,
formerly known as Upper Volta, was a French colony until 1960.

The Presidential Security Regiment was established by Mr. Compaoré, who took
power in a 1987 coup that left President Thomas Sankara dead. A political
commission recently published a report urging the dissolution of the regiment.

Colonel Bamba accused the previous government of manipulating the military ''for
personal ends,'' and of trying to muzzle the news media. He said the security
forces had been unfairly ''politicized and manipulated'' in a security
environment that is ''characterized by terrorism and organized crime.''

Western governments have warned that Burkina Faso and other countries in the
sub-Saharan region face threats from Islamist groups, including Al Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb, the group's North Africa affiliate.

Mr. Zida, a former security regiment member, was among those who pushed out Mr.
Compaoré last year. Mr. Kafando is a former foreign minister and United Nations
ambassador. The two men were part of a transitional administration that was to
be replaced after the elections.

Pierre Englebert, a professor of African politics at Pomona College in
Claremont, Calif., said he would not rule out an attempt by Mr. Compaoré's
associates to return to power. The transitional government ''overplayed its
hand'' by banning members of Mr. Compaoré's administration from participating in
the coming elections, he said.

General Diendéré, the de facto leader of the security regiment, feared that it
would be disbanded and, moreover, faced questions in an inquiry about the 1987
death of Mr. Sankara, Professor Englebert said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/world/africa/coup-in-burkina-faso-topples-gove
rnment.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, on Thursday after a
coup was announced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THEO RENAUT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUPS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MILITARY RULE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(78%); MARTIAL LAW (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ARMED
FORCES (73%); CURFEW (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS
(62%); STRIKES (62%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (50%)

CITY: OUAGADOUGOU, BURKINA FASO (94%)

COUNTRY: BURKINA FASO (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge's Ruling Awards $600,000 to Exploited Workers

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words


More than six years after their rescue from virtual servitude, in which they
worked for little pay in a turkey processing plant while living in a decrepit
Iowa schoolhouse, more than two dozen men with intellectual disabilities will
share nearly $600,000 owed to them, after a federal court order issued Thursday
in Dallas.

The ruling, by Chief Judge Jorge A. Solis of United States District Court,
overrode a confidential arrangement that would have redirected hundreds of
thousands of dollars owed to the men, in unpaid court judgments, to the heirs of
their former employers, the owners of a Texas-based company called Henry's
Turkey Service.

''The court does not believe it is by accident that the settlement proceeds make
their way to the children'' of the owners of Henry's Turkey Service, Judge Solis
wrote. ''This was an intentional scheme concocted solely to shield a substantial
sum of money from the United States' collection efforts.''

The ruling is belated but welcome news to 28 men who were victimized in one of
recent history's more notorious cases of workplace exploitation. It means
roughly $25,000 for each man.

Robert A. Canino, a lawyer for the federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, who has handled the men's case from the outset, expressed elation
tempered by what he described as the injustice endured by these men for years.

''At the end of the day, we all understand that money will not heal the wounds
or reclaim the lost years of quality of life and equal opportunity,'' Mr. Canino
said.

One of the men, Robert Penner, 71, who lives with his younger brother, Billy,
and two other men in a house in Waterloo, Iowa, heard the news in a telephone
call from Mr. Canino.

''Sounds pretty good to me,'' Mr. Penner said. ''Maybe I'll buy a lawn mower. Go
on vacation. I don't know.''

Another man, Gene Berg, 60, who lives alone in a house in Waterloo, said Mr.
Canino's call made him ''very happy.'' He also spoke of vacation plans, but said
that he had to prepare for work on Friday, washing dishes at a county facility.

For several decades, Mr. Berg, Mr. Penner and a score of other men, nearly all
of them former residents of Texas institutions called ''state schools,''
performed the least-desirable tasks, including evisceration, at a turkey plant
in West Liberty, Iowa, before going home to an old schoolhouse in Atalissa.
After deductions for room, board and occasional entertainment, they were paid
$65 a month -- for decades.

Over the years, complaints were made and newspaper investigations published
about Henry's Turkey Service and the arrangements at the schoolhouse. Nothing
changed until early 2009, when a sister of one of the men complained to state
authorities and to The Des Moines Register that her brother had less than $100
to his name after nearly 40 years of labor.

The findings of the investigations that ensued shocked the state of Iowa. The
schoolhouse, used as a bunkhouse, had devolved into a squalid firetrap, with
boarded-up windows, leaking ceilings and infestations of vermin. Worse, the men,
many of them now at or near retirement age, were in poor physical and mental
shape.

Although the owners of Henry's Turkey Service -- Kenneth Henry and Jane Ann
Moreland, the widow of a co-founder, T. H. Johnson -- were never criminally
charged, several civil complaints were filed against them on behalf of the last
32 men to have lived in the schoolhouse. (Four have since died.)

In 2011, the federal Labor Department secured a $1.7 million judgment. In 2012,
the employment commission won a $1.37 million judgment based on
wage-discrimination violations under the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Then, last year, the employment office won a $240 million jury verdict in favor
of the men after demonstrating the abuse they had endured, including
restrictions on their freedom. Although later reduced by statutory caps to $1.6
million, the verdict was seen as a landmark moment in championing the rights of
workers with disabilities.

Collecting the money secured in these federal judgments, though, proved
difficult, as the officers of Henry's Turkey Service transferred many of their
assets to their adult children. Their former employees, now living in private
homes, group homes and a nursing facility, never collected a cent.

Then, early last year, Mr. Canino learned of a financial transaction in the
works that concerned a resolution of a property dispute in Texas. In effect, the
transaction would have surreptitiously redirected proceeds from a land sale
concerning Henry's Turkey Service to the children of the company's officers.

According to a news release issued by the employment commission, it and the
United States attorney's office in Fort Worth monitored what it called ''a
suspicious land deal'' and a ''secret side agreement.'' Along the way, it said,
federal officials found evidence of ''a fraudulent transaction'' and filed an
emergency motion for court intervention, which was granted last week.

A lawyer who handled the land deal in question did not return a telephone call
Thursday. Federal officials said that if the principals of Henry's Turkey
Service complied, the government would begin to distribute more than $850,000 to
the men -- an amount that also includes about $272,000 accumulated in other
garnishments and liens against the company.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/judges-ruling-awards-dollar600000-to-exploi
ted-workers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A social worker in 2013 at the bunkhouse in Atalissa, Iowa,
where longtime employees of Henry's Turkey Service lived for decades under
deteriorating conditions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POULTRY PROCESSING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(77%); CHILDREN (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT
(74%); LAWYERS (73%); POULTRY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Weekly Unemployment Claims Drop to Lowest Since July

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


The Labor Department said on Thursday that weekly applications for unemployment
aid dropped 11,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 264,000. That's the lowest
since July, when applications plunged to a 41-year low. Applications have been
below 300,000 for the last six months, which has not happened since 1973.
Employers have also been hiring at a solid pace, adding an average of 243,000 a
month in the last 12 months. That has brought the unemployment rate down to 5.1
percent, a seven-year low.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/business/economy/weekly-jobless-claims-drop-to
-lowest-since-july.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bridgeport Incumbent Vows to Keep Fighting After Primary Loss to Former Mayor

BYLINE: By KRISTIN HUSSEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1012 words


BRIDGEPORT, Conn. --  The day after Democratic voters propelled Joseph P. Ganim
one big step closer to joining the ranks of comeback mayors, this city's
incumbent mayor, Bill Finch, said he would not easily give up control to Mr.
Ganim.

''This is a personal thing for me,'' Mr. Finch said. ''I don't want my city to
be turned over to the corrupt hordes. I'm going to fight like heck.''

Mr. Ganim, who was removed from office in 2003 and served seven years in prison
on felony corruption charges, took the Democratic nomination for mayor in the
primary election on Wednesday with 47 percent of the vote.

Primary Day can be as decisive as Election Day here in Connecticut's largest
city, where two-thirds of the 60,000 voters are registered Democrats.

But the race may not be over, even after a blistering and expensive campaign for
the Democratic nomination fought among Mr. Finch, Mr. Ganim and Mary-Jane
Foster, a vice president at the University of Bridgeport and a co-founder of the
Bridgeport Bluefish baseball team.

Even Connecticut's most jaded political watchers were shocked when Mr. Ganim,
who was convicted of collecting kickbacks from contractors doing business with
Bridgeport, announced that he wanted voters to give him a second chance to lead
the city, and then again when Mr. Ganim secured the endorsement of Bridgeport's
police union.

The contest revealed a city sharply divided over what it most needs.

Mr. Ganim focused his efforts on making personal connections and promising to
lower taxes. Mr. Finch, meanwhile, trumpeted the progress he has made in
rebuilding the city's economy after the recession. Ms. Foster distanced herself
from both candidates during the campaign, saying Bridgeport needed an honest
mayor. And maybe a female mayor, too.

On Thursday, Mr. Ganim took phone calls and gave interviews to reporters. ''It's
a great day for Bridgeport,'' Mr. Ganim said, adding that he was not surprised
that he prevailed. He knocked on doors, visited churches and talked with voters
in coffee shops over the last several months. ''I made a personal connection
with thousands of voters,'' he said.

One of those voters was Louise Gregory, who has lived in the city for 60 years.
Outside the Dunbar School on Union Avenue where she voted for Mr. Ganim on
Wednesday, Ms. Gregory echoed a sentiment that Mr. Ganim has promoted and one
that seems to have resonated in Bridgeport: Everyone deserves a second chance.

''He was just one of the ones that got caught. He didn't hurt anybody but
himself. He didn't take anything from me,'' Ms. Gregory said. ''He was just
getting kickbacks, getting work done for other favors. So he didn't do it to us.
He just stepped out of bounds, you know, that's all.''

In the mayor's office, Mr. Finch said he lost the nomination because his
campaign did not effectively communicate how deeply Mr. Ganim's crimes affected
the city. And, he said, many of his supporters did not turn out for Wednesday's
primary.

''They probably didn't think it was possible for such a corrupt individual to
make this much headway,'' Mr. Finch said on Thursday during a telephone
interview from his office. ''But he has, and now we have to keep the mob at the
gate.''

Mr. Finch said he planned to continue his bid for re-election as a candidate for
the newly formed Job Creation Party, and he feels confident that voters will
support him in the November general election.

Mr. Ganim's traction with Bridgeport voters became apparent over the summer,
when the city's Democratic Party leaders battled over which candidate to
endorse. Mr. Finch prevailed, but not without a struggle.

''Frankly, I'm relieved,'' Mr. Finch said on Thursday about losing the
Democratic nomination. ''I'm as far away from the corrupt local bosses as I can
be.''

On Wednesday, Glenn Marshall, who leads the Carpenters Local 210 union, stood
outside Thomas Hooker school with a handful of Finch fliers. The mayor, he said,
is moving the city in the right direction and should be re-elected to continue
his work.

''We're supporting Mayor Finch,'' Mr. Marshall said of the union's membership.
''With Mayor Finch there's been great economic development.''

Just one office -- city sheriff -- had more than one Republican candidate.
Councilman Enrique Torres is the Republican candidate for mayor.

Stanley A. Twardy Jr., the state's top federal prosecutor for six years before
leaving in 1991 to become chief of staff for Lowell P. Weicker Jr., then the
governor, said that while he was surprised by Mr. Ganim's post-prison candidacy,
he noted that both Providence, R.I., and Washington had re-elected leaders who
left office in disgrace, referring to Vincent A. Cianci Jr. and Marion S. Barry
Jr. Still, he said: ''It's sobering that there would be enough support for
someone who has abused the office of mayor, that people would support him
running again. That's very surprising to me.''

At home on Thursday afternoon, Ms. Foster said neither Mr. Finch nor Mr. Ganim
should lead the city.

''Bridgeport deserves better than that,'' she said, adding that Mr. Ganim is not
the only candidate deserving criticism. ''Mayor Finch has been such a bad mayor
that he essentially opened the door for an even worse mayor to come back,'' she
said.

Ms. Foster already has a place on the general election ballot as an unaffiliated
mayoral candidate. But she planned to take the weekend off to relax with family
and friends before making a final decision about whether to pursue her bid for
mayor.

Reggie Horne supported Mr. Finch in Wednesday's primary because, he said,
Bridgeport is on the right path, and the mayor deserves more time to continue
his work. Mr. Horne, who works for the city's maintenance department, said Mr.
Ganim may have been more vocal in his courting of voters. And, Mr. Horne said,
if Mr. Ganim is sincere in his promise that he has changed, he may still be the
''best person for the city.'' But, Mr. Horne said, he does not believe
Wednesday's vote was decisive.

''Is it over with? No,'' he said. ''It's not over with until November.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/mayor-of-bridgeport-vows-to-fight-lik
e-heck-after-losing-primary-election.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph P. Ganim, left, a former Bridgeport mayor, after winning
the Democratic primary on Wednesday night. The incumbent, Bill Finch, is
planning to continue his bid for re-election in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN
A. POUNDS/HEARST CONNECTICUT MEDIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHRISTIAN ABRAHAM/HEARST CONNECTICUT MEDIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BRIBERY (89%); PRIMARY
ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RECESSION
(76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); FELONIES
(70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); BASEBALL (52%); URBAN
DEVELOPMENT (52%)

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Washington: School Begins in Seattle

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | NORTHWEST; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 79 words


Thousands of Seattle students started the school year Thursday after it was
delayed by a weeklong teachers strike. The union will vote Sunday on a new
contract that gives teachers a 9.5 percent pay raise over three years,
guaranteed 30-minute recesses for elementary students, a longer school day and
more teacher input over standardized tests. Six days of school will have to be
rescheduled, which the district said could extend the school year or shorten
midyear breaks.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/us/washington-school-begins-in-seattle.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%);
STRIKES (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (88%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Assemblyman, Scolded by Judge, Gets a 14-Year Term for Corruption

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CASEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 779 words


William F. Boyland Jr., a former state assemblyman from a political dynasty in
Brooklyn, was sentenced on Thursday to 14 years in federal prison in a
high-profile corruption case.

The sentencing brought to an end a prolonged legal battle between federal
prosecutors and Mr. Boyland, who was acquitted of bribery charges in a federal
court in Manhattan in 2011, only to be rearrested in Brooklyn in a case in which
undercover agents recorded him asking for bribes.

During the sentencing, Judge Sandra L. Townes of Federal District Court in
Brooklyn expressed anger at Mr. Boyland and his conduct, saying that he
''clearly had no respect for the law'' and that the trial had left her ''not
seeing any redeeming characteristics of the defendant.''

Judge Townes said she was particularly disturbed that Mr. Boyland, a Democrat,
began seeking bribes within days of having been released by the Manhattan court
''without skipping a beat.'' The judge said Mr. Boyland's prosecution would
serve as a warning to other public officials.

The sentence, however, was less than the 20-year term requested by government
prosecutors and recommended by federal sentencing guidelines.

Mr. Boyland, 45, whose father and uncle had both held his Assembly seat before
him, was convicted in March 2014 on 21 counts, including extortion, bribery and
mail fraud, after a four-week trial.

When asked to speak to the court, Mr. Boyland offered no apologies. He argued
that he had been a good public servant, recalling those he had helped in his
district, including a young woman he said was losing her home, a widow he had
assisted in a trial and a disturbed man he said had once arrived at his office
with a gun.

''We were able to turn this young man around,'' he said.

As the sentence was delivered, Mr. Boyland slouched forward in his chair.

During the trial, prosecutors portrayed him as a corrupt politician, ready to
use his post to churn profits in a large variety of ways. The case hinged on a
number of recordings in which undercover agents posed as businessmen as Mr.
Boyland shook them down for bribes.

On March 25, 2011 -- two weeks after his release from the Manhattan court -- Mr.
Boyland accepted $7,000 from the undercover agents while he gave them a tour of
his district. ''Everything we've seen here I'm in control of,'' Mr. Boyland
said, according to Judge Townes, who quoted from the tapes during the
sentencing.

The relationship with the agents continued. On April 29, Mr. Boyland suggested
that the agents buy a derelict hospital in New Jersey for $8 million. He then
told them that they should apply for grants to use public money for its
renovation and resell it for $15 million to a nonprofit he said he controlled.
He said he would arrange the deal in exchange for a bribe of $250,000.

At another point, the agents offered him $5,000 for introductions to powerful
public officials, an offer Mr. Boyland turned down, saying his price for the
introductions was much higher.

He was also convicted of filing tens of thousands of dollars in expenses to the
government, including mileage and per diem payments, claiming falsely he was at
work in Albany. In fact, he was enjoying personal trips in locations like North
Carolina, Virginia and Istanbul. He even filed expenses for meetings with the
undercover agents on occasion.

At one point during his tenure, he diverted roughly $84,000 in public money set
aside for Wayside Out-Reach Development, a nonprofit helping the elderly, so he
could use it to pay for his own political efforts.

Government prosecutors said Mr. Boyland's criminal acts had left New Yorkers
with a mistrust of elected officials.

''William Boyland Jr. was given the power to change the lives of his
constituents,'' said Marisa M. Seifan, an assistant United States attorney.
''And what did he do with all this power? He sold it to the highest bidder.''

She added, ''He is the perfect storm of corruption.''

Mr. Boyland, who was elected in 2003 to the 55th Assembly District, lost his
seat as a result of the conviction in 2014, and had represented Brownsville and
parts of nearby neighborhoods.

The Boyland family has been a fixture in New York politics for decades. Mr.
Boyland succeeded his father, William Boyland Sr., who had served some 20 years
in the Assembly. The father took over the seat from his brother, Thomas S.
Boyland, who ran for the office in 1976 and died of a heart attack in 1982.

On Thursday, the judge also ordered Mr. Boyland to pay more than $155,000 in
public money he was found to have misused or stolen during his tenure.

Mr. Boyland, who has been in jail since his conviction, will continue serving
his sentence.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/william-boyland-jr-ex-brooklyn-assemb
lyman-sentenced-to-14-years-in-corruption-case.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William F. Boyland Jr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (93%); CORRUPTION (91%); BRIBERY (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION
(90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PRISONS (78%); SENTENCING
GUIDELINES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JUDGES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL
CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ACQUITTAL (72%); EXTORTION (72%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); MAIL FRAUD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leavening Horror With Magic and Humor

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 990 words


If Pippi Longstocking were an Indonesian prostitute instead of a Swedish tomboy,
she would be something like Dewi Ayu, who demonstrates her own can-do spirit by
successfully returning from the dead in the first sentence of Eka Kurniawan's
novel ''Beauty Is a Wound.''

Dewi Ayu's life, full of Longstockian practicality and ingenuity even when it
turns tragic, forms the backbone of this rich, digressive, chronologically
nimble, multistranded 470-page epic, by one of Indonesia's best-known writers.
Set during the singularly tumultuous period from just before World War II
through most of the rest of the 20th century, the book pulls off the bold feat
of telling Dewi Ayu's family history while also telling Indonesia's in a way
that doesn't seem heavy-handed or forced.

It's a time of extraordinary change, with control of the country shifting from
the Dutch to the Japanese to the Indonesians themselves amid revolution,
attempted coups, bloody purges and the overthrow of the republic's first
president by the second, Suharto. But when the story begins, all this is still
to come.

Raised in the fictional port city of Halimunda by her grandparents, Dutch
plantation owners, Dewi Ayu is rich and privileged but of mixed race. Her
parents are half siblings, sharing the same father but different mothers, in the
first of many awkward couplings in the novel.

World War II arrives. The Dutch are slaughtered or flee or both, and the teenage
Dewi Ayu is taken to a Japanese internment camp reserved for Dutch colonists.
(The same camp will be used several times in the book for different sets of
prisoners, as the political winds shift.) There, she survives on grit and
imagination: squirreling away jewelry, finding food for the starving internees
and learning that her body can be both gift and weapon.

So she becomes a whore, which in the context of the novel is virtually the only
paying job available to women. So alluring that every man she meets wants to
sleep with her, Dewi Ayu eventually gives birth to three stunning daughters, who
go on to marry three of Halimunda's most important men: Maman Gendeng, a
revolutionary turned thug; Shodancho, the regional military commander; and
Comrade Kliwon, a charming Communist.

The plot thickens, literally, with the introduction of a soap opera's worth of
colorful characters and their elaborate back stories. (It helps to write down
their names.) Mr. Kurniawan gets you started on one character, then zips back
and takes up with another before rushing ahead again.

The characters live large, in the throes of passion and violence and fate and
superstition, falling in love, committing crimes, fomenting revolution, feuding
and plotting with one another, their more fanciful happenings inspired by myth
and Indonesian folklore. They are prone to sweeping pronouncements: ''Revolution
is nothing more than a collective running amok, organized by one particular
party''; ''To marry someone you don't love is way worse than living as a
whore''; ''All Communists end up in front of a firing squad.''

It's all very skillfully done, but it can be a bit overwhelming, as when you
take both the cake and the pie at the buffet, or when you go somewhere -- the
rain forest, the Louvre -- where too much is going on at once. And perhaps after
gorging on ''One Hundred Years of Solitude'' and other magical-realism books
years ago, you might have lost your unalloyed enthusiasm for the sort of detail
that abounds in ''Beauty Is a Wound'': the woman who leaps off a cliff and flies
away, the lovers whose kisses generate flames, the pig that turns into a person,
the man who cannot be shot or stabbed.

A little prostitution can go a long way, too, and there's an awful lot of it
here. (The book is also heavy on excrement and other unsavory bodily effluvia,
but that is another matter.) Dewi Ayu -- endlessly cheerful, adept at business,
shockingly gorgeous, incredible in bed, desperately desired, universally admired
as a civic leader -- seems to have been purchased from the male-fantasy section
of the Stock-Character Shop.

Female characters are almost always described in terms of their looks. We get a
lot of tedious, unrealistic beauty that drives men insane or makes them
homicidal or suicidal or all three. A lot of ugly old men end up married to a
lot of lovely teenage virgins.

Also, I didn't much care for all the rape scenes, but maybe that's just me.

Those things aside, this is an impressive, accomplished book. Gracefully
translated by Annie Tucker, the writing is evocative and muscular, with
particularly spicy descriptions and some good wry humor. A soldier, urged in a
brothel to ''feel free to make love here as if you were in your very own home,''
responds: ''That's ridiculous. All I've got at home is my mom and my old
granny.'' A ghost, when asked how he is, replies: ''Terrible, Comrade. I'm
dead.''

The plot twists and the winding roads the characters' lives take are too
complicated to explain fully.But the book never spirals out of control, and Mr.
Kurniawan does a masterly job of pulling together all the seemingly flyaway
strands.

When she comes back from her grave, 21 years after being buried, Dewi Ayu meets
her fourth daughter, a girl of unparalleled ugliness, named Beauty, to whom she
gave birth just before dying. (Beauty has her own part to play in the book, in
addition to providing its title.)

Disaster upon disaster has been visited upon Dewi Ayu's daughters and
grandchildren. She realizes that her family has been targeted by an evil spirit,
the ghost of a long-dead fisherman exacting revenge for an injustice committed
by her grandfather, the Dutch plantation owner. You can read that as a metaphor
for how Dutch colonial rule caused generations of tragedy in Indonesia, or you
can read it as a tale of the supernatural. It works either way.

Beauty Is a Wound

By Eka Kurniawan

Translated by Annie Tucker.

470 pages. New Directions. $19.95.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/books/review-beauty-is-a-wound-an-indonesian-b
lend-of-history-myth-and-magic.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DWIANTO WIBOWO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); COUPS (78%);
WRITERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); FOLKLORE (74%)

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cubs Defeat Pirates, Moving Closer to Top N.L. Wild-Card Spot

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 564 words


Anthony Rizzo started a six-run fifth inning with his 30th homer of the season,
and the Chicago Cubs rallied for a 9-6 victory over the Pirates in Pittsburgh on
Thursday to take three of four games in a series between National League playoff
contenders.

The Cubs moved two games behind the Pirates, who are in the top wild-card
position. If the teams end up tied at the end of the regular season, Chicago
will have home-field advantage, having won the season series, with 10 wins in 16
games.

The Pirates will play the rest of the season without their rookie shortstop,
Jung Ho Kang, who was injured in the first inning as Chris Coghlan slid into
second base in an unsuccessful attempt to break up a double play.

Kang had surgery Thursday night to repair a broken left leg and torn knee
ligament.

The team said Kang was expected to be out for six to eight months, meaning he
could miss the start of the 2016 season.

CARDINALS 6, BREWERS 3 John Lackey pitched seven shutout innings, and St. Louis
won at Milwaukee in a game that was delayed after Brewers pitcher Jimmy Nelson
was hit in the head by a line drive.

The Cardinals swept the three-game series, and they now lead Pittsburgh by five
games in the N.L. Central.

Nelson was struck in the back of the head by a liner from Tommy Pham in the
third inning. Nelson crumpled onto the mound and remained prone for about a
minute. Nelson later walked off the field, but he was hospitalized after tests
showed he had sustained a contusion.

Lackey (12-9) allowed five hits and two walks, striking out eight. He has a 2.23
E.R.A. in his last 17 starts dating to June 15.

RANGERS 8, ASTROS 2 Mitch Moreland hit a three-run homer, Colby Lewis pitched
six innings for his 16th victory, and Texas beat visiting Houston to complete a
four-game sweep.

Shin-Soo Choo matched his career high with four hits, scored twice and drove in
two runs for the Rangers (79-67), who entered the series trailing Houston by a
game and a half. Texas now leads the division by two and a half games.

Houston had been alone atop the American League West for 49 consecutive days
until losing Tuesday night. The Astros (77-70) finished a 2-8 trip and had just
a one-game lead for the second A.L. wild card over Minnesota.

MARLINS 6, NATIONALS 4 Justin Bour and Martin Prado homered for the second
straight game, and Miami dented the Nationals' fading playoff hopes with a win
in Washington.

The Nationals, opening their 11-game final homestand, fell eight games behind
the idle Mets in the N.L. East.

BLUE JAYS 5, BRAVES 0 Marco Estrada combined with Roberto Osuna to pitch a
three-hitter; Cliff Pennington, Edwin Encarnacion and Josh Donaldson hit home
runs; and Toronto won at Atlanta to extend its lead in the A.L. East.

The Blue Jays lead the Yankees, who did not play Thursday, by three and a half
games.

ROYALS 8, INDIANS 4 Omar Infante drove in a career-high seven runs, and Kansas
City overcame some early sloppiness to win at Cleveland.

Infante hit a three-run homer in the second inning against Corey Kluber (8-14),
added a two-run double in the fifth after the Indians pulled their ace, and hit
a two-run single in the seventh.

Needing a triple to hit for the cycle, Infante lined out to center field in the
ninth.

The Indians did not make up ground in the wild-card race. They came in trailing
Houston by four games for the second spot.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/sports/baseball/mlb-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (77%); HEAD INJURIES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); CONTUSIONS
(74%); BONE FRACTURES (69%); COURTSHIP & DATING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); CHICAGO CUBS (94%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS
(82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%)

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fiction Nominees Named for National Book Award

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


The novelists Hanya Yanagihara, Nell Zink and Lauren Groff and the short story
writer Edith Pearlman were among the 10 nominees for the National Book Award for
fiction.

The longlist of nominees for fiction, which the National Book Foundation
announced on Thursday, included four short-story collections -- including one by
the Pulitzer Prize-winning author Adam Johnson -- and a debut novel by the
literary agent Bill Clegg. Ms. Yanagihara's novel ''A Little Life,'' a dark,
unsettling story about the intersecting lives of a group of college friends, was
also named as a finalist for the Man Booker Prize this week. Mr. Clegg's novel,
''Did You Ever Have a Family,'' about a woman who loses everything in a freakish
gas explosion, was longlisted for the Man Booker.

Ms. Groff's novel, ''Fates and Furies,'' which has been embraced by critics and
booksellers, tells the complex, intimate story of the relationship between a
charismatic playwright and his enigmatic, beautiful wife, who has a secret past.

Earlier this week, the National Book Foundation announced the nominees for young
people's literature, poetry and nonfiction. Nominees in those categories include
Ali Benjamin for her young adult novel ''The Thing About Jellyfish,'' the poets
Terrance Hayes and Marilyn Hacker, and the journalists Ta-Nehisi Coates and
Michael Paterniti for nonfiction.

Five finalists in four categories -- fiction, nonfiction, poetry and young
people's literature -- will be announced on Oct. 14, and the winners will be
recognized at a ceremony on Nov. 18.

The fiction nominees are: Jesse Ball, ''A Cure for Suicide'' (Pantheon
Books/Penguin Random House); Bill Clegg, ''Did You Ever Have a Family'' (Scout
Press/Simon & Schuster); Karen E. Bender, ''Refund'' (Soft Skull/Counterpoint
Press); Angela Flournoy, ''The Turner House'' (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt);
Lauren Groff, ''Fates and Furies'' (Riverhead Books/Penguin Random House); Adam
Johnson, ''Fortune Smiles'' (Random House/Penguin Random House); T. Geronimo
Johnson, ''Welcome to Braggsville'' (William Morrow/HarperCollins); Edith
Pearlman, ''Honeydew'' (Little, Brown/Hachette Book Group); Hanya Yanagihara,
''A Little Life'' (Doubleday/Penguin Random House); Nell Zink, ''Mislaid'' (The
Ecco Press/HarperCollins).

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/09/17/lauren-groff-and-nell-zink-are-amon
g-national-book-award-fiction-nominees/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (95%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%);
WRITERS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); POETRY
(89%); LITERATURE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); YOUNG ADULT
LITERATURE (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); LITERARY AGENTS
(73%); ADULTS (69%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); RIVERHEAD BOOKS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Amazing Grace' Closing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 251 words


''Amazing Grace,'' the first musical to open on Broadway this season, will also
be the first to close: its producers announced Wednesday night that they would
shutter the production next month.

The musical, about the early British abolitionist John Newton, opened to weak
reviews and performed poorly at the box office throughout its run.

The show, which cost $16 million to mount, had been marketed to Christian and
African-American audiences, counting on the inspirational story of Newton's
religious conversion, and the stark depiction of the slave trade, to interest
new ticket buyers, but that strategy did not succeed. During many weeks the
Nederlander Theater, where the show is playing, was only half full.

The lead producer, Carolyn Rossi Copeland, said that response during a
pre-Broadway run in Chicago had been more enthusiastic, and vowed to take the
show on the road, hoping to find audiences beyond New York.

''We are incredibly disappointed in the show's performance at the box office on
Broadway,'' she said on Wednesday. ''I look forward to bringing this story of
hope and redemption to audiences around the country with our upcoming national
tour.''

''Amazing Grace,'' with music and lyrics by Christopher Smith, and a book by Mr.
Smith and Arthur Giron, began performances on June 25 and opened officially on
July 16. When it closes on Oct. 25, it will have played a total of 138
performances.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/09/16/broadways-amazing-grace-will-close-
in-october/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); THEATER (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); SLAVERY
(73%); RELIGION (71%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Art

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 7540 words


Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of
recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other
art shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Museums

American Folk Art Museum: 'Folk Art and American Modernism' (through Sept. 27)
This exhibition of about 80 works features an abundance of paintings,
sculptures, hooked rugs, quilts, wooden toys, weather vanes, painted furniture
and other sorts of objects by American folk artists, along with, paintings and
sculptures by early-20th-century American Modernists, like Elie Nadelman,
Charles Sheeler and William and Marguerite Zorach, who were among the first
collectors of folk art. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street,
212-595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)

? Bronx Museum of the Arts, El Museo del Barrio and Loisaida Inc.: '¡Presente!
The Young Lords in New York' (through Dec. 12) On July 26, 1969, a group of
young Latinos stood on stage of the band shell in Tompkins Square Park, in the
East Village, and declared the founding of the New York branch of a
revolution-minded political party called the Young Lords. Its purpose was to
gain social justice for New York's working-class Latino population, then largely
Puerto Rican and treated with contempt by the city. Most of the people on stage
that day were recent college graduates well-versed in leftist political theory.
To gain the trust and cooperation of the grass-roots communities -- concentrated
in the East Village, East Harlem and the South Bronx -- they knew they needed to
get their feet on the street, and they wasted no time. They cleaned up
neighborhoods; battled for health care; and created spaces for art and music.
Spread over three institutions, "¡Presente!'' rescues a crucial episode in the
city's history and treats a vibrant political organization as both a cultural
and an ideological phenomenon. Through Oct. 10 at Loisaida Inc., 710 East Ninth
Street, Lower East Side, 646-757-0522, loisaida.org; through Dec. 12 at El
Museo, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, 212-831-7272,
elmuseo.org; through Oct. 18 at Bronx Museum, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th
Street, Morrisania, 718-681-6000, bronxmuseum.org (Holland Cotter)

Brooklyn Botanic Garden: Isamu Noguchi (through Dec. 13) The Noguchi Museum and
the Brooklyn Botanic Garden are to be commended for installing such a show, in
which sculpture is exposed to the elements (and the wandering visitors). But
this exhibition of 18 of the Japanese-American artist's sculptures parceled
throughout the garden can be frustrating, as you attempt to locate his works on
a specially provided map. The showcase of the exhibition is an installation of
several Noguchi sculptures inside the Japanese Hill-and-Pond Garden, a marriage
of modern and traditional forms, and there are works just below the Native Flora
Garden that offer moments of successful communion with art and curated nature.
990 Washington Avenue, at Eastern Parkway, Prospect Heights, 718-623-7200,
bbg.org. (Martha Schwendener)

? Brooklyn Historical Society: 'Personal Correspondence: Photography and Letter
Writing in Civil War Brooklyn' (through spring 2016) Symbolically, the Civil War
ended when Robert E. Lee surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant in the spring of 1865.
For many people who lived through it, though, the war never ended at all, and it
lives on in letters sent to and from the battlefield. Thousands of these ended
up half-forgotten in attics and bureau drawers; a small stash comes to light in
this exhibition that consists of just one little room with a lot in it --
including letters, Civil War souvenirs and explanatory texts -- with everything
as readily accessible as if in a well-packed suitcase. 128 Pierrepont Street,
near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org.
(Cotter)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Faile: Savage/Sacred Young Minds'  (through Oct. 4) The two
members of the art-making team Faile -- Patrick McNeil and Patrick Miller --
take on the topic of modern youth with impressive industry if not deep
imagination in two major installations. ''Temple'' is a walk-in, faux-ancient
chapel decorated with sculpture that refers to adolescent fantasies via kitschy
imagery and words. ''The Faile & Bäst Deluxx Fluxx Arcade,'' a collaboration
with the street artist known as Bäst, has two foosball tables in a room with
walls covered by fluorescent posters and illuminated by purple UV lights. A
connecting gallery is equipped with pinball machines and video games, which are
free to play. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, 718-638-5000,
brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)

Brooklyn Museum: 'The Rise of Sneaker Culture' (through Oct. 4) Presenting more
than 150 pairs of athletic footwear dating from the mid-19th century to the
present, this exhibition should be intriguing not only for students of modern
design and fashion but also for those interested in the various subcultures
associated with different types of sneakers. Especially noteworthy is the
popularity of expensive basketball shoes among sports fans and hip-hop
enthusiasts since the 1980s, which brings up complicated and difficult issues
having to do with race, class, masculinity, money, celebrity, advertising and
crime. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org.
(Johnson)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Zanele Muholi: Isibonelo/Evidence' (through Nov. 1) Describing
herself as a ''visual activist,'' the South African photographer Zanele Muholi
is dedicated to increasing the visibility of black lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender and intersex people with notable international success. Her stark
black-and-white photographs often respond to the violence inflicted on those
groups. But the exhibition also includes colorful photographs of same-sex
weddings that are radiant, both with African sunshine and irrepressible joy. 200
Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org.
(Schwendener)

The Cloisters: 'Treasures and Talismans: Rings From the Griffin Collection'
(through Oct. 18) In its most basic form as a small hoop made of anything that
can be turned into a circle, the finger ring is the simplest, least encumbering
kind of jewelry. Yet, as shown by this absorbing exhibition, a ring can be a
miniature sculpture of marvelous complexity, skill and imagination. The show
features more than 60 rings made in Europe from late Ancient Roman times to the
Renaissance, and it's amplified by two dozen paintings and sculptural objects
related to ring making and customs. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park,
Washington Heights, 212-923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

? Cooper Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum (continuing) The stately doors of the
1902 Andrew Carnegie mansion, home to the Cooper Hewitt, are open again after an
overhaul and expansion of the premises. Historic house and modern museum have
always made an awkward fit, a standoff between preservation and innovation, and
the problem remains, but the renovation has brought a wide-open new gallery
space, a cafe and a raft of be-your-own-designer digital enhancements. Best of
all, more of the museum's vast permanent collection is now on view, including an
Op Art weaving, miniature spiral staircases, ballistic face masks and a dainty
enameled 18th-century version of a Swiss knife. Like design itself, this
institution is built on tumult and friction, and you feel it. 2 East 91st
Street, at Fifth Avenue, 212-849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Cotter)

? Guggenheim Museum: 'Doris Salcedo' (through Oct. 12) Politically speaking, you
don't have to be a house to be haunted. All you need to be is someone who keeps
an eye on the news; who pays attention to loss through violence; and feels a
personal stake in that loss, as if it were happening to people you know and care
about, to people who live in your home. The artist Doris Salcedo was born in
Bogota, Colombia, in 1958, and came of age in an era when civic murder was a way
of life in her country. For some 30 years, she has made such memories the
essence of a witnessing art which includes the dozens of austere but viscerally
animated sculptures and installations that fill all four floors of the Solomon
R. Guggenheim Museum's Tower Level galleries in this career retrospective. 1071
Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, 212-423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)

Jewish Museum: 'Revolution of the Eye: Modern Art and the Birth of American
Television' (through Sept. 27) This small but revealing and entertaining
exhibition traces the connections between the high art of the 1950s, '60s and
'70s and the developing medium of television. The connections aren't always
deep, but the material is always absorbing -- from the ''Twilight Zone''
credits, to CBS promotional materials designed by Ben Shahn, to Andy Warhol's
Schrafft's commercial. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200,
thejewishmuseum.org; closed from 2 p.m. Tuesday until Thursday. (Mike Hale)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Pierre Huyghe' (through
Nov. 1) This outdoor rooftop exhibition is about time. The main attraction is a
massive fish tank containing a curious assortment of objects, animate and
inanimate. As if by magic, a boulder of lava floats in the water, its top rising
a bit above the surface. A couple of inches below is a mound of sand around
which are swimming little brown eel-like lampreys and bright orange Triops
cancriformis, or tadpole shrimp, two species thought not to have evolved in
millions of years. Elsewhere on the roof, a boulder of Manhattan schist, the
material that forms the bedrock for many New York City skyscrapers, represents
geological duration. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Discovering Japanese Art: American Collectors and
the Met' (through Sept. 27) Highlighting contributions to the Met's Japanese art
holdings by American collectors from the 1880s to the present, this gorgeous
show presents more than 200 superb paintings, drawings, prints, scrolls, folding
screens, ceramics, lacquer ware and works in other mediums and genres, mostly
dating from the fourth century to the late 19th. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.
(Johnson)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Grand Illusions: Staged Photography from the Met
Collection' (through Jan. 18) With 40 works, this small, choice exhibition forms
a freewheeling survey of the ways and means of staged photography -- the
arranging objects or people for the camera -- and the many needs and
sensibilities it has served. Its smart installation jumps between past and
present, commercial and fine, pre- and postmodern, and is peppered with
surprises by artists well-known and not. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Roberta
Smith)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Paintings by George Stubbs from the Yale Center
for British Art' (through Nov. 8) A rare sighting in New York: eight paintings
by the inimitable English painter George Stubbs (1724-1806). They include two of
his best racehorse pictures, with their stunning precision of anatomy,
portraiture, landscape space and interspecies psychology. Four other paintings
follow two men through a day of shooting small game and the fifth shows the
gentle killing of a wounded doe at a hunt's end. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.
(Smith)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Reimagining Modernism: 1900-1950' (continuing)
One of the greatest encyclopedic museums in the world fulfills its mission a
little more with an ambitious reinstallation of works of early European
modernism with their American counterparts for the first time in nearly 30
years. Objects of design and paintings by a few self-taught artists further the
integration. It is quite a sight, with interesting rotations and fine-tunings to
come. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Sargent: Portraits of Artists and Friends'
(through Oct. 4) Despite a career as a society portraitist, John Singer Sargent
was, by many accounts, a shy man, given to halting speech or silence except
among people he knew well and liked. He was not ever, though, a shy painter. Few
artists in any era have had as extroverted a hand as his, and as keen an
instinct for visual theater. And when his sitters were people he cared for,
something extra came into the work, a relaxed recklessness of a kind that
scintillates and sluices through the 90 paintings and drawings in this show that
comes to New York from the National Portrait Gallery in London. It includes a
few of the Beautiful People portrait commissions that made him a wealthy man,
but mostly it's made up of what might be called self-commissions, inspired by
attraction, affection, or both. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Morbid Anatomy Museum: 'Opus Hypnagogia: Sacred Spaces of the Visionary and
Vernacular' (through Oct. 18) Coined in the 19th century, the word hypnagogia
refers to the transition period between wakefulness and sleep, when, while still
conscious, you may find yourself seeing images, having thoughts or hearing
things that make little logical sense. This disorganized but fascinating show
presents a wildly eclectic selection of more than 50 paintings, drawings and
sculptures, including voodoo ritual objects, antique illustrated mystical books
and recent works of offbeat fantasy by contemporary artists, all or some of
which might have been inspired by hypnagogic experiences. 424 Third Avenue, at
Seventh Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn, 347-799-1017, morbidanatomymuseum.org.
(Johnson)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Scenes for a New Heritage: Contemporary Art from the
Collection' (through April 10) MoMA's latest installation of works from its
permanent collection fills the second-floor contemporary galleries with videos,
installations, sculptures, drawings, prints and photographs produced by more
than 30 artists during the past three decades. It's an uneven, haphazard
selection, but leaving artistic quality aside, its unusually optimistic-sounding
title inadvertently raises a large and intriguing question: At a time when
contemporary art seems to be spinning its wheels, what could a new heritage be?
212-708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)

Museum of Contemporary African Diasporan Arts: 'Field Notes: Extracts' (through
Sept. 27) The seven emerging artists in this show -- all from the Caribbean or
the Caribbean diaspora -- reverse the tradition of field notes in anthropology
and ethnography, which were usually taken by outsiders. Instead, they make
''notes'' in the form of art that highlights myths, superstitions and practices
native to the islands. Gilles Elie-dit-Cosaque, originally from Martinique,
creates notebook-collages called ''Lambeaux'' (''Scraps''); Vashti Harrison's
video offers ruminations on ghosts and apparitions in Trinidad; and Holly
Parotti's photographs of silk cotton trees in the Bahamas conjure similar spooky
mythologies. Sprinkled throughout the show, particularly in the wall text, are
references to writers and thinkers like James Baldwin, Aimé Césaire, Jean Rhys,
Édouard Glissant and Stuart Hall, who all eloquently addressed colonialism,
racism and migration. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene,
Brooklyn, 718-230-0492, mocada.org. (Schwendener)

Museum of Modern Art: 'From Bauhaus to Buenos Aires: Grete Stern and Horacio
Coppola' (through Oct. 4) Divided into alternating his-and-hers rooms, the show
features the Argentine artist and filmmaker Horacio Coppola (1906-2012) and the
German artist Grete Stern (1904-99). Stern was clearly the more strident
innovator. Highlights of the show include her work with Ringl & Pit, the
advertising agency she founded with Ellen Auerbach, as well as ''Dreams
(Sueños),'' the surrealist photomontages she published in a women's magazine
from 1948 to 1951 to illustrate a column on psychoanalysis. 212-708-9400,
moma.org. (Schwendener)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Design and Violence' (continuing) Described on the
museum's website as a ''curatorial experiment,'' ''Design and Violence'' was and
is an exhibition that exists almost entirely on the Internet. The show includes
pictures, descriptions, essays and discussions about design objects used for
violent purposes, including the AK-47 rifle, animal slaughter systems, bullets,
plastic handcuffs and graphics depicting everything from refugee migration to
incarceration demographics to violent video games. It's a heavy and heady
gathering of information that leans at times toward a symposium rather than an
exhibition, but remains grounded in innovative objects that have made -- or
could make -- a cultural impact. Online at designandviolence.moma.org;
212-708-9400. (Schwendener)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Endless House: Intersections of Art and Architecture'
(through March 6) This scattered but enjoyable exhibition, drawn from the
museum's art collection as much as its design holdings, focuses on the
single-family home as a place of experimentation and regeneration; of conflict
as well as dreams. Its highlight is a series of drawings and photographs by
Frederick Kiesler, the Austrian-American polymath whose Endless House -- never
completed -- fused fine art, architecture, furniture and lighting design into a
bulbous, unstable whole. Several artists here echo Kiesler's theme of the house
as a reflection of the psychology of its inhabitants. None is more powerful than
Rachel Whiteread's sober image, made with white correction fluid, of a dwelling
in East London: a preparatory drawing for a now lost sculpture crafted by
filling the house with liquid concrete. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Jason Farago)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'Gilbert & George: The Early Years' (through Sept. 27)
Soon after Gilbert Proesch and George Passmore met as students at St. Martin's
School of Art in London in 1967, they determined that everything they made or
did in art and life would be sculpture and that their partnership as Gilbert &
George itself would be a living sculpture. This delightful show of small- and
large-scale works, mostly on paper and dating from 1969 to 1975, reveals the duo
starting out in their 20s in a disarmingly playful spirit of self-invention.
212-708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'Picasso Sculpture' (through Feb. 7) Nearly a work of
art in its own right, this magnificent show redefines Picasso's achievement with
the first full view here in 50 years of his astoundingly varied forays into
sculpture. His materials, not his female loves, become the muses, and are
different each time out. The basic plotline: After introducing sculptural
abstraction and space, he spent about 50 years counting the ways that the figure
was far from finished. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'Transmissions: Art in Eastern Europe and Latin America,
1960-1980' (through Jan. 3) Visiting this big, spirited group show is like
walking into a party of intriguing strangers. For every person you recognize,
there are 10 you don't know. One topic everyone's talking about, at different
intensities, is the anti-institutional politics that swept Europe and the
Americas in the 1960s, and almost everyone speaks the language of Conceptualism.
A product of an in-house research initiative called Contemporary and Modern Art
Perspectives, or C-MAP, intended to expand MoMA's narrow Paris-New York view of
modernism, the show is very much the beginning rather than the end of a learning
curve. But with curators exploring material new to them -- just steps ahead of
their audience -- the show has a refreshing buzz of surprise as it takes the
museum in a realistic new directions. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)

Museum of the City of New York: 'Activist New York'  (continuing) With a focus
on activist tactics from the 17th century to the present, this exhibition --
designed by the firm Pentagram -- is a room-size onslaught of sensory
stimulation, complete with videos, graphics and text. Told through 14
''moments'' in New York activism, it includes a facsimile of the Flushing
Remonstrance (1657), a petition for religious tolerance given to Peter
Stuyvesant, director-general of the settlement, as well as contemporaneous
objects, like a Dutch tobacco box, a Bible and ''Meet the Activists'' kiosks
adjacent to each display, which identify activist groups working in the present.
Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, 212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Schwendener)

Museum of the City of New York: 'Everything Is Design: The Work of Paul Rand'
(through Oct. 13) You may not know the name Paul Rand (1914-96), the immensely
influential advertising art director, illustrator and graphic designer, but it's
a safe bet you're familiar with some of his works. After shaking up American
advertising and book cover design in the 1940s and '50s, he created logos for
UPS, IBM, Westinghouse and other American corporations. His admirers called him
''the Picasso of graphic design.'' This show tracks his six-decade career with
150 examples of vintage magazines, book covers, three-dimensional containers,
children's books and books by Mr. Rand about principles of design. Fifth Avenue
at 103rd Street, 212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)

Museum of the City of New York: 'Folk City: New York and the Folk Music Revival'
(through Jan. 10) Handwritten Bob Dylan lyrics, well-strummed guitars from Lead
Belly, Judy Collins and Odetta, concert posters, Sing Out! magazines, video from
a raucous protest over banning folk singers from Washington Square, the street
sign from Gerdes Folk City and plenty of songs on headphones evoke idealism and
ambition in ''Folk City.'' The exhibition explores how New York City became a
magnet for and a champion of rural styles and then the center of a pop-folk
movement, from leftist ''people's music'' efforts in the 1930s and '40s, and the
Red Scare reaction, to the civil rights rallies, coffeehouses and hootenannies
of the folk revival at its peak. The tangle of tradition and change, earnestness
and pop machinations are on view, along with the makings of a legacy that roots
matter and a song can change the world. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street,
212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Jon Pareles)

? New-York Historical Society: 'Freedom Journey 1965: Photographs of the Selma
to Montgomery March by Stephen Somerstein' (through Oct. 25) Almost 50 years
ago, the picture editor of a campus newspaper at City College of New York
assigned himself a breaking story: covering what promised to be a massive march
in Alabama, led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., to demand free and clear
voting rights for African-Americans. On short notice the editor, Stephen
Somerstein, grabbed his cameras, climbed on a bus and headed south. The 55
pictures of black leaders and everyday people in this show, installed in a
hallway and small gallery, are some that he shot that day. The image of Dr.
King's head seen in monumental silhouette that has become a virtual logo of the
film ''Selma'' is based on a Somerstein original. 170 Central Park West, at 77th
Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

Queens Museum: 'Robert Seydel: The Eye in Matter' (through Sept. 27) Robert
Seydel rarely exhibited during his lifetime and died at 50 in 2011. He left
behind an odd body of work -- mostly notebooks, little collages and drawings --
and sometimes they look a bit too much like the artists he admired: Marcel
Duchamp, Joseph Cornell and Ray Johnson. (You could also throw Dada and
Surrealist artists like John Heartfield, Hannah Hoch, Kurt Schwitters and Max
Ernst on the pile of significant precursors.) And yet, when you step back from
the flurry of references and citations, there is a sustaining sureness and a
charm in it that stay with you. Mr. Seydel had a wonderful sense of color and
composition and a great sense of curiosity, as well as the belief that art is a
place of refuge where you can retreat from the present -- and possibly even
remake the past. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, 718-592-9700, queensmuseum.org.
(Schwendener)

? Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Everything, Everyday: Artists in Residence 2014-15'
(through Oct. 25) During their residency year, these three artists have worked
in assemblage mode, using both physical and psychological matter as their raw
materials. Eric Mack has worked out a hybrid of painting and sculpture from
distressed clothing, rope, pegboards, packing blankets and pigment to create a
threatening-to-fall- apart dance of heavy and light. Lauren Halsey's ''Kingdom
Splurge,'' a mirrored grotto lined with pastel-tinted boulders and beauty shop
ads, is a Afro-futuristic Emerald City. Sadie Barnette, in a series of
meticulous graphite drawings, spins out a complex, first-names-only family tree
and pieces together her own past from memorabilia related to her father. 144
West 125th Street, Harlem, 212-864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)

? Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Stanley Whitney: Dance the Orange' (through Oct. 25)
This well-chosen show of works from the past decade surveys the maturation of a
late-blooming abstract painter who has revived the modernist grid with a
distinctive combination of freehand geometry and bold color (the full spectrum)
and altogether an unprecedented sense of improvisation and, complexity. The work
sustains multiple readings both in terms of the history of modernism and Mr.
Whitney's African-American heritage. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem,
212-864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Smith)

? Whitney Museum of American Art: 'America Is Hard to See' (through Sept. 27)
With high ceilings, soft pine-plank floors and light-flooded windows and
terraces, the galleries of the new Renzo Piano-designed Whitney Museum in the
meatpacking district are as airy as 19th-century sailmakers' lofts. Art feels at
home in them, and the work in the museum's top-to-bottom inaugural exhibition is
homegrown. Culled from the permanent collection, it mixes bookmarked favorites
by Edward Hopper, Georgia O'Keeffe and Jasper Johns with objects and artists
that the Whitney had all but forgotten or just brought in. As a vision of a
larger America, the show is far from comprehensive; as a musing on the history
of a particular New York institution over nearly a century, it is very fine,
smartly detailed and superbly presented. 99 Gansevoort Street, at Washington
Street, 212-570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

'Portraiture Now: Staging the Self' (through Oct. 17) This exhibition, organized
by the National Portrait Gallery in Washington in collaboration with the
Smithsonian Latino Center, reimagines portraiture in creative ways through the
works of six contemporary Latino artists from the United States. Carlee
Fernandez's delightfully weird self-portraits from 2006 show her communing with
her (old, white, male) influences. Rachelle Mozman's subtly dramatic photographs
feature her mother playing different roles, from a uniformed maid to an
upper-class woman being served. And Karen Miranda Rivadeneira's photographs are
lush and poetic, capturing herself and family members in wild and beautiful
landscapes. Unfortunately, some of the work feels like it reinforces
stereotypical roles for young Latinos -- but the women manage to stretch out and
be poetic, playful or pensive. Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, between 68th
and 69th Streets, 212-249-8950, as-coa.org/visual-arts. (Schwendener)

Charles Swedlund: 'Buy Photographs -- Not Gold! and Other Works, 1970-1975'
(through Oct. 3) Mr. Swedlund's exhibition of playful photographic works from
the early 1970s offers an amusing trip back to a time when conceptually minded
photographers were looking for ways beyond the Modernist black-and-white print.
The show includes photographs turned into puzzles, games, stereoscopic pictures
and flip books. Two bubble gum vending machines are stocked with plastic
capsules containing little prints. Purchase a $20 token from the gallery and you
can obtain one for yourself. Higher Pictures, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th
Street, Manhattan, 212-249-6100, higherpictures.com. (Johnson)


Galleries: Chelsea

? 'Dia 15 VI 13 545 West 22 Street Dream House' (through Oct. 24) This terrific
show restages a famous sound and light installation by La Monte Young and Marian
Zazeela, a work whose origins date to the 1960s. On entering the dimly lit
gallery, you are immediately enveloped by an intensely powerful sound, a
roaring, droning, pulsing noise with such a deep bass that you feel it in your
body as well as in your ears. At the far end of the space is a work by Jung Hee
Choi, a slowly changing hallucinogenic projection on a perforated black screen.
Prepare to have your consciousness altered. Dia: Chelsea, 545 West 22nd Street,
Chelsea, 212-989-5566, diacenter.org. (Johnson)

? Mike Kelley (through Oct. 24) Illuminated variations on the miniaturized and
bottled, Kryptonian city of Kandor that Superman kept in his Arctic Fortress of
Solitude lead to a major installation called ''Kandor 10B (Exploded Fortress of
Solitude).'' A dark, bunkerlike construction with a walk-in, cavernous interior,
it's accompanied by a 24-minute video showing the sadomasochistic activities of
some zany, fancifully costumed people within and around the ''Exploded
Fortress.'' Produced in 2011, the year before Mr. Kelley's suicide, the two
works together exude a caustic spirit of misanthropic comedy. Hauser & Wirth,
511 West 18th Street, 212-790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Johnson)

Galleries: Other

Eduardo Paolozzi: 'House of Expectations' (through Nov. 1) In the best Pop Art
tradition -- that is, blurring the boundary between art and life -- the three
Eduardo Paolozzi sculptures from the 1960s and '70s here actually did time as
playground equipment, before being stripped of paint and becoming sculpture
again. Accompanying the sculptures are screen prints from two series: the
bright, hallucinogenic ''Z.E.E.P. (Zero Energy Experimental Pile)'' series, made
from Paolozzi collages from 1969 to 1970, which include images that illustrate
Cold War fears and manias; and the muted and pastel ''Calcium Light Night''
(1974-6) series, which responds to musical compositions by Charles Ives, but
also mirrors the repeating curves and mechanical patterns of the sculptures.
Clearing, 396 Johnson Avenue, at Morgan Avenue, Bushwick, Brooklyn,
718-456-0396, c-l-e-a-r-i-n-g.com. (Schwendener)

Public Art

Jeppe Hein: 'Please Touch the Art' (through April 2016) People with small
children likely will enjoy Mr. Hein's three-part show. If it's a hot day, the
kids will rush to be drenched by ''Appearing Rooms,'' which has water spouting
up unpredictably from a square platform of metal grating. Youngsters as well as
grown-ups also may be fascinating by the perceptually confounding ''Mirror
Labyrinth NY,'' which consists of mirror-surfaced planks of stainless steel in
varying heights planted in the grass in a spiral formation. Meanwhile, guardians
can rest on one of 16 fanciful, shocking orange park benches while their young
charges clamber about on the furniture's surrealistically altered parts.
Brooklyn Bridge Park, 334 Furman Street, Fulton Ferry, Brooklyn,
publicartfund.org. (Johnson)

Out Of Town

? Lynda Benglis: 'Water Sources' (through Nov. 8) The most compelling temporary
exhibition at Storm King Art Center in recent years focuses on a heretofore
unfamiliar but important dimension of Ms. Benglis's distinguished career:
creating working fountains. The show's main attraction is a quartet of gorgeous
fountains rising from temporary, circular pools embedded in the lawn outside the
center's home building. Two of them have abstract forms suggesting psychic
monsters surging up from unconscious depths. The others feature flower shapes
stacked into majestic columns. 1 Museum Road, New Windsor, N.Y., 845-534-3115,
stormking.org. (Johnson)

'Donald Blumberg Photographs: Selections From the Master Sets' (through Nov. 22)
In his early days shooting on the streets of New York, Mr. Blumberg discovered
that parishioners walking out of the gaping door of St. Patrick's Cathedral
appeared to be emerging from deep, empty space. His resulting photographs, shot
from 1965 to 1967, reduce St. Pat's to a sea of black, and turn the worshipers
into highly detailed, if physically awkward, specimens in the void. Soon after,
Mr. Blumberg's gaze shifted from the street to his television screen, arranging
images of Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon into conceptually sophisticated
mosaics. Now 80, he is still shooting his TV, and though he continues to keep
one eye on politics, the other is gazing at the inanities of home shopping and
televangelism. Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven,
203-432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Jason Farago)

Elaine Lustig Cohen (through Oct. 19) The paintings of Elaine Lustig Cohen
expand on the complicated legacy of Philip Johnson, the influential architect
who also commissioned Ms. Lustig Cohen, an award-winning graphic designer, to
create catalogs and signage for his buildings and other projects. The 10
paintings here, from the 1960s and '70s, show the influence of her design work.
They are geometric, hard-edged and abstract, with compositions that radiate from
their centers and palettes dominated by secondary colors -- particularly orange
and brown in the 1970s. While the paintings might pale a little compared to
other masters of geometric abstraction, they show painting and graphic design on
an interesting continuum. The Glass House, 199 Elm Street, New Canaan, Conn. The
show is included in tours of the Glass House, for which tickets must be
purchased in advance; 866-811-4111, theglasshouse.org. (Schwendener)

Dia:Beacon: Robert Irwin: 'Excursus: Homage to the Square³' (continuing) A
walk-in maze with walls of white scrim lit by color-filtered fluorescent tubes,
Mr. Irwin's ''Excursus: Homage to the Square³'' had its debut in 1998 at the Dia
Center for the Arts in Chelsea. It was so popular that the curators elected to
keep it on view a year longer than its originally planned run. It's
reincarnation here is similarly transporting, if not as thoroughly as the
original was. But to experience it at Dia:Beacon along Minimalist works by other
artists that encourage heightened perceptual attention to the here and now is as
spiritually calming as it is historically illuminating. 3 Beekman Street,
Beacon, 845-440-0100, diaart.org. (Johnson)

? 'Elaine de Kooning Portrayed' (through Oct. 31) While she is probably best
known for having been Willem de Kooning's wife, Elaine de Kooning had an
interesting life and career of her own. Indeed, if an enterprising filmmaker
wanted to make a romantic biopic evoking the New York artworld from the rise of
its bohemian avant-garde in the 1930s and '40s through the pluralist era of the
'70s and '80s, he or she could not find a more suitable subject than Ms. de
Kooning. Adding up to a collective portrait, this show's 18 paintings and
drawings include four outstanding self-portraits by the artist herself along
with works by Mr. de Kooning, Fairfield Porter, Hedda Sterne and Alex Katz.
Pollock-Krasner House and Study Center, 830 Springs-Fireplace Road, East
Hampton, N.Y., 631-324-4929, sb.cc.stonybrook.edu/pkhouse. (Johnson)

? 'Enigmas: The Art of Bada Shanren (1626-1705)' (through Jan. 3) Beginning next
January, the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington will go dark for a year and a
half while it's 1923 building gets an overhaul. Its Chinese painting collection
will be especially missed. And as if intent on leaving a potent memory of it,
the museum has served up a sparkler of final show, centered on a charismatic
17th-century superstar whose life encompassed dramatic shifts of fortune, and
whose art holds mysteries yet to be understood. 1050 Independence Avenue SW,
202-633-1000, asia.si.edu. (Cotter)

? Museum of Fine Arts Boston: 'Made in the Americas: The New World Discovers
Asia' (through Feb. 15) One of the great gifts that multiculturalist thinking
gave us was freedom from the tyranny of purity. Simply put, there's no such
thing, at least not in art. Everything is a mix, and this has always been true.
Globalism, which we take to be so 21st century, is as old as the hills. In this
smallish show those hills encompass the Andes, the Alps, the Appalachians and
Mount Fuji between the early 16th to the late 18th century. The main setting
includes large swaths of North, Central and South America being colonized by
various European powers, all of which had lucrative commercial links to Asia,
and they were bringing Asia with them to the New World. The result: some of the
most brilliant American art ever. 465 Huntington Avenue, Boston, 617-267-9300,
mfa.org. (Cotter)

? National Gallery of Art: 'Gustave Caillebotte: The Painter's Eye' (through
Oct. 4) Flash on French Impressionism and you're likely to see gauzy clouds of
flickering paint strokes like molecules flying apart. But if you'd visited the
third annual Impressionist exhibition in Paris in 1877, you would have found a
few things that countered such expectations: realistic paintings of a new Paris
of mausoleum-like luxury high-rises and ruler-straight boulevards running back
into infinite space. The name of the artist attached to these pictures was
Gustave Caillebotte. His ''Paris Street, Rainy Day,'' billboard-size and
graphically bold, with its detailed but oddly empty image of well-dressed urban
amblers, was a showstopper in 1877. And so it is again in this taut survey of a
fascinating artist's career, which includes portraits of friends, market still
lifes, and views of the suburban gardens he came to love. On the National Mall,
between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington,
202-737-4215, nga.gov. (Cotter)

? National Gallery of Art: 'Pleasure and Piety: The Art of Joachim Wtewael
(1566-1638)' (through Oct. 4) Joachim Wtewael was one of the great Dutch artists
of the years leading up to the 17th-century Golden Age, though for a variety of
reasons -- changes in fashion, the artist's hard-to-say last name -- he has
taken a secondary place in the history books. This show is his first ever museum
solo, and it's a winner. Comfortable in scale -- 37 paintings and some drawings,
roughly a third to a half of his known output -- it not only brings a major
figure properly into view, but demonstrates both what was brilliant and what was
confusing about an artist who painted like an angel and sometimes thought like a
devil. To Wtewael (pronounced oo-tuh-vawl), portraits, religious scenes, and
pornography were equally valid subjects for art. On the National Mall, between
Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, 202-737-4215,
nga.gov. (Cotter)

? National Museum of African Art: 'Conversations: African and African American
Artists in Dialogue'  (through Jan. 24) For its 50th anniversary, this museum
has brilliantly thread together work from two sources: its own holdings in
African material and the Camille O. and William H. Cosby Jr. collection of
African-American art. The Cosby collection, weighted toward canonical figures
like Romare Bearden and Charles White, will bring in the crowds, but it is the
curators and museum itself, which is in a period of renaissance, that have made
the show rise well above predictability. Smithsonian Institution, 950
Independence Avenue SW, Washington, 202-633-4600, africa.si.edu. (Cotter)

Parrish Art Museum: Andreas Gursky: 'Landscapes' (through Oct. 18) When this
German artist's immense photographs first began appearing in New York galleries
in the 1990s they were terrifically exciting for their sheer size and for their
implicit commentaries on capitalist globalization. Now they have about them the
stale air of white elephants. Uninitiated viewers, however, might thrill to the
strenuously spectacular prints in this 19-piece show, which includes a dismally
dystopian, aerial view of cattle in a muddy, Colorado stockyard and a futuristic
image of the gleaming, gold-hued interior of a huge gas tank on a transport ship
in the Persian Gulf. 279 Montauk Highway, Water Mill, N.Y., 631-283-2118,
parrishart.org. (Johnson)

Last Chance

Aaron Flint Jamison (closes on Sunday) For his current show, Mr. Jamison has
emptied the Miguel Abreu Gallery of office furniture, imitating a tradition
started decades ago by Yves Klein and Michael Asher. Inside, suspended from the
ceiling, he's installed a single sculpture made of cedar and purple heartwood.
In the basement is a bulky, Dada-type machine consisting of giant tubes, digital
temperature controls and an ''exposure unit'' with two 1,000-watt ultraviolet
lights inside a black case. Hacking art with wonky machines and craft, Mr.
Jamison's work offers an update to Institutional Critique but also, perhaps,
alternative models for living. 36 Orchard Street, between Canal and Hester
Streets, Lower East Side, miguelabreugallery.com, 212-995-1774 (Schwendener)

? Frida Kahlo: 'Mirror Mirror...' (closes on Saturday) This show brings together
with startling clarity Kahlo's art, life and impeccably turned-out and monitored
persona with nearly 40 photographs by some dozen photographers, starting with
her father and including Nickolas Muray, Carl Van Vechten, Gisèle Freund, Imogen
Cunningham and Lola Álvarez Bravo. Interestingly the images are strikingly,
perhaps frighteningly consistent: Kahlo's persona dominates. Throckmorton Fine
Art, 145 East 57th Street, Manhattan, 212-223-1059, throckmorton-nyc.com.
(Smith)

'Measure' (closes on Saturday) Starting from a simple prompt -- make a drawing
of Storefront for Art and Architecture's exhibition space -- the works in this
show explore a variety of methods and mediums for measuring space, time, people,
animals, labor, profit and other phenomenon. Reiser & Umemoto's drawing in
hygroscopic ink changes color according to the level of humidity; Pneumastudio
includes pictures of animals that lived in the area in previous epochs; and a
graphic image designed by Juan Astasio for the show's brochure reads, ''Smile,
You Are Being Measured,'' suggesting that being measured, like being videotaped,
is just another 21st-century condition. Storefront for Art and Architecture, 97
Kenmare Street, near Cleveland Place, SoHo, 212-431-5795, storefrontnews.org.
(Schwendener)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Navigating the West: George Caleb Bingham and the
River' (closes on Sunday) This moving tribute to the 19th-century painter who
depicted the hardscrabble life along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers as
spacious idylls of serenity and even timelessness, presents 16 of his 17 river
paintings known to exist, among nearly all the exacting studies of men at rest
that preceded them. The human dimension of the figures is joined to the golden
light and space of the setting by the geometric solidity of the boats and their
wonderful details. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

? Morgan Library & Museum: 'Hidden Likeness: Photographer Emmet Gowin at the
Morgan' (closes on Sunday) The library redefines the artist-selected museum
exhibition by inviting Emmet Gowin to mix selections from its holdings with his
own photographs. The extraordinary result is a retrospective inside a visual
autobiography that can evoke a cabinet of wonders and includes many Morgan
marvels, like the best Rembrandt drawing of an elephant you'll ever see. Mr.
Gowin's interview in the catalog adds further depth. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th
Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)

Museum of Arts and Design: 'Richard Estes: Painting New York City'  (closes on
Sunday) The core of this show is a selection of vivid, Photorealist paintings of
urban subjects like glass and chrome storefronts, movie theater marquees, cars
and trucks, subways, the Brooklyn Bridge, views from the Staten Island Ferry and
idyllic images of Central Park made between 1965 and 2015. The exhibition also
includes didactic sections about the craft and technique that go into Mr.
Estes's painting and prints, but that aspect doesn't fully deliver what it
promises. 2 Columbus Circle, Manhattan, 212-299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)

? New Museum: 'Sarah Charlesworth: Doubleworld' (closes on Sunday) A trim,
handsome, overdue survey of a prominent member of the Pictures Generation -- who
died in 2013 at 66 -- charts her loyalty to and questioning exploration of her
medium and its social, psychological and physical and historical aspects. At
every turn she achieved a precision, beauty and mystery all her own. 235 Bowery,
at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)

'Please Return To: Mail Art from the Ray Johnson Archive' (through next Friday)
Along with 10 of his witty, densely layered collages, this small, engrossing
show features dozens of altered versions of several basic images or
''templates,'' which Mr. Johnson mailed to friends and strangers, including many
well-known artists, asking recipients to change the image and return it to him.
One template is an outline of his own profile, to which Ad Reinhardt added
small, penciled letters at the lips, spelling ''silence.'' Richard L. Feigen &
Company, 34 East 69th Street, Manhattan, 212-628-0700, rlfeigen.com. (Johnson)

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/museum-gallery-listings-for-sept-1
8-24.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLLECTION OF EMMET AND EDITH GOWIN,
PACE/MacGILL GALLERY
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTS
FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS
(89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (88%); POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS (87%); HISTORY (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); COLLECTORS &
COLLECTING (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ART
COLLECTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); POLITICS
(66%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Timex Museum Prepares to Shut Its Doors

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 506 words


Adieu to a Timex Trove

The imminent closing of Timexpo: The Timex Group Museum in Waterbury, Conn., has
inspired its share of puns about doomsdays and time running out. The museum,
devoted to the history of Timex and its clocks and watches, will close on Sept.
30, just 14 years after it was founded.

The number of visitors to Timexpo has decreased over the years, and the company
now plans to disperse its antiques, some of which date from the 1850s, when
workers in Waterbury helped popularize mass-produced timepieces.

The museum's director, Cathy Conti, lamented its short life span during a recent
tour.

''Doesn't it have great energy?'' she said as she walked through the building, a
turreted brick structure from the 1850s that originally housed a brass mill. The
museum sits between a highway and a strip mall, and a foam-and-steel copy of an
Easter Island statue sits rather incongruously on the front lawn. Around the
corner is Holy Land of Waterbury USA, a sculpture park from the 1950s with
crumbling facsimiles of ancient buildings in Jerusalem and Bethlehem.

Wall texts explain how Timex, originally incorporated as the Waterbury Clock
Company in the 1850s, adapted to changing tastes over the decades by ornamenting
clocks and watches with images of dragons, elephants and Mickey Mouse and coming
up with catchy product names like Radiolite, Armalloy and Sweepster.

The company is deciding how the collection will be broken up, with objects
transferred to its own corporate headquarters in nearby Middlebury, Waterbury
City Hall, the local Mattatuck Museum, the Smithsonian Institution in Washington
and the National Watch & Clock Museum in Columbia, Pa., Ms. Conti said. The
Easter Island statue's fate has yet to be determined.

The Mattatuck Museum plans to devote a corner gallery to Timexpo antiques,
exhibiting them alongside locally manufactured innovations, like lamp hardware,
munition parts and a warbling whistle called the Canary Songster. Robert Burns,
the museum's director, said that these Timexpo objects offer ''a nice succinct
telling of that really important Waterbury story.''

Noel Poirier, the director of the National Watch & Clock Museum, described the
loss of Timexpo's documentation of Connecticut clockmakers as ''heartbreaking in
a lot of ways.'' The museum is now restoring a 19th-century street clock made by
the Ansonia Clock Company, which was founded in Ansonia, Conn., and went out of
business in 1929.

Mr. Poirier says that there is still an abiding interest in historical devices
for measuring time. An exhibition about the French-Swiss watchmaker Breguet
opens on Saturday at the Legion of Honor museum in San Francisco. On Nov. 16,
European clocks and watches will go on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
in the exhibition ''The Luxury of Time.''

From Oct. 7 through 31, Galerie Delalande in Paris will exhibit 90 hourglasses
(many are for sale at prices starting at a few thousand dollars each), made as
far back as the 1400s, in materials including amber, ivory and gold.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/timex-museum-prepares-to-shut-its-
doors.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two vintage clocks in the collection of the Timexpo museum in
Waterbury, Conn. The one with backward numerals was designed so that the time
could be read correctly in a barber-shop mirror. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM TIMEXPO: THE
TIMEX GROUP MUSEUM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (78%);
SCULPTURE (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); FINE WATCHES (77%); HISTORIC
DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (70%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ISRAEL (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Trove of 'Letterlocking,' or Vintage Strategies to Deter Snoops

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 566 words


To Fend Off Snoops,Vintage 'Letterlocking'

Jana Dambrogio, the Thomas F. Peterson conservator at M.I.T. Libraries, is
analyzing how letter writers have tried through the ages to keep their
correspondence sealed and unread until it reached the intended recipients. She
has coined the word ''letterlocking'' to describe methods of folding and gluing
pages to deter snooping.

Ms. Dambrogio has been scouring archives for remnants of tabs, slits, pleats,
strings, wrappers and wax blobs that helped protect secrets. The locking
practice continued in different forms even after the 1830s, when the gummed
envelope, now ubiquitous, was introduced.

When Ms. Dambrogio tells other scholars about the varieties of letterlocking she
has unearthed, she said, the response is often along the lines of ''I'd never
thought about that before, but now I'll be looking around for it with fresh
eyes.''

With many collaborators, including Daniel Starza Smith at Oxford, she has
studied how figures like Queen Elizabeth I, Machiavelli, Galileo, Marie
Antoinette and the poet John Donne sought to safeguard their handwritten pages.
In her dictionary of historical letterlocking techniques, entries so far include
''triangle-shaped paper lock with slit perpendicular to the fore-edge'' and
''diamond-shaped paper lock cut from bottom of letter with slit parallel to the
fore-edge.''

Other subcategories keep surfacing. ''This is such a brand-new field of study,''
she said.

Examples of letterlocking turn up in paintings: Artists often depicted sealed
mail in the hands of royalty, politicians, poets, servants, soldiers, spies and
lovers. Novels, historical tomes, movies and plays also contain references to
locked letters with important and potentially embarrassing content.

Ms. Dambrogio is planning related exhibitions, and she is working on a book
about letterlocking. In a few weeks, she said, BBC History Magazine is scheduled
to publish an article that she jointly wrote about a rediscovered letter archive
in Europe that contains ''letterlocking like you've never seen it,'' she said.
She would not disclose more; she and her co-authors plan to reveal its secrets
bit by bit on Twitter via the hashtag #signedsealedundelivered.

She has handed out over 3,500 replicas of elaborately locked letters to people
interested in experimenting with them. Even though they know these are replicas,
she said, they sometimes still feel uncomfortable about breaking the seals. Ms.
Dambrogio said she is also researching antique sealing-wax formulas ''to be able
to mimic how they break.''

Colleagues who are scanning letters for online postings are advised by Ms.
Dambrogio to leave the fold and slit marks visible to show how the pages might
have appeared when first delivered.

Bringing attention to this niche topic ''is very evangelical'' for her, she
said.

Old correspondence with locking mechanisms can cost anywhere from a few dollars
to thousands each. Last year a bidder at Sotheby's in London paid about $38,000
for a note that Queen Elizabeth I wrote to Viscount Hereford in 1569, ordering
him to move her troublesome cousin Mary, Queen of Scots, whom he was guarding,
to Coventry in central England.

Sotheby's described the page as spotted, stained and ''folded with four pairs of
vertical slits for 'locking' the letter.'' A small tear marked where the
viscount had undone the queen's letterlocking.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/design/a-trove-of-letterlocking-or-vintag
e-strategies-to-deter-snoops.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Detail of a seal on a 1775 letter from Empress Maria Theresa to
an Italian cardinal with a two-part ''lock.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANA DAMBROGIO,
COLLECTION OF H.S.H. PRINCE NICOLO AND H.S.H. PRINCESS RITA BONCOMPAGNI
LUDOVISI, ROME)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); POETRY (78%); FICTION
LITERATURE (73%); PAINTING (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); RELIGION (50%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Trilogy Runs in Reverse, but Not Life

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 429 words


This week, the 2015 Crossing the Line festival hosts a trilogy by a celebrated
contemporary choreographer, which oddly works its way backward. The third
installment of Miguel Gutierrez's ''Age & Beauty,'' a series looking at the life
of an aging gay choreographer -- Mr. Gutierrez is 44 -- explores the emotional
toll that dance inflicts on the body and the mind.

While the first and second works will be shown later in the week, ''Age & Beauty
Part 3,'' performed at New York Live Arts on Wednesday, places a wistful, moody
cap on a triptych that began in 2014 at the Whitney Biennial. Personal, like all
of Mr. Gutierrez's works, this one also has reach. A co-commission by New York
Live Arts and the French Institute Alliance Française, Part 3 tempers Mr.
Gutierrez's midcareer anxiety in a subdued, almost hushed setting.

It also looks toward the future: What does a life spent making dances mean? Is
it time to quit? Judging by a line in a voiceover conversation between the
oldest and youngest cast members -- Ishmael Houston-Jones, 64, and Ezra Azrieli
Holzman, Mr. Gutierrez's 8-year-old godchild -- it seems improbable. Ezra,
perhaps Mr. Gutierrez's younger self, gets the last line: ''I love show
business. I'll go either way.'' It's from the Bob Fosse film ''All that Jazz.''
The exchange, marked by gesticulations but no live speaking, occurs while the
two performers are suspended in the air.

Ezra, an innocent in all black with a decent high kick and an aptitude for
stillness, is a highlight of the well-directed, multigenerational cast that also
includes Mr. Gutierrez -- cloud-like in white tulle -- Jen Rosenblit and Alex
Rodabaugh. They're dissimilar in age and body type, but what lingers is the
shared connection of dance.

Mr. Gutierrez's score evokes a dreamscape as the dancers run in counterclockwise
circles or extend their their arms loosely while stumbling to the floor. It's
intimate: The audience sits on the stage, surrounding the performance on four
sides, and the set, hinting at theatrical decay, features a pile of color
lighting gels, as well as deflated disco balls. Despite a scene in which the
cast frolics on the gels as if they were autumn leaves -- it's too much like
playtime -- there's an ancient and methodical drive to this affecting piece.
During a recorded loop of ''Do you worry about the future?'' the dancers glide
in and out of formations while lightly clapping their hands. It feels like
worship.

''Age & Beauty'' continues through Sept. 26 at New York Live Arts, Manhattan;
(212) 924-0077, newyorklivearts­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/arts/dance/review-miguel-gutierrezs-deep-quest
ions-in-age-beauty-part-3.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Age & Beauty Part 3: Jen Rosenblit, left, Ishmael Houston-Jones,
Miguel Gutierrez and Erza Azrieli Holzman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%);
DANCERS (89%); DANCE (89%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meeting the Pope After a Fight for Better Pay

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

Email: dwyer@nytimes.com Twitter: @ jimdwyernyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 732 words


The modern carwash is a minor marvel. A car sits on a track and is pulled past
purifying machinery: A grid of pipes shoots high-pressure streams of water, then
soap; flapping, jiggling cloths lower from tracks to slather every inch of the
car body; spinning brushes rise along the sides, to begin the drying, and then a
wide vacuum rides just over the hood and roof to suck the water away.

It is the first robot most of us have ever met.

But at either end of the machine are people who do the dirty work that cannot be
left to robotics. At the front end, they pull open the doors, stoop to lift
floor mats that have taken on the leavings from shoes. They hand-vacuum cup
holders and the upholstery and all the seams where the cruft of other people's
lives and journeys has settled. At the back end, there are others waiting with
towels to dry and polish, and to clean the interiors of the windows.

''When I began, I think it was $3.65 an hour,'' said Patricio Santiago, 45, who
does detailing at a carwash in Flushing, Queens.

''Tres cincuenta,'' another worker called out, correcting him. That is, $3.50 an
hour, not $3.65.

The workers of the New York carwash operations are almost all men and immigrants
from Latin American countries or West Africa. In the winter months, when cars
quickly get filthy from slush, the work becomes most difficult, Mr. Santiago
said. ''The hardest is hand drying the cars when it is frigid cold,'' he said.

Mr. Santiago came to the United States from Oaxaca, Mexico, 14 years ago and has
worked at carwashes ever since. Improbably, a fight by Mr. Santiago and his
co-workers that began more than three years ago has led to union contracts at
nine carwashes in the city.

''The shifts are 12 hours,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''Before the contract, it was
seven days. Now it is six days.''

Workers at many carwashes have said there was no such thing as overtime; it was
as if neither the 40-hour workweek nor wage-and-hour laws had ever existed. Now,
Mr. Santiago said, he makes $8.65 an hour for the first 40 hours, and $11.36 for
overtime. He and his wife live in Elmhurst, Queens, and have two boys, ages 11
and 6, and a girl, age 2. Next week, Mr. Santiago and two other carwash workers,
Jose Reynaldo Sanches and Refugio Denicia, will be part of a group meeting Pope
Francis at Our Lady Queen of Angels School in East Harlem. The pope asked
specifically to meet with migrants and refugees, said Msgr. Kevin Sullivan, of
Catholic Charities.

So along with the carwashers, there will be Hudson Valley farmworkers,
day-laborers, immigrant mothers, and teenagers and children who have crossed the
border without their parents, many in desperate flights from violence in Central
America.

Mr. Santiago seemed abashed about his selection. ''I am happy and humble, but I
am representing the other workers,'' he said. ''I've seen the pope on
television. He's helped people and given a voice to working people and
immigrants.''

They may be symbols, but they are hardly props. Francis is far from the first
pope to have spoken about justice for the poor and the marginalized, though his
winning personal style has carried his words far beyond his own pews. Through
Catholic Charities, the infrastructure of the church in New York has long been
built on working with people who, broadly speaking, have no political or
economic power.

In the case of the carwashers -- they call themselves car washeros -- the role
of Catholic Charities was casual, Monsignor Sullivan said. The organizing effort
was led by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, in concert with
Make the Road New York and New York Communities for Change. ''The union
president, Stuart Appelbaum, asked if I would meet with the workers at a couple
of places in the Bronx,'' Monsignor Sullivan said. ''I talked to the workers,
expressed support for their efforts, and said a prayer for its success.''

Some of the church's principal guidance on the poor and forgotten is contained
in 53 words from the Gospel of Matthew. They are printed in the program for the
East Harlem gathering: ''For I was hungry and you gave me to eat,'' it begins,
listing acts of kindness to the thirsty, the naked, the sick the estranged and
the imprisoned. Matthew's account did not explicitly anticipate workers who put
in 80-hour workweeks helping robots to clean cars, but it looks like they're
covered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/nyregion/meeting-the-pope-after-a-fight-for-be
tter-pay.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricio Santiago, at a Queens carwash Thursday, got higher
wages after a labor battle. He will be part of a group meeting with Pope Francis
next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); CATHOLIC POPES (83%); CATHOLICS
& CATHOLICISM (83%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); ROBOTICS (71%); WORK WEEK
(70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); REFUGEES (66%);
WAGE & HOUR LAWS (66%); RELIGION (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); CHARITIES
(50%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%)

PERSON: POPE FRANCIS I (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Slaves and the Constitution

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 259 words


To the Editor:

Prof. Sean Wilentz's essay arguing that the Constitution was not built on
slavery (''Lincoln and Douglass Had It Right,'' Op-Ed, Sept. 16) is profoundly
mistaken.

That the Southern delegates to the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia
wanted more than they got doesn't matter, especially not to the millions of
slaves whose misery continued. What matters is the text of the Constitution as
ratified, which clearly and obviously sanctions slavery, in the three-fifths
clause and the fugitive slave clause.

The three-fifths clause was not, as Professor Wilentz argues, one of the
''consolation prizes'' for the slave states. By allowing Southern states to
count their slaves at all for purposes of representation, while denying those
slaves all other civil or human rights, the Constitution granted slave holders
magnified political power, while creating an incentive to acquire more slaves.

Professor Wilentz ignores (as many do) one of the most sinister aspects of the
three-fifths clause. Electoral votes are granted to states based on the number
of representatives in the House. Thus, the South had disproportionate power in
presidential elections as well.

Race-based slavery was this nation's original sin. We were born with it in our
charter. As Lincoln suggested, that sin could not be expurgated ''until every
drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the
sword.''

PETER SAGAL

Chicago

The writer is host of ''Constitution USA With Peter Sagal'' on PBS and ''Wait,
Wait ... Don't Tell Me!'' on NPR.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/slaves-and-the-constitution.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: SA GUYOMARC'H ALIMENTAIRE (SAGAL) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (54%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A College's Value

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 85 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Measuring a College's Value,'' by Frank Bruni (column, Sept. 13):

The single most important factor in any discussion of a college's value can be
summed up in one word: initiative.

Initiative is the unifying characteristic among students who seek out faculty
research mentors and enlist the support of alumni to help forge a pathway to the
work force. Initiative is the difference between complacency and ambition, and
ultimately mediocrity or meaningful success.

LINDSAY CHURA

Washington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/a-colleges-value.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Campaign Reform

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 248 words


To the Editor:

Thomas B. Edsall is right to worry about the increasing influence of the
superrich on our elections (''Can Anything Be Done About All the Money in
Politics?,'' column, nytimes.com, Sept. 16). But his solution -- to let party
committees take unlimited contributions -- would be the wrong approach.

Lifting contribution limits entirely could make parties clones of super PACs,
top-down, unaccountable organizations controlled by megadonors and insider
consultants. That would negate the very qualities that make the parties
attractive as political actors.

Unlike outside groups fueled by unlimited donations, parties facilitate broad
participation in politics. They collect small donations from a vast number of
people and offer many opportunities for volunteers. And grass-roots activists
play a meaningful role in internal party governance.

In a new paper, we conclude that there are reforms worth considering, like
matching small donations with public funds and relaxing fund-raising
restrictions on state and local committees. These changes could strengthen the
aspects of parties that benefit our democracy, particularly their status as
engines of participation for ordinary citizens, without worsening the risk of
corruption.

DANIEL I. WEINER

IAN VANDEWALKER

New York

The writers are, respectively, senior counsel and counsel at the Brennan Center
for Justice at N.Y.U. School of Law and the authors of ''Stronger Parties,
Stronger Democracy: Rethinking Reform.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/18/opinion/campaign-finance-reform.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS &
FUNDRAISING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); VOLUNTEERS (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Until Waves Us Do Part, Absurdity Will Suffice

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


If an existentialist philosopher ever attempted a light romantic comedy, it
might sound a little like ''Laugh It Up, Stare It Down,'' Alan Hruska's quaintly
absurdist play at the Cherry Lane Theater. An amiable, if surface-skimming
approach to love, marriage and all that sort of thing, it follows Joe (Jayce
Bartok) and Cleo (Katya Campbell) from first date to probable death after a
storm surge threatens to obliterate Rhode Island.

There's a lot of whimsy here -- a misplaced baby, a chatty home invader, a
restaurant that doesn't seem to serve food -- and it would grow more wearing if
not for the extravagant pace of Chris Eigeman's direction and the brisk
brightness of the performances. The dialogue seems mostly motivated by Mr.
Hruska's love of the quip rather than anything a real person might say or do.
But though credible characters aren't on offer, the four actors all comfortably
inhabit the same talky, lightly surreal world, and it's pleasant enough to
reside there with them for an hour and a half.

There are echoes here of Edward Albee, of course, and sometimes of his
inheritors, Will Eno or Dan LeFranc. But while Mr. Hruska occasionally gestures
toward weightier themes -- like, you know, death -- the central symbol is a
buoy, not an anchor. The tough stuff is steamrollered and sidelined by energetic
repartee. That repartee is often quite good, though perhaps not worth quoting.
Enjoyment is in the delivery and in the way short and longer sentences chase
each other down through the scenes.

This keeps the play afloat until an abrupt and puzzling ending, when a long
promised hurricane finally materializes and snatches away a command of tone for
both Mr. Hruska and Mr. Eigeman. Joe and Cleo clutch their buoy and try to
maintain that same snappy back-and-forth even as they're starving, freezing and
exhausted.

Ain't life strange? they ask. And often grand? And at the moment, uncomfortably
damp?

''Laugh It Up, Stare It Down'' continues through Oct. 10 at the Cherry Lane
Theater, West Village; 866-811-4111, laughitupplay.com.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/11/theater/review-laugh-it-up-stare-it-down-on-lo
ve-and-marriage.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTENTIALISM (90%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%);
STARVATION (76%); RESTAURANTS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials WILK, HARRIS, ELLEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 20 words


WILK-HARRIS--Ellen. Happy Anniversary. Our wonderful journey ended last year,
but you live on in my heart. Love, Rogie 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials LITT, SOLOMON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 15 words


LITT--Solomon. April 12, 1904 - Sept. 18, 1995. Remembered always. Susan, Mark
and Families 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials BONCHICK, ROBERT E

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 23 words


BONCHICK--Robert E. Oct. 4, 1936-Sept. 18, 2005 "I carry your heart. I carry it
in my heart." Always loved. Forever remembered. Annise 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WONHAM, ANN BRUNIE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 221 words


WONHAM--Ann Brunie, of Vero Beach, Florida, and formerly Stamford, Connecticut,
died peacefully in the Adirondacks on September 14, of complications from
Parkinson's Disease. An avid bridge player and teacher, tennis and paddle tennis
player, and a low handicap golfer, she brought, fun, laughter, and a love of
competition and of friends, whom she adored, to every game and match she played.

Ann grew up in New York City, graduated from the Brearley School in 1950, and
was a member of the class of 1954 of Smith College. She was a former president
of the Women's Westchester and Fairfield County Golf Association, and a member
of the board of the Fresh Air Fund of New York for a number of years. She is
survived by her devoted husband of 62 years, Frederick S. Wonham, her daughter
Stapley Emberling (David) of Weston, Connecticut, her son Henry B. Wonham.
(Connie) of Eugene, OR, and her younger son Lincoln Wonham of Lake Forest, IL,
as well as her sister Susan Hughes of Vero Beach (Ed) and formerly Greenwich,
Connecticut, and her half-brother Charles (Rex) Hubbard (Libby) of Huntington,
L.I. She also leaves seven dearly loved grandchildren: Anna Emory Wonham, Henry
Grant and Walker Lincoln Wonham, Ryan and Rachel Emberling, and Jack and Cal
Wonham. With Annie at every step since 1998, her beloved Tiger lives on. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CARD GAMES (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS
(90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); GOLF (77%);
GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%);
FLORIDA, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STIX, ROGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 68 words


STIX--Roger, of Atlanta, formerly of Boston and Scarsdale, died peacefully
Sunday, September 13th. He was the beloved husband of Jane Share, MD; father of
Michael, son of Carol and the late Edgar Stix and dear brother of Allen, Wayne
and Gail Stix. A graduate of Tulane University, he was a successful businessman,
a devoted family member and dear friend. A memorial service will be held later
in Atlanta. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SOMMER, NAT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 101 words


SOMMER--Nat, beloved husband for 65 years of Janice, died Wednesday morning
after a brief illness. Nat was just shy of his 93rd birthday. He was the devoted
father of Jeffrey (Wendy), Andrew (Susan) and Susan (Stephen) and proud
grandfather of Paul, William, Jack, Erik, Samuel, Anne and Sarah. Nat owned
Abbott-Sommer, the construction company that put the roofs on the World Trade
Center. Born in Scranton, PA, he was a Veteran of WWII, attended the University
of Scranton, UCLA and Columbia Teachers College, and was active in the Jewish
community in Kew Gardens Hills, Roslyn Heights and Lake Success. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (83%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%)

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (67%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SCHWIMMER, ROBERT I.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 122 words


SCHWIMMER--Robert I.,66, beloved husband of Cynthia (nee Dodick); devoted father
of Jonathan Lee, Caitlyn Rose, and Scott Michael Schwimmer; loving brother of
Lawrence (Leslie) Schwimmer and David Schwimmer; cherished uncle, cousin, and
friend of many. An accomplished corporate attorney, Bob's honesty and integrity
were without compare. He was exceptionally generous with a huge heart. Funeral
service Monday, 10:30am, at Weinstein & Piser Funeral Home, 111 Skokie Blvd,
Wilmette, IL. Interment Memorial Park. In lieu of flowers, memorial
contributions may be made to Wounded Warrior Project, woundedwarriorproject.org
Journeycare Hospice, www.journeycare.org or Death with Dignity,
www.deathwithdignity.org For info: 847-256-5700. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (85%); HOSPICE (82%); DEATH
& DYING (82%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RIOS, SARA ELENA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 215 words


RIOS--Sara Elena, passed away peacefully at her home in Toledo, Ohio on
Thursday, September 10, 2015, surrounded by her loving family. She was born
October 31, 1952 in Toledo, Ohio to Sara (Vasquez) and Martin Rios. Sara's
career history included: Vice President of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee;
Senior Attorney and Interim Executive Director of the Center for Constitutional
Rights; Executive Director of the National Employment Law Project; Director of
Litigation at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund; and Director of
the Human Rights, Peace and Social Justice unit at the Ford Foundation. Sara
retired unexpectedly from her position as President of the Ruth Mott Foundation
in Flint, MI in November 2013 due to ALS against which she waged a valiant
battle. Sara dedicated her life to peace and social justice causes, and equality
for all. Her philanthropic work took her across the U.S. and around the world.
She is survived by her parents, seven siblings, six nephews and nieces, and many
dear friends. In lieu of flowers, please consider making a donation in Sara's
memory to the following organizations: Farm Labor Organizing Committee,
www.floc.com; and or, ALS Association, www.alsa.org/research/. Online
condolences may be offered at: reebfuneralhome.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%);
CHARITIES (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); LAWYERS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); FARM LABOR
(71%)

ORGANIZATION: FARM LABOR ORGANIZING COMMITTEE (83%); CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
RIGHTS (57%); PUERTO RICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (57%); AMYOTROPHIC
LATERAL SCLEROSIS ASSOCIATION (54%)

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%); FLINT, MI, USA (54%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths REINIG, WILLIAM CHARLES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 310 words


REINIG--William Charles, 91, died on August 25, 2015, in Annapolis, MD. A
graduate of Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Reinig was the leader of the
radiation protection program for the first peacetime nuclear reactor at
Brookhaven National Laboratory. He subsequently led the research team that
performed the preoperational survey of the Savannah River Site near Aiken, SC,
the first large-scale assay of naturally occurring radioactivity.

He later served as Superintendent of Health Physics and Deputy General Manager
at SRS. He was a fellow and President of the Health Physics Society, Chairman of
the American Board of Health Physics, and served on the NCRP. He enjoyed
gardening, watching movies and reading The New York Times. He maintained an
out-of-town subscription to the Times for 64 years. After retirement, he wrote a
remarkably detailed memoir about growing up in Queens describing the smallest
details of daily life including the daily meals, how Mayor La Guardia read the
Sunday comic pages of the New York papers over the radio in the 1930s during a
newspaper distribution strike, the presence of a speech teacher at PS 108 who
attempted to correct the Brooklyn accents of many of the students, including
Bill, and watching Memorial Day parades down Rockaway Blvd led by Civil War
Veterans followed by Spanish-American War Vets wearing Teddy Roosevelt hats and
World War I Vets marching behind. He greatly enjoyed movies for the simple
pleasure of watching, a habit begun in the movie theaters of Queens during the
Depression. Bill was a survivor of the 1950 LIRR crash in Rockville Center. In
1949, he married Marion Borgstrom whom he met at Brookhaven. She died in 2007.
He is survived by Dr. James Reinig (Ellen) of Annapolis, Dr. Christine Reinig of
Santa Fe, NM, and grandchildren Margaret and Ann Reinig and Dennis and Alice
Flournoy. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); VETERANS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(78%); PHYSICS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (77%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%); WORLD WAR I (65%); CIVIL WAR
(65%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (88%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); MARYLAND USA (88%); NEW
MEXICO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths NOBLE, WILLIAM L

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 109 words


NOBLE--William L. August 22, 1932 - September 15, 2015. Resident of New York
City and Wainscott, NY. Graduate of The Lawrenceville School and Columbia
University. Served honorably in The Marine Corps during the Korean War.
Life-long member of The Blue Hill Troupe and Squadron A Association. He is
survived by his wife, Jennifer; children, Nick, Maggie, Kate and Polly;
stepchildren, Roxanne and Jared; and grandsons, Jonathan, Owen and Graham. Bill
was a friend to all and will be remembered fondly as the Mayor of East 68th
Street. Service will be held at The Brick Presbyterian Church at 91st Street and
Park Avenue, Monday, September 21 at 11:00am. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (88%); KOREAN WAR
(87%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GROSS, MARTIN M.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 89 words


GROSS--Martin M.,aged 98, passed peacefully September 14th. Predeceased by his
loved wives Florence (died 1995), Irene (died 2002) and Rosalyn (died 2014).
Proud WWII Veteran who received The Purple Heart, Bronze Star, and French Croix
de Guerre. Beloved father of Janet (Bill) Schnall, Barbara (Richard) Weinberg,
and Andrew (Linda Koenig) Gross. Grandfather of Lisa, Laura, Amy, Matthew
(Arielle Gordon), and Benjamin. Great- grandfather to Sophia. Services on
Friday, 12:45pm at "The Riverside" on Amsterdam Ave. and West 76th St. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WORLD WAR II (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GREENE, ETHAN FREDERICK, D.M.A.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 124 words


GREENE--Ethan Frederick, D.M.A.,University of Texas (2013), and graduate of
Columbia High School, South Orange, NJ, Amherst College (2004), and Rice
University (2010), passed away September 13, 2015 at age 32. A brilliant and
prolific composer in diverse musical genres, he is survived by loving wife, Alma
Lagarda, 18-month old son Mateo, parents, Peter and Rebecca, and brother
Abraham. Ethan was an Assistant Professor of Digital Arts at Stetson University
in DeLand, FL. Services will take place September 18, 2015, 10:00am at Menorah
Chapels at Millburn, 2950 Vauxhall Road, Vauxhall (Union), NJ 07088. In lieu of
flowers, contributions may be made in memory of Ethan Frederick Greene to
Anthropos Arts at:

https://anthroposarts.org/efg/ 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MUSIC
(70%); MUSIC GENRES (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%); STETSON
UNIVERSITY (56%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BROZINSKY, HILDA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 80 words


BROZINSKY--Hilda, 97. Devoted daughter of Hymie and Anna Needell. Beloved wife
of the late Nathan and loving mother to Michael (Susan) and Steven (Roseann).
Adoring grandmother of Shari, Craig, Amanda and Noah. Big sister to the late
Burton, Melvin and to Martin. Wonderful aunt to countless nieces and nephews.
Mouthwatering mandel bread and strudel were her specialties. Green- thumbed
gardener. Truly the "hostess with the mostess." For information: jewish-
funeral-home.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BRENER, JACOB L.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 130 words


BRENER--Jacob L.,M.D. Passed away on September 8th. Beloved husband of Goldie.
Cherished father of Michelle (Yitzchak) Teitelbaum, Judy (Marty) Grumet and
Stanley Brener. Adored grandfather of Yonina, Jonathan (Basya) and Naava
Teitelbaum; Avi (Leah), Alexandra, and Duvi Grumet. Proud great-grandfather of
Noa Hadar Grumet. Devoted brother of Rabbi Pynchas Brener and the late Rabbi
Mark Brener. Dr. Brener was a physician whose dedication to his patients was
unparalleled. A Professor of Medicine at New York Medical College for over fifty
years, he was a well-respected teacher and clinician. Dr. Brener was steadfast
in his commitment to his family, his faith and his profession. Donations in his
memory may be made to American Friends of Magen David Adom or Chai Lifeline. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (84%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BELSON, JEROME

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 106 words


BELSON--Jerome, passed away peacefully on Thursday morning September 17th
surrounded by his family. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Maxine and son
Michael (Kathy). He is survived by his son Tad, daughter Brianne (Sanford),
brother Victor and grandchildren Matthew (Jodi), Joshua (Katy), Jaclyn, Toby and
Jonathan, and great grandchildren Noah, Ariel, and Paisley. The funeral will be
held Sunday, September 20th at 12pm at Community Synagogue of Rye, 200 Forest
Ave, Rye, NY. He will be missed by those who knew him best for his larger than
life personality. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to New Hope
Community, Inc. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
