
                               1 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Administration Targets Trade in African Elephant Ivory

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JADA F. SMITH; Peter Baker reported from Nairobi, and
Jada F. Smith from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 814 words


NAIROBI, Kenya --  President Obama will forgo the usual tourist safari during
his visit here, but his administration on Saturday announced new legal changes
intended to help protect endangered wildlife in African nations.

The changes would restrict the sale of African elephant ivory across state lines
in the United States while adding new limits to commercial exports. Adding to
existing federal laws, the rule changes would amount to a near total ban on the
commercial trade of African elephant ivory in the United States.

The focus on wildlife came as Mr. Obama opened a two-day visit here, his first
as president. He met with his Kenyan counterpart, President Uhuru Kenyatta, to
discuss a wide array of issues, including security given the threat from the
Shabab, a violent affiliate of Al Qaeda based in Somalia. And the two hosted an
entrepreneurship meeting to promote economic development in this fast-growing
region of the world.

But the administration hoped the new elephant ivory rules would show its
commitment in a global fight against poaching that has drained countries like
Kenya of some of its most-prized natural resources. Over the years, the United
States has grown to be the second-largest consumer for poached ivory, while
often serving as a conduit for the products to the world's largest consumer,
China. Known for its safaris, Kenya relies on tourism, which makes up 12 percent
of its economy.

The proposed changes would still allow Americans to sell ivory across state
lines, but only if it meets the strict criteria of the antiques exemption listed
in the Endangered Species Act. The act identifies an antique as an item that is
100 years or older, that is partly or entirely composed of a species listed
under the act, and that has not been repaired or modified with any such species
after Dec. 27, 1973. It also must have been imported through one of 13 specific
antique ports within the United States.

Certain manufactured items that contain a small amount of ivory -- like musical
instruments and ivory-handled guns -- survived the cut after some lobbying from
the affected industries, but the new rule will also ban interstate sales of
so-called sport-hunted trophies and ivory that was imported in the United States
as part of a household move or inheritance.

The current law allows for the sale of ivory and ivory products if they were
lawfully imported before the date the African elephant was listed in an
international convention on endangered species, but only if the seller can
provide documents proving that the elephant had died of natural causes or that
the ivory had been obtained before the convention took effect. Experts say the
new revisions are necessary because it is difficult for the average consumer to
distinguish legal ivory from illegal ivory.

Many buyers can be duped by fraudulent documents, if the buyer requests
documentation at all. The goal of the new rules is to remove or severely limit
the legal avenues that poachers and traffickers have been using to sell what
turns out to be illegally obtained ivory.

''The United States is among the world's largest consumers of wildlife, both
legal and illegal,'' said Daniel M. Ashe, director of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service. ''By tightening domestic controls on trade in elephant ivory
and allowing only very narrow exceptions, we will close existing avenues that
are exploited by traffickers and address ivory trade that poses a threat to
elephants in the wild.''

The new rules, which will not become official until after a public comment
period, would also ban foreign ivory commerce. Items bought and sold between
countries would have to meet the antiques exemption or be part of a product like
a musical instrument containing a small amount of ivory. The new rules would
also put the same state-to-state prohibitions on foreign commerce in
sport-hunted trophies and ivory imported or exported as part of a household move
or inheritance.

The Obama administration -- as part of a global effort to combat poaching -- has
increased its efforts to reduce the market for illegal ivory in the past year,
with a pledge to use American intelligence agencies to track and target those
who benefit from wildlife trafficking, a trade estimated at $20 billion a year.
States have also enacted sweeping bans on ivory sales, with legislation now
being enforced in New York, New Jersey and California. Fifteen other states are
expected to introduce legislation within the next few years.

For activists like John Calvelli, executive vice president of the Wildlife
Conservation Society, the announcement is a ''huge win'' and a positive step.

''What we need is to send a message to traffickers that this is unacceptable,
that you cannot get away with this,'' Mr. Calvelli said. ''On many levels, this
is a way to show our solidarity with folks around the world.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/africa/obama-administration-targets-trad
e-in-african-elephant-ivory.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE
(90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); AL-SHABAAB (79%);
TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ANIMAL POACHING &
TRAFFICKING (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL
LAW (77%); CONSERVATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (76%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%);
ENTREPRENEURSHIP (53%); MUSIC (50%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%)

COUNTRY: KENYA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Road Film Presents a Career U-Turn

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words


For a while there it seemed that the coming David Foster Wallace movie was truly
ill starred. Not only had it drawn the wrath of Wallace's estate and his widow,
but the casting of Jason Segel in the lead role -- surely a stunt, Wallace's
fans said -- had also unleashed howl after incredulous howl.

Wallace, who shot to literary fame for the voluminous 1996 novel ''Infinite
Jest'' and hanged himself in 2008, was known for writing hyper-intricate fiction
and nonfiction once described in The Times as ''prodigiously observant,
exuberantly plotted, grammatically and etymologically challenging.''

Mr. Segel, a Judd Apatow protégé, built a career out of deploying his hangdog
countenance and aw-shucks manner to maximum comic effect -- in the television
series ''Freaks and Geeks'' and ''How I Met Your Mother,'' and films like ''Sex
Tape'' and ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' which he wrote, starred in and graced
with multiple shots of his family jewels.

But late in 2013, Mr. Segel was sent the script for ''The End of the Tour,'' an
adaptation of the journalist David Lipsky's book recounting five days spent with
Wallace during the promotion of ''Infinite Jest.'' Paging through the
screenplay, Mr. Segel felt a rush of recognition. He was about to turn 34, the
age Wallace had been at the time, and had also achieved success but was
struggling with the question of what exactly to do next. That it was such a
U-turn from Mr. Segel's regular fare made the part only more tantalizing: Mr.
Segel had grown weary of rote rom-com roles and was ravenous for change.

''I knew I was going to try it, immediately,'' Mr. Segel said in an interview in
the lounge of Manhattan's Bowery Hotel. ''When you start repeating yourself, it
gets boring for everybody.''

Mr. Segel is as affable and endearing a presence as his on-screen characters
suggest. He is also 6-foot-4 and, not wanting to seem intimidating, adopted the
softhearted goofball act years ago, shrinking down, he said, ''both
metaphorically and physically.'' Wallace was also a big guy, but playing him
would be, for Mr. Segel, at long last a stretch. ''I was terrified, of course,''
Mr. Segel said.

After learning that Mr. Segel landed the part, many fans of Wallace were
terrified themselves. ''Jason Segel as DFW ... a young Monty Hall to play
Kerouac?'' asked one of the many hand-wringers online. The naysaying went
nuclear after a photo emerged from the set last year. It showed an
excruciatingly ill-at-ease Mr. Segel guised as Wallace circa the mid-'90s -- in
granny glasses and a bandanna -- wearing an expression that seemed to say, ''I
shouldn't be here at all.''

The reaction was swift, merciless and riven with schadenfreude. One dissenter
tweeted that Mr. Segel was clearly playing Wallace ''as some sort of stoned
idiot savant.'' ''Worst headband since Burt Lancaster in 'Apache'?'' asked a
film critic at the Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail.

Then, late in January, the film had its premiere at Sundance. Mr. Segel's
performance -- empathetic, nuanced, whip smart -- left the packed theater
breathless. And Twitter ended up eating crow.

''Yes, Jason Segel is great as David Foster Wallace,'' announced Vanity Fair.
''All concerns were for naught,'' said IndieWire. ''It's early, but let's prep
Jason Segel's Oscar campaign just to be safe,'' said The Huffington Post,
echoing what Vulture posited the day before.

It was the reaction James Ponsoldt, who directed the film (opening on July 31),
said he had anticipated ever since production began. ''We all felt we had this
secret treasure,'' he said.

A devoted David Foster Wallace fan himself -- he had excerpts from Wallace's
memorable commencement speech at Kenyon College, ''This Is Water,'' read at his
wedding -- Mr. Ponsoldt said he knew within minutes of meeting Mr. Segel that he
was the one. He found the actor deeply thoughtful, he said, markedly different
from his television persona. ''He's a really complicated guy, who's only begun
to reveal his real potential as an actor,'' Mr. Ponsoldt said. ''It's like with
Tom Hanks, Robin Williams, Bill Murray, Jamie Foxx. A lot of our favorite actors
were put in a box before they destroyed that box.''

One faction that Mr. Segel and the filmmakers are unlikely to ever win over,
though, is the David Foster Wallace Literary Trust, Wallace's widow, Karen
Green, and his closest editors. In April 2014, the trust issued a withering
objection to the film, saying Wallace would never, if alive, have agreed to it.
That the trust could not stop the film -- certain privacy rights do not extend
to the dead or to their estates -- only heightened their ire.

The film's warm reviews have not swayed them an inch. Michael Pietsch, Wallace's
longtime editor, wrote in an email that Wallace's writing made clear his anguish
about being a public figure and ''his overwhelming anxiety about being on the
wrong side of the screen.'' Alex Kohner, the co-trustee and lawyer for the
trust, said that when Wallace agreed to be interviewed by Mr. Lipsky, he did not
consent to be portrayed in a film. Mr. Kohner also said he contacted the
producers as soon as they learned about the film, but that the ''objections fell
on deaf ears.''

''In my opinion it is unlikely that the filmmakers could have legally
capitalized on the unpublished interview and David's good name if he were
alive,'' Mr. Kohner wrote by email. ''Regardless of whether or not this film has
entertainment value we question the ethics of their actions.''

Via a spokeswoman, the producers said they had been under the impression that
''Wallace's camp'' knew Mr. Lipsky's book was to be made into a film and that
the producers had not known of the opposition until shortly before production
began, when it was too late to turn back. ''We are very proud of the film, and
as deep admirers of his work, were always committed to honoring the memory of
David Foster Wallace,'' three of the five producers, David Kanter, James Dahl
and Matt DeRoss, said in a statement.

Mr. Lipsky did not respond to repeated interview requests and, at the last
minute, said through a representative that he was on a deadline and had no time
to speak. Mr. Ponsoldt would not address the trust's grievances, but a person
close to him said he had not been aware of them until late in the process and
felt terribly about them. Donald Margulies, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
playwright who wrote the screenplay, said the objections made everyone involved
feel badly. ''We've approached this with such, we think, humanity,'' he said.

The film was neither a hagiography nor a biopic, Mr. Margulies said, but a story
told from Mr. Lipsky's point of view, about time spent with a fellow writer who
had rocked the cultural firmament and been anointed a genius, a label Wallace
both wrestled with and deserved. Mr. Margulies conceived of the film as a
''really smart road movie,'' with the protagonist being Mr. Lipsky (played by
Jesse Eisenberg).

The film originated in an assignment that Mr. Lipsky did for Rolling Stone,
spending nearly a week with Wallace during the final leg of his triumphant book
tour. Mr. Lipsky, as admiring of Wallace as he was envious, recorded, on
cassettes, their winding, heady conversations in Wallace's home, in diners, in
cars and on planes. The piece was canned, but after Wallace's death, Mr. Lipsky
used the material for an award-winning article that ran in Rolling Stone and was
the basis for his 2010 book, ''Although of Course You End Up Becoming
Yourself.''

To prepare for the role, Mr. Segel listened to Mr. Lipsky's recordings
exhaustively, watched clip after clip of Wallace online, formed a small book
club with friends to go over the 1,079-page ''Infinite Jest'' in 100-page
chunks, and rented a cabin by himself in the California boonies to read
undistracted. He had bought the book in a store, and after plopping it down on
the counter, he recalled, the saleswoman rolled her eyes. ''She said: '
''Infinite Jest.'' Every guy I've ever dated has an unread copy on his
bookshelf,' '' Mr. Segel recalled. ''That experience alone made it worth it.''

Anticipating the storm of sniping after he was cast, Mr. Segel said he also
largely stayed offline, save for the occasional visit to a techie site. ''I had
to immediately eliminate any voices that were telling me that 'You're incapable,
you're the wrong guy,' '' he said. ''Which is fairly easy to do if you don't use
the Internet.''

He left to begin production the day ''How I Met Your Mother'' wrapped, a shadow
of Wallace-esque stubble on his face, something he still feels lingering regret
about after having been clean-shaven for each of the show's nine seasons.

To play Wallace, he said he worked to strip away any vanity or hint of pretense
or self-satisfaction, and strived, moment by moment, to be as honest and
empathetic as he could be. ''Infinite Jest,'' he said, ended up being the
biggest influence on how he played the role.

''It felt like an S.O.S., saying, 'Does anyone else feel this way?' '' Mr. Segel
said, ''That there's something about the American promise that x, y and z are
going to satisfy this itch that you're not enough, that a whole generation found
to be a false promise. No achievement or pleasure or entertainment or consuming
is going to be the thing that makes you feel like everything's O.K. And it
really hit home with me. Because you really are still you when you go back home
at night. No matter what award you've gotten or how much money is in your bank
account, you feel the same going to sleep.''

That said, Mr. Segel admitted to feeling pretty good that his performance and
the film have drawn such praise: He was able to show himself and most everyone
that his departure from comedy has real legs. He also said he was still
exploring what do next, though early reports have him in a drama with Rooney
Mara. While playing the role helped scratch his own itch for deeper, darker
roles, it still left him hungering, he said, for infinitely more.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/movies/jason-segel-makes-a-career-u-turn-as-da
vid-foster-wallace-in-the-end-of-the-tour.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Segel in ''The End of the Tour,'' opening on Friday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY A24) (AR1)
Top, Jason Segel last month in New York. Above, the writer David Foster Wallace
in his hometown, Bloomington, Ill., in 1996. Below, Jesse Eisenberg, left, and
Mr. Segel in the film ''The End of the Tour,'' an adaptation of David Lipsky's
book recounting five days spent with Wallace during a promotional tour for his
novel ''Infinite Jest.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GARY HANNABARGER/CORBIS
JAKOB IHRE/A24) (AR14)
Top, from left, Alyson Hannigan, Josh Radnor, Neil Patrick Harris, Jason Segel
and Cobie Smulders in ''How I Met Your Mother''
center, Jonah Hill and Mr. Segel, in floral prints for ''Forgetting Sarah
Marshall''
above, Paul Rudd and Mr. Segel in ''I Love You, Man''
and from left, Seth Rogen, James Franco and Mr. Segel in the TV series ''Freaks
and Geeks.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC McCANDLESS/FOX
GLEN WILSON/UNIVERSAL PICTURES
SCOTT GARFIELD/DREAMWORKS PICTURES AND PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 BYRON COHEN/NBC) (A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); WRITERS (76%); FICTION
LITERATURE (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (54%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: NEIL PATRICK HARRIS (79%); JONAH HILL (79%); SETH ROGEN (79%)

CITY: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rodriguez Hits 3 Homers as Yankees Stun Twins

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; YANKEES 8, TWINS 5; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words


MINNEAPOLIS -- If you strung together the three home runs that Alex Rodriguez
hit Saturday night, they would total more than 1,300 feet -- about as long a
shot as the Yankees figured to have of winning Saturday night's game.

But after the Yankees managed one hit through six innings against the
left-hander Tommy Milone and endured another shaky start from C. C. Sabathia,
they rallied from a five-run deficit to shock the Minnesota Twins, 8-5.

Rodriguez's final home run, which tied the score leading off the ninth against
Glen Perkins, the Twins' All-Star closer, might have been predictable, but John
Ryan Murphy's game-winning three-run homer was not. It was his first homer this
season.

''It's maybe our best win of the year,'' Manager Joe Girardi said, though a
qualifier hardly seemed necessary.

As Murphy rounded first, after his home run just barely cleared the wall in
center field, he shot a glance toward the third-base dugout, which had erupted.
When he crossed home plate, Murphy delivered a forearm bash to Chase Headley
that was so vigorous it looked like a forearm shiver.

''There's no greater feeling than being in the dugout and seeing your teammates
excited about something you just did,'' said Murphy, who had just been hoping to
hit a fly ball deep enough to score Carlos Beltran from third.

The reaction to Rodriguez's homer was no less enthusiastic. It just came with
greater anticipation; it was his 23rd of the season.

In the bullpen, the reliever Justin Wilson told the rookie Nick Goody, who had
just been called up, that Rodriguez would hit one out. In the clubhouse, as
Sabathia watched Rodriguez study video of Perkins the previous inning, he had a
premonition, too.

Sabathia -- 6-foot-7, 290 pounds and coming off knee surgery -- said that when
he saw Rodriguez jump on a first-pitch fastball from Perkins, he jumped so high,
''I probably hit the ceiling.''

All three of Rodriguez's home runs easily cleared the fences. His first hit the
facing of the third deck in left field and was measured at 480 feet. That blast,
leading off the fourth, was the Yankees' only hit off Milone until Chris Young's
line drive to lead off the seventh ticked off the glove of third baseman Eduardo
Escobar. Rodriguez followed with another homer off Milone, and suddenly the
Yankees had life. They closed the gap to 5-4 later in the inning when Mark
Teixeira doubled and scored on two fly balls.

The Yankees were fortunate to be so close. After being pounded by the Twins,
10-1, on Friday night, Sabathia surrendered home runs to Aaron Hicks and Torii
Hunter, staking the Twins to an early 5-0 lead.

Sabathia left with two out and the bases loaded in the sixth, but Adam Warren
struck out Hicks on a 3-2 checked swing, a call questionable enough that Twins
Manager Paul Molitor was ejected for arguing that Jeff Nelson, the home plate
umpire, should have asked for help.

The call turned out to be a significant one, opening the door for Rodriguez. It
was the first time since 2010 that he had hit three home runs in a game.

The prodigious home runs, coming on the cusp of his 40th birthday on Monday, led
to an inevitable question for a player who has twice been forced to acknowledge
using performance-enhancing drugs.

How is he doing this?

''I'm working hard,'' he said. ''I'm healthy. I'm happy.''

Rodriguez added: ''It feels good to do it right before my 40th birthday. Some
people say life starts at 40. I'll sign up for that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/alex-rodriguezs-three-home-runs-help-ya
nkees-rally-to-stun-the-twins.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yankees' Alex Rodriguez hitting his third homer of the game,
a solo in the ninth, off the Twins' All-Star closer, Glen Perkins. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ANN HEISENFELT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (94%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (91%)

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (89%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trending: Airline Upgrades to Reach Economy Passengers

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 334 words


Passengers at the rear of airplanes have had little to cheer for a long time,
and the Justice Department's recent inquiry into allegations of collusion
between carriers to control capacity, and in that way fares, has done little to
improve relations. Still, several carriers have quietly restored or added a few
creature comforts in economy class.

In June, United Airlines began serving free beer and wine in economy class on
most international flights. The carrier is catching up with American Airlines,
which restored free drinks in economy in 2012, and Delta Air Lines, which did so
in 2013.

In December, the low-cost carrier Norwegian Air will introduce service from
three East Coast airports, including New York's Kennedy Airport, to the French
Caribbean islands of Guadeloupe that will include free Wi-Fi access.

Virgin America plans upgraded Wi-Fi service that will allow passengers to stream
video on 10 new planes that are to begin operating in September. This upgrade
also includes planes flying between San Francisco and Hawaii in November. Wi-Fi
access will be free until a rate plan is established next year.

Service improvements reflect the industry's newfound economic stability. ''That
whole experience of being broke caused these airlines to make a lot of changes,
some of which they later concluded were smart changes and have maintained, such
as bag fees, and some they had to do to get through the day,'' said Seth Kaplan,
managing partner of Airline Weekly. ''Upgrading meals and drinks again
recognizes that there are things people will put up with on a two- to three-hour
flight that they don't want to put up with on a long-haul flight.''

Even some of the unbundled options, like food, show signs of being upgraded.
This month United introduced the chef-designed Bistro on Board menus. Dishes
include chicken chorizo scrambled eggs ($9.99) and sliced sirloin baguette
sandwich ($9.49) and are available on most flights lasting more than three and a
half hours within North America.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/airline-upgrades-are-reaching-economy-p
assengers.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANNA HURLEY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS
(76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BEER & ALE (71%); ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES (71%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (68%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AMERICAN
AIRLINES INC (57%); VIRGIN AMERICA INC (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); VA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED
PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUADELOUPE (79%); CARIBBEAN
ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fresh Off 'Frozen,' a Musical Head Trip

BYLINE: By LISA FUNG

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1049 words


LA JOLLA, CALIF. -- The songwriters Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez are
rushing to catch a performance. It's just 10 days until the first preview of
their new musical, ''Up Here,'' at La Jolla Playhouse, and the pressure is on.

This is, after all, their first major project on the heels of the blockbuster
Disney film ''Frozen,'' for which they won an Academy Award for the ubiquitous
anthem ''Let It Go.'' That Oscar sits on an unassuming shelf in the basement of
their Brooklyn home, alongside their Emmys, Grammys, and Mr. Lopez's Tony Awards
for ''Avenue Q'' and ''The Book of Mormon.''

Expectations may be high for their new musical, which starts preview
performances Tuesday, but right now they're scrambling to get to the summer camp
recital of their daughter Annie, 6, to see her perform the Meghan Trainor song
''Dear Future Husband.'' Later that afternoon, their daughter Katie, 10, has a
camp show of her own.

''Our kids come first, and we really put them at the top of our priority list,''
Mr. Lopez said. Even if that means stepping away for a couple hours from the
show they have nurtured for the last eight years.

''Up Here'' was born on a slip of paper Mr. Lopez used to jot down ideas for
possible musicals after he graduated from Yale in 1997. ''I thought it would be
really cool to show the world the inner life of someone like me, who doesn't
have a huge personality, who deals with some personal demons and is a little bit
shy and a little awkward when you first get to know me,'' he said.

But for nearly a decade, it remained stashed away. In the meantime, there was
much to keep them busy: Mr. Lopez went on to work on ''Avenue Q'' with Jeff
Whitty and Jeff Marx, and ''The Book of Mormon,'' with the ''South Park''
creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, while Ms. Anderson-Lopez wrote an Off
Broadway musical, ''In Transit.'' Together they wrote new songs for the
children's TV series ''Wonder Pets!''

And then came ''Frozen,'' the Disney movie that introduced the world to sisters
Elsa and Anna, to Olaf the snowman -- and to the Lopezes themselves.

''We loved doing 'Frozen,' '' Mr. Lopez said. ''But this project obviously
predates 'Frozen,' and it's the most personal project that we have.''

The romantic comedy revolves around an introverted computer technician named Dan
(the newcomer Matt Bittner) and an extroverted T-shirt designer named Lindsay
(Betsy Wolfe) as they enter into a relationship constantly interrupted by
competing voices inside Dan's head.

''The story is really a love triangle between a guy, a girl and his brain,'' Mr.
Lopez explained.

It's an experiment in psychology, whimsy, and, to some extent, autobiography.
(Pixar's new ''Inside Out'' has a somewhat similar conceit, as do a flurry of
other musicals in development.)

''It's this dialogue between the epic world of our feelings and thoughts and
very small, mundane steps in any relationships, even just making a phone call
after you've met for the first time,'' Ms. Anderson-Lopez explained. ''When it
happens to you, it feels epic.''

But while elements of ''Up Here'' were plucked from the Lopezes' lives, and
their personalities resemble those of their characters (hers ebullient, his more
reflective), they insist it's not based on them. (Except for the character of
Lindsay's brother, who is definitely based on Ms. Anderson-Lopez's sibling, they
agree.)

The Lopezes, who met at a BMI Lehman Engel Musical Theater Workshop in 1999 and
married about four years later, had talked about collaborating on the show for
years, but it wasn't until 2007 when things really started moving. They met with
the director Alex Timbers, who would later go on to stage ''Peter and the
Starcatcher'' and ''Rocky,'' and he signed on that day.

''These were characters that I recognized, and it had a very larger-than-life
theatrical approach to very universal ideas,'' he said.

In 2008, following ''The Book of Mormon,'' the couple turned their attention
back to their long-gestating musical. The first reading took place with just
three actors in a spare room, stopping between lines for Mr. Lopez to play songs
from his laptop. By 2010, they held their first workshop performance, and
realized they needed a full staging to visualize the show.

It was Mr. Timbers who pitched the idea of doing the musical at La Jolla, where
he had staged ''Peter and the Starcatcher'' in 2009. Nestled on a woodsy campus,
the theater is far from the glare of New York, though with a track record of
sending musicals to Broadway, some successful (''Jersey Boys''), some less so
(''Doctor Zhivago'').

For the creative team, one of the challenges of the musical, which features a
cast of 22 and a 10-piece orchestra, has been finding ways for the audience to
visualize what is going on inside Dan's head as forces try to pull him in one
direction or another.

To do this, they created a world exploding with color, playful costumes,
animated projections, tap-dancing cactuses and singing miners. The score
incorporates a wealth of music influences, from Stravinsky to the Beatles and
the Monkees to Sondheim and Sara Bareilles.

''There are cartoons in your head, and there are very intricate feelings in your
head, and that's sort of why you can have all these different styles in one
score,'' Mr. Lopez said.

While the Broadway producer Scott Sanders has put enhancement money into the La
Jolla production, Mr. Timbers emphasized that the musical is still very much in
development. He said he's even rushed the rehearsal schedule so the creators
could see their individual work combined as a whole.

If the Lopezes are at all nervous, it doesn't show. They joke back and forth,
calmly talking about the changes they expect to make before the Aug. 9 opening.

Once they finish, they're on to the next of numerous projects, including a stage
adaptation of ''Frozen,'' for which they're writing about a dozen new songs.

There will probably be a few more summer camp commitments, too.

''You hope that you can have time to do the work and listen and get enough sleep
and remember to buy the baloney for the kids' sandwiches,'' Ms. Anderson-Lopez
said. ''Whether 'Up Here' goes well or not, that's our touchstone: Life
continues.''

Mr. Lopez added: ''For good or bad, we're going to be buying baloney.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/theater/fresh-off-frozen-bobby-lopez-and-krist
en-anderson-lopez-prepare-a-new-musical.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez at the La Jolla
Playhouse. Below, the couple receiving their Academy Awards for best original
song, from the film ''Frozen.'' Above, a scene from the animated film.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN FRANCIS PETERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS
 DARAM/DISNEY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); SONG WRITING
(89%); MUSIC (78%); GRAMMY AWARDS (78%); TONY AWARDS (77%); ACADEMY AWARDS
(76%); FILM (76%); EMMY AWARDS (76%); COMEDY FILMS (71%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING
(66%)

PERSON: KRISTEN ANDERSON-LOPEZ (93%); MEGHAN TRAINOR (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Three R's

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; TABLE FOR THREE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2149 words


Take two fine memoirists to lunch, and before long they will be trading moments
from their childhood when a door opened, as Graham Greene put it, and let the
future in.

President Jimmy Carter, 90, grew up in Archery, Ga., in one of just two white
families in an African-American community of 200. He went on to distinguished
careers as a naval officer, a peanut farmer and businessman, a governor of
Georgia, and the 39thpresident of the United States, from 1977 to 1981. In his
post-presidency, perhaps the most impressive in American history, he and his
wife, Rosalynn Carter, founded the Carter Center in Atlanta with Emory
University, dedicated to advancing human rights through conflict resolution,
global health and fair elections. Mr. Carter was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize
in 2002. He published a memoir, ''A Full Life: Reflections at Ninety,'' this
month.

The author Jacqueline Woodson, 52, won the National Book Award for young
people's literature in 2014 for ''Brown Girl Dreaming,'' a best-selling and
critically acclaimed memoir of growing up in Jim Crow South Carolina and
Brooklyn, told in exquisite free verse. She has written more than two dozen
books for children and young people and won numerous awards, including four
Newbery Honor Awards, two Coretta Scott King Awards and the N.A.A.C.P. Image
Award. She was recently named young people's poet laureate by the Poetry
Foundation. She lives in Brooklyn with her partner and two children.

Over Caesar salad and white pizza at the restaurant Clement at the Peninsula
Hotel, the pair spoke candidly about their earliest memories of race, the
importance of organized religion in their worldviews and their assessments of
such divisive issues as race relations, the Confederate flag and same-sex
marriage.

Philip Galanes: Let's start with a line from Jacqueline's book: ''Somewhere in
my brain, each laugh, tear and lullaby becomes memory.'' How did you mine
memories from 85 years ago?

Jimmy Carter: Well, I'm an expert typist. I learned in high school. I would
close my eyes and just type without worrying about mistakes. I tried to
penetrate my heart, and as I let my thoughts drift, things bubbled up to the
surface.

Jacqueline Woodson: Memories don't come back as straight narrative. They come in
little bursts with white space all around them. It felt more realistic to write
mine as poems.

PG: I was surprised that you included poems in your book too, President Carter.

JC: Oh, I've been writing poems since I was in the Navy -- to Rosalynn. I found
I could say things in poems that I never could in prose. Deeper, more personal
things. I could write a poem about my mother that I could never tell my mother.
Or feelings about being on a submarine that I would have been too embarrassed to
share with fellow submariners.

PG: Let's explore some of those feelings. You grew up as nearly the only white
family in a community of African-Americans. Did you think about that much?

JC: It was like breathing. I never thought about it. All my playmates on the
farm were black, and later, when I started school in Plains, it was allwhite.
But I was always eager to get back home to my friends in Archery.

PG: It's the perfect inverse of Jacqueline's experience. Her mother always
telling her, ''One day you will be in a room, and you will be the only person
who looks like you.''

JC: I bet you've done that a lot.

JW: Yes, I've been in a lot of those rooms. People have a sense that when the
laws changed, Jim Crow was simply over. But it wasn't. It was still very
dangerous for blacks. My grandmother still took us to the back of the bus in
South Carolina. She didn't want to ruffle any feathers. And growing up, we were
told never to run in a white neighborhood. People wouldn't know why you were
running. You might get shot. And this was in the '60s, '70s, '80s.

JC: My understanding of racial discrimination as a child was highly distorted
because the most prominent man in Archery was an African-American bishop. When
he came home from up north, where he was in charge of A.M.E. churches in five
states, it was front-page news. He was the most successful man in my life. I
never had any feeling that blacks were secondary.

JW: And it wasn't just in the South. When we moved to Brooklyn, we lived in
Bushwick, right across the line from Ridgewood, a predominantly white community.
It wasn't safe to run in Ridgewood either. We were learning code-switching from
such an early age -- like a double consciousness almost from the womb.

PG: You both have children. Have you needed to speak with them about race?

JC: My father was a strict segregationist. When I was growing up, all the men
were, from the Supreme Court to the Congress to the churches. But my mother paid
no attention to it. And I would say my siblings and I all inherited our mother's
attitude. We have 22 voters in the family: four children, 12 grandchildren, 10
great-grandchildren. And in 2008, we all voted for Obama in the Democratic
primaries -- not one for Hillary.

JW: A part of me doesn't want to bring my back story to my kids. I want them to
have their own experiences walking through the world. But then something
happens, and we end up talking about race a lot. My son was so mad at
''Frozen.'' He said: ''There were no black people in that movie! How could they
make a whole movie with no black people in it?'' He's 7. And I'm sure a lot of
his reaction reflects the early conversations we had about race.

JC: And you had that unpleasant incident with the watermelon joke.

PG: Exactly. On one of your biggest nights, winning the National Book Award,
Daniel Handler stands up and announces to the audience that you're allergic to
watermelon. Then says, ''Just let that sink in.''

JC: Was he trying to be ugly?

JW: I think he was trying to be funny. I don't think it came from a mean place;
it came from an ignorant place. But all that energy, all that trying to be
funny, comes from the deeply flawed place where racism lives.

PG: Where we want to keep people in boxes?

JW: Well, he was trying to keep me in one. But that gives him a lot of power.
Without even knowing it, he was saying: ''This is how I understand you. This is
where I feel you belong.'' But he probably didn't even know why that was racing
around in his brain. It's so enmeshed with all the messages we get as humans.

PG: Is it possible to make a similar argument about the Confederate flag?
Proponents keep talking about their heritage, but it's a relatively new symbol.

JC: That's correct. As I understand it, the Confederate battle flag rose to
prominence during the civil-rights era of the '50s and '60s as a symbol of
racism.

JW: As a reminder.

PG: Of those ugly boxes.

JC: Georgia did away with the Confederate battle flag 14 years ago. We had a
very good Democratic governor, and he took on that horrible political task. And
he was soundly defeated in the next election -- strictly because of that flag.

PG: What turned the tide so definitively in South Carolina?

JW: The knowledge of racist brutality is old and deep in African-American
communities. And social media gave a lot of people access to that knowledge. We
may not be able to stop the microaggressions, or the macroaggressions, against
black people. We may not be able to stop the murder of black boys or cops from
sitting on a teenage girl who's screaming for her mama. But we can at least get
rid of this symbol of hatred.

JC: Also the South Carolina legislators are not voting to take down the flag
because they've changed their mind about it. They're voting for it because South
Carolina and Charleston are going to suffer severely, economically, if they
don't make the change.

PG: The so-called Walmart effect. But what about empathy? Shouldn't we be able
to communicate by now? To say, ''I get that this flag is part of your history,
but can't you see that it's part of my deepest pain?''

JC: You're assuming that a white person who believes in the Confederate flag is
listening to his black neighbor who doesn't like it. There's very little
communication on a sensitive subject like that.

PG: Still?

JC: You know, intimacy and knowledge and mutual affection permeated some parts
of the South when I was growing up during the depths of the civil-rights
troubles. And we were not atypical. Every white family who farmed and had black
neighbors, they knew each other, they cared for each other. They shared garden
plots and wood to burn in the fireplace.

JW: But that also came from a sense of place and knowing our place -- not
disrupting it. From the time we were enslaved, there were complicated
relationships between black and white people. There was love, and there was
family, and so many ways in which it's impossible to be on the outside and
understand it. I even think there could be white people who love the flag and
their black neighbors, and can't understand why someone would make them choose
between the two. That's why I can't get too caught up in the flag thing. It
feels like Northerners trying to understand the South.

PG: Let's take a leap. Perhaps the most surprising thing you two have in common
is that you both went door to door as Christian missionaries. Tell me about it.

JC: It was life-changing and empowering.

JW: I agree.

PG: Even when people slammed doors in your face?

JC: That was very embarrassing, but I soon learned from my companion on these
sojourns that we don't have to worry about the consequences. All we have to do
is the best we can. Let people know that the presence of God is available to
everyone. The results are in God's hands. If the door is slammed, it's no
reflection on us.

PG: What drew you to mission work in the first place?

JC: I experienced my first real failure in 1966 when I ran for governor. I
thought I was going to win, but I lost.

JW: Your opponents cheated.

JC: Still, I thought God let me down, the people of Georgia let me down. But my
sister, Ruth Carter Stapleton, who was a famous evangelist, came to me and used
Bible verses to show me that failure for a Christian should be a matter of
reassessment. When you fail, you should take on a greater goal than you had
before, not a lesser one. And that's what I did.

PG: Jacqueline was knocking on doors at 6 or 7, yes?

JW: I can remember ringing my first doorbell and saying, ''I'm a Jehovah's
Witness, and I'm here to bring you some good news today.'' It was a great
moment: ringing the bell, finally getting to speak -- because we had to wait
until we knew what to say -- and bringing the word of God into people's houses.
I was in love with that.

PG: Are you still a Jehovah's Witness?

JW: Oh, no, no, no.

PG: They're not so hot on gay and lesbian issues.

JW: But I still consider myself a Christian. It's hard to grow up with such a
foundational system and just let it go. I deeply believe in many Christian
values:love people; do the right thing; know that there's good in everyone, that
God's looking out for all of us. Being a Witness was too closed an experience.
That's what I walked away from, not the things I believe.

PG: That reminds me of something you said lately, Mr. President -- that Jesus
would be fine with gay marriage. It builds on the same kind of neighborly love
Jackie was talking about.

JC: Christ habitually reached out to the downtrodden and the outcast. That was
the whole pattern of his ministry. Of course, Jesus never said anything about
gay marriage in the Bible, but I believe he would be amenable to the union of
two people who loved each other and didn't hurt anyone else. On the other hand,
I have never believed that Jesus would be in favor of abortion, unless it was
the result of rape or incest, or the mother's life was in danger. That's been
the only conflict I've had in my career between political duties and Christian
faith.

PG: But even on abortion, you focused on reducing the need for them, not
screaming on Fox News about constitutional amendments outlawing them -- or gay
marriage, like we have now.

JC: Fortunately, there was no Fox News when I was president.

JW: We were in San Francisco for the American Library Association ceremonies
when the Supreme Court decision on gay marriage came down. And let me tell you,
it was insane. People were so excited. There was a parade, and so much going on.
Of course, my kids were just mortified that their moms might now get married and
embarrass them even more.

JC: No one is going to make you get married. At least, not the government.

JW: My kids are growing up in a world where they're like: Of course, marriage
equality is the case. When my son went to kindergarten, he wore a tie. And
someone said to him, ''You look just like the president.'' How amazing! To live
in a time when a black boy can look like the president.

PG: Who knows? He might grow up to be another Jimmy Carter.

This interview has been edited and condensed.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/jimmy-carter-and-jacqueline-woodson-on
-race-religion-and-rights.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The author Jacqueline Woodson and President Jimmy Carter,
discussing a range of issues over lunch at the Manhattan restaurant Clement.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBIN MARCHANT/GETTY IMAGES
 BJOERN SIGURDSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (ST8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%);
CHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MARRIAGE
(77%); FAMILY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); US CONFEDERATE
FLAG CONTROVERSY (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); PEANUT FARMING
(72%); HISTORY (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (68%); ARCHERY
(57%); RELIGION (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CARTER CENTER (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF
COLORED PEOPLE (54%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michelle Schackman, Jonathan Fayer

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 247 words


Michelle Kate Schackman and Jonathan Charles Fayer were married Saturday evening
at the Crossed Keys Inn in Andover, N.J. Rabbi Gloria J. Milner officiated.

Ms. Schackman, 34, is keeping her name. She teaches English at the Columbia
Grammar and Preparatory School in New York. She graduated from Vassar and
received a master's in English from Rutgers.

She is a daughter of Catherine S. Schackman and Dr. Paul E. Schackman of Scotch
Plains, N.J. The bride's father is a cardiologist with Union County Cardiology
Associates in Union, N.J. From 2003 to 2005, he was the president of the medical
staff at Robert Woods Johnson Hospital in Rahway, N.J. Her mother retired as a
speech therapist for the Union Township Board of Education.

Mr. Fayer, 30, is a law clerk to Judge Arthur D. Spatt of the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York, with chambers in Central
Islip, N.Y. Until October 2014, the groom was a litigation associate at the New
York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. He graduated cum laude
from Georgetown and received a law degree, also cum laude, from New York
University.

He is the son of Marsha Winston Fayer and Dr. Steven A. Fayer of Larchmont, N.Y.
The groom's mother is a design director for the Herman Kay Company, a
manufacturer of women's outerwear in New York. His father is a psychiatrist in
New York, where he is also an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/michelle-schackman-and-jonath
an-fayer.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS
(77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%);
PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US
LAW FIRMS (75%); LAWYERS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (50%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING
(50%)

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (83%); THE KAY CO INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%);
NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2493
RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (67%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elizabeth Harris, Jon Fougner

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 197 words


Elizabeth Ashley Harris and Jon Bernhard Fougner were married Saturday at
Beaulieu Garden, an event space in Rutherford, Calif. The officiant was Judge
Alex Kozinski of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
Pasadena, Calif.

The bride, 32, who is known as Ashley, will continue to use her name
professionally. She is an executive director in the legal department of JPMorgan
Chase in New York, where she gives advice on financial regulations. She is on
the board of the World Rehabilitation Fund in New York, which develops
rehabilitation programs for persons with disabilities. She graduated magna cum
laude from Brown and received a law degree magna cum laude from Harvard.

She is the daughter of Elizabeth C. Taft of Sarasota, Fla.

The groom, also 32, is the founder and chief executive of David, a software
company in New York that helps consumers resolve disputes. He graduated summa
cum laude from Yale, where he also received a law degree. From 2005 to 2006, he
was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Oslo, studying the interaction of
Norwegian economics and education.

He is the son of Ragnhild Aagaard Fougner and Jan Fougner of Oakland, Calif.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/ashley-harris-and-jon-fougner
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TATIANA VALERIE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (72%);
EXECUTIVES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); COMPUTER
SOFTWARE (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: ALEX KOZINSKI (92%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (77%); NAPA
VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); OSLO, NORWAY (51%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fence Is Gone. In Its Place, a Bench.

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 509 words


Verdant lungs of Midtown Manhattan. Backyard of the New York Public Library.

This summer, Bryant Park has another distinction: site of what may be the
longest bench in the city -- one-quarter mile of Kitledge granite, a handsome
salt-and-pepper stone, wrapping two blocks around the park's perimeter. New
Yorkers and out-of-towners are making the most of it.

''This is a place to sit down,'' Eric Ouedraogo of Burkina Faso said approvingly
on Friday, having done just that on the West 42nd Street side of the park. ''Ah,
bon.''

Good as it may be, however, the bench is unintended. And temporary.

Six weeks ago, the Bryant Park Corporation, which manages the park under a
contract with the city, removed a 79-year-old wrought-iron fence for badly
needed restoration. That opened up space along the coping stones of a low
granite foundation wall. The stones turn out to be the right height for perching
and a perfect spot for people-watching.

''Wonderful,'' said Erin Walsh, who was sitting with her colleague Shannon Drury
on the West 40th Street side. ''It has more of a park feel now. It's more
inviting.''

Their office is opposite the park. They said it had not dawned on them, until
they were asked, that the fence had disappeared. Or that some lovely landscaping
had been revealed.

''I didn't realize we had a little garden right here,'' Ms. Drury said.

Martin Milicevic said he was glad to have a spot to relax after finding out
where he would board the airport bus on West 42nd Street for his return to
Split, Croatia.

Gregory Thomson of Saint Martin, in the Caribbean, said he was grateful for a
place to rest while he and two relatives waited to board a tour bus. ''I'm a bit
handicapped,'' he explained, holding up his cane.

The public's embrace of the impromptu bench has been noted with interest by the
staff of the park corporation, Daniel A. Biederman, its president and co-founder
said in an interview on Friday. Unfortunately, he added, ''Negatives have turned
up.''

By that, he meant that the bench contributed to the sense that the north edge of
the park was becoming an outdoor bus depot; that sitters were placing parcels
and bags on the ground behind them, crushing the flower beds; that the bench
attracted cigarette smokers, who are not welcome in the park; and that
trespassers had taken to walking into the park through the flower beds.

Fence panels will start to return this week from the workshop of Blast-Master in
Rockaway, N.J. Reinstallation should be completed in early October, said Craig
M. LaCaruba, the vice president for capital projects at the corporation. The
repair and restoration of the wall and the fence cost a bit less than $1
million.

The panels were in far worse condition than expected.

Once workers removed 13 layers of paint and examined the bare metal, it was
clear they would have to reweld most of the joints and ornaments, including the
elegant fleur-de-lis posts.

Making clear why it had to be taken down at all, Mr. LaCaruba said, ''It was the
paint that was holding the fence together.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/the-fence-is-gone-in-its-place-a-benc
h.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mille Fischer Bogedal, center, on the granite bench on the West
42nd Street side of Bryant Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH D. HERMAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); SMOKING (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%);
INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: PARK CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CROATIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (77%); CARIBBEAN
ISLANDS (53%); SAINT MARTIN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Young Adult: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 392 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Young
           Adult
This    On
Week  List
1      123 PAPER TOWNS,  by John Green. (Penguin Group) After a night of
           mischief, the girl Quentin loves disappears. (Ages 14 and up)
2      137 LOOKING FOR ALASKA,  by John Green. (Penguin Group) A boy finds
           excitement when he meets a girl named Alaska. (Ages 14 to 17)
3       10 ME AND EARL AND THE DYING GIRL,  by Jesse Andrews. (Abrams
           Books) A high school senior befriends a girl with cancer. (Ages
           14 to 17)
4      125 THE BOOK THIEF,  by Markus Zusak. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
           A girl copes with life under the Nazis by stealing books. (Ages
           14 and up)
5      104 MISS PEREGRINE'S HOME FOR PECULIAR CHILDREN,  by Ransom Riggs.
           (Quirk Books) An island, an abandoned orphanage and a
           collection of curious photographs. (Ages 12 and up)
6        1 THE HEART OF BETRAYAL,  by Mary E. Pearson. (Henry Holt &
           Company) A princess, imprisoned in a walled city, hatches an
           escape plan with the young man she once spurned. (Ages 14 and
           up)
7       18 THE ABSOLUTELY TRUE DIARY OF A PART-TIME INDIAN,  by Sherman
           Alexie and Ellen Forney. (Little, Brown & Company) A boy leaves
           his reservation to attend an all-white school. (Ages 12 and up)
8      137 THE FAULT IN OUR STARS,  by John Green. (Penguin Group) A girl
           faces new realities when she learns she has cancer. (Ages 14
           and up)
9        1 ALL THE BRIGHT PLACES,  by Jennifer Niven. (Knopf Doubleday
           Publishing) An outcast helps a classmate recover from her
           sister?s death. (Ages 14 and up)
10      56 IF I STAY,  by Gayle Forman. (Penguin Group) A young cellist
           falls into a coma. (Ages 12 and up)

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. AN ABUNDANCE OF KATHERINES,  by John Green. (Penguin Group)

12. THIRTEEN REASONS WHY,  by Jay Asher. (Penguin Group)

13. ELEANOR AND PARK,  by Rainbow Rowell. (St. Martin's Press)

14. RED QUEEN,  by Victoria Aveyard. (HarperCollins Publishers)

15. WE WERE LIARS,  by E. Lockhart. (Random House Publishing)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); ADULTS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%);
BOOK SALES (78%); CHILD RESIDENTIAL HOMES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(67%); CANCER (67%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (65%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (54%); RANDOM
HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (50%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN GREEN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Mass-Market Fiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 426 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Mass-Market Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1        1 EARTH BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove) A stranger becomes
           infatuated with Lexi after freeing her from a cult's clutches.
2        2 FLESH AND BLOOD,  by Patricia Cornwell. (Morrow/HarperCollins)
           Kay Scarpetta finds herself in pursuit of a serial sniper in
           the series's 22nd installment.
3        2 A NEW HOPE,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira) After a man makes a
           spectacle of himself at his sister's wedding, will he be able
           to make amends?
4        2 A PERFECT LIFE,  by Danielle Steel. (Dell) A television
           anchor's on-air poise belies her unsettled life.
5       14 ZOO,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Vision) After
           witnessing a lion ambush, a biologist races to warn world
           leaders about the reasons for escalating animal attacks on
           cities.
6*       2 POWER PLAY,  by Catherine Coulter. (Jove) An escaped psychopath
           seeks revenge against the F.B.I. agent who brought down his
           mother's cult.
7        2 IN PLAIN SIGHT,  by Fern Michaels. (Zebra) A presidential
           adviser meets his match when he abuses a member of the
           Sisterhood.
8      190 A GAME OF THRONES,  by George R. R. Martin. (Bantam) In the
           frozen wastes to the north of Winterfell, sinister and
           supernatural forces are mustering; Book 1 of "A Song of Ice and
           Fire."
9        2 BLUE LABYRINTH,  by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. (Vision)
           Family secrets impinge on a special agent's murder
           investigation.
10       7 TOP SECRET TWENTY-ONE,  by Janet Evanovich. (Bantam) The New
           Jersey bounty hunter Stephanie Plum pursues a popular used-car
           dealer who's been caught selling more than cars.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. NYPD RED 2,  by James Patterson and Marshall Karp. (Grand Central)

12. FAST TRACK,  by Julie Garwood. (Signet)

13. TWENTY WISHES,  by Debbie Macomber. (Mira)

14. OUTLANDER,  by Diana Gabaldon. (Dell)

15. KISS ME,  by Susan Mallery. (HQN)

16. THE 6TH EXTINCTION,  by James Rollins. (Morrow/HarperCollins)

17. ENDER'S GAME,  by Orson Scott Card. (Tor)

18. SPELLCASTING IN SILK,  by Juliet Blackwell. (NAL)

19. GRACE CRIES UNCLE,  by Julie Hyzy. (Berkley)

20. MAGIC AND MACAROONS,  by Bailey Cates. (NAL)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); USED CAR
DEALERS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RETAILERS (73%); MAMMALS (70%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); MURDER (50%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Middle Grade: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 395 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Middle
           Grade
This    On
Week  List
1       10 THE ISLE OF THE LOST,  by Melissa de la Cruz. (Disney
           Publishing Worldwide) Children of famous villains band together
           to retrieve the Dragon?s Eye; a Descendants novel. (Ages 9 to
           12)
2      137 WONDER,  by R. J. Palacio. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) A boy
           with a facial deformity enters a mainstream school. (Ages 8 to
           12)
3        5 HITLER'S LAST DAYS,  by Bill O'Reilly. (Henry Holt & Company)
           An account of the collapse of the Third Reich and the death of
           the Nazi leader. (Ages 10 to 14)
4        3 MINIONS,  . (Little, Brown & Company) Good servants, bad
           masters; the junior novelization. (Ages 8 to 12)
5        3 INSIDE OUT,  . (Random House/Disney Publishing Worldwide)
           Inside the mind of an 11-year-old; the junior novelization.
           (Ages 9 to 12)
6        3 JURASSIC WORLD,  by David Lewman. (Random House Publishing)
           More prehistoric havoc; the junior novelization. (Ages 8 to 12)
7       13 COUNTING BY 7s,  by Holly Goldberg Sloan. (Penguin Group)
           Willow struggles to adjust after the death of her adoptive
           parents. (Ages 10 to 14)
8       80 OUT OF MY MIND,  by Sharon M. Draper. (Simon & Schuster) A
           brilliant girl with cerebral palsy longs to speak. (Ages 10 to
           13)
9       58 A LONG WALK TO WATER,  by Linda Sue Park. (Houghton Mifflin
           Harcourt) A Sudanese tale of survival. (Ages 10 to 14)
10     121 THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN,  by Katherine Applegate. (HarperCollins
           Publishers) A gorilla living in a mall meets an elephant. (Ages
           8 to 12)

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THE CARE AND KEEPING OF YOU 1,  by Valorie Schaefer. Illustrated by Josee
Masse. (American Girl Publishing)

12. THE GRAVEYARD BOOK,  by Neil Gaiman with Dave McKean. (HarperCollins
Publishers)

13. BROWN GIRL DREAMING,  by Jacqueline Woodson. (Penguin Group)

14. THE CROSSOVER,  by Kwame Alexander. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing)

15. FLORA AND ULYSSES,  by Kate DiCamillo. Illustrated by K. G. Campbell.
(Candlewick)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); NOVELS & SHORT
STORIES (78%); FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%);
ADOPTION (70%); CEREBRAL PALSY (50%)

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (70%); LITTLE BROWN & CO INC
(68%); DISNEY PUBLISHING WORLDWIDE INC (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); HENRY
HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (55%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (54%);
HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (52%)

TICKER: HMHC (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (70%);
SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ted Cruz Is More of a Spider-Man Guy

BYLINE: Interview by ANA MARIE COX

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TALK; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 661 words


Your new book is called ''A Time for Truth: Reigniting the Promise of America.''
A few months ago you were in the news for warning a little girl that ''the world
is on fire.'' Do you believe setting things on fire is good or bad? Both. I am a
passionate believer in the fire of liberty. Indeed, I have encouraged young
people to become arsonists, spreading the fire of liberty. Now that said, the
world being on fire is not a good thing.

In the book, you describe a pivotal moment in your adolescence when you decided
you'd had enough of being an unpopular nerd, and you set out to become popular
-- and you succeeded. Do you think you could apply that plan of action to the
Senate? It's not complicated to be popular in Washington. The easy path is to go
along to get along, not to rock the boat. Indeed, if someone is looking to be
popular, it's hard to imagine a surer recipe.

Do you think that being popular in high school and being popular in the Senate
have very much in common? That may be a bit too mature for the Senate; it's more
like junior high.

You named the small business you started as a teenager Cruz Enterprises, after
Stark Enterprises from the Iron Man comics. In your marathon anti-Obamacare
speech, you impersonated Darth Vader. Are you attracted to anti­heroes?
Certainly not to Vader. I was always a Han Solo guy. And when it comes to
comics, I was more of a Spider-Man guy.

You are the chairman of the Senate subcommittee on space, and during a hearing,
you asked NASA to focus on space exploration rather than climate change. Do you
think there's a big overlap between sci-fi nerds and people interested in
policy? Well, I do think that readers of science fiction are interested and
attracted to the future. And in many ways, politics is a battle for framing our
future.

You're also a fan of ''Star Trek.'' Do you prefer Captain Kirk or Captain
Picard? Absolutely James Tiberius Kirk.

You seem to be good at anticipating what journalists are going to ask you. Do
you think you would make a good journalist yourself? I don't know. I certainly
enjoy writing. Also, I spent many years as a Supreme Court litigator. There is a
premium on brevity there because if you take even an extra sentence or two, the
odds are high you'll be cut off by a justice before you make your point.

Interesting, the man who is famous for filibustering claims that what he's
really good at is keeping his answers short. I'm just letting the irony of that
comment flow right over my head.

If you were a journalist interviewing you, what would you ask? Who knows, I
might well ask, ''Kirk or Picard?'' I've never been asked that before, and I
actually have a strong opinion on it.

Well, that goes with being a Kirk person. It does indeed. Let me do a little
psychoanalysis. If you look at ''Star Trek: The Next Generation,'' it basically
split James T. Kirk into two people. Picard was Kirk's rational side, and
William Riker was his passionate side. I prefer a complete captain. To be
effective, you need both heart and mind.

I thought your critique might go in a different direction, because ''Next
Generation'' is more touchy-feely in its politics than the original. No doubt.
The original ''Star Trek'' was grittier. Kirk is working class; Picard is an
aristocrat. Kirk is a passionate fighter for justice; Picard is a cerebral
philosopher. The original ''Star Trek'' pressed for racial equality, which was
one of its best characteristics, but it did so without sermonizing.

Do you have a suspicion about whether Kirk would be a Democrat or a Republican?
I think it is quite likely that Kirk is a Republican and Picard is a Democrat.

I think you and Kirk might have some personality traits in common. Well, thank
you. I can affirmatively say that I have made out with far fewer space aliens.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Interview has been condensed and edited.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/ted-cruz-is-more-of-a-spider-man-guy.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%);
ARSON (72%); SPACE INDUSTRY (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SPACE
EXPLORATION (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); FILIBUSTER (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH
SCHOOLS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); LITIGATION (63%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spy's Release Is Unlikely to Assuage Israel on Iran

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Michael R. Gordon contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1424 words


JERUSALEM --  The two issues with perhaps the broadest consensus and resonance
in Israeli politics are opposition to the Iran nuclear deal and support for the
release of Jonathan J. Pollard, the convicted Israeli spy, from a North Carolina
prison. Now the two could be tied together, as some in Washington appear to be
highlighting Mr. Pollard's likely parole in November in hopes of quieting the
vigorous campaign by Israel and some of its American supporters against
congressional approval of the deal.

But while Mr. Pollard has long been bandied about as a potential diplomatic chit
the United States might use to force Israeli concessions, analysts said Saturday
that such a linkage had little chance of working now, and could instead provoke
a backlash.

Iran is seen as too serious a threat for the kind of horse-trading suggested in
previous proposals to free Mr. Pollard in exchange for compromise on the
Palestinian front, they said. Mr. Pollard has been expected to get out this year
in any case, having served the required 30 years of a life sentence, so efforts
to portray his release as a grand gesture are already being described as
cynical, cheap and misguided.

''If this is the motive, it's naïve,'' said Amnon Rubinstein, a law professor at
the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel, who joined the growing
movement calling for Mr. Pollard's release in recent years. ''The two things are
totally separate. One is a human consideration, and one is a strategic issue,
which most Israelis, including myself, regard as existential.''

Aaron David Miller, a State Department veteran on Middle East affairs who is now
at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said any such move
would look bad for President Obama, given that Americans remain in Iranian
prisons. And he added that it would probably make Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu of Israel ''fight harder'' against the Iran deal ''so he's not thought
to have colluded.''

''Pollard is apples and the Iran deal is oranges,'' Mr. Miller said. ''The
Pollard card is not just of limited value, but potentially damaging.'' A
spokesman for the National Security Council said Friday, ''There is absolutely
zero linkage between Mr. Pollard's status and foreign policy considerations,''
denying a report in The Wall Street Journal that American officials were
pressing for his release in part to allay Israel's anger over the nuclear
accord. But while Obama administration officials have previously emphasized that
they expect Mr. Pollard to serve out his term, on Friday a Justice Department
spokesman punctuated that sentiment with the caveat, ''which in this case is a
30-year sentence as mandated by statute.''

That spin may be aimed not at Israel but at Democratic -- and Jewish --
lawmakers like Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, who has long lobbied for Mr.
Pollard's release and could be among the pivotal votes in Congress on Iran. Even
if it does not change either the substance or the tenor of criticism of the
nuclear deal, freeing Mr. Pollard would at least remove one item from the
lengthy list of complaints about Mr. Obama by Israelis and their backers.

A senior Israeli official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the
delicacy of the situation, said Saturday that the government had not ''been told
anything at all'' about developments regarding Mr. Pollard, and that he did not
think it had been discussed as part of a so-called compensation package
Washington might provide to appease Israel on the Iran front.

''Our longstanding position has been, we have made repeated requests over the
years, that for humanitarian reasons he should be released,'' the official said.
''It comes up routinely. I'm not aware that the issues are in any way
connected.''

Israel on Saturday issued a stern statement that the country would continue to
criticize the nuclear agreement with Iran and could not be pressured to stop
voicing its objections. The statement was in response to comments made Friday by
Secretary of State John Kerry, who warned that the international community might
blame Israel if Congress blocked the accord and that as a result Israel might
''wind up being more isolated.''

''We reject the threats directed at Israel in recent days,'' an Israeli official
said in a statement provided Saturday to The New York Times. ''The U.S. Congress
will make its decision based on American interests, which include consideration
of U.S. allies,'' added the official, who asked not to be named because of the
diplomatic sensitivities. ''The regrettable attempt to intimidate Israel will
not prevent us from voicing our concerns about this deal, which poses direct
threats to Israel's security.''

Mr. Pollard, 60 and ailing, was born in Texas to a Zionist family, and shortly
after being hired in 1979 as a naval intelligence analyst, started passing
suitcases stuffed with classified documents to an Israeli handler, who paid him
$1,500 a month, bought his wife a diamond and sapphire ring, and sent the couple
on expensive European vacations.

He was disavowed by Israelis upon his 1985 arrest, but later embraced -- he was
granted citizenship in 1995 and, by 2013, had become the focal point of a
protest movement that went beyond the original right-wing core to become a
coalition of Nobel Prize-winning scientists, retired generals, celebrated
authors and dovish politicians like Shimon Peres, then the president of Israel.
An online petition demanding clemency drew 175,000 signatures.

Mr. Netanyahu has made the fight against Iran's obtaining a nuclear weapon the
centerpiece of his career, but the Pollard case could be a close second.

In 1998, Mr. Netanyahu nearly secured Mr. Pollard's release during a summit
meeting with President Bill Clinton regarding the Palestinians at Wye Mills,
Md., but it was thwarted when George J. Tenet, then director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, threatened to resign.

Mr. Netanyahu's aides in 2010 floated to the Obama administration the idea of
trading Mr. Pollard's freedom for an extension of a 10-month freeze on
construction in West Bank settlements. And last year, Secretary of State John
Kerry persuaded Mr. Obama to put Mr. Pollard on the table as part of a package
to save Mr. Kerry's collapsing peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians,
but the negotiations fell apart for other reasons.

''It is clear that since the 1990s he's been a chip, he's been a playing card,''
said Michael B. Oren, Israel's former ambassador to the United States, who
visited Mr. Pollard in prison in 2011 and writes about him in his new book,
''Ally: My Journey Across the American-Israeli Divide.'' ''It's become sort of
built into the peace process.''

In Washington, debates about how to maximize Mr. Pollard's leverage have raged;
in 2014, for example, many thought freeing him only to extend the talks, rather
than to move Israel on the core issues of conflict with the Palestinians, would
be a mistake. As the clock ticks toward the 30th anniversary of his arrest -- at
the time, parole was generally mandated after 30 years for federal inmates
serving life sentences -- the value inevitably drops. Amir Oren, a journalist
who has covered the case from its first day, said Israelis would ''pocket this
gesture; they will not even agree that it's a gesture, they will say it's a
make-believe gesture because he was going to be released anyway.''

Mr. Pollard's ex-wife, Anne, said on Israeli television Saturday night that he
would want to live in Israel. With the 30-year mark approaching, Mr. Pollard
''deserves to be released based on the American system of justice.''

''I just want to see him out,'' she added. ''I can't bear it anymore that he sat
and lost all of his life in jail.''

Oded Eran, a longtime Israeli diplomat who is now a researcher at the Institute
for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University, said the anonymous reports
coming out of Washington are ''a cheap shot to try and change the tone on Iran,
and therefore we are not going to be swayed one way or the other.'' Mr. Eran,
who served in Israel's embassy in Washington, said Mr. Pollard's release would
be a 24-hour story of national celebration, while the Iran issue ''will be with
us for months, if not years.''

''I want to be very clear and very categorical,'' he added. ''If anyone in
Washington believes that this is going to change the tone of the debate on Iran,
the nature of the debate on Iran, the votes on Iran, he is absolutely,
categorically, misleading himself.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/middleeast/spys-release-is-unlikely-to-a
ssuage-israel-on-iran-nuclear-deal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The federal prison in Butner, N.C., where the Israeli spy
Jonathan J. Pollard is being held. He is likely to receive parole in November,
having served the required 30 years of a life sentence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA D.
DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES)
 Jonathan J. Pollard

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS
(89%); SENTENCING (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PAROLE (77%); CORRECTIONS (77%);
FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); APPROVALS
(70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%);
PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mouths to Feed

BYLINE: By RAJ PATEL.

Raj Patel is a research professor in the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public
Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin, and the author of ''Stuffed and
Starved: The Hidden Battle for the World Food System.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1233 words


THE END OF PLENTYThe Race to Feed a Crowded World By Joel K. Bourne
Jr.Illustrated. 408 pp. W.W. Norton & Company. $27.95.  An 18th-century question
matters for 21st-century foodies: ''Are human beings perfectible?'' If our
species can improve itself, if we can learn to consume less, have fewer children
and wean ourselves off meat, the planet might yet flourish. If not, the fear is
that we'll breed and eat ourselves into extinction. Many have addressed this
quandary, but Robert Malthus's ideas are the ones Joel Bourne puts at the heart
of ''The End of Plenty,'' his big book on the global food system.

In his classic ''Essay on the Principle of Population'' (1798), Malthus swatted
away what he saw as the Enlightenment's unrealistic prognoses for humanity's
bright future with two simple postulates: ''First, that food is necessary to the
existence of man. Secondly, that the passion between the sexes is necessary and
will remain nearly in its present state.''

From these observations, he drew disturbing conclusions. The passion between the
sexes being what it is, human populations will increase at a geometric rate,
doubling and doubling again. But nature allows for food production to increase
at a far more pedestrian rate, with fixed increases every year. At some point,
population growth will exceed the food supply, with grim results: ''This
difficulty must fall somewhere and must necessarily be severely felt by a large
portion of mankind.''

But there's a hitch in Malthus's logic, one that Samuel Taylor Coleridge noted
in the marginalia of his copy of Malthus's essay: ''If by the main Principle the
Author means both the Fact (i.e., that Population unrestrained would infinitely
outrun Food) and the Deduction from the Fact, i.e., that the human race is
therefore not indefinitely improvable, a popgun would batter down this
Impregnable Fortress.'' Translation: Just because we behave badly now doesn't
mean we always will.

So why was Malthus so pessimistic about human prospects? As the historian
Christopher Brooke has observed, Malthus's essay on population began its life as
an argument he had with his father, one of Jean-Jacques Rousseau's most
enthusiastic disciples.

Even though Malthus criticized his father's philosophy, he was himself drawing
on some characteristically Rousseauist strands of argument: in particular, that
the structural imbalance between rich cities and poor countrysides produces
economic relations guaranteed to bring out the worst in people.

Bourne concentrates on rehabilitating Malthus's reputation and making him less
armchair scold than prescient thinker whose ideas about poverty are startlingly
relevant.

After all, through the 20th century, successive American governments were
worried about what hungry and fecund third world citizens would do if their
governments didn't keep their bellies full. The Rockefeller Foundation
crystallized these fears in 1951, observing in an internal report that was to
provide the basis for funding a massive agricultural program that ''whether
additional millions .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. will become Communists
will depend partly on whether the Communist world or the free world fulfills its
promises. Hungry people are lured by promises, but they may be won by deeds.
Communism makes attractive promises to underfed peoples. Democracy must not only
promise as much, but must deliver more.'' The solution involved making food
cheap for cities, and reducing fertility rates, heading off Malthus at the pass.

Bourne tells the history like this: ''Better seeds, combined with more
fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation, enabled farmers to grow more crop from
each acre. Farmers grew so much extra food during the 1960s that they actually
helped alleviate global poverty by making food cheaper in most places around the
world. The change was so dramatic it was dubbed the 'green revolution.' ''

Which isn't quite right. The man who coined the term ''green revolution'' was
William Gaud, the administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development in 1968. He was clear about its political intent when he said: ''It
is not a violent Red Revolution like that of the Soviets, nor is it a White
Revolution like that of the Shah of Iran. I call it the Green Revolution.''

Gaud also knew that in the war on communism, agricultural technology was
necessary but not sufficient. In congressional testimony, he acknowledged that
every farmer needs credit to purchase improved seeds; ''he must know how to use
them properly, he must be able to get a decent price for his crop and he must be
able to get it to market.''

To stop the masses protesting, governments had to subsidize cheap food for the
cities. But it's not clear how cheap food helps economies that are mainly
agricultural. Bourne chronicles, with compassion and care, the grim
environmental cost of adopting green revolution in India. It's a country that
also has the largest number of malnourished people on earth. Their system of
cheap food was part of the reason that at the end of 2004-5, 77 percent of the
population were living below 20 rupees (45 cents) a day, while billionaires
lived in a Mumbai more expensive than Manhattan. The man who would be able to
offer an explanation: Malthus.

After a historical treatment of today's food system, the second part of the book
considers what might be done to restore plenty. It's an extended tour covering
land, seed, water and organic farming. Some chapters have appeared in the
Â­pages of National Geographic, where Bourne is a contributing writer. In these
sections, Bourne is most persuasive when he brings his training in agronomy to
serve up surprising insights into the future of food. But I missed Malthus,
whose ideas make far fewer appearances as we head to the conclusion.

This is a shame. It means, for instance, that Bourne misses a chance to talk
more about sex. A book inspired by Malthus really ought to have more discussion
about his hopes for ''restraint'' to tame population growth. Jeremy Bentham's
recently published response to Malthus was for people to have more homosexual
sex, enjoying the utility of sex without the disutility of more hungry children.
The American government and the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations also funded
birth control as part of the green revolution and, through the World Bank,
bankrolled a sterilization program in India. Although there's a good discussion
of family planning, I would have liked Bourne to offer a deeper understanding of
gender, women's empowerment and the conditions under which women can control
their own bodies.

The greatest loss in not taking Malthus seriously is that Bourne cannot assess
whether his globe-trotting has shown him anything that stands a chance in the
longer term. Without this depth, he's reduced -- as when adjudicating the debate
over genetically modified crops -- to conclude ''the truth, as always, is
somewhere in the middle.'' This Goldilocks reflex may appear reasonable, and
it's a strategy to which many well-meaning proponents of change succumb. But
it's a poor guide to the truth. Malthus would have known that. Climate change,
overconsumption, patriarchy, hunger and poverty are big problems. It's O.K. for
the responses to them to be immoderate.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday. Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/the-end-of-plenty-by-joel-k-bourn
e-jr.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A child reaches for free food distributed outside a Hindu temple
in New Delhi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANISH SWARUP/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%);
HISTORY (72%); FOODIES (72%); WRITERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, &
NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (74%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Laura Brace, Devin Rochford

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 188 words


Laura Ainsworth Brace, the daughter of Susan R. Brace and Glenn E. Brace of
Englefield Green, England, was married Saturday to Devin Sean Rochford, a son of
Diane R. Rochford and James M. Rochford of Roswell, Ga. The Rev. Msgr. Lanaux J.
Rareshide, the great-uncle of the bride, officiated at the Church of St. Francis
Xavier in New York.

Mrs. Rochford, 26, is studying for a Ph.D. in comparative and international
education at the University of Oxford, where she also received a master's in the
same field. She graduated cum laude from Georgetown University.

Until earlier this year, her father oversaw insurance claims at Catlin Group, a
former syndicate at Lloyd's of London. Her mother is a clinical social worker in
Surrey.

Mr. Rochford, 30, works in the valuation business modeling group at Ernst &
Young in London, where he advises corporate and individual clients in strategy
and financial decisions. He graduated from Fordham University.

His mother is an agent at Keller Williams Realty in Atlanta. His father is in
charge of sales to private label brands at Soundview Paper Company, which
manufactures tissue products.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/laura-brace-devin-rochford.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEMMA WILLIAMS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (70%); PAPER & PACKAGING
PRODUCTS (69%); PAPER MFG (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); INSURANCE CLAIMS
(54%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (53%)

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (70%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (70%); CATLIN
GROUP LTD (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (70%); SIC6311 LIFE
INSURANCE (70%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT
PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY
INSURANCE (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%);
NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Margot Weller, Daniel Moccia-Field

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 169 words


Margot Claire Weller and Daniel Moccia-Field were married Saturday at Cricket
Creek Farm, a dairy farm and cheese producer in Williamstown, Mass. L. Ward
Schaefer, a friend of the groom who received permission from Massachusetts to
solemnize the wedding, officiated.

The couple met at Williams College, from which they graduated, the groom cum
laude.

Ms. Weller, 30, will keep her name. She is the associate strategist at 2x4, a
branding and design agency in New York.

She is the daughter of Janine S. Weller and Jonathan B. Weller of Sea Island,
Ga. The bride's father retired as the president of the Pennsylvania Real Estate
Investment Trust in Philadelphia.

Mr. Moccia-Field, 31, is a personal chef in East Hampton, N.Y. He is the son of
Lianne Moccia and Allyn T. Field of Lebanon, N.H. His mother is an American Sign
Language interpreter. His father founded the Upper Valley Zen Center in White
River Junction, Vt. He is also the campus minister for the Zen practice group at
Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/margot-weller-daniel-moccia-f
ield.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); DAIRY FARMING (88%); CHEESE MFG (73%);
RIVERS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (53%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (53%); REAL
ESTATE INVESTING (53%)

COMPANY: PENNSYLVANIA REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%)

TICKER: PEI (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT
MINIWAREHOUSES) (70%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA
(90%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Enduring Power of the Pose

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 445 words


''The whole idea is, I'm fierce and I know it,'' Archie Burnett said of the
dance style known as vogueing, which he has performed for decades. But don't
confuse that with self-indulgence: ''It's not for your benefit,'' he said.
''It's for the camera's benefit.''

The camera he refers to is metaphorical: Vogueing began as an imitation of
models in fashion magazines and on runways. It is part communal tradition, part
competition, part personal statement. And occasionally it surfaces as a
mainstream pop-culture phenomenon, too -- including this summer (just ask
Channing Tatum).

Vogueing first strutted into the mainstream in the early '90s with Jennie
Livingston's documentary ''Paris Is Burning'' and the music video for Madonna's
''Vogue.'' The film showcased the dance as a central feature of the underground
Harlem ballroom scene, populated primarily by black and Latino gay men, a scene
that blossomed in the 1980s and has roots reaching back decades.

In 1990, at the height of the AIDS epidemic, the community organization Gay
Men's Health Crisis gave a party called the Latex Ball with the goal of
distributing health information to denizens of the ballroom scene, who were hit
hard by the disease. On Saturday, the Latex Ball celebrated its 25th anniversary
at Terminal 5 in Hell's Kitchen.

While the ball honors vogueing's pioneers, it also reflects the ways that the
dance has evolved stylistically and demographically: its global expansion; the
increasing participation of women; and a shift to bolder, more acrobatic
dancing.

One catalyst for renewed interest was the 2009 appearance of the dance troupe
Vogue Evolution on the MTV reality show ''America's Best Dance Crew.'' Dashaun
Wesley, a troupe member, instructed Mr. Tatum in the art of vogue for the film
''Magic Mike XXL.'' He says social media and the Internet, particularly YouTube,
are partly responsible for vogueing's revival. ''That gave us the opportunity to
reach people who weren't reachable before,'' he said.

But some in the ballroom scene are wary of the form's renewed popularity, which
they fear removes vogueing from its cultural context. ''You can't learn a
lifestyle in a couple of days,'' said Mr. Burnett. He and others teaching
vogueing in dance studios in New York and abroad are trying to share the form's
history and focus on its essence: the empowering poses, the expression of a
personal story and the projection of confidence.

''That's the foundation, the blueprint,'' said the voguer Luna Khan. ''And we
don't want that to die off.''

Here are four sites where vogueing thrives, each illuminating aspects of the
dance and questions about its mainstream embrace.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); DANCERS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); COMPETITIVE DANCING
& DANCESPORT (78%); HISTORY (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); MEN (74%); AIDS &
HIV (74%); FILM (73%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (73%); MEN'S
HEALTH (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MUSIC
(68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%);
EPIDEMICS (66%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%);
REALITY TELEVISION (62%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS
DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%);
NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: CHANNING TATUM (79%); MADONNA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Investing in Personal Growth

BYLINE: Interview by PATRICIA R. OLSEN

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; VOCATIONS: THE
FUND ADMINISTRATOR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 344 words


Stephanie Pinto, 23, is a fund administrator at the State Street Corporation in
Boston.

Q. What are your job responsibilities?

A. I prepare fund financial statements for our institutional clients, verify
data relating to expense budgeting and analysis, and help gather data about
mutual funds.

How did you get this job?

In 2012 I attended Year Up, a yearlong national program for urban youth that
worked with me on my job skills and sent me to Cambridge College for a semester.
Then they matched me with State Street for a six-month internship. Afterward,
the company hired me as a pricing specialist. I was promoted to fund
administrator in 2014.

Before the program, had you planned to enter this field?

I thought I'd join the Air Force. I was attending community college part time
for a psychology degree and working as a pharmacy technician. I wasn't sure
about what I wanted to do, and the Air Force seemed like a good option. I was
about to take the physical when a relative of the youth pastor at my church told
me about Year Up.

As someone who is fairly new to the work force, what have you learned about
yourself since you started?

I realized that I learn better from some people than from others. After someone
shows me a process, I need to perform it myself to be able to retain the
information. I'm the youngest in my group, and I have also realized the benefit
of learning from more experienced employees.

Has this job influenced the way you handle your own finances?

I never thought about investing before I started here. I check my 401(k) to see
how it's doing, and I've opened a Roth I.R.A. I'm always looking for
opportunities to create savings for the future.

What are your career plans?

I'd like to get a degree in management, so I'm attending school online, and I
plan to get a graduate degree. I'm hoping to hold a management position here in
five years, either in my current department or in human resources. I'd like to
pull in more young people and give them a chance like I got.

Vocations asks people about their jobs.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/jobs/stephanie-pinto-investing-in-personal-gro
wth.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYANA SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (86%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); HUMAN
RESOURCES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); LABOR
FORCE (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COMMUNITY
COLLEGES (76%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & REPORTS (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%);
INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (69%)

COMPANY: STATE STREET CORP (92%)

TICKER: STT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS525910
OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Case You Missed It: Top Articles of the Week

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; TOP ARTICLES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words


The five most-viewed articles on nytimes.com/sports from July 17 to 23:

1. BILL SIMMONS TO JOIN HBO, GOING FROM FREE AGENCY TO FREEDOM Simmons, formerly
of ESPN, will host a weekly talk show starting next year.  (Published July 23)

2. BRITISH OPEN: ZACH JOHNSON'S GRAND WIN SLAMS DOOR ON JORDAN SPIETH'S BID FOR
HISTORY Spieth, who had won the Masters and the United States Open, missed a
playoff by one stroke.  (July 21)

3. SURFER MICK FANNING ESCAPES SHARK ATTACK DURING COMPETITION BROADCAST Fanning
was not injured in the encounter.  (July 20) 4. CYCLING MAY TURN ARMSTRONG INTO
A SYMPATHETIC FIGURE YET Lance Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven Tour de
France titles for doping, was criticized for a charity appearance during this
year's race.  (July 18)

5. BRITISH OPEN FRIDAY: DUSTIN JOHNSON STAYS ON TOP Johnson was 10 under par
through 13 holes of a second round plagued by delays.  (July 18)




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS
AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY
(90%); TOUR DE FRANCE (88%); GOLF (87%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); CYCLING (68%)

PERSON: JORDAN SPIETH (92%); LANCE ARMSTRONG (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 648 words


8 P.M. (E!) I AM CAIT ''Why did I decide to do a series?'' Caitlyn Jenner,
above, ponders in a trailer for her latest endeavor. ''I'm telling my story.

People don't understand looking into the mirror and nothing seems right. Putting
on clothes that you just really don't identify with. This is about getting to be
who you really are.'' This new reality series aims to moves beyond the paparazzi
photos (Ms. Jenner in Versace! In Diane von Furstenberg!) and public speculation
to find out how Ms. Jenner came to be a role model for transgender pride. And
while the show, at least initially, seems to focus on her looks -- Ms. Jenner
quipping about sports bras as she plays tennis; plucking a dress from her
closet, only to be told by her stepdaughter Kim Kardashian that her mother, Ms.
Jenner's ex, has one just like it; and fixing a chip in her baby-blue manicure
-- ''We're going to do some good,'' she promises. ''Caitlyn Jenner, on screen,
maintains the public personality of Bruce Jenner,'' Mike Hale wrote in The New
York Times. ''She has the qualities of an excellent decathlete, spokeswoman and
even leader, but as a reality star she could take a few lessons in openness and
spontaneity from the Kardashians.''

10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Presidential candidates make the morning-show
rounds, with the Republicans Carly Fiorina, a former chief executive of
Hewlett-Packard, and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, appearing here; Senator
Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, on ''This Week,'' at 10 on ABC;
Senator Paul and Rick Perry, the Republican former governor of Texas, on ''Face
the Nation,'' at 10:30 on CBS; and Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of
Vermont, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio,
a Republican, on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC.

8 P.M. (NBC) WELCOME TO SWEDEN  Bruce (Greg Poehler) hits a few bumps when he
goes skiing with Emma (Josephine Bornebusch) and her parents (Lena Olin and
Claes Mansson). At 8:30, Bruce's parents (Illeana Douglas and Patrick Duffy)
arrive in Stockholm to help plan the wedding -- then offer to pay for it if he
and Emma have it in the United States.

8 P.M. (Encore) MALEFICENT (2014) In this live-action back story to the 1959
Disney animated musical ''Sleeping Beauty,'' a happy young fairy (in a role
shared by Isobelle Molloy and Ella Purnell) living on the moors becomes friends
-- and then something a bit more, involving a kiss -- with a farmhand (played by
Michael Higgins and Jackson Bews). Eventually the boy grows into a man (Sharlto
Copley) and helps wage war against the mossy wonderland of the fairy (now
Angelina Jolie, above), whose wings are literally clipped. Now in an eternally
foul mood, she retreats into a dark place where years later she plots against
his child, Aurora (Elle Fanning), who is destined to fall into a deep sleep
after pricking her finger on a spindle. Ms. Jolie ''makes a fabulous monster''
as ''she breezes through the movie, part superstar, part superfreak,'' Manohla
Dargis wrote in The Times.

8 P.M. (13, 49) LAST TANGO IN HALIFAX Caroline (Sarah Lancashire) finds her
nerves soothed when Greg (Marcus Garvey) turns out to be a natural with baby
Flora and a positive influence on teenage Lawrence (Louis Greatorex). Alan
(Derek Jacobi, above) decides to distance himself from needy Gary (Rupert
Graves). And Gillian (Nicola Walker) is perturbed when a private matter goes
public. In ''Poldark,'' at 9, Poldark (Aidan Turner) takes on the cardsharp who
swindled Francis (Kyle Soller) while a mysterious smelting company makes the
local copper barons uneasy.

What's Streaming Now

THERE GOES MY HEART (2007) John Appel and Heddy Honigmann visit a group home for
recovering addicts in the Netherlands where four men and three women discuss
what they lost while doing hard drugs for more than 40 years. (fandor.com)

KATHRYN SHATTUCK




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY E!)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%);
PHOTOJOURNALISM (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); TRACK & FIELD (68%); SKIING (68%);
EXECUTIVES (65%); STEPPARENTS (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER
PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: CAITLYN (BRUCE) JENNER (94%); CARLY FIORINA (69%); KIM KARDASHIAN (58%);
DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (56%); RICK PERRY (50%); JOHN KASICH (50%); RAND PAUL
(50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); BERNIE SANDERS (50%)

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (52%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'I Am Cait,' A Show for a New Reality

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 200 words


''Why did I decide to do a series?'' Caitlyn Jenner ponders in a trailer for ''I
Am Cait,'' debuting on Sunday at 8 p.m. Eastern on E! ''I'm telling my story.
People don't understand looking into the mirror and nothing seems right. Putting
on clothes that you just really don't identify with. This is about getting to be
who you really are.''

But despite the paparazzi photos (Ms. Jenner in Versace! In Diane von
Furstenberg!) and public speculation, who Ms. Jenner really is and how she
arrived at this place remain something of a mystery. Like her April interview
with Diane Sawyer, ''I Am Cait'' has been unfurled in tantalizing snippets: Ms.
Jenner quipping about sports bras as she plays tennis; Ms. Jenner plucking a
dress from her closet, only to be told by her stepdaughter Kim Kardashian that
her mother, Ms. Jenner's ex, has one just like it; Ms. Jenner discussing the
pressure women feel about their appearance. Still, you hope -- you trust -- that
this show goes deeper than watching her fix a chip in her baby-blue manicure.
How many people ''waste their entire life because they never deal with
themselves to be who they are?'' she asks before promising, ''We're going to do
some good.''



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/television/caitlyn-jenner-is-the-subject-
of-i-am-cait-a-show-about-a-new-reality.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The E! show ''I Am Cait'' focuses on Caitlyn Jenner's life.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES WHITE/E!)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEPPARENTS (53%)

PERSON: CAITLYN (BRUCE) JENNER (93%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (71%); DIANE SAWYER
(69%); KIM KARDASHIAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Twilight of a Trading Hub

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2952 words


For years, traders and bankers would gather for ''power hour'' at the Morton's
steakhouse across the street from the train station in Stamford, Conn. Morton's
red awning waved like an invitation at the base of a hulking 13-story building
that held the operations of the Swiss bank UBS.

After the trading day ended at 4 p.m., the UBS traders would file downstairs
from what was said to be the largest trading floor in the world, and others
would meander in from the similarly imposing American headquarters of the
British bank RBS nearby. Morton's red leather chairs would be filled with men in
slacks and button-down shirts, knocking back WiAnno oysters and vintage reds
from their personal wine lockers.

The Morton's, and Stamford itself, flourished during an expansionary phase of
the banking industry. The two squat complexes, topped with the RBS and UBS
logos, were emblems of global finance easily visible to anyone passing by on
Interstate 95. Stamford was Little Manhattan.

Now the Morton's is shuttered. The windows above it, where bankers used to sit,
are cluttered with boxes and furniture in disarray. UBS is shrinking, and the
remnants of the operation will move across the street to two empty floors of the
RBS building, where there have also been huge cuts.

For much of the last 30 years, the story of Wall Street was one of ceaseless
growth and enormous wealth, as the clubby investment banks and trading firms
that used to be based in Lower Manhattan grew into giants of the global economy,
with outposts in cities like Stamford.

Now these firms are in the middle of a contraction that many in the industry
think could last for some time. It's particularly obvious in a place like
Stamford, where tax breaks lured banking operations and a large block of the
city was remade for them. But the cuts are happening everywhere.

The number of front-office employees, who are generally highly paid, at the 10
largest Wall Street banks has shrunk more than 20 percent since 2011 -- to
51,000 from 64,000 -- according to Coalition, an industry data provider. A study
of the top Wall Street banks, released in May by the Boston Consulting Group,
found that revenue had been steadily falling across the entire industry since
2012, while costs had not.

''The industry gloom that we have been forecasting for some time is now well and
truly upon us,'' the report said.

Stamford had the bad luck of housing the American headquarters of two European
banks, which are facing particular challenges as the Continent has struggled to
cope with several debt crises. RBS, or Royal Bank of Scotland, which is now
controlled by the British government, has fewer than half the 225,000 employees
worldwide that it had at its peak in 2007, when it was constructing its
Connecticut campus. It recently announced plans to reduce its work force in
Connecticut, which was once 2,400 people, to fewer than a thousand, making its
gleaming building far too large a home. The number of UBS employees in Stamford
fell to 2,000 last year, from 4,400 before the crisis, and more cuts are likely.
HSBC and Deutsche Bank are the most recent banks to announce major global
overhauls.

The financial crisis in Greece is the latest headwind likely to challenge any
recovery at European banks. But even aside from the particular problems in
Europe, Wall Street banking operations in places like Manhattan and Stamford are
being forced to scale back because of a broad combination of bad behavior,
stronger regulations, technological innovations and a changing economy. This is
a major turning point for the industry that is generically known as Wall Street
-- a mix of firms historically based in Lower Manhattan dealing with the
issuance and trading of financial products like stocks and bonds. The financial
industry today is much bigger than just these businesses, encompassing private
equity and hedge funds, along with consumer banking, which was traditionally
based outside New York.

Some segments of the industry, especially less regulated private equity funds --
and more broadly, financial companies that manage wealth for clients -- have
done well recently. But at companies focused on the historical business of Wall
Street, the promise of boundless growth and endless wealth has waned and
potential recruits are choosing to go elsewhere.

To understand the nuances of what is happening, and why, it helps to look at
Stamford, and the people who worked there -- people like Ric Elvir, who spent
two decades on Wall Street before leaving the UBS trading floor for the last
time in 2012. When he was pushed out, he figured he would get right back in at
another bank, albeit one with a smaller trading floor. But the jobs he expected
to be plentiful weren't there.

''There are a lot less trading opportunities now than there are traders on the
street,'' Mr. Elvir said.

As he readjusted his plans, Mr. Elvir began trading his own money and was
successful enough that he kept at it. He also found he enjoyed a life that
didn't require him to miss his twin sons' baseball practices. Now, on sunny
days, he does his day trading on a patio outside the offices of Molten Markets,
a start-up created by two men -- one British and one Chilean -- who also used to
work at UBS in Stamford.

''It's been a death by a thousand cuts,'' Simon Wilson-Taylor, the British
co-founder of Molten Markets, said of the banking industry he left behind.

The trading floors, which seemed to hover beside Route I-95 like floating
airships, were the economic engines of the RBS and UBS operations in Stamford.

Mr. Elvir moved among jobs and locations in his decade at UBS, but he never
forgot the first time he walked onto the Stamford trading floor, back in 2002,
and took in the wide, open space big enough to hold 23 basketball courts. With
no structural pillars, traders could shout or gesticulate to colleagues at the
other end of the floor with nothing to obstruct their view.

''I was just like anybody,'' he says now with a bit of a reverential hush, as he
remembers thinking, ''Wow, I'm in the middle of something big.''

The 1,400 people who could fit on the UBS floor made money in many ways. Some
simply bought and sold stocks, currencies and bonds, capturing the difference
between each trade. Other desks created financial contracts, or derivatives,
that made it possible to bet on changes in interest rates or stock prices.
Before the financial crisis, some of the most lucrative work involved buying up
mortgages and other loans and bundling them into bonds.

Those trading businesses ended up accounting for a majority of the profits at
the big banks in the years before the financial crisis. This work --
particularly the mortgage operations -- was also the main source of the
staggering losses that required RBS, UBS and the other large banks to take
government bailouts when the subprime mortgage market collapsed.

In the midst of the crisis, RBS and UBS got rid of hundreds of traders in
Stamford. But the bailouts allowed the two banks -- and others across the
industry -- to rebuild their operations surprisingly quickly in 2009 and 2010.
Mr. Wilson-Taylor was hired by UBS in Stamford during this time to oversee some
of the bank's bond trading. When he got to UBS, the floor was half full; a year
later it was nearing capacity and buzzing with frenetic energy.

''It was chaos -- they constantly kept bringing in expensive people from other
firms,'' according to Mr. Wilson-Taylor.

The renewed enthusiasm on Wall Street after the crisis was ultimately tempered
by many different factors. Central banks around the world did everything in
their power to keep interest rates low, to encourage borrowing and stimulate
their nations' economies. But the lower interest rates meant that trading desks
earned smaller interest payments on the enormous stockpiles of bonds and loans
that they owned. The predictable downward movement of interest rates also
discouraged the type of trading from which the desks in Stamford and elsewhere
had made money.

The financial crisis also emboldened lawmakers and financial regulators. The
Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation explicitly banned some of the trading
activities that had been big in Stamford before the crisis. But the set of
international banking rules that have had the single largest impact require
banks to hold capital as a buffer against trading losses -- rules broadly
referred to as Basel III. A bank trading $100 billion of corporate bonds, for
example, now needs to hold around $10 billion of capital, in comparison with the
$3 billion to $5 billion it would have needed before the crisis. If the bank
does not have the $10 billion in capital and wants to continue trading, it is
required either to raise more money from shareholders or put aside more of its
profits, with all the costs that entails. The riskier the products a bank is
trading, the more capital it needs to put aside for each dollar of trading.

The desire by regulators to have banks trim their risky trading desks has had a
particular impact at RBS because the bank's bailout left the British government
as the majority owner. RBS's government-controlled board has pushed the company
to focus more on its British operations for retail and corporate customers and
less on the international trading floors.

At an industry conference in March, the RBS chief executive, Ross McEwan, said:
''As we increasingly wave goodbye to some of the hangovers from our past, a new
model will emerge that is set up to deliver sustainable returns from a much
lower risk profile.'' (A spokesman for RBS said the bank had no formal comment
for this article.)

While international rules tried to reduce risks, scandals of other sorts popped
up. A rogue trader in UBS's London offices lost $2 billion in 2011, one of the
first of many trading scandals to leap from bank to bank. There were allegations
that traders at the large banks had colluded to manipulate the benchmark
interest rate known as Libor. That gave way to the details of how traders at
different firms conspired to fix the exchange rates between major currencies.
RBS and UBS, along with most other large institutions, have ended up paying
billions of dollars in fines in these cases.

RBS's cuts are striking, but other banks are heading in the same direction.
Morgan Stanley has slimmed down its trading desks and strengthened the Smith
Barney wealth management business it acquired during the crisis. This spring,
JPMorgan Chase talked about the strength of its less risky consumer bank at the
same time that it outlined billions of dollars of new cuts in its investment
bank. Even Goldman Sachs, the most storied Wall Street firm, has been looking to
diversify by entering businesses like consumer lending. The latest quarterly
financial results from the big banks -- announced over the last two weeks --
have underscored the continued drop in revenue from traditional trading
businesses.

At UBS, the shift has been back to the historical work of Swiss banks -- serving
wealthy customers from around the world and collecting fees. UBS promised
Connecticut authorities last year that it would keep 2,000 employees in the
state, but they will be spread out, closer to clients, rather than concentrated
in Stamford. The bank has moved what was left of its trading operation into its
offices in New York.

''Over the past few years, UBS has been executing on a strategy to streamline
our real estate footprint throughout the Americas,'' said Gregg Rosenberg, a
spokesman for the firm.

On the trading floors, the men and women who remain face yet another continuing
threat to their jobs: technology. The types of trading that were the most
profitable before and after the crisis -- buying and selling bonds and
derivatives -- are now being shaken up by the sort of automated trading that put
many stock traders out of work a decade ago. This was beginning to happen even
before the crisis, but new rules have encouraged, and in some cases forced,
banks to move toward more computer-driven trading.

Mr. Elvir and Mr. Wilson-Taylor were both involved in UBS's efforts to automate
the bank's bond, currency and derivatives trading, which required fewer
employees the more successful it became. By the time they left UBS, the floor
was thinning out. UBS moved back-office employees into the vast space so that it
didn't look empty. Last year, the company recognized the new reality when it
rechristened the trading floor with a less descriptive name: the Pavilion.

Stamford began its bid to capitalize on Wall Street's expansion in 1994, when it
offered $145 million in tax credits, and a free parcel of land, to what was then
Swiss Bank to build its American headquarters in the city. The 13-story building
that sprouted up -- smaller than the 20-story structure that the company
initially promised -- brought big changes to the city, including new power
substations and data lines, and more Metro-North trains from Manhattan.

Mr. Elvir came to Stamford from Manhattan in 2002 after UBS acquired Paine
Webber. New arrivals were challenged to try to throw a Nerf football the length
of the trading floor -- and always failed.

RBS was in the middle of its own expansion during those years, and agreed to
build its American headquarters in Stamford in 2005 after the state promised
incentives worth $100 million in exchange for 1,150 new jobs in the state.

The incentives, part of the continuing race among local governments to attract
international corporations, amounted to more than a quarter of the $345 million
that RBS spent on its Connecticut building. But the incentives proved
controversial, particularly because the state has had to continue making
investments to keep the banks' operations, even in their reduced form. In 2011,
Connecticut's governor, Dannel P. Malloy, the former mayor of Stamford, gave UBS
a $20 million loan to keep employees in the state. Last year, Mr. Malloy,
despite criticism, extended the loan to 2021.

Mr. Malloy says that the banks still play an important role in the local
economy. As recently as 2010, UBS was the largest employer in Stamford, and RBS
was, at one point, the fourth largest. But with UBS planning to move out of its
enormous complex by 2017, the city could be left with a potentially embarrassing
vacancy right next to the train station.

Some former employees decamped for other banks in Manhattan; others left banking
for hedge funds and other less regulated corners of the financial industry. Some
data has suggested that employment in the financial industry over all --
including asset management and insurance -- is staging a recovery, though
industry experts say that many of the new jobs are in lower-paying compliance
positions.

Rohit Gupta, who began working on the RBS trading floor in Stamford almost
immediately after graduating from college in 2007, left in 2012 and is one of
the founders of a start-up in Manhattan, Flavour, that has created a
restaurant-recommendation app. He says he frequently hears from old colleagues
who are looking to get out of banking and into the tech industry.

The broader consequences of the contraction of trading are still coming into
focus. In places that are particularly reliant on the financial industry, like
Stamford and New York, the loss of high-end jobs could have a pernicious ripple
effect across the economy. The Partnership for New York City, a civic group
sponsored in part by banks, has estimated that the financial industry accounts
for a third of the city's economic output and a quarter of personal income
taxes.

In Stamford, the cuts have left the area around the train station somewhat
desolate. The Morton's closed at the end of last summer, and at the end of a
recent trading day, the sidewalks between RBS, UBS and the station had only a
slow trickle of people.

''They have pulled in their horns here in Stamford,'' said Joseph McGee, the
head of public policy at the Business Council of Fairfield County. ''Essentially
they have become invisible in the city.''

But Stamford's economy over all has shown remarkable resilience. The local
unemployment rate has shown no signs of rising, and the average wages remain
stable. That appears to be, in part, because the city has already managed to
attract several new corporate operations, including those of Starwood Resorts
and Hotels Worldwide and Deloitte, which have built in an old industrial area
near the waterfront and taken advantage of the infrastructure that the banks
brought in, as well as new tax incentives.

For society more broadly, Thomas Philippon, a professor at New York University
who has studied the economics of the financial industry, said that Wall Street
had grown bloated in the three decades before the financial crisis and was
shrinking to a size more in keeping with historical norms.

''It's all for the best,'' Mr. Philippon said. ''We had way too many people
trading before.''

As a former member of the trading tribe, Mr. Elvir said that when he was let go
by UBS, it came with a surprising sense of relief, and some space to think about
what he really wanted.

''If you stay focused on something for too long, it's very easy to lose the
forest for the trees,'' he said. ''You tend to forget about work-life balance.''

Now, instead of waking up at 5:30 a.m., he gets up at 7:30 and has breakfast
with his 9-year-old sons. Trading his own money might not last forever. He has
thought of looking for work at another big bank, but doesn't think he would have
much luck even if he really wanted that sort of job. He's doing a little
consulting work and ''trying to figure out where are the new opportunities.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/dealbook/wall-street-pulls-in-its-hor
ns-in-connecticut.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As recently as 2010, UBS of Switzerland and the Royal Bank of
Scotland had large work forces near the Metro- North train station in Stamford,
Conn. After cuts at the two banks, UBS is moving its remaining employees in
Stamford to two empty floors of RBS's building, center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN
THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Top, the UBS building near the Stamford train station once claimed to have the
world's largest trading floor. One former employee, Ric Elvir, center, now does
day trading for himself, which lets him spend more time with his twin sons. Two
other UBS alumni, Simon Wilson-Taylor, above left, and Francisco Heredia, above
right, founded Molten Markets in Rowayton, Conn. At UBS, Mr. Elvir and Mr.
Wilson-Taylor were involved in efforts to automate the bank's trading.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%);
RESTAURANTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INVESTMENT
BANKING (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); GLOBALIZATION
(67%); DEBT CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (84%); BOSTON CONSULTING
GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: UBSW (JSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (84%); RBS (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC
(85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING
SERVICES (51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Greece, the Sacrificial Lamb

BYLINE: By JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ.

Joseph E. Stiglitz is a Nobel laureate in economics, a professor at Columbia and
the author, most recently, of ''The Great Divide: Unequal Societies and What We
Can Do About Them.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words


ATHENS -- AS the Greek crisis proceeds to its next stage, Germany, Greece and
the triumvirate of the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank
and the European Commission (now better known as the troika) have all faced
serious criticism. While there is plenty of blame to share, we shouldn't lose
sight of what is really going on. I've been watching this Greek tragedy closely
for five years, engaged with those on all sides. Having spent the last week in
Athens talking to ordinary citizens, young and old, as well as current and past
officials, I've come to the view that this is about far more than just Greece
and the euro.

Some of the basic laws demanded by the troika deal with taxes and expenditures
and the balance between the two, and some deal with the rules and regulations
affecting specific markets. What is striking about the new program (called ''the
third memorandum'') is that on both scores it makes no sense either for Greece
or for its creditors.

As I read the details, I had a sense of déjà vu. As chief economist of the World
Bank in the late 1990s, I saw firsthand in East Asia the devastating effects of
the programs imposed on the countries that had turned to the I.M.F. for help.
This resulted not just from austerity but also from so-called structural
reforms, where too often the I.M.F. was duped into imposing demands that favored
one special interest relative to others. There were hundreds of conditions, some
little, some big, many irrelevant, some good, some outright wrong, and most
missing the big changes that were really required.

Back in 1998 in Indonesia, I saw how the I.M.F. ruined that country's banking
system. I recall the picture of Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the
I.M.F. at the time, standing over President Suharto as Indonesia surrendered its
economic sovereignty. At a meeting in Kuala Lumpur in December 1997, I warned
that there would be bloodshed in the streets within six months; the riots broke
out five months later in Jakarta and elsewhere in Indonesia. Both before and
after the crisis in East Asia, and those in Africa and in Latin America (most
recently, in Argentina), these programs failed, turning downturns into
recessions, recessions into depressions. I had thought that the lesson from
these failures had been well learned, so it came as a surprise that Europe,
beginning a half-decade ago, would impose this same stiff and ineffective
program on one of its own.

Whether or not the program is well implemented, it will lead to unsustainable
levels of debt, just as a similar approach did in Argentina: The macro-policies
demanded by the troika will lead to a deeper Greek depression. That's why the
I.M.F.'s current managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that there needs to
be what is euphemistically called ''debt restructuring'' -- that is, in one way
or another, a write-off of a significant portion of the debt. The troika program
is thus incoherent: The Germans say there is to be no debt write-off and that
the I.M.F. must be part of the program. But the I.M.F. cannot participate in a
program in which debt levels are unsustainable, and Greece's debts are
unsustainable.

Austerity is largely to blame for Greece's current depression -- a decline of
gross domestic product of 25 percent since 2008, an unemployment rate of 25
percent and a youth unemployment rate twice that. But this new program ratchets
the pressure up still further: a target of 3.5 percent primary budget surplus by
2018 (up from around 1 percent this year). Now, if the targets are not met, as
they almost surely won't be because of the design of the program itself,
additional doses of austerity become automatic. It's a built-in destabilizer.
The high unemployment rate will drive down wages, but the troika does not seem
satisfied by the pace of the lowering of Greeks' standard of living. The third
memorandum also demands the ''modernization'' of collective bargaining, which
means weakening unions by replacing industry-level bargaining.

None of this makes sense even from the perspective of the creditors. It's like a
19th-century debtors' prison. Just as imprisoned debtors could not make the
income to repay, the deepening depression in Greece will make it less and less
able to repay.

Structural reforms are needed, just as they were in Indonesia, but too many that
are being demanded have little to do with attacking the real problems Greece
faces. The rationale behind many of the key structural reforms has not been
explained well, either to the Greek public or to economists trying to understand
them. In the absence of such an explanation, there is a widespread belief here
in Greece that special interests, in and out of the country, are using the
troika to get what they could not have obtained by more democratic processes.

Consider the case of milk. Greeks enjoy their fresh milk, produced locally and
delivered quickly. But Dutch and other European milk producers would like to
increase sales by having their milk, transported over long distances and far
less fresh, appear to be just as fresh as the local product. In 2014 the troika
forced Greece to drop the label ''fresh'' on its truly fresh milk and extend
allowable shelf life. Now it is demanding the removal of the five-day shelf-life
rule for pasteurized milk altogether. Under these conditions, large-scale
producers believe they can trounce Greece's small-scale producers.

In theory, Greek consumers would benefit from the lower prices, even if they
suffered from lower quality. In practice, the new retail market is far from
competitive, and early indications are that the lower prices were largely not
passed on to consumers. My own research has long focused on the importance of
information and how firms often try to take advantage of the lack of
information. This is just another instance.

One underlying problem in Greece, in both its economy and its politics, is the
role of a group of wealthy people who control key sectors, including banks and
the media, collectively referred to as the Greek oligarchs. They are the ones
who resisted the changes that George Papandreou, the former prime minister,
tried to introduce to increase transparency and to force greater compliance with
a more progressive tax structure. The important reforms that would curb the
Greek oligarchs are largely left off the agenda -- not a surprise since the
troika has at times in the past seemed to have been on their side.

As it became clear early on in the crisis that the Greek banks would have to be
recapitalized, it made sense to demand voting shares for the Greek government.
This was necessary to ensure that politically influenced lending, including to
the oligarchic media, be stopped. When such connected lending resumed -- even to
media companies that on strictly commercial terms should not have gotten loans
-- the troika turned a blind eye. It has also been quiescent as proposals were
put forward to roll back the important initiatives of the Papandreou government
on transparency and e-government, which dramatically lowered drug prices and put
a damper on nepotism.

Normally, the I.M.F. warns of the dangers of high taxation. Yet in Greece, the
troika has insisted on high effective tax rates even at very low income levels.
All recent Greek governments have recognized the importance of increasing tax
revenues, but mistaken tax policy can help destroy an economy. In an economy
where the financial system is not functioning well, where small- and medium-size
enterprises can't get access to credit, the troika is demanding that Greek
firms, including mom and pop stores, pay all of their taxes ahead of time, at
the beginning of the year, before they have earned it, before they even know
what their income is going to be. The requirement is intended to reduce tax
evasion, but in the circumstances in which Greece finds itself, it destroys
small business and increases resentment of both the government and the troika.

This requirement seems at odds, too, with another of the demands with which
Greece has been confronted: that it eliminate its cross-border withholding tax,
which is the withholding tax on money sent from Greece to foreign investors.
Such withholding taxes are a feature of good tax systems in countries like
Canada and are a critical part of tax collection. Evidently, it is less
important to ensure that foreigners pay their taxes than that Greeks do.

There are many other strange features of the troika bailout packages, in part
because each member of the troika has its favorite medicine. As doctors warn,
there can be dangerous interactions. The battle, however, is not just about
Greece. It's not even just about the money, although special interests in the
rest of Europe and some within Greece itself have taken advantage of the troika
to push their own interests at the expense of ordinary Greek citizens and the
country's overall economy. This is something I saw repeatedly firsthand when I
was at the World Bank, most noticeably in Indonesia. When a country is down,
there is all manner of mischief that can be done.

But these policy debates are really about ideology and power. We all know that.
And we understand that this is not just an academic debate between the left and
the right. Some on the right focus on the political battle: the harsh conditions
imposed on the left-wing Syriza government should be a warning to any in Europe
about what might happen to them should they push back. Some focus on the
economic battle: the opportunity to impose on Greece an economic framework that
could not have been adopted any other way.

I believe strongly that the policies being imposed will not work, that they will
result in depression without end, unacceptable levels of unemployment and ever
growing inequality. But I also believe strongly in democratic processes -- that
the way to achieve whatever framework one thinks is good for the economy is
through persuasion, not compulsion. The force of ideas is so much against what
is being inflicted on and demanded of Greece. Austerity is contractionary;
inclusive capitalism -- the antithesis of what the troika is creating -- is the
only way to create shared and sustainable prosperity.

For now, the Greek government has capitulated. Perhaps, as the lost half decade
becomes the lost decade, as the politics get uglier, as the evidence mounts that
these policies have failed, the troika will come to its senses. Greece needs
debt restructuring, better structural reforms and more reasonable primary budget
surplus targets. More likely than not, though, the troika will do what it has
done for the last five years: Blame the victim.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/greece-the-sacrificial-lamb.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The frayed flag over Athens last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALKIS
KONSTANTINIDIS/REUTERS) (SR5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO
(90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%);
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC
DEPRESSION (71%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (65%); RIOTS (65%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%);
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA
(72%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); INDONESIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); ARGENTINA
(92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); EASTERN ASIA (90%);
MALAYSIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaigns Just Started, on Paper, but Spending Began Months Ago

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, SARAH COHEN and ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words


Since late last year, presidential hopefuls have been romancing donors, hiring
staff and haunting the diners and senior centers of Manchester and Dubuque.

But on paper, most of the candidates spent virtually no money exploring a
presidential bid until very recently. According to campaign disclosures filed
with the Federal Election Commission last week, the much-promoted campaign staff
they hired had other jobs. And their many, many trips to New Hampshire and Iowa
had nothing to do with running for president.

Such accounting -- which the campaigns defended as perfectly appropriate but
some election lawyers said violated the law -- has allowed would-be candidates
to spend months testing the presidential waters while saving cash to use later
in the primaries.

It also let them tap their most loyal donors for additional funds that will not
count against the limits on contributions to their official campaigns. And it
has contributed to what some experts described as a kind of campaign Wild West,
with candidates and their lawyers testing or crossing legal boundaries stretched
thin by the advent of ''super PACs'' and by Federal Election Commission
deadlocks.

''We're in uncharted territory,'' said Kenneth Gross, a Washington election
lawyer and former Federal Election Commission general counsel. ''This campaign
cycle more than any other, we've seen more pre-announcement activity being paid
for through essentially unregulated money.''

Senators Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have billed hotel rooms in New Hampshire and
consulting fees for Iowa strategists to their re-election campaigns in Texas and
Kentucky. Gov. Scott Walker billed fees to a Texas-based fund-raiser, hired in
March, to his Wisconsin state campaign, months after he was re-elected governor
and years away from a potential 2018 Statehouse bid.

Several candidates, including former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Gov. Bobby Jindal
of Louisiana and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, reported to the Federal
Election Commission that they spent almost nothing to explore a presidential bid
until a few days before they jumped into the race. Federal law requires declared
candidates to retroactively report ''exploratory'' expenses once they enter the
race.

Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, reported hundreds of thousands of dollars
of exploratory spending, dating to May last year, on political and legal advice.
But he did not report any travel expenses before June, though he traveled
extensively during the winter and spring to meet with donors and attend
town-hall-style meetings in early primary states.

Mr. Bush and some other White House contenders say those expenses are unrelated
to their presidential campaigns and were paid for by other political
organizations -- typically not subject to the same disclosure rules and
contribution limits as presidential candidates. The campaigns argued that any
costs paid for by such groups were unrelated to exploring a presidential bid and
did not need to be repaid once the candidates announced their bids.

One such group, Conservative Solutions Project, a nonprofit set up by allies of
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, picked up the tab for extensive research of
Republican primary voters, the kind of expense that would-be candidates bore in
the past.

Other White House contenders have assigned months' worth of expenses to
campaigns for other offices.

Last summer, Mr. Paul hired Steve Grubbs, a former chairman of the Iowa
Republican Party and an expert on the state's first-in-the-nation caucuses, to
assist with his national political efforts.

Mr. Grubbs indicated in an email that he is currently advising Mr. Paul about
Iowa, and Mr. Paul's presidential campaign paid his firm, Victory Enterprises,
about $200,000 during the second quarter of 2015.

But during the first quarter of 2015, Mr. Grubbs's fees -- about $15,000 -- came
out of Mr. Paul's Senate account. A spokesman for Mr. Paul, Sergio Gor, said
those earlier payments were unrelated to the senator's presidential campaign.

Mr. Cruz is not up for re-election in Texas until 2018. But his Senate campaign
committee was billed thousands of dollars in meals, hotels, car services and
other travel expenses in Iowa and New Hampshire.

Mr. Cruz's Senate committee also paid $12,903 in April and May to a company
controlled by Bryan English, the Iowa campaign director for Mr. Cruz's
presidential bid. Mr. English's LinkedIn profile states that he began working
for Mr. Cruz's presidential campaign in April.

Another payment, billed to his Senate campaign in early March, appears to
correspond with Mr. Cruz's trip to Iowa for the Iowa Agriculture Summit. The
gathering is described on its website as ''a unique forum for potential and
likely presidential candidates from both major parties to discuss issues of
vital importance to the Iowa and national economies.''

Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Mr. Cruz, said his presidential campaign
intended to reimburse his Senate committee for any 2016-related expenses once
they had all been identified and calculated. She also said that the dates on Mr.
Cruz's reports did not necessarily reflect the actual dates the expenses were
incurred, and that it was ''standard practice to use the credit card payment
date for all the ultimate vendors.''

''We are well aware of the expenses, as they will be part of a larger
reimbursement from the presidential committee to the Senate committee that will
be disclosed on our next F.E.C. report,'' Ms. Frazier said.

Hillary Rodham Clinton, who announced in April that she would seek the
Democratic nomination, was among the more conservative candidates in accounting
for her spending. Her campaign reported $278,821 in exploratory expenses,
including office rent, staff travel and employee salaries and benefits, which
she paid for out of her own pocket.

And unlike other candidates, Mrs. Clinton maintained a low profile before
entering the race in April: A tally kept by the National Journal showed only
five public trips before April, four of them for paid speeches and none in the
early primary states.

Mr. Walker did not enter the campaign until after the period covered by the most
recent federal filings. But the committee for his campaign for Wisconsin
governor, Friends of Scott Walker, collected $6 million from January to July,
according to reports filed with regulators in Wisconsin.

His state committee, bound by Wisconsin law, was entitled to raise far more
money per donor than a presidential campaign would be. And during the first six
months of his second term, when Mr. Walker made more than 30 out-of-state trips,
Friends of Scott Walker spent $5.7 million, more than five times what the
committee spent during the equivalent six months of Mr. Walker's first term.

With any Wisconsin re-election bid at least three years away, Mr. Walker's
committee paid out nearly $500,000 in salaries and benefits. Friends of Scott
Walker also spent $114,000 on fund-raising events, 10 times what it spent on
fund-raising during the equivalent period during his first term.

His Wisconsin re-election campaign paid for hotels and meals in Iowa and New
Hampshire from January to April. The committee has paid $2.5 million to his
direct mail fund-raising firm this year, more than Mr. Walker spent with the
company during his entire 2014 re-election campaign.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Walker, Kirsten Kukowski, said the Iowa and New Hampshire
expenses covered employees who ''continued to assist in staffing and
fund-raising for the Friends of Scott Walker committee.'' The direct mail firm,
she said, was raising money only for his campaign for governor.

Mr. Bush's schedule in the months before he announced his candidacy was packed
with the kind of appearances that would-be candidates typically use to explore
their chances in a presidential race. He made three trips to New Hampshire, two
to Iowa and two to South Carolina from January to May, according to public
reports, and held numerous meetings with donors around the country.

But while Mr. Bush's presidential campaign reported spending more than $300,000
on ''testing the waters'' activity as far back as May 2014, he reported no
travel expenses for himself before June 15, the day of the official
announcement.

''He was traveling constantly in what appears to me to be 'testing the waters'
if not actually campaigning,'' said Paul S. Ryan, senior counsel to the Campaign
Legal Center, which has filed complaints with the Justice Department about Mr.
Bush's early fund-raising and spending.

Kristy Campbell, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bush, said the travel expenses were
covered by Right to Rise PAC, a political committee of which Mr. Bush was
''honorary chairman,'' and were not related to his presidential bid. ''Governor
Bush has attended events as a featured guest for organizations that have a
mission and philosophy he shares,'' Ms. Campbell said.

Mr. Jindal reported only $21,000 in spending before his official announcement on
June 23, mostly on facility rentals shortly before the announcement. Yet before
that date, the Louisiana governor took high-profile trips to New Hampshire and
Iowa to explore a possible run.

Curt Anderson, the chief strategist for Mr. Jindal's campaign, said in an
interview that those trips were paid for by two other groups, one of them a
nonprofit policy organization that Mr. Jindal founded in 2013. The campaign's
own low burn rate, Mr. Anderson suggested, was merely an indication of Mr.
Jindal's thrift.

''We'll run a very lean operation for some time and get a foothold in the early
states,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''We're going to want every dollar.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/presidential-race-just-started-not-accordin
g-to-the-spending.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin at the
Family Leadership Summit in Ames, Iowa
former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida in San Francisco
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas at the Ames event
and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky in Milford, N.H. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES
(90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY
ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (92%); TED CRUZ (89%); BERNIE SANDERS (79%); RICK PERRY (58%);
SCOTT WALKER (50%); RAND PAUL (50%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA
(92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Poised for a Leap Into Modern Pop

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PRINCE ROYCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


For the last few years, Prince Royce has had a productive career as bachata's
runner-up, thriving in the long shadow cast by the genre's biggest star, Romeo
Santos. He sings with swagger and sweetness, and over three albums, he's
demonstrated the continued vitality of bachata, a ballad-driven style born in
the Dominican Republic.

But Prince Royce, 26, who was raised in the Bronx by Dominican parents, is now
doing something Mr. Santos hasn't: release a full album in English. His new
''Double Vision'' (RCA) is exuberant and slick, sprinkled with some Latin
influences, but only a handful. Mostly, he displays fluency with modern hybrid
pop that spans hip-hop, R&B, club music and more, abetted by guest appearances
from Jennifer Lopez, Snoop Dogg and Kid Ink.

Mr. Santos has collaborated as well, with artists like Usher and Drake, but he's
brought them into bachata. Prince Royce is taking the riskier leap into pop's
untested waters. He spoke by phone from Miami, where he was rehearsing for his
current stint on the road opening for Ariana Grande. These are excerpts from the
conversation.

Q. What kind of music were you raised on?


A. My parents and grandparents listened to bachata heavy, the true bachata from
back in the day -- Juan Luis Guerra, Antony Santos. I liked the genre, but I
remember thinking ''O.K., enough of this.'' I would sing Usher's ''U Remind Me''
to the girls in school.

So how did you end up a bachata singer?


I sang everything -- R&B slow jams, Spanish slow jams, romantic reggaeton -- and
I really didn't care which I got signed for. At 17, I was working at Sprint in
the Bronx, so I could make money to fund my own music. Bachata is expensive to
produce, because of all the instruments. A lot of my friends were like ''Why
would you sing bachata? That's not gonna get you any money.'' I spent $9,000
doing that bachata demo, between engineers and musicians, [and it] actually
became my first album. Every song was from that Sprint money with the exclusion
of ''Stand by Me.''

And yet that song ends up being your breakthrough.


We launched my first Spanish single at radio -- it gets bad feedback. The label
goes, ''Choose a cover,'' so we do ''Stand by Me.'' It took off. Then we
relaunched my other single, and it went crazy, too. It's almost like I crossed
over into Spanish.

How did you decide what this album would sound like?


All my other albums have some English music. I got that idea from Juan Luis
Guerra. He has merengue, he has bachata, he has pop-leaning songs. I recorded
105 songs -- ballads, dance records, EDM, straight-up urban, Enrique type of
vibe, Ricky Martin type of vibe. It had to make sense in English, though. It's
not the same as doing bachata.

What are the differences in approach?


There's certain things I would say in Spanish that in English would be corny. Or
things I would say in English that are too street, in Spanish they might sound
vulgar. The singing is very different. Bachata is simplicity -- it's a very
clear single voice.

Did you ever think of trying to record bachata but in English?


It's not as easy as it sounds. Plus it's a very sensitive situation right now.
Core fans want to see me sing bachata -- ''Royce is singing in English! I'm not
buying it!''

Antony Santos recently invited you to record with him, though -- your family
must have been pretty excited.


They were going crazy. My uncle, he was telling me how he feels sometimes that
it's too pop. But hearing me sing over the traditional guitars got him so hype.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/prince-royce-a-bachata-star-talks-a
bout-his-first-english-album.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); RECORD
RELEASES (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); RAP MUSIC (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(73%); GRANDPARENTS (71%)

PERSON: USHER (92%); ARIANA GRANDE (79%); DRAKE (76%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (55%)

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Torture, Killings and Secrecy at Pakistan's Jails for Taliban

BYLINE: By TAHA SIDDIQUI and DECLAN WALSH; Taha Siddiqui reported from Kohat,
and Declan Walsh from London. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from
Washington, and an employee of The New York Times contributed from Pakistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words


KOHAT, Pakistan --  Niaz Bibi's son disappeared into the night, whisked away by
Pakistani soldiers who accused him of being a Taliban fighter. For 18 anguishing
months, she could find no word of his fate. Then she got a phone call.

''Come to Kohat prison,'' said the man on the other end. ''Tell nobody.''

At the prison, in northwestern Pakistan, she was directed to a separate,
military-run internment center where her son, Asghar Muhammad, was brought to
her. They touched hands through a metal grill, and she wept as he reassured her
that he would be home soon.

But when the phone rang again, one month later, an official delivered crushing
news. ''Your son is dead,'' he said. ''Come collect his body.''

Mr. Muhammad was one of dozens of detainees who have died in military detention
in Pakistan in the past year and a half, amid accounts of torture, starvation
and extrajudicial execution from former detainees, relatives and human rights
monitors. The accusations come at a time when the country's generals, armed with
extensive new legal and judicial powers, have escalated their war against the
Pakistani Taliban by sweeping into their strongholds and detaining hundreds of
people.

Critics warn that those gains may be coming at the cost of human rights,
potentially weakening Pakistan's fragile democracy and, ultimately, undermining
its counterterrorism effort.

''People live in abject fear of speaking out about what the military is doing,''
said Mustafa Qadri of Amnesty International, which received reports of more than
100 deaths in military custody in 2014.

At issue is a network of 43 secretive internment centers dotting Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa Province and the tribal belt. Little is known about the centers,
formally established in 2011 and given greater powers by a tough antiterrorism
law passed last year. Most are based in existing jails and military bases and
operate far from public view. The total number of detainees has not been made
public.

Relatives of missing people have filed 2,100 cases with the Peshawar High Court,
seeking news of their fates.

In many instances, the first news comes when a body is sent home.

Last year, for instance, a man from the Kurram tribal district told the court
that three of his six sons who were detained in Kohat had died in custody. The
man's lawyer said he had not brought a criminal complaint against the military
out of fear that his remaining sons would meet a similar fate.

The chief military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Asim Bajwa, did not respond to a
detailed list of questions about conditions at the internment centers.

Classified documents leaked last year by the former National Security Agency
contractor Edward J. Snowden made clear that American officials were aware of
widespread human rights violations by the Pakistani military, even as billions
of dollars in American military aid kept flowing to Pakistan.

Pakistani military officials tortured and killed people suspected of being
militants ''with the knowledge, if not consent, of senior officers,'' said one
American assessment in 2011.

''The military took care to make the deaths seem to occur in the course of
counterinsurgency operations, from natural causes, or as the result of personal
vendettas,'' said the document, first cited by The Washington Post.

The Obama administration, which has gradually improved its relationship with
Pakistan this year, has been muted in its public criticism of the violations and
has not invoked a provision of American law that limits assistance to foreign
militaries guilty of human rights abuses.

Instead, the administration approved more weapons for the Pakistani military: In
April, it approved almost $1 billion worth of helicopters and laser-guided
Hellfire missiles for use in counterterrorism operations.

State Department officials say they have warned the Pakistani military that the
accounts of rights violations could lead to future restrictions on military
assistance.

Until recently, accusations of such abuses by Pakistani soldiers and
intelligence officers have been sharpest in western Baluchistan Province, where
the army has faced accusations of abducting, torturing and killing people
suspected of being Baluch nationalists as part of a decade-old effort to quell a
separatist rebellion there.

The deaths at internment centers have come in conjunction with the military's
battlefield gains -- in the past year, it has seized control of much of North
Waziristan -- and a general hardening of public opinion against the Pakistani
Taliban.

Tough new antiterrorism laws have given the army greater legal powers, and the
number of deaths in military custody has declined in recent months since a
military court system, authorized by Parliament in January, became active. Fayaz
Zafar, a journalist in the Swat Valley, counted 48 bodies being returned to that
area in 2014 and five so far this year, the latest on June 2.

Experts say the military-run courts fall far short of international standards,
and their authority is being challenged in Pakistan's Supreme Court. But public
opposition to the courts has been muted, particularly since a Taliban massacre
that killed 150 people, most of them children, in December. The authorities have
taken harder action against militants on other fronts, too, lifting a moratorium
on executions that has led to 178 convicts being hanged.

The executions have drawn repeated protest from the United Nations and the
European Union but barely a whimper of public complaint.

By several accounts, conditions at the internment camps can be brutal. One
former detainee from Swat said he had been thrashed with barbed wire, reduced to
eating soap because he was fed so little and forced to give false testimony
against other detainees in court.

''I felt guilty, but I knew I would be beaten if I refused,'' said the man who,
like others, spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid further trouble.

Relatives of detainees who die in custody say they have been pressured into
conducting hurried funerals, often at night, and sometimes coerced into
declining an autopsy, even if the corpse bears signs of ill treatment. In other
instances, they say, local mullahs are forbidden from offering prayers for the
dead.

Asma Jahangir, a leading human rights lawyer, has brought a Supreme Court case
challenging the detention of 33 men. When brought to court two years ago, two of
the men said they had been tortured. They have since died in custody. ''They
supposedly had heart attacks,'' Ms. Jahangir said.

In Swat, several women have formed a protest group to seek news of their missing
relatives through street demonstrations and court actions. Their leader, Jan
Saba, said in an interview that she had ''knocked on every door'' in search of
news of her missing husband, but that she still had heard nothing.

Few dispute that many of the military detainees are linked to the Taliban. Mr.
Muhammad, the detainee who died in Kohat last year, admitted to his family that
he had spent eight months in the company of Taliban fighters before being
arrested, relatives said.

One of his brothers, Abid, said that when the family asked Mr. Muhammad what he
was doing during that time, he replied, ''The less you know, the better.''

Such tales have led civilian officials to turn a blind eye to conditions at the
internment centers. Jamaluddin Shah, the top civilian official in Kohat, said in
an interview that he did not believe the military practiced torture or conducted
executions at the center. But, he added, ''even if such cases were true, why
would that be an issue?''

''Have you seen them slaughtering people and distributing those videos?'' Mr.
Shah asked, referring to Taliban execution videos. ''Do you think they deserve
any human rights?''

But although the army has clearly weakened the Taliban in recent months, experts
warn that reports of abuse could ultimately hurt its counterterrorism effort, in
much the same way that harsh American tactics after 2001 led to global
condemnation and bolstered militant recruitment.

Ms. Jahangir, the lawyer, calls the network of internment centers ''Pakistan's
little Guantánamo Bay.''

''These laws risk turning Pakistan into a security state,'' Ms. Jahangir said.
''We cannot afford torture and killings on a mass scale, even in a time of
war.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/asia/detainees-vanish-in-secretive-facil
ities-as-pakistan-fights-taliban.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani police officers escorted Amina Janjua, the wife of a
missing person and rights activist in Islamabad, in April 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
B.K. BANGASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%);
FALSE IMPRISONMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM
(72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); LAWYERS (68%); TERRORISM (68%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); LEGISLATION (50%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (70%)

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (58%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beverly Rich, George Ingersoll

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 266 words


Beverly Nora Rich and George Morin Ingersoll were married Saturday at the home
of the groom's parents in Pasadena, Calif. The officiant was Elizabeth R. Rich,
the bride's sister who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion;Marion
I. Quinones, a sister of the groom, took part in the ceremony.

The bride, 30, is a staff lawyer in the contractual compliance division at the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a nonprofit organization in
Los Angeles that coordinates the Internet address system. She graduated from
Yale and received a law degree from the University of Southern California.

She is a daughter of Susan S. Rich and David N. Rich of Ridgefield, Conn. The
bride's father is a writer whose recent works include the novels
''Middleman''and ''Caravan of Thieves.'' Her mother is a vice president and the
general manager of West World Media, a Ridgefield company that compiles
movie-theater schedules and sells them to media outlets.

Dr. Ingersoll, 36, is the director for hybrid learning initiatives at the
Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles,
where he is also a lecturer in the field-studies program. He graduated from the
University of Southern California and received an M.B. A and, in March, a
doctoral degree in higher education from U.C.L.A.

He is a son of Sarah M. Ingersoll and Andrew P. Ingersoll. The groom's mother is
a clinical instructor in neurology at the Keck School of Medicine at the
University of Southern California. His father is a professor of planetary
science at the California Institute of Technology.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/beverly-rich-george-ingersoll
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WOOD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (74%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT
STORIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); FICTION LITERATURE (69%); NEUROSCIENCE (64%);
PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (83%); INTERNET CORP FOR
ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making Strides Toward Gender Equality in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By DAVID GELLES

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; REVALUED; Pg.
3

LENGTH: 1224 words


Marc Benioff, the co-founder and chief executive of Salesforce, was riding high
a couple of years ago. His cloud software company had weathered the financial
crisis, revenue was up, and the stock was at a record high.

But as Mr. Benioff pondered his company's evolution, he had cause for concern.

''I was in meetings with managers and they were all men,'' he said. Silicon
Valley's notorious lack of gender diversity, he realized, was a problem at
Salesforce too: ''I was really worried that there was something wrong with the
company.''

Hoping to change the ratio, Mr. Benioff started what he called the Women's Surge
in 2013. The goal was to achieve 100 percent equality for men and women in pay
and promotion, and to make sure that at least a third of all participants at any
meeting were women. His efforts received a boost when Sheryl Sandberg, the chief
operating officer of Facebook, published ''Lean In,'' bringing more discussions
about gender issues to the national stage.

As a first step, Mr. Benioff asked managers across the company to identify their
top executives, who would then receive additional leadership training. In
divisions where mostly men were nominated, Mr. Benioff told the managers to come
back with a more diverse list.

''We started adding more women proactively,'' he said.

Two of the women to receive promotions were Cindy Robbins, who became head of
human resources, and Leyla Seka, who took over the Desk.com division, a customer
service unit.

''We surged. We got bigger jobs; we got promoted,'' Ms. Robbins said. ''That's
when we started to put our heads together. We wanted to help other women as
well.''

Up to that point the Women's Surge had resulted in promotions for some, but Ms.
Robbins felt there was more to be done. At one of her regularly scheduled
meetings with Mr. Benioff, she brought Ms. Seka along, and the two made a stark
claim: Women were probably being paid less than men at Salesforce.

Mr. Benioff didn't believe it.

''I didn't know that there was a pay issue until they came to me and said so,''
Mr. Benioff said. ''My reaction was, 'I don't really think this is right. This
isn't how we operate.'  ''

Wanting to see the numbers himself, Mr. Benioff commissioned a review of all
16,000 salaries at Salesforce. ''I said 'Let's start at the top, one person at a
time,' '' he said.

As the data came in, ugly, age-old truths were revealed. It turned out that Ms.
Robbins and Ms. Seka were correct: Many women at Salesforce were being paid less
than their male counterparts.

''In certain positions, people were not being paid at the same level,'' Mr.
Benioff acknowledged.

Now Salesforce is in the process of raising the salaries of underpaid women (and
a few men), one at a time.

''Many men and women were on par,'' said Ms. Robbins, who is overseeing the
effort to review and increase salaries. ''But some salaries for men and women
needed to be adjusted.''

Citing employee confidentiality, Salesforce declined to specify which employees
received raises or how large the adjustments were.

There is still plenty of work to do at Salesforce. Among the company's top 21
executives, five are women. All seven of the executive officers in the company's
annual proxy statement are men.

Of the 11 members of Salesforce's board, two are women. And across the company,
29 percent of Salesforce employees are women.

''We have a ways to go,'' Mr. Benioff said. ''If we started the company again,
we would have a 50-50 ratio among employees, engineers and leaders. But once you
get this big, it's hard.''

Throughout Silicon Valley, the gender pay gap is receiving renewed scrutiny.
Gender discrimination lawsuits brought by Ellen Pao against the venture capital
firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and by former female employees at
Facebook and Twitter, have kept the issue in the headlines.

And while ''Lean In'' injected a note of optimism into the debate, encouraging
women to negotiate for higher salaries, remarks last year by Microsoft's chief
executive, Satya Nadella, suggested that progress might be slow.

''It's not really about asking for a raise, but knowing and having faith that
the system will give you the right raise,'' Mr. Nadella said. Not asking for a
raise, Mr. Nadella continued, was ''good karma.''

(In an internal memo, Mr. Nadella apologized for his remarks and said women at
Microsoft earned 99.7 percent as much as their male counterparts.)

Other big technology firms also say that while there may be a problem, it is not
one of their making. ''We see no evidence of a gender pay gap at Google,'' Roya
Soleimani, a Google spokeswoman, said. Verifying such claims is difficult
because companies are not required to disclose whether they pay men more than
women, or to release salary data. Yet across the national work force, and in the
technology industry in particular, the gender pay gap persists.

According to the Labor Department, men working full time make 28 percent more
than women. In Silicon Valley the situation is even worse: Men earn up to 61
percent more than their female peers, according to Joint Venture Silicon Valley,
a research group.

Such figures make claims by Microsoft and Google fall flat. ''You can explain
away all of the little things and say we have no problems,'' said Linda C.
Babcock, an economics professor at Carnegie Mellon University who studies the
gender pay gap. ''What you can't explain away are the average numbers.''

Not all of the pay gap is a result of gender bias.

''Oftentimes what happens is that women bring their lower salaries from job to
job,'' Ms. Babcock said.

And when it comes time to negotiate a salary, studies show that women are less
assertive than men. This, Mr. Benioff said, was part of the problem at
Salesforce.

Salesforce is not alone in trying to address these thorny problems. Facebook
says it reviews its compensation data for gender fairness yearly, and makes
adjustments when it finds apparent inequity.

Smaller technology companies are trying innovative approaches to address the
issue. Buffer, a social media start-up, compensates employees based on a formula
that takes seniority, experience and location into account, and it makes all its
salaries public.

SumAll, a marketing start-up, has made its salaries transparent internally. And
at Reddit, before Ms. Pao was ousted as chief executive this month, she started
a policy of not negotiating salaries when recruiting new employees.

None of these efforts are likely to bridge the gender pay gap on their own.
''There's no one solution that's going to fix things,'' Ms. Babcock said.

Instead, change is likely to arrive through a combination of more assertive
female employees like Ms. Robbins and Ms. Seka, closer monitoring of
compensation data (and possibly more transparency), and managers' efforts to
promote both sexes equally.

At Salesforce, the Women's Surge continues, with an added push from Ms. Robbins
and Ms. Seka.

''This is not a one-time fix. This is part of the work we will be doing
annually,'' said Ms. Robbins, who now oversees salaries for the company, because
of her promotion.

And while Salesforce's leadership is overwhelmingly male, Mr. Benioff is
promoting women, hiring more diverse candidates and adjusting salaries.

''Companies have to lean in, too,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/salesforce-makes-strides-toward-gende
r-equality-in-silicon-valley.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As part of an initiative to put more women into top positions at
Salesforce, a cloud software company, Cindy Robbins was promoted to head of
human resources. She and a colleague raised concerns with the chief executive
that women's pay might not be on par with that of their male counterparts. A
companywide review of salaries confirmed their suspicions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE
NAUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENDER EQUALITY (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE
(78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES
(73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(55%)

PERSON: MARC BENIOFF (90%); SHERYL SANDBERG (79%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pickup Trucks to Be Recalled as Door Slams Set Off Airbags

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 305 words


At the insistence of federal regulators, Fiat Chrysler is recalling about
843,000 pickup trucks because slamming the door too hard could set off the
airbag meant to provide head protection in a side-impact crash, according to a
report by the automaker posted Saturday on the regulator's website.

The recall includes about 667,000 vehicles in the United States and covers the
Ram 1500, 2500 and 3500 from the 2013-15 model years. In addition to the United
States vehicles, about 153,000 are being recalled in Canada, 8,300 in Mexico and
15,000 outside North America, a spokesman for Chrysler, Eric Mayne, said in an
email.

The problematic airbag, typically called an ''air curtain,'' is mounted in the
ceiling above the side windows. The side-impact sensors were not properly
calibrated, Chrysler said, so slamming the door ''with excessive force'' could
set off the air curtain. Two injuries, described as minor, were noted.

In June, the automaker informed the regulator, the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, of the problem, but contended that a recall was not
needed, according to the report. Instead, Chrysler wanted to notify owners that
a fix was available, but the safety agency disagreed and insisted on a recall
that requires every vehicle to be fixed and requires progress reports.

Carrying out recalls is an area for which the automaker has come under scrutiny.
This month, the safety agency held a hearing in which it accused Fiat Chrysler
of failing to promptly recall dangerous vehicles, citing 23 recalls involving
more than 11 million cars. That raises the possibility of a fine.

The hearing was viewed as signaling a more aggressive approach by the agency
under Mark R. Rosekind, who took over as administrator in December. The agency
has long been criticized as often being too lax on automakers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/fiat-chrysler-to-recallpickup-trucks-
with-problematic-airbags.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%);
PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS
(90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (67%)

COMPANY: FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: FCAU (NYSE) (85%); F (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES &
PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Parish of Park Benches

BYLINE: By JOSHUA JAMERSON

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1216 words


On a recent Sunday, on park benches amid public housing projects in East Harlem,
more than a dozen people sang hymns and joined hands to pray.

The park did not rest for them. The sounds of children playing and dogs yipping
made for an accompanying choir. The small group has met this way for several
years, huddled together every Sunday through the bitterness of winter and under
the scorching summer sun.

They are what remain of Our Lady Queen of Angels parish, which closed in 2007 as
part of a broad reorganization of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York
that led to the closing of dozens of churches across the New York region.
Although their church on 113th Street was boarded up, a hardy band of former
parishioners continued to meet every Sunday. Weeks became months; months turned
into years.

The Vatican announced this month that Pope Francis will visit the former
parish's school, which continues to operate around the corner and serves about
290 mostly poor immigrant children. The decision to include the school in the
pope's three-city itinerary in September, when he visits the United States for
the first time, fits with Francis' efforts to focus the church on the poor and
marginalized. But it will also cast a spotlight on the challenges facing the
Roman Catholic Church in New York and across the country.

Our Lady Queen of Angels, which opened in 1886, used to be one of eight Catholic
parishes in East Harlem. By the time the pope arrives, after another round of
church consolidations this year has concluded, there will be just four. The
successive overhauls of the archdiocese, spaced six years apart, were
necessitated by a dwindling number of priests and declining church attendance.
The changes have reshaped the archdiocese, which stretches from Staten Island to
the Catskills.

In East Harlem, the Catholic Church has been buffeted on several fronts. The
Puerto Rican faithful, who once filled the pews, have largely left for other
parts of the city. The void has been filled with Dominican and Mexican
parishioners, but many have been drawn away by storefront Pentecostal churches.

The departure from the Roman Catholic Church in the United States has taken
place over decades, but ''it's accelerated in East Harlem recently,'' said Tony
Carnes, who has spent years researching churches in the city and now runs an
online journal, A Journey Through NYC Religions.

The Catholic parishes in East Harlem have also been struggling with another
shift in the neighborhood's demographics.

''I saw great change right after 9/11,'' said the Rev. Frank Skelly, formerly of
St. Cecilia's Church on East 106th Street, which remains open. Speaking of an
influx of white residents, he said: ''The people that moved in, I don't remember
any of them coming around registering in the parish. We didn't see them except
going to the subways in the morning and coming home at night.''

Former parishioners at Our Lady Queen of Angels say that at the time of its
closing, their church had been weathering the changes in the neighborhood.
Membership had been holding steady at over 400, they said, and weekly attendance
was healthy.

Many believe the reason their church was targeted for closure was that it was
not financially self-sustaining: The congregation was made up of mostly poor
parishioners. Even years later, former members are bitter.

''This area is very poor; there is high crime,'' said Patty Rodriguez, a former
parishioner who leads the sidewalk services. ''This was something that we
needed, like a beacon. Other churches are here, but they're not in the middle of
the projects.''

Ms. Rodriguez described the church's closing as a ''betrayal.''

''I don't understand it,'' she said.

In the past, closing a parish typically meant its school would be closed as
well, Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese, said. But the
archdiocese has moved to a regional educational model involving multiple
parishes. ''The concept is to involve all of the parishes,'' he said. ''Now
Parish A and Parish B and Parish C and Parish D are all responsible for the
school.''

In the case of Queen of Angels, Mr. Zwilling said that the school's deep ties to
the community and the fact that ''it's a good school'' led to the decision to
keep it open. Enrollment has remained steady, he said.

But the school, which runs from prekindergarten to eighth grade, has also been
enduring many of the trends that have afflicted Catholic education nationwide in
recent decades. With nuns increasingly replaced by laypeople as teachers, labor
costs have risen.

And religious schools must compete with charters, which like Catholic schools
often stress discipline and character education but have the advantage of being
free. (A year's tuition and fees at Our Lady Queen of Angels today come to
$4,400.)

In fact, Queen of Angels is now part of a network of six Catholic schools in
East Harlem and the South Bronx managed by the Partnership for Inner-City
Education, which borrows much of its approach to academics and its organization
from the charter movement. The partnership has introduced new professional
development opportunities for its staff and new language arts and math
curriculums, Cecilia Greene, director of stewardship for the partnership, said.

''Would it have been nice if the parish had stayed open? Absolutely,'' Ms.
Greene said. ''Are these kids getting cheated? I don't think that's what the
principal would tell you.''

The principal, Joanne Walsh, did not respond to requests for comment.

During his visit, the pope will first meet about 250 students from Queen of
Angels and three other Catholic schools in the city. Most of the students will
be third graders.

Later, in the school's gymnasium, he will meet with immigrants and refugees,
including day laborers and a group of unaccompanied minors who formed a soccer
league in the Bronx and who had been assisted by Catholic Charities.

Although Francis' visit presents a bright moment for surviving parishes in East
Harlem, Msgr. Neil Connelly, of St. Francis de Sales at 135 East 96th Street,
cautioned against expecting too much.

''He's been to Argentina and the other places in South America, like Ecuador,
and, I mean, Mass is not going to increase because the pope is coming,''
Monsignor Connelly said. ''But what he has done marvelously is he has raised the
question of social justice.''

Still, the surprising selection of Queen of Angels for the visit -- Ms. Walsh
found out Francis would be visiting the school the morning of the Vatican's
announcement, she said that day -- offers a slender reed of hope for the group
that continues to meet on the park benches.

On the Sunday after the announcement, one worshiper handed out a news article
about the visit to the others.

Ms. Rodriguez, the leader of the park bench contingent, said the group was
brainstorming ways to bring attention to its cause, including holding a special
service the day of the pope's visit.

But at least some in the group are less sanguine about their chances of finding
a papal audience.

''It'd be great if he could come see us,'' said Margarita Barada, 91, of East
Harlem, who attended Queen of Angels for about 60 years. ''If he had the time,
of course it would be great. But he's a busy pope, you know.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/popes-visit-to-east-harlem-school-hig
hlights-churchs-challenges.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former parishioners of Our Lady of Queen of Angels, which
closed in 2007, praying this month in East Harlem. Edmundo Flores, standing,
leading a prayer in a park across East 113th Street from the church.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CATHOLIC POPES (89%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%)

PERSON: POPE FRANCIS I (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stung in 2008, Clinton Recruits Thousands of Organizers to Cover Iowa

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1238 words


NEWTON, Iowa --  Two or three days a week, for up to five hours, Liz Mueller
plants herself in a coffee shop called Uncle Nancy's.

She posts to Facebook, makes calls and meets one on one with people over
bottomless mugs of flavored black coffee. Her goal is to become known throughout
this farming community of 15,000 as ''the Hillary girl.''

Ms. Mueller, who at 24 is already a disciplined veteran of political campaigns
in Virginia, New York and Arkansas, is one of Hillary Rodham Clinton's 47 paid
organizers in Iowa, a sizable and growing army. The formidable infrastructure,
larger than any other candidate's for either party in Iowa, shows Mrs. Clinton's
determination not to leave anything to chance in the state with the first
nominating contest, where she suffered a bruising setback in her last
presidential run.

At the same time, her Iowa organization, which some might consider overkill
given Mrs. Clinton's commanding lead in Democratic polls and fund-raising, is
also meant to be a boot camp for organizers. The best ones will be in line to
lead teams or entire states in the general election if Mrs. Clinton is the
Democratic nominee.

That is no surprise, given that Mrs. Clinton hired a campaign manager, Robby
Mook, who rose through the ranks of field organizing, which has revolutionized
modern campaigns.

''One of the things that I learned last time is it's organize, organize,
organize,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a recent interview with CNN. ''And you've got
to get people committed, and then they will follow through, and then you bring
more people.''

What the news media sometimes misses in mocking Mrs. Clinton's visits to Iowa,
which have included many small encounters in coffee shops and homes, is that the
events are designed to build her organization by enlisting volunteers. She is
''the closer'' at house parties to which the campaign invites prospective
recruits, said Jerry Crawford, a senior Clinton adviser in Iowa.

With Mrs. Clinton returning to the state for three days on Saturday, she had
house parties scheduled in Carroll and the Beaverdale section of Des Moines,
which was nicknamed ''Obamadale'' during the 2012 race for its deep well of
Democratic activists.

At a recent house party in a former Grange hall in Newton, which Mrs. Clinton
did not attend, about 45 Democrats and independents were asked to sign
commitment cards to caucus for Mrs. Clinton, or to check boxes indicating that
they would volunteer to ''Knock on doors!'' or ''Be a captain!''

Jane Johnson, a retired music teacher, came after Ms. Mueller had pursued her on
Facebook and invited her for a chat at Uncle Nancy's.

In 2008, Ms. Johnson caucused for Barack Obama, who won in Iowa as Mrs. Clinton
finished third. ''He figured out how to get little people involved in his
campaign,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''I think Hillary has learned that. This time
she's on the ground, meeting with people where they work, where they
socialize.''

What the campaigns of President Obama showed, especially in key states where the
margin of victory could be as thin as two percentage points, is that organizing
can be the most potent campaign tool of all.

''Getting people engaged in the campaign is how you win,'' said Marlon Marshall,
who runs Mrs. Clinton's national field organizing efforts.

The Clinton campaign says it has opened 10 field offices and recruited more than
7,000 volunteers in Iowa.

No state is more of a proving ground. The Iowa caucus system and yearlong
intraparty competition pare the electorate for each candidate to only the most
committed supporters.

''Most of the best Democratic campaign leaders have worked in Iowa at some
point,'' said Mr. Crawford, a Des Moines lawyer. ''The experience here has been
viewed as the gold standard.''

Mrs. Clinton's Iowa caucus director, Michael Halle, worked for the Obama
campaign here in 2008 and 2012. He is a protégé of Mr. Mook, Mrs. Clinton's
campaign manager. While working on the 2004 presidential campaign of Howard
Dean, Mr. Mook adopted the organizing techniques of labor groups like the United
Farm Workers.

Rather than having paid organizers responsible for all of the recruiting, Mr.
Halle said, the Obama campaign used volunteers to bring in other volunteers,
usually people in their circles. He called it a ''paradigm shift.''

In 2012, the concept was turbocharged with digital technology, most notably a
platform called VoteBuilder, which logged every door knock and phone call.

Now the Clinton campaign has further adapted the model, dividing the most
committed volunteers into ''engagement directors,'' who are responsible for
bringing in new volunteers, and ''captains,'' who oversee specific tasks like
canvassing.

''Engagement directors help focus on building our internal organization, and the
captains work on building relationships with supporters out in the
communities,'' said Michelle Kleppe, the Iowa organizing director, who reports
to Mr. Halle.

The careful, ground-up organizing seems designed to counter the kind of threat
to Mrs. Clinton that has emerged from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose
hard-left policies have inspired huge crowds at rallies. Many at the Clinton
house party in Newton said Mr. Sanders was the candidate they were most drawn
to. ''I like everything he says,'' said Dean Lane, who farms 1,800 acres of corn
and soybeans.

''I'm a pretty wealthy farmer,'' he added. ''I think it's ridiculous the way we
treat poor people. Nobody wants to pay a dime in taxes.''

Few of the 45 in attendance signed the Clinton commitment cards or said they
were ready to volunteer for her.

Amid the generous pouring of rosé and trays of local Maytag blue cheese, the
house party seemed likely to leave a lasting glow with attendees when the time
came to choose between Mrs. Clinton and an alternative. Ms. Mueller considered
it a success because she had met many people she intended to contact over and
over until the caucuses next year.

The challenge for Mr. Sanders, who is months behind Mrs. Clinton in organizing
in Iowa, is to channel the passion of the many who turn out to hear him speak
into a campaign infrastructure. His campaign says it has hired 33 organizers and
also has 10 field offices in Iowa.

''The misconception is that there's not organizing going on around'' the
impressive crowds, said Pete D'Alessandro, the campaign coordinator for Mr.
Sanders in Iowa.

A third Democratic candidate, former Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, plans to
hire staff ''across the state'' by the end of the summer, his Iowa director,
Jake Oeth, announced in a recent memo. In addition, a ''super PAC'' supporting
Mr. O'Malley, Generation Forward, is gearing up to ''knock on doors across Iowa
soon,'' according to its Facebook page.

Most of the Republicans in the party's field of 16 have small staffs in Iowa and
have scarcely begun to organize.

But for Mrs. Clinton, stung by the lessons of 2008, it is never too early to
develop an outreach plan for the state that can grow and be tinkered with as the
caucuses approach.

''If we do our job in Iowa -- if Hillary were to win in Iowa and New Hampshire
-- I'd kind of think it's over,'' Mr. Crawford said of the Democratic nominating
race. ''If she had won Iowa last time, it would have been over.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/politics/stung-in-2008-hillary-clinton-buil
ds-a-formidable-team-in-iowa.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton at a campaign event Saturday in a
backyard in Beaverdale, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELSEY KREMER/THE DES MOINES
REGISTER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%);
CAUCUSES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC
PARTY (78%); ARMIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); FUNDRAISING
(70%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (79%)

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Upbeat Tone Mixes With Notes of Discord as Obama Visits Kenya

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and MARC SANTORA; Reuben Kyama contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1443 words


NAIROBI, Kenya --  The return of the long-lost son, as President Obama is widely
seen by Kenyans, had all the elements of a family reunion. They hugged, they
caught up, they talked about shared interests, they agreed they should get
together more often, and they had their sibling spats.

In his first visit as president to his father's home country, Mr. Obama struck a
relentlessly upbeat tone, declaring, ''Africa is on the move''; praising
progress toward democracy and economic growth; and marveling over the changes he
saw on the streets of this locked-down capital.

But he found himself at odds with his hosts on human rights and same-sex
marriage and gingerly tried to nudge them to change their ways. At a news
conference, he said the fight against terrorism in Kenya should not be used to
justify a crackdown on dissent and argued that no nation should discriminate
against gays and lesbians, comparing it to the era of segregation of
African-Americans.

''If somebody is a law-abiding citizen who is going about their business and
working in a job and obeying the traffic signs and doing all the other things
good citizens are supposed to do and not harming anybody, the idea that they are
going to be treated differently or abused because of who they love is wrong,''
Mr. Obama said. ''Full stop.''

Standing to his left on the lush lawn of the colonial-era State House, President
Uhuru Kenyatta accepted the advice on human rights without argument, saying
Kenya was trying to improve its handling of security and liberty. ''This issue
of terrorism is new to us,'' he said, ''and as it is new, we learn with each and
every step.''

But in a country where homosexuality is widely condemned, he flatly rejected Mr.
Obama's views on gay rights. ''There are some things we must admit we don't
share; our culture, our society don't accept,'' he said. ''It is very difficult
for us to be able to impose on people that which they themselves do not
accept.''

The disagreement was quickly papered over, though, as both Mr. Obama and Kenyans
focused on the historic nature of his visit. While Mr. Obama came here three
times before taking office, many Kenyans had bristled that he waited until the
seventh year of his presidency to return.

He joked in public events that he had not wanted to make the rest of Africa
jealous by coming too soon, but expressed a strong connection to Kenya. ''I'm
proud to be the first U.S. president to visit Kenya, and obviously, this is
personal for me,'' he said at a business forum. ''There's a reason why my name
is Barack Hussein Obama. My father came from these parts and I have family and
relatives here. And in my visits over the years, walking the streets of Nairobi,
I've come to know the warmth and the spirit of the Kenyan people.''

He held out Kenya as a model in a fast-growing region. ''Kenya is leading the
way,'' Mr. Obama said. ''When I was here in Nairobi 10 years ago, it looked very
different than it does today.''

He added, however, that the greatest threat to continued growth in Kenya is the
scourge of corruption, found here from the local police officer to the highest
politicians. Mr. Obama and Mr. Kenyatta released a 29-point plan for fighting
corruption in Kenya. They also signed an ''action plan'' to bolster Kenya's
security in its fight against the Shabab, the Qaeda affiliate based in Somalia.

Mr. Obama could not get out of his armored car to wander the streets as in the
past. Instead, his most intimate encounter with Kenya beyond its official
leadership came during a dinner Friday at his hotel with three dozen members of
his extended family.

Over a buffet of Kenyan food, including chicken, fish and beef, the president
heard his relatives talk about life in Kenya, and he told them a little about
life in the White House. Some of them told Mr. Obama they wished he could spend
more time in Kenya, and with them. He later said he spent part of the meal
''begging for forgiveness'' that his schedule did not allow it. ''Once I'm a
private citizen, I will have more freedom to reconnect,'' he said.

Said Obama, his uncle, said his relatives understood. ''He explained to the
family members the nature of his work,'' Said Obama said in an interview. ''But
he said his mind is always with them, his heart is always here.''

The president generally has only remote connections to most relatives living
here. He is closest to his half sister, Auma Obama, who hosted him for his first
visit as a young man. Also present on Friday night was his step-grandmother,
known as Mama Sarah but whom he calls Granny.

His Kenyan relatives have not been regular visitors to the White House. The only
Obamas who show up in publicly released White House visitor logs are Said Obama
and Sarah Obama, an aunt, who have visited just once in more than six years, and
the president's half brother Abongo, also known as Roy, who has visited three
times.

Indeed, the president acknowledged that some at dinner here on Friday were
strangers. ''In these extended families, there are cousins and uncles and
aunties that show up that you didn't know existed but you're always happy to
meet,'' the president said with a laugh. ''And there were lengthy explanations
in some cases of the connections. But it was a wonderful time.''

Mr. Obama had a long day of activities. He addressed the sixth annual Global
Entrepreneurship Summit meeting, laid a wreath at a memorial to the victims of
the 1998 bombing of the United States Embassy here and attended a state dinner
in the evening, where he was serenaded in English and Swahili by a group that
sang a song called ''Coming Home.'' In his toast, Mr. Obama joked that critics
back home no doubt believed he had come ''to look for my birth certificate,''
adding, ''That is not the case.''

He made no mention of Mr. Kenyatta's indictment for crimes against humanity. Mr.
Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, were charged in the International
Criminal Court with instigating violence after disputed 2007 elections that
killed more than 1,000. The case against Mr. Kenyatta was dropped in December,
but the charges stand against Mr. Ruto, who met with Mr. Obama.

Mr. Obama referred obliquely to that violence but praised a revised constitution
adopted afterward, and said the subsequent election in 2013 that elevated Mr.
Kenyatta and Mr. Ruto ''showed growth in the election process.''

He defended his Power Africa initiative, a multibillion-dollar effort announced
two years ago that has produced little electricity for a power-starved
continent. ''I would just point out that if you wanted to start a power plant in
the United States, it doesn't take a year to get that done,'' he said.

Rejecting comparisons to President George W. Bush, whose efforts to curb AIDS
and malaria in Africa are warmly remembered, he said, ''This isn't a beauty
contest between presidents.''

The excitement at his visit was palpable from the gated homes with manicured
lawns in grand old wealthy neighborhoods like Muthaiga and Karen to the slums of
Kibera, where sewage runs in the street and families live in mud and tin shacks.
''Obama is a source of inspiration to many,'' said Babu Owino, president of the
Kenya University Students Organization. ''The students here love him so much.
They are die-hard fans. When they look at his background, he's someone they are
able to identify with.''

So much so that before the visit, Mr. Owino wrote to the American ambassador
here claiming at least 17 students had threatened to commit suicide if Mr. Obama
did not visit the University of Nairobi. (The president did not, but no suicides
were reported.)

Mr. Obama transcended the tribal differences that have divided society. Mr.
Obama's family is Luo while Mr. Kenyatta and his ruling elite are Kikuyu. But
Solomon Wekesa, 31, a security guard who himself is Luya, said it did not matter
to most Kenyans.

''In Obama, they see a man who does not see tribe, a man who is an open man,''
he said. ''He sees Kenya as one nation.''

Others hoped the visit would bring change. ''I want Obama to push for reforms in
Kenya's fight against corruption to enable the poor access to a better
livelihood,'' said Nancy Ayako, 21, who lives in the Kibera slum settlement.
''There are so many young people who have been marginalized, like slum
dwellers.''

But expectations may have surpassed reality. For Rogers Mogaka, a community
organizer, Mr. Obama's visit came too late. ''Why now?'' he asked. ''Look, he is
not coming here to meet with the common man on the street.''

He added, ''There are a number of issues that we think need to be addressed that
affect the common man in Kenya.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/africa/in-kenya-obama-hails-africas-grow
th-and-potential.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Guests at a welcoming ceremony for President Obama in Nairobi,
Kenya, on Saturday were quick to take out their cameras. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); WAR ON
TERROR (78%); FAMILY (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (74%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION
(74%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%);
MARRIAGE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%);
TERRORISM (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%)

COUNTRY: KENYA (99%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo's Plan for M.T.A. Budget Gap Revives Issue of City's Financial Role

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 891 words


For decades, it has been New York's great underground contradiction: The
sprawling transit system -- the municipal feature perhaps most likely to spawn
complaints from city residents about their government -- is operated by the
state.

And for at least as long, elected officials have moved aggressively to
characterize mass transit troubles as someone else's responsibility.

''If you don't like the subways,'' Mayor Edward I. Koch said often on
television, according to Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, ''don't blame me, blame Ravitch.''

It was against this historical backdrop that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat,
last week delivered a long-awaited update on the agency's five-year capital
plan, reinvigorating familiar debates about the proper scope of the city's role
in its own transit destiny.

On Thursday, the governor said that the state had identified a way to close a
yawning gap in the transportation authority's $32 billion plan.

For one, the overall figure would be reduced by more than $2 billion, according
to a letter sent to city and state officials this week by the authority's
chairman, Thomas F. Prendergast. The state would pay $8.3 billion toward closing
the gap, though neither Mr. Prendergast nor Mr. Cuomo said where all of the
money would come from. About $7 billion will come from the federal government
and private sector sources, transit officials have said.

As a final bridge, Mr. Cuomo said, the city would be asked to spend more than $3
billion, a significant expansion of its previous share of the funding. Mr. Cuomo
suggested cooperation would be essential to avoid a fare increase.

The city is being asked to spend ''a fraction of what the state would be
spending,'' he said on Thursday in an interview with NY1, ''so I think it's
fair.''

For the administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio -- a perpetual target of the
governor's in recent months -- the request came as a surprise. The city recently
committed to paying a total of $657 million over five years, slightly more than
the $100 million a year it has historically contributed.

Mr. Cuomo had suggested earlier in the week that the city had a surplus from
which it could draw much more, a characterization that a City Hall spokeswoman
contested.

''I didn't know the M.T.A. was a city authority,'' the spokeswoman, Amy
Spitalnick, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday in response to the governor's
comments. ''Do they want to give us control? Please?''

This was not exactly a formal request. Unlike some of his competitors in the
2013 race for mayor, Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, has not called for the city to
take control of the transportation authority.

It remained unclear on Friday where any additional city money might come from.
The de Blasio administration said the state's request for $3.2 billion over five
years would amount to more than 10 percent of what the city would typically
spend on capital projects over the same period.

The governor said that the transportation authority, whose chairman he selected,
had been responsible for determining the proper spending levels for the state
and the city under the plan.

''I could argue that it's a little burdensome on the state,'' he said. ''But I
would accept the M.T.A.'s numbers just to get it done and to go forward.''

City officials have suggested that they would be open to increasing their
funding under the right circumstances -- in exchange, presumably, for greater
influence over how the money is spent.

Under the current structure, the mayor is permitted to recommend just four
people for appointment to the authority's 17-member board. (The State Senate has
not confirmed three of Mr. de Blasio's recent nominees; one of Mr. Cuomo's
nominees -- a former top aide, Larry Schwartz -- did receive confirmation.)

''City priorities are not necessarily reflected in the plan,'' said Kathryn S.
Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a coalition of business
leaders. ''They're going to want to participate in deciding what's needed and
how their dollars are going to be spent.''

Ms. Wylde noted the city's role under Mr. de Blasio's predecessor, Michael R.
Bloomberg, in financing an extension of the No. 7 train as part of an effort to
spur development on the Far West Side of Manhattan. (After several delays, the
new station on 11th Avenue is expected to open in September, the authority
said.)

Other megaprojects, like the East Side Access initiative to connect the Long
Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal, have been criticized as delivering
limited benefits to the city.

Mr. Prendergast has suggested that the Second Avenue subway fits a similar
profile to the 7 line extension, asking the city for about $1 billion for the
project's next phase.

Transit advocates, who have often accused the governor of being inattentive to
mass transit, generally cheered his recent statements, even as some inquired
about how the state might come up with its multibillion dollar share.

Mr. Cuomo's office said this would be negotiated with the State Legislature.

''Our chief concern is, how heavily will the new capital program rely on debt?''
asked Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a rider advocacy group.
''The M.T.A. already owes $34 billion, more than the national debt of dozens of
foreign countries.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/cuomos-plan-to-close-mta-funding-gap-
revives-familiar-debate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%);
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Feedback on Housing-Law Ruling

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words


Some mortgage lenders are predicting costly repercussions from last month's
Supreme Court decision upholding a longstanding legal tool for challenging
housing and lending practices that have a discriminatory effect, if not an
obvious discriminatory intent.

The court's 5-4 vote supporting ''disparate impact'' claims under the Fair
Housing Act ''will promote litigation that would itself cause reputational
damage, serious business disruption, and extraordinary financial expense -- even
when a lender eventually prevails,'' said Camden R. Fine, the president and
chief executive of the Independent Community Bankers of America, in a written
statement.

The decision could also lead to higher costs for consumers, said Adam Thorpe,
the president and chief operating officer of Castle & Cooke Mortgage, an
independent mortgage lender in Salt Lake City. In his estimation, the ruling
lowers the bar for bringing an action against a lender for alleged fair lending
violations. ''Prudent lenders'' will now want to step up their monitoring
efforts, he said, and the added cost will ultimately be built into loan pricing.

What's more, Mr. Thorpe said, ''smaller lenders that are already struggling to
meet regulatory burdens, they could throw in the towel.''

But other industry experts say a sky-is-falling response to the decision is
overblown and unproductive. Rick Roque, the managing director of retail at
MiMutual Mortgage, in Southfield, Mich., said lenders should set aside their
''defense mechanisms'' concerning the issue, take a serious look at their
practices and find ways to go after the large ''emerging markets'' of blacks and
Latinos.

''This presents a tremendous opportunity for banks to expand homeownership to
classes that have been left out since the recession,'' Mr. Roque said. ''It's
not just an underserved market, but it's also a tremendous financial opportunity
that banks are passing on because of perceived risk.''

That perception -- that these groups of borrowers are higher-risk -- may be
grounded in discriminatory thinking, even if lenders aren't aware of it, he
said. As an example, he noted that it was not uncommon for middle-class
immigrant or minority borrowers to have two or even three jobs. They may have a
solid record of being able to cover their rent and bills. But a mortgage lender
may be uncomfortable with someone who isn't a single-income earner, and not view
the multiple jobs as stable or long-term enough to warrant credit.

Another example: Latino borrowers might obtain money from a number of relatives,
in the United States or another country, for a down payment. ''But if they
submit a number of gift letters'' explaining where the money came from, ''the
lender might view it suspiciously,'' Mr. Roque said. ''Even though culturally,
it might be perfectly normal.''

Data collected in 2014 under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act showed that of 1.6
million conventional purchase mortgage loans originated the previous year, less
than 15 percent went to borrowers of color, according to Nikitra Bailey, an
executive vice president of the Center for Responsible Lending. ''The private
market is just ignoring a class of borrowers that it needs to do business
with,'' she said. She disputed the assertion that the recent decision would
raise costs for lenders, noting that the precedent has been in place for more
than 40 years, and in that time, ''we haven't seen our courts flooded with
litigation.'' The lending industry should see this ''as an opportunity to ensure
that all creditworthy borrowers have access to the credit they deserve,'' she
said.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/feedback-on-supreme-courts-housing-
law-ruling.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate
(Source: HSH.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT REGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FAIR LENDING
(90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL
ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%);
BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DISCRIMINATION
LAW (77%); MINORITY GROUPS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); PRICES (76%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%);
INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); APPEALS (73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); BUSINESS
INTERRUPTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (71%)

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%)

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal With It

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MIRSKY.

Jonathan Mirsky, a journalist and historian specializing in China, was named
British International Reporter of the Year in 1990 for his dispatches from
Tiananmen Square.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1344 words


THE CHINA CHALLENGEShaping the Choices of a Rising Power By Thomas J.
ChristensenIllustrated. 371 pp. W.W. Norton & Company. $27.95.  ''China has
major incentives to avoid unnecessary conflict,'' Thomas J. Christensen writes.
But the United States has no experience ''tackling the least appreciated
challenge: persuading a uniquely large developing country with enormous domestic
challenges and a historical chip on its national shoulder to cooperate actively
with the international community.''

Christensen, a professor of politics at Princeton, served from 2006 to 2008 in
the Bush administration as the deputy assistant secretary of state for East
Asian and Pacific affairs. While he didn't make policy, he was often present as
a ''backbencher'' when China was being debated. (I would say he had a box seat.)
He knows Chinese, and is well connected to Chinese academics, although seemingly
not to more ordinary Chinese, whose opinions he does not report. I don't always
agree with what he writes, but he is unarguably qualified to make the judgments
he does. And when he contends, with the clarity that distinguishes his
narrative, that China ''is by far the most influential developing country in
world history,'' and emphasizes that it ''is being asked to do more at present
than any developing country has in the past,'' I take him seriously.

He deals here with the crises and collisions that bedevil China-United States
relations. He notes the big ideas that invariably add to the bedevilments. Many
Chinese, whether sincerely or not, refer to imperialism and colonialism as
factors that can never be forgotten, which the Communist Party overheats with
waves of nationalism. The United States has numerous allies. Beijing has exactly
one, North Korea, and some of Christensen's high-ranking or well-informed
interlocutors confide that this ally is a vexatious one. The grand problems also
include climate change; nuclear proliferation, especially from Pyongyang and
possibly Iran; the nature of Taiwan's sovereignty; Â­applying sanctions or not
to third countries (Beijing usually vetoes these in the United Nations);
Myanmar; who has what rights in the South China Sea. And add human rights in
China and internationally -- issues Christensen barely Â­mentions.

There are also the sudden thunderclaps, impossible to foresee but with immense
consequences, like the accidental American bombing of the Chinese Embassy in
Belgrade in 1999 during the Kosovo war, and the crash, in 2001, of a Chinese
fighter jet into an American Navy intelligence plane in international air space.
In that incident, the Chinese pilot died; the American aircraft landed in China,
and the crew was briefly detained. Each of these events Beijing labeled an act
of American Â­aggression.

Any of these issues, whether long-term or sudden, would be a first-class
diplomatic headache. Christensen was present for some, and has discussed others
with Chinese experts. Some of those he talked to characterized most American
positions as moves to humiliate China, or even to attempt regime change.

Christensen seems to be unusually evenhanded. On climate change he states that
China and the United States together produce 40 percent of the world's
greenhouse gasses. China is the greater culprit now, but he suggests that the
first world created this problem and that China has made some efforts to limit
its polluting. He notes as well that many third-world countries cannot see how
they can advance without burning fossil fuel. Recalling the United Nations'
attempted resolution in 2007 condemning Myanmar for human rights violations,
which Beijing vetoed, he says that Washington and its allies were trying to
shame the junta and implicitly its supporters, notably China. This, Christensen
writes, seemed unnecessary at the time and perhaps even foolish: ''No matter how
much one reviled the junta, it was the only feasible governing force.'' To
overthrow it ''would produce more chaos in a country that was already suffering
from violent regional and ethnic conflict'' and lead to further convulsions that
its giant neighbor, China, did not want. When change came in a moderate way,
leaving the junta in charge but freeing political dissidents like Aung San Suu
Kyi, Beijing did not intervene.

As for North Korea, Christensen believes that some of his Chinese contacts are
alarmed by Pyongyang's unpredictability and internationally dangerous behavior.
But for Beijing to back away from Pyongyang, they told him, would be seen inside
China as a betrayal of the hundreds of thousands of People's Liberation Army
soldiers who died in Korea under Mao's orders. To abandon North Korea now,
Christensen says, could lead to a final judgment on Mao as a ''terrible
economic, political and national security leader of the P.R.C. How could one
justify keeping his portrait over Tiananmen?''

In his attempts to be fair, Christensen rarely loses his balance. He notes
without equivocation China's enormous corruption; disdain for many international
and regional legal norms; Internet hacking; academic plagiarism; the dire
effects of the one-child policy; and the thousands of local and regional
uprisings by its increasingly poor peasants. He just Â­touches on the
vilification of the Dalai Lama and the imprisonment of the Nobel Peace Prize
winner Liu Xiaobo.

But he recognizes China's neuralgic fears that its sovereignty remains in danger
from neocolonialists and neo-Â­imperialists, and insists that ''Chinese patriots
have every reason to reject a demand that they become 'Western,' but no reason
to reject .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. basic standards of universal human
rights and the spread of democracy itself.'' Those standards, he notes, are
upheld by many in Hong Kong, now a part of China.

Christensen is aware that China largely escaped the international financial
crisis and that in some respects its economic size and successes have been
daunting, at least until recently. Yet, in 2013, he adds, its per capita G.D.P.
was the equal of Ecuador's, and ''nobody is expecting Â­Ecuadoreans to
contribute greatly to global governance.'' Furthermore, Christensen bluntly
contends, Beijing, which uses its military against dissenting civilians, and
which briefly experienced international sanctions following the Tiananmen
demonstrations, is ''predictably less comfortable than the capitals of the
advanced liberal democracies with condemning, sanctioning and intervening in
authoritarian regimes in the developing world.''

Unlike some of his political science colleagues, he does not foresee a war with
China (though he does not rule one out). Still, he points out that for the
foreseeable future China's military is no match for America's. He slaps down
those Â­Beijing-watchers who see China as being on the verge of ruling the
world.

So what to do? Beijing should pay attention. It is lucky to have in Thomas
Christensen someone who can be severely critical about what's going on inside
China, but who wants to deal. He observes that ''successful diplomacy is
generally more about managing problems, not solving them outright.'' Where does
China fit into that? The United States must find a strategy that ''accepts and
even encourages China's rise to greater power and prominence in international
politics but shapes China's choices so that it is more likely to forgo bullying
behavior. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Success requires an unusual mix of
strength and toughness on the one hand and a willingness to reassure and listen
to the Chinese on the other.''

As one who has met Chinese dissidents who were later imprisoned, seen many times
how China behaves in Tibet and watched its army mow down peaceful demonstrators
in Tiananmen Square, I find much of this hard to swallow. But because of
Christensen's powerful and reasonable book, seeing China as it sees itself is
not an entirely indigestible idea.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/the-china-challenge-by-thomas-j-c
hristensen.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Conducting a military band at the Great Hall of the People in
Beijing earlier this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); HISTORY (76%); EMBARGOES &
SANCTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); NAVIES (65%);
AIRCRAFT PILOTS (63%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); BOMBINGS (60%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, &
NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (77%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (68%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF (92%); MYANMAR (79%); KOSOVO (79%); TAIWAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
(79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SERBIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Candidates Caught in Middle as Words Ring Hollow to Activists

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1126 words


In the space of a few hours last week, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Jeb Bush
showed how their parties' two best-funded candidates are grappling with
insistent, intensifying demands from activists on the left and the right who are
deeply disenchanted with the political establishment.

Before a heavily African-American audience in South Carolina, Mrs. Clinton
sought to outflank her Democratic rivals who have struggled with questions of
race. ''It's essential that we all stand up and say, loudly and clearly, that,
yes, black lives matter,'' she said on Thursday. ''And we all have a
responsibility to face these hard truths about race and justice honestly and
directly.''

But Mrs. Clinton offered little in the way of ideas to satisfy activists in
search of far-reaching solutions to systemic discrimination.

Later the same day in rural New Hampshire, Mr. Bush sought to strike a balance
between his view that Republicans must be inclusive to win and a desire not to
give in to what he called excessive political correctness.

''A Republican will never be elected president of the United States again unless
we campaign like this,'' he said, spreading his arms wide. It was an implicit
rejection of Donald J. Trump's incendiary remarks about immigrants.

Yet, talking to reporters after the event, Mr. Bush was nearly incredulous that
Martin O'Malley, a Democratic contender and former Maryland governor, had
apologized for telling demonstrators who interrupted him at Netroots Nation last
weekend that ''all lives matter.''

''We're so uptight and politically correct now that you apologize for saying
lives matter?'' he said, dismissing ''black lives matter'' as ''a slogan.''

The well-organized ''Black Lives Matter'' movement against discrimination and
police brutality, on the one hand, and conservatives uneasy about immigration
and assimilation, on the other, reflect sharply different currents of anger in
American life. But the demands that each constituency is placing on the leading
presidential candidates reflect a growing unwillingness to accept the usual
assurances, an expectation of action -- and discomfiting strains on the
political center.

''There's tension at the seams of both political coalitions,'' said Pat
Buchanan, the conservative commentator, who has run Republican and third-party
campaigns for president.

On the left, young black activists, furious about discrimination and inequities
in criminal justice, say the usual rhetorical nods toward equality, incremental
increases in funding for housing or education, and vague promises of change from
mainstream political leaders are inadequate. Instead, they are confronting
Democrats, imploring them to offer specific solutions for what they see as an
urgent crisis.

Tia Oso, the black activist who interrupted Mr. O'Malley's speech at the
progressive Netroots gathering in Phoenix, cited ''an emergency.''

''The most important and urgent issue of our day is structural violence and
systemic racism that is oppressing and killing black women, men and children,''
Ms. Oso wrote on Mic.com.

And Jamilah Nasheed, a Missouri state senator from heavily black northern St.
Louis, near the center of protests over the fatal shooting of an unarmed black
man in Ferguson last year, said the anger was moving ''beyond protest.''

''You're seeing a movement now,'' Ms. Nasheed said, describing a ''boil-over of
anger and hopelessness.''

Mrs. Clinton was praised for a speech on race she delivered days after the
massacre at a black church in Charleston, S.C., last month. But several black
leaders questioned whether her early words would translate into calls for
substantive changes beyond the debate over policing.

In the eyes of many black liberals, no candidate is addressing race and poverty
with the boldness of a Robert F. Kennedy.

On the right, by contrast, blue-collar conservatives have responded to Mr.
Trump, who has given voice to their fears about what they see as America's
identity crisis.

''It's not only illegal immigration, but mass immigration and the changing
character and composition of the country that unsettles people,'' Mr. Buchanan
said.

Mr. Trump's success so far suggests that the eventual Republican nominee could
face difficulties persuading many in the party to adopt a more accommodating
tone and policies toward immigrants.

A recent Washington Post-ABC poll found that his support came largely from white
voters with high school diplomas, a constituency that was most likely to believe
that immigration does not strengthen American society.

While Mr. Bush has continued to advocate a pathway to legal status for those in
the country illegally, some of his rivals have mused about a harder line. ''The
next president and the next Congress need to make decisions about a legal
immigration system that's based, first and foremost, on protecting American
workers and American wages,'' Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin said in April. And
in an ad aired by his ''super PAC'' in Iowa, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana took
on the matter of assimilation directly, saying that he was ''tired of hyphenated
Americans'' and that immigrants must ''adopt our values.''

Should the two parties nominate Mr. Bush and Mrs. Clinton, heirs in the
country's leading political families, it is not difficult to imagine a
conservative candidate's mounting a populist third-party run, much as Mr.
Buchanan once did, that taps into anti-trade and anti-immigration fervor on the
right.

The enhanced expectations and louder shouting from both ends of the political
spectrum are a natural outgrowth of President Obama's administration, said
Michael Kazin, a Georgetown University historian. Ambitious presidents who usher
in or oversee periods of sweeping change, he said, often lead to the creation of
pressure groups on their own side and a fiercer backlash from the opposition.

The John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson presidencies, Mr. Kazin said, did not
just spawn an idealistic generation of Democratic baby boomers. ''They created
the New Left and black freedom movement, both of which became quite critical of
Kennedy, Johnson and the entire political establishment,'' he said.

The sense, then and now, is that ''their problems are not being addressed, and
nobody in either party is truly addressing them,'' Mr. Kazin said

But Elon James White, the founder of ''This Week in Blackness,'' a digital media
platform, who also works with Netroots Nation, said that would have to change.

''Folks are going to have to learn,'' he said, ''that people are not going to
sit around anymore and let this ride.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/candidates-caught-in-middle-as-words-ring-h
ollow-to-activists.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A town-hall-style meeting in Gorham, N.H., at which Jeb Bush
spoke on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%);
DISCRIMINATION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%);
CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT
(69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JEB BUSH (92%); DONALD TRUMP (76%); MARTIN
O'MALLEY (57%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immoderation

BYLINE: By ADRIAN CHEN.

Adrian Chen is a New York-based writer whose work has appeared in Wired, New
York magazine, and The New York Times. He last wrote for the magazine about
Russian troll farms.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST WORDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1342 words


Let us begin with a toast to the unsung hero of the social-media age: the
moderator. Slayer of Internet trolls! Extinguisher of flame wars! Bulwark
against race hatred and child pornography! The Internet as we know it could not
exist without moderators, constantly pruning back the wild undergrowth of human
nature that proliferates there. Nearly every major commercial site with user
content is policed by human moderators. Some are unpaid volunteers who agree to
enforce administrators' rules; others are outsourced workers in the Philippines
who flag dirty pictures posted to social media, or domestic employees who delete
libelous comments. If you want to see what the Internet looks like without
moderators ... well, I'm not even going to tell you where to go, because we'd
all be raided by the F.B.I. Let's just say it's immoderate.

Moderators are, by definition, forces for stability and civility in the raucous
digital realm. Or that is, they're supposed to be. Recently, the influential
online message board Reddit was plunged into chaos by its army of volunteer
moderators. It all started in early July, after Reddit abruptly fired an
employee named Victoria Taylor. Taylor was well liked by Reddit's moderators.
She was the liaison between the company and its hugely popular Ask Me Anything
section, where celebrities and other notable people answer questions from the
Reddit community. Although unpaid, the moderators of Ask Me Anything approach
their task more seriously than many people do their day jobs. Upset by Taylor's
disappearance, they shut down their entire forum, which gets millions of visits
every day; this exploded into a sitewide protest, as dozens of other moderators
locked down their forums as well. They wanted to give voice to their feeling, in
one moderator's words, that the company's bosses ''do not respect the work that
is put in by the thousands of unpaid volunteers who maintain the communities of
the 9,656 active subreddits,'' as the individual forums are called.

The Reddit Revolt, as it came to be known, made headlines worldwide and made
Reddit useless, at least temporarily. Much of the ire was aimed at Reddit's
interim chief executive, Ellen Pao. A petition demanding Pao's resignation
reached more than 200,000 signatures, and she was inundated with abuse on social
media, some of it sexist and racist.

A week later, Pao resigned. Pao's official reason was that Reddit's board asked
for a level of growth she felt she could not deliver. (Reddit recently raised
$50 million in venture capital.) Nevertheless, the companywide disruption
revealed the extreme power of the site's moderators, and the unpredictability
with which they wield it. At the height of the controversy, Reddit's chairman
and co-founder, Alexis Ohanian, pleaded with moderators to reactivate their
subreddits. He sounded rather like a zookeeper, trying to coax back into its
cage the angry lion who had just devoured a park guest. There is nothing
moderate about holding the 10th-most-visited website in America hostage over a
personnel change. How could a site's moderators turn into its main source of
volatility?

The answer springs straight from the dominant business model online, in which
everyone is trying to capture enormous traffic while employing as few people as
possible. At Reddit, which Condé Nast purchased in 2006, then spun off in 2011,
more and more work has been outsourced to unpaid moderators as the site and its
traffic have grown. Many of the most popular subreddits have been created by
their moderators, who retain effective control over them. The idea of
''moderating'' presupposes an outside vision of what is and isn't acceptable in
a conversation. But when moderators set their own rules, with no incentive to
conform to anyone else's standard, they can look a lot less like custodians and
a lot more like petty tyrants.

Today Reddit is governed, insofar as it's governed at all, by a cabal of
high-powered moderators who coordinate with administrators in private forums.
The most influential of these forums, Modtalk, allows access only to moderators
who oversee subreddits with a combined subscriber base of at least 25,000. A
convoluted moderator culture has developed, full of intrigue and drama.
Moderators are deposed after power struggles; the community is periodically
wracked by allegations of payola and other schemes in which moderators game
Reddit for personal gain. Moderators parse Reddit employees' every post to see
if other moderators are in or out of favor with the company. When Ohanian made
his first public comment during the Reddit Revolt, he first petitioned Modtalk,
and only afterward spoke to the general masses.

The moderator class has become so detached from its mediating role at Reddit
that it no longer functions as a means of creating a harmonious community, let
alone a profitable business. It has become an end in itself -- a sort of
moderatocracy in which the underlying logic of moderation has been turned on its
head. Under the watch of its moderators, Reddit has become a haven for
extremists: The Southern Poverty Law Center recently called it the new ''home on
the Internet'' for white supremacists, and it also functions as the central
organizing point for the dubious ''men's rights'' movement. For years, a
moderator with the handle Violentacrez presided over an empire of execrable
content on the site, including a hugely popular subreddit that shared sexualized
photos of under-age girls, and another that glorified violence against women.
(In 2012, when I wrote an article for Gawker outing Violent­acrez's real
identity as a programmer in Texas, other moderators rallied to defend him, going
so far as to ban links to Gawker.) Any attempt to enforce real-world norms is
rejected by the moderatocracy as impinging on their absolute authority over
their miniature domains. Even before the revolt, Ellen Pao sparked much
consternation by instituting an anti-harassment policy and banning a handful of
subreddits with particularly vile content -- Redditors nicknamed her Chairman
Pao. Ohanian has excused Reddit's underbelly as an inevitable result of human
nature. But Reddit has made a strategic choice to abdicate responsibility to the
moderatocracy in exchange for the promise of meteoric growth, even if its new
chief executive, Steve Huffman, recently vowed to crack down on the worst
subreddits.

History shows that things end poorly for companies that rely too heavily on
moderatocracies. Probably the closest analogy to Reddit is AOL, which in the
1990s built a corps of thousands of volunteer ''community leaders'' to moderate
its chat rooms and forums. Those community leaders eventually revolted, too;
some sued for back pay, and AOL was forced to settle for a reported $15 million
in 2010. The tension is intrinsic: Unpaid moderators will always feel the
company does not appreciate them enough for the free labor they donate.
Eventually, the company will change in a way that upsets the moderators. A tiny
spark can ignite the built-up resentment.

So what will become of the moderatocracy? The hottest tech companies no longer
want to run communities, with all their messy, unprofitable human drama.
Instead, they want to make platforms: slick, frictionless, infinitely
monetizable. Companies like Facebook and Google try to create the illusion that
their platforms are moderated by algorithms, not people. They quietly employ
huge teams of human moderators, working under strict nondisclosure agreements,
and yet these platforms feel the same pressure as Reddit to expand faster than
their human resources allow. So an increasing amount of what once was moderation
now falls to normal users like you and me. We flag offensive photos on Facebook
and frauds on Airbnb. We report the troll on Twitter, and when they are quickly
suspended, we feel extremely gratified -- and extremely powerful. The
moderatocracy lives on inside us all.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/when-the-internets-moderators-are-any
thing-but.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAMMA-KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES) (MM12) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN) (MM12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); PORNOGRAPHY
(78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%);
RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); LIBEL &
SLANDER (73%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); OUTSOURCING (70%);
EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (70%); PETITIONS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

PERSON: ELLEN PAO (79%)

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 5004 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in Connecticut. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to ctcal@nytimes.com

Comedy

HARTFORD Infinity Hall Hartford Robyn Schall, Wali Collins, Joe DeVito and Shaun
Eli. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front Street.
860-560-7757; infinityhall.com.

HARTFORD XL Center Kapil Sharma and Family. July 31 at 8:30 p.m. $45 to $250. XL
Center, 1 Civic Center Plaza. 860-249-6333; xlcenter.com.

MANCHESTER The Hartford Funny Bone Mo Mandel. July 30 through Aug. 2. $10 and
$15. The Hartford Funny Bone, 194 Buckland Hills Drive. hartfordfunnybone.com;
860-432-8600.

OLD SAYBROOK The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center Paula Poundstone. July
31 at 8 p.m. $75 and $80. The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center, 300 Main
Street. 877-503-1286; thekate.org.

WESTPORT Levitt Pavilion The Treehouse Comedy Club, stand-up. July 28 at 7 p.m.
Free. Levitt Pavilion, 40 Jesup Road. 203-221-2153; levittpavilion.com.

Film

HARTFORD Cinestudio ''The Farewell Party'' (2014), directed by Sharon Maymon and
Tal Granit. Through July 30. ''The Third Man'' (1949), directed by Carol Reed.
July 31 through Aug. 6. $7 and $9. Cinestudio, 300 Summit Street. 860-297-2463;
cinestudio.org.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Little England'' (2013), directed by
Pantelis Voulgaris. Through July 26. $7 to $9. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art,
600 Main Street. thewadsworth.org; 860-278-2670.

STAMFORD Avon Theater ''Boogie Nights'' (1997), directed by Paul Thomas
Anderson. July 28 at 8:30 p.m. $7 to $12. Carte Blanche members, free. Avon
Theater, 272 Bedford Street. 203-967-3660; avontheatre.org.

For Children

ANSONIA Ansonia Nature Center Wilderness Skills Summer Nature Camp. Ages 11 and
up. July 27 through 31. $150 and $175. Ansonia Nature Center, 10 Deerfield Road.
ansonianaturecenter.org; 203-736-1053.

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''Once on This Island Jr.,'' musical. July 31 at 7
p.m. $15 to $24. The Bijou Theater, 275 Fairfield Avenue. thebijoutheatre.com;
203-332-3228.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum ''Family Studio Workshop: Mixed-Media Masterpieces.''
July 26 at 1 p.m. $7 and $15. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive. 203-869-0376;
brucemuseum.org.

NORWALK Maritime Aquarium ''Picture the Moment: International Children's Art
Exhibit.'' Through Sept. 1. ''Flutter Zone,'' walk-through with tropical
butterflies from three continents. Through Sept. 7. $12.95 to $19.95. Daily, 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. Maritime Aquarium, 10 North Water Street. 203-852-0700;
maritimeaquarium.org.

OLD SAYBROOK The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center ''Cinderella,'' Summer
Theater of New Canaan. July 30 at 2 p.m. $12 and $20. The Katharine Hepburn
Cultural Arts Center, 300 Main Street. thekate.org; 877-503-1286.

RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum ''Camp Aldrich: 3-D Express,'' art
created with photography, found objects and mixed media July 27 through 31, 10
a.m. to 4 p.m. $300 and $330. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street.
203-438-4519; aldrichart.org.

STAMFORD Stamford Museum & Nature Center ''Animal Meet and Greet.'' Tuesdays,
Fridays and Saturdays at 3 p.m. through Aug. 22. $5 to $10; members and children
under 3, free. Stamford Museum & Nature Center, 39 Scofieldtown Road.
203-322-1646; stamfordmuseum.org.

STAMFORD The Palace Theater ''The Science of Magic With Mr. Fish and Lisa Lou,''
stage show. July 28 at 10 a.m. $7.50 and $10. The Palace Theater, 61 Atlantic
Street. palacestamford.org; 203-325-4466.

STORRS Ballard Institute and Museum of Puppetry ''Superheroes, Villains and
Spaceships, Oh My!'' Puppet show by Anatar Marmol-Gagne. Aug. 1 at 1 and 3 p.m.
$5 and $7. Ballard Institute and Museum of Puppetry, 1 Royce Circle.
860-486-8580; bimp.uconn.edu.

WESTPORT Levitt Pavilion Suzi Shelton, family pop. July 29 at 7 p.m. Free.
Levitt Pavilion, 40 Jesup Road. 203-221-2153; levittpavilion.com.

Music and Dance

BETHEL Pizzeria Lauretano Swing du Jour, jazz. July 26 at 6 p.m. $15. Pizzeria
Lauretano, 291 Greenwood Avenue. 203-792-1500; pizzerialauretano.com.

COLLINSVILLE Bridge Street Live Coco Montoya, blues. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $30 and
$39. Bridge Street Live, 41 Bridge Street. 860-693-9762; 41bridgestreet.com.

DANBURY Ives Concert Park Connecticut Ballet. July 31 at 7:30 p.m. $5 and $10.
The No Gimmick Music Festival, 16 area R&B artists. Aug. 1 at 5 p.m. $15. Ives
Concert Park, 43 Lake Avenue Extension. 203-837-9226; ivesconcertpark.com.

FAIRFIELD StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company Dr. Klaw, rock and blues. July 29
at 7:45 p.m. $48. StageOne, Fairfield Theater Company, 70 Sanford Street.
fairfieldtheatre.org; 203-259-1036.

FALLS VILLAGE Music Mountain Avalon String Quartet, classical. July 26 at 3 p.m.
$30 and $35. ''Broadway at Music Mountain,'' Sharon Playhouse. Aug. 1 at 6:30
p.m. $27 and $30. Meal and concert is $65. Penderecki String Quartet with Matt
Haimovitz, classical. Aug. 2 at 3 p.m. $30 and $35. Music Mountain, 225 Music
Mountain Road. 860-824-7126; musicmountain.org.

HAMDEN The Outer Space Stacy Phillips and His Bluegrass Characters. July 28 at
7:30 p.m. Free. The Outer Space, 295 Treadwell Street. theouterspace.net;
203-288-6400.

HAMDEN Town Center Park Family Stone, R&B. July 31 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Town
Center Park, 2761 Dixwell Avenue. 203-287-2546; hamdenartscommission.org.

HARTFORD Infinity Hall Hartford Arrival, Abba tribute band. July 26 at 7:30 p.m.
$44 to $59. Dr. John and the Nite Trippers, jazz and blues. July 28 at 8 p.m.
$69 to $89. Jah9 with Dubtonic Kru, jazz and reggae. July 30 at 8 p.m. $19 to
$34. Girls, Guns and Glory, alternative country. July 31 at 8 p.m. $19 to $34.
Infinity Hall Hartford, 32 Front Street. 860-560-7757; infinityhall.com.

MASHANTUCKET Grand Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino Deep Purple, rock. July 30 at
8 p.m. $35 to $75. Culture Club, pop. July 31 at 8 p.m. $60 and $80. The
Smashing Pumpkins and Marilyn Manson, rock. Aug. 1 at 7:30 p.m. $65 and $95.
Peter Frampton and Cheap Trick, rock. Aug. 2 at 7 p.m. $40 and $65. Grand
Theater, Foxwoods Resort Casino, 350 Trolley Line Boulevard. foxwoods.com;
800-200-2882.

MIDDLETOWN Middlesex Community College Connecticut Ballet. Aug. 1 at 7:30 p.m.
Free. Grove behind Wheaton Hall, Middlesex Community College, 100 Training Hill
Road. connecticutballet.com; 860-293-1039.

NEW HAVEN College Street Music Hall The Decemberists, indie folk rock. July 27
at 7:30 p.m. $46. Whitesnake, rock. July 28 at 7:30 p.m. $42 to $145. Miguel,
hip-hop and R&B. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $30 and $35. College Street Music Hall, 238
College Street. collegestreetmusichall.com; 877-987-6487.

NORFOLK Infinity Hall The Jim Kweskin Jug Band, country and blues. July 26 at
7:30 p.m. $39 to $59. Walter Trout and Band, blues. July 31 at 8 p.m. $34 to
$44. Buckwheat Zydeco, jazz and blues. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $40 to $55. Tower of
Power, R&B. Aug. 2 at 5 and 8 p.m. $55 to $75. Infinity Hall, 20 Greenwoods
Road. 866-666-6306; infinityhall.com.

NORFOLK Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Thomson, Argento and Copland, classical.
July 31 at 8 p.m. $20 to $55. Alexander String Quartet and Wei-Yi Yang,
classical. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $20 to $55. Norfolk Chamber Music Festival, Routes
44 and 272. 860-542-3000; norfolkmusic.org.

OLD SAYBROOK The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center Joe Caro and the Met
Band, with Paul Shaffer. July 30 at 7:30 p.m. $45. Aztec Two-Step, folk. Aug. 1
at 8 p.m. $45. Letters From Home, American songbook. Aug. 2 at 4 p.m. $35 and
$38. The Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center, 300 Main Street. thekate.org;
877-503-1286.

RIDGEFIELD Ridgefield Playhouse Kansas, rock. July 26 at 8 p.m. $70. The English
Beat, ska. July 29 at 8 p.m. $40. Ridgefield Playhouse, 80 East Ridge Road.
203-438-5795; ridgefieldplayhouse.org.

WASHINGTON Historic Meeting House on the Green ''The New Baroque Soloists,''
Washington Friends of Music. Fridays at 5:30 p.m. through Aug. 21. $20 to $30.
Historic Meeting House on the Green, 6 Kirby Road. 860-868-9174;
washingtonct4music.blogspot.com.

WATERBURY Palace Theater of Connecticut Roxy Coss, jazz. July 31 at 8 p.m. $22.
Palace Theater of Connecticut, 100 East Main Street. 203-755-4700;
palacetheaterct.org.

WESTPORT Levitt Pavilion Incendio, Latin jazz. July 26 at 7 p.m. Mill River
Band, folk. July 30 at 8 p.m. The Sweet Remains, folk. July 31 at 8 p.m. Early
Clover, R&B. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. Arthur Lipner, jazz. Aug. 2 at 7 p.m. Free. Levitt
Pavilion, 40 Jesup Road. levittpavilion.com; 203-221-2153.

WOODBRIDGE J. C. C. of Greater New Haven Greg Borino, jazz. July 29 at 5 p.m.
Free. J. C. C. of Greater New Haven, 360 Amity Road. 203-387-2522; jccnh.org.

Outdoors

ANSONIA Ansonia Nature Center Full Blue Moon and Firefly Hike. July 31 at 7:30
p.m. $1. Ansonia Nature Center, 10 Deerfield Road. ansonianaturecenter.org;
203-736-1053.

POMFRET CENTER Connecticut Audubon Society at Pomfret Wednesday Noon Walks,
guided hikes and naturalist lessons. Through Dec. 30. $3; members, free.
Connecticut Audubon Society at Pomfret, 218 Day Road. 860-928-4948;
ctaudubon.org.

WASHINGTON The Institute for American Indian Studies 10th Annual Green Corn
Festival, drumming, dancing, crafts and food. Aug. 1, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $6 to
$10. The Institute for American Indian Studies, 38 Curtis Road. 860-868-0518;
iaismuseum.org.

Spoken Word

MYSTIC Mystic Seaport Moby-Dick Marathon, panel discussion and performances.
July 31 and Aug. 1. Free with museum admission. $16 to $25; children under 5,
free. Mystic Seaport, 75 Greenmanville Avenue. mysticseaport.org; 860-572-5388.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Historical Society A discussion with the cartoonist Brian
Walker. July 26 at 2 p.m. $5. New Canaan Historical Society, 13 Oenoke Ridge.
203-966-1776; nchistory.org.

NEW HAVEN Pardee-Morris House ''How to Be a Beer Snob,'' lecture by Will Siss.
Aug. 2 at 4 p.m. Suggested donation, $5. Pardee-Morris House, 325 Lighthouse
Road. 203-562-4183; newhavenmuseum.org.

SHARON Hotchkiss Library of Sharon 19th Annual Sharon Summer Book Signing,
Richard A. Clarke, Joseph Kanon, Bruce Weinstein and Mark Scarbrough, Bunny
Williams, Mary Norris, James Buckley and Henry Kissinger. July 31, 6 to 8 p.m.
$30. Hotchkiss Library of Sharon, 10 Upper Main Street. 860-364-0806;
hotchkisslibrary.com.

Theater

BETHLEHEM The Gary-The Olivia Theater ''Man of La Mancha,'' musical by Dale
Wasserman, Joe Darion and Mitch Leigh. Aug. 1 through 16. $25 to $30. The
Gary-The Olivia Theater, 249 Flanders Road. 203-273-5669; thegarytheolivia.com.

BRIDGEPORT The Bijou Theater ''Fame the Musical,'' by Jose Fernandez, Steve
Margoshes and Jacques Levy. Through July 26. $19 and $24. The Bijou Theater, 275
Fairfield Avenue. 203-332-3228; thebijoutheatre.com.

CHESTER Goodspeed Musicals, Norma Terris Theater ''My Paris,'' musical by
Charles Aznavour, Alfred Uhry and Jason Robert Brown. Through Aug. 16. $50.50.
Goodspeed Musicals, Norma Terris Theater, 33 North Main Street. 860-873-8668;
goodspeed.org.

DANBURY Musicals at Richter, Richter Arts Center ''Annie Get Your Gun,'' musical
by Irving Berlin, Dorothy Fields and Herbert Fields. Through Aug. 8. $5 to $20.
Musicals at Richter, Richter Arts Center, 100 Aunt Hack Road.
musicalsatrichter.org; 203-748-6873.

EAST HADDAM Goodspeed Opera House ''La Cage aux Folles,'' musical by Harvey
Fierstein and Jerry Herman. Through Sept. 6. $28 to $75. Goodspeed Opera House,
6 Main Street. 860-873-8668; goodspeed.org.

ESSEX Connecticut River Museum Shakespeare's ''Titus Andronicus,'' Flock
Theater. Aug. 1 at 7 p.m. $10 and $15. Connecticut River Museum, 67 Main Street.
860-443-3119; flocktheatre.org.

HARTFORD The Mark Twain House and Museum ''Clue Tours,'' Sea Tea Improv. July 30
at 7 p.m. $15 to $22. The Mark Twain House and Museum, 351 Farmington Avenue.
860-280-3130; marktwainhouse.org.

HARTFORD TheaterWorks ''I'll Eat You Last: A Chat With Sue Mengers,'' comedy by
John Logan. Through Aug. 23. $15 to $65. TheaterWorks, 233 Pearl Street.
860-527-7838; theaterworkshartford.org.

IVORYTON Ivoryton Playhouse ''South Pacific,'' musical by Richard Rodgers, Oscar
Hammerstein II and Joshua Logan. Through July 26. $15 to $42. Ivoryton
Playhouse, 103 Main Street. 860-767-7318; ivorytonplayhouse.org.

MASHANTUCKET Fox Theater, Foxwoods Casino ''Id,'' Cirque Eloize. Aug. 1 through
30. $30 to $65. Fox Theater, Foxwoods Casino, 350 Trolley Line Boulevard.
800-200-2882; foxwoods.com.

MIDDLETOWN Artfarm at Middlesex Community College ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,''
by Shakespeare. Through July 26. $11 and $21. Artfarm at Middlesex Community
College, 100 Training Hill Road. art-farm.org; 860-346-4390.

NEW BRITAIN Hole in the Wall Theater ''Enron,'' drama by Lucy Prebble. Through
Aug. 8. $12 to $20. Hole in the Wall Theater, 116 Main Street. 860-229-3049;
hitw.org.

NEW CANAAN Powerhouse Performing Arts Center, at Waveny Park ''Irena's Vow,''
drama by Dan Gordon. Through Aug. 8. $15 and $20. Powerhouse Performing Arts
Center, at Waveny Park, 679 South Avenue. 203-966-7371; tpnc.org.

NEW LONDON Connecticut College Arboretum Shakespeare's ''Titus Andronicus,''
Flock Theater. Through July 26. $10 and $15. Connecticut College Arboretum, 270
Mohegan Avenue. 860-443-3119; flocktheatre.org.

NEW MILFORD TheaterWorks ''Time Stands Still,'' drama by Donald Margulies.
Through Aug. 1. $18 and $23. TheaterWorks, 5 Brookside Avenue. 860-350-6863;
theatreworks.us.

NEWTOWN Town Players of Newtown ''Hot August Nights -- One Acts,'' by multiple
playwrights. July 31 through Aug. 8. $18. Town Players of Newtown, 18 Orchard
Hill Road. newtownplayers.org; 203-270-9144.

SHERMAN Sherman Playhouse ''Arsenic and Old Lace,'' comedy by Joseph Kesselring.
Through Aug. 2. $22. Sherman Playhouse, 5 Route 39 North. 860-354-3622;
shermanplayers.org.

STRATFORD Shakespeare Academy @ Stratford ''Twelfth Night'' and ''Henry the
Fifth,'' by Shakespeare. Aug. 1 through 9. Donations accepted. Shakespeare
Academy @ Stratford, 1850 Elm Street. shakespeareacademystratford.org.

WEST HARTFORD Carol Autorino Center, University of Saint Joseph Outdoor
performance of ''Romeo and Juliet,'' Greater Hartford Shakespeare Festival.
Through Aug. 9. $10 and $15. Carol Autorino Center, University of Saint Joseph,
1678 Asylum Avenue. 860-231-5555; usj.edu/arts.

WESTPORT Westport Country Playhouse ''Love and Money,'' comedy by A. R. Gurney.
Through Aug. 8. $25 to $85. Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court.
203-227-4177; westportplayhouse.org.

Museums and Galleries

BRIDGEPORT City Lights Gallery ''Same Sex 2015,'' group show. Through Aug. 12.
Wednesdays and Fridays, 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. City Lights Gallery, 37 Markle Court. 203-334-7748;
citylightsgallery.org.

CANTON Gallery on the Green ''55th Anniversary Show,'' group show. Through Aug.
9. Fridays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. Gallery on the
Green, Dowd Avenue and Route 44. 860-693-4102; galleryonthegreen.org.

CENTERBROOK Spectrum Gallery ''Collage: It's an Adventure!'' Group exhibition.
Through Sept. 13. Wednesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays,
11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Spectrum Gallery, 61 Main
Street. spectrumartgallery.org; 860-767-0742.

CHESHIRE Ball and Socket Art Garage ''Evolution of Immediacy,'' group show.
Through Aug. 2. Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ball and Socket Art
Garage, 530 West Main Street. ballandsocket.org.

CHESTER Elle Design Studio ''The Artists of Gallery One,'' group show. Through
Aug. 30. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Elle Design Studio, 1 Main Street. 860-526-8470; elledesignstudio.net.

DANBURY The Gallery at Still River Editions ''Mobile Pics CT 2015,'' group show.
Through Sept. 25. Weekdays, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Gallery at Still River
Editions, 128 East Liberty Street. stillrivereditions.com; 203-791-1474.

FAIRFIELD Art/Place Gallery ''Fresh,'' group show. Through Aug. 24. Thursdays
through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. Art/Place Gallery, 70
Sanford Street. artplacegallery.org; 203-292-8328.

FAIRFIELD Fairfield Public Library ''Cars, Nature and More,'' Carol Nipomnich
Dixon, Marion Pershan and Ken Scaglia. Through Aug. 15. Mondays through
Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m. Fairfield Public Library, 1080 Old Post Road. fairfieldpubliclibrary.org;
203-256-3155.

GREENWICH Bruce Museum ''iCreate 2015,'' works by high school students. Through
July 26. ''Walls of Color: The Murals of Hans Hofmann.'' Through Sept. 6. ''The
Seven Deadly Sins: Pride.'' Through Oct. 18. ''Madagascar: Ghosts of the Past.''
Through Nov. 8. $6 and $7; members and children under 5, free. Tuesdays through
Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive. 203-869-0376;
brucemuseum.org.

GREENWICH Flinn Gallery ''Splash!'' Group exhibition. Through Aug. 12. Mondays
through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Flinn Gallery, 101
West Putnam Avenue. 203-622-7947; artsocietyofoldgreenwich.com.

GROTON Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of Art, University of Connecticut ''Late
Summer Exhibition,'' Rick Daskam, Rita Dawley, Mark Gerard McKee and Viretta
Hoskins Smith. Through Sept. 5. Suggested donation, $3. Members and students,
free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Alexey von Schlippe Gallery of
Art, University of Connecticut, 1084 Shennecossett Road. 860-405-9052;
averypointarts.uconn.edu.

HAMDEN Arnold Bernhard Library ''Saving the Famine Irish: The Grey Nuns and the
Great Hunger.'' Through March 18. Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Arnold Bernhard Library, 275 Mount Carmel Avenue.
203-582-8633; quinnipiac.edu. HARTFORD Real Art Ways ''Getting School'd,'' J. C
Lenochan. ''The Energy-Love: Miracle,'' Insook Hwang. Through Sept. 18.
Suggested donation, $3; members and cinema patrons, free. Daily, 2 to 9 p.m.;
and by appointment. Real Art Ways, 56 Arbor Street. 860-232-1006;
realartways.org.

HARTFORD Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art ''Mark Bradford/MATRIX 172.'' Through
Sept. 6. ''Aspects of Portraiture: Photographs From the Wadsworth Atheneum.''
Through Nov. 15. $5 to $10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays
through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
first Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, 600 Main
Street. 860-278-2670; thewadsworth.org.

KENT Ober Gallery ''Fleurs Fatales,'' group show. Through Aug. 8. Thursdays and
Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Ober Gallery, 6
North Main Street. 860-927-5030; obergallery.com.

LITCHFIELD Wisdom House ''Ephemera: Holding a Moment in Your Hand,'' Jean
Linville. Through Sept. 12. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wisdom
House, 229 East Litchfield Road. 860-567-3163; wisdomhouse.org.

MADISON Mercy Center ''The Mary Paintings: Expressions of the Divine Feminine,''
by Catherine Steinberg. Through July 30. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Mercy Center, 167 Neck Road. mercybythesea.org; 203-245-0401.

MYSTIC Mystic Arts Center Connecticut Academy of Fine Arts Annual Juried Show.
Through Aug. 1. Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mystic Arts Center, 9 Water Street.
860-536-7601; mysticarts.org.

NEW BRITAIN New Britain Museum of American Art ''The Enchanting Jewels of
Elizabeth Gage.'' Through July 26. ''Tom Yost: A Modern Realist.'' Through Sept.
27. ''NEW/NOW: Katja Loher: How Can We Cool Down the Gilded Sun Beams?'' Through
Nov. 1. ''The Shakers: Focus on Enfield, Conn.'' Through Nov. 20. $8 to $12;
members and children under 12, free. Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays,
11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. New Britain Museum of American Art, 56 Lexington Street.
860-229-0257; nbmaa.org.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Historical Society ''Woven in Time: Kashmir Shawls.''
Through Sept. 5. $5. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 10
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. New Canaan Historical Society, 13 Oenoke Ridge.
nchistory.org; 203-966-1776.

NEW CANAAN New Canaan Library ''Face to Face, Now and Then,'' paintings by
Malcolm Moran. Through Aug. 9. Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. New Canaan Library, 151 Main Street.
newcanaanlibrary.org; 203-594-5003.

NEW CANAAN Silvermine Arts Center Galleries 65th Annual Art of the Northeast
Exhibition. Through July 26. ''Worlds Without End,'' group show. Paintings by
Victor Pesce. Aug. 2 through Sept. 13. Wednesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5
p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. Silvermine Arts Center
Galleries, 1037 Silvermine Road. 203-966-9700; silvermineart.org.

NEW HAVEN Artspace ''Arresting Patterns,'' group show. Through Sept. 12.
Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m.
Artspace, 50 Orange Street. 203-772-2709; artspacenh.org.

NEW HAVEN City Gallery ''Voicings,'' Meg Bloom, Phyllis Crowley, Kathy Kane and
Karen Wheeler. Through Aug. 2. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; and by
appointment. City Gallery, 994 State Street. 203-782-2489; city-gallery.org.

NEW HAVEN New Haven Museum ''Winfred Rembert: Amazing Grace.'' Through Aug. 2.
''From Clocks to Lollipops: Made in New Haven.'' Through Dec. 31. $2 to $4;
children under 12, free. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays,
noon to 5 p.m.; first Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. New Haven Museum, 114 Whitney Avenue.
203-562-4183; newhavenmuseum.org.

NEW HAVEN Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History ''Samurai and the Culture of
Japan's Great Peace.'' Through Jan. 3. $4 to $9; members and Yale ID holders,
free. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yale
Peabody Museum of Natural History, 170 Whitney Avenue. peabody.yale.edu;
203-432-5050.

NEW HAVEN Yale University Art Gallery ''The Critique of Reason: Romantic Art,
1760--1860.'' Through July 26. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel Street. artgallery.yale.edu;
203-432-0600.

NEW LONDON Hygienic Art Galleries ''Gaia's Lament: Art Cry,'' group show.
Through Aug. 4. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 3 p.m. Hygienic Art Galleries,
79-83 Bank Street. hygienic.org; 860-443-8001.

NEW LONDON Lyman Allyn Art Museum ''Lost Gardens of New England,'' traveling
exhibition. Through July 31. ''Artists at Work,'' drawings by Italian, Dutch and
French artists of the 16th to 18th centuries. Through Aug. 23. ''Launchpad of
the American Theater: The O'Neill Since 1964.'' Through Jan. 3. ''The Gaze
Returned: Portrait Studio.'' Through Jan. 10. $5 to $10; members and children
under 12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5
p.m. Lyman Allyn Art Museum, 625 Williams Street. 860-443-2545; lymanallyn.org.

NEW MILFORD Gregory James Gallery ''Art of the Animal,'' group show. Through
Aug. 2. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Gregory James Gallery, 93 Park Lane Road.
gregoryjamesgallery.com; 860-354-3436.

NEW PRESTON The Loft Gallery, at the Smithy ''Dwellings: Details in Space and
Form,'' works by Zeb Mayer and John Kane. Through Aug. 9. Wednesdays through
Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Loft Gallery, at the Smithy, 10 Main Street.
860-868-9003; thesmithystore.com.

NORTH GRANBY Lost Acres Vineyard ''Clay on the Wall,'' ceramic works by Avis
Cherichetti. Through Aug. 15. Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. Lost Acres Vineyard, 80 Lost Acres Road. lostacresvineyard.com;
860-841-8675.

NORWALK Center for Contemporary Printmaking The 10th Biennial International
Miniature Print Exhibition. Through Aug. 30. Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. Center for Contemporary Printmaking, 299 West Avenue. contemprints.org;
203-899-7999.

NORWALK Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum ''Interpretations,'' group show. Through
Oct. 1. ''Tropical Luxuriance: The Mansion's Conservatory, 1868 to 1880.''
Through Jan. 6. $6 to $10; members and children under 8, free. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum, 295 West
Avenue. lockwoodmathewsmansion.com; 203-838-9799.

NORWALK The Maritime Garage Gallery ''Boom,'' group show. Through July 31.
Weekdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Maritime Garage Gallery, 11 North Water Street.
203-831-9063; norwalkpark.org.

OLD LYME Florence Griswold Museum ''All the Sea Knows: Marine Art From the
Museum of the City of New York.'' Through Sept. 20. $8 to $10; children under
12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.
Florence Griswold Museum, 96 Lyme Street. 860-434-5542; flogris.org.

OLD LYME Lyme Art Association Gallery ''American Waters: A Marine Art
Exhibition,'' group show. Through July 31. Suggested donation, $5. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; and by appointment. Lyme Art Association
Gallery, 90 Lyme Street. lymeartassociation.org; 860-434-7802.

RIDGEFIELD Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum ''Seven Deadly Sins: Sloth.'' Through
Sept. 19. ''Virginia Poundstone: Flower Mutations.'' ''Nancy Shaver:
Reconciliation.'' ''Ruby Sky Stiler: Ghost Version.'' ''Penelope Umbrico:
Shallow Sun.'' ''Elif Uras: Nicaea.'' ''B. Wurtz: Four Collections.'' Through
Oct. 25. $5 and $10. Members, K-12 teachers, active-service military families
and children under 18, free; Tuesdays, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5
p.m. Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street. aldrichart.org;
203-438-4519.

ROXBURY Minor Memorial Library ''The Art of the Book,'' paintings by Wendell
Minor. Through Sept. 5. Mondays, noon to 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m. Minor Memorial Library, 23 South Street. minormemoriallibrary.org;
860-350-2181.

SHARON Hotchkiss Library of Sharon ''Karen LeSage: New Paintings.'' Through Aug.
31. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays,
noon to 7 p.m.; Saturdays 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays noon to 3 p.m. The
Hotchkiss Library of Sharon, 10 Upper Main Street. hotchkisslibrary.org;
860-364-5041.

STAMFORD Franklin Street Works ''Acting on Dreams: The State of Immigrant
Rights, Conditions and Advocacy in the United States,'' group show. Through Aug.
30. Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 8 a.m. to
5 p.m. Franklin Street Works, 41 Franklin Street. 203-595-5211;
franklinstreetworks.org.

STAMFORD Loft Artists Association ''Deconstructing the Times,'' creations from
The New York Times and other recent works, Karen Neems. Through July 26. ''Peak
Season,'' group show. Aug. 1 through 30. Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m.
Loft Artists Association, 575 Pacific Street. loftartists.com; 203-247-2027.

STAMFORD Stamford Art Association ''Far Away Places,'' group show. Through Aug.
20. Thursdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 3
p.m. Stamford Art Association, 39 Franklin Street. stamfordartassociation.org;
203-325-1139.

STAMFORD University of Connecticut Stamford Art Gallery ''Adventures in the
Wild,'' paintings by Kathryn Poch. Through Aug. 6. Weekdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. University of Connecticut Stamford Art Gallery, 1
University Place. 203-251-8450; artgallery.stamford.uconn.edu.

STORRS William Benton Museum of Art, University of Connecticut ''Remembering the
Vietnam War.'' Through Aug. 9. ''Speak Up! Speak Out! Bread and Puppet
Theater.'' Through Oct. 11. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. William Benton Museum of Art, University
of Connecticut, 245 Glenbrook Road. benton.uconn.edu; 860-486-4520.

WASHINGTON DEPOT Washington Art Association ''Art of Painting 2015,'' group
show. Through Aug. 1. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Washington
Art Association, 4 Bryan Memorial Plaza. 860-868-2878;
washingtonartassociation.org.

WATERBURY Mattatuck Museum ''Spirit of Place: Don Gummer, Drawings and Wall
Reliefs, 1975-2015.'' ''Chance, Control and Collaboration,'' group show.
''Unsettled Identities,'' group show. Through Sept. 13. ''Signature Moments:
Historic Letters and Documents.'' Through Nov. 15. $6 and $7; members and
children under 16, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. Mattatuck Museum, 144 West Main Street. 203-753-0381;
mattatuckmuseum.org.

WESTPORT Westport Arts Center Eric Fischl, photographs and paintings. Through
Sept. 5. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Arts Center, 51 Riverside Avenue.
203-222-7070; westportartscenter.org.

WESTPORT Westport Historical Society ''Howard Munce at 100,'' retrospective
exhibition. Through Sept. 14. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Westport Historical Society, 25 Avery Place.
westporthistory.org; 203-222-1424.

WILTON Wilton Historical Society ''In the Making: Historic Inspirations/New
Quilts,'' Denyse Schmidt. ''One Loop at a Time: June Myles' Hooked Rugs.''
Through Oct. 3. Suggested donation, $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. Wilton Historical Society, 224 Danbury Road. wiltonhistorical.org;
203-762-7257.

WOODBRIDGE J. C. C. of Greater New Haven Paintings by Dorit Gur. Aug. 1 through
Sept. 30. Mondays through Thursdays, 5:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 5:30 a.m. to
7 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. J. C. C. of Greater New Haven,
360 Amity Road. 203-387-2522; jccnh.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/things-to-do-in-connecticut-july-26-t
o-aug-1-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OLD SAYBROOK: Buckwheat Zydeco will perform on July 29 at 7:30
p.m. at the Katharine Hepburn Cultural Arts Center, 300 Main Street. Tickets are
$38 and $42. For further information: 877- 503-1286 or thekate.org. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
OLD LYME: ''Chris and Michelle'' (2015), oil on linen, is on view in ''Jerry
Weiss: Painting the Figure'' through Aug. 15 at the Cooley Gallery, 25 Lyme
Street. For further information: 860-434-8807 or cooleygallery.com. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NANCY PINNEY) (CT8)
UNCASVILLE: The pop singer Ariana Grande will perform on Aug. 2 at 7:30 p.m. at
Mohegan Sun, 1 Mohegan Sun Boulevard. Tickets are $29.50 to $79.50. Information:
mohegansun.com or 888-226-7711. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(CT9)
 BRIDGEPORT: The Grammy Award-winning alternative rock band Wilco is one of the
musical acts to perform at the Gathering of the Vibes Festival, at Seaside Park,
1 Barnum Dyke, from July 30 through Aug. 2. Tickets are $25 to $225. Camping
passes are $65 to $1,000. Information: gatheringofthevibes.com or 203-908-3030.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (CT10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(89%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); THEATER (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

PERSON: ARIANA GRANDE (79%)

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
(72%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Midsummer Night's Couple

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words


Hamish Linklater was singing. Lily Rabe was not listening.

As Mr. Linklater warbled, Ms. Rabe lay in bed with her hands pressed firmly over
her ears, a pained expression on her face. (This seemed excessive; he was only a
little off-key.) They were rehearsing a scene from ''Cymbeline,'' which starts
previews on July 23 at Central Park's Delacorte Theater. Ms. Rabe plays the
king's ''stern daughter,'' Imogen. Mr. Linklater, in a feat of double-casting,
plays both her husband, the virtuous Posthumus Leonatus, and her stepbrother and
unwanted suitor, the cloddish Cloten, who serenades her with ''Hark, hark, the
lark.''

Offstage, she's more receptive to Mr. Linklater's crooning.

''What were you singing while I was brushing my teeth?'' she asked him on their
lunch break.

It was Sam Smith's ''Stay,'' a song Mr. Linklater admitted to with some
reluctance. ''Typically my serenading songbook is more Celtic and ancient,'' he
explained.

Whatever the tune, Ms. Rabe, 33, and Mr. Linklater, 39, have emerged as two of
the most captivating and spirited Shakespearean actors of their generation, able
to render that 400-year-old language feelingly and accessibly. They were first
cast opposite each other in 2010, as Portia and Bassanio in the Public Theater's
Shakespeare in the Park production of ''The Merchant of Venice,'' starring Al
Pacino. They reunited for a contemporary comedy, Theresa Rebeck's ''Seminar,''
which ran on Broadway in 2011.

Back at the Delacorte, she played Rosalind without him in ''As You Like It,''
and he managed a couple of identical twins in ''The Comedy of Errors,''
partnered by Jesse Tyler Ferguson. But there was considerable anticipation when
they were announced as last summer's Beatrice and Benedick in ''Much Ado About
Nothing,'' adversaries in the battle of the sexes who fall, unexpectedly and
helplessly, in love.

Ms. Rabe and Mr. Linklater are in love themselves, though that's an aspect of
their lives they prefer not to discuss in great detail. (Or rather, they'll
discuss it freely, only to follow up with a flurry of courteous, contrite emails
asking that these matters be left mostly private.)

Whatever their personal lives, their harmony onstage has been visible from the
first. His mobility contrasts with her stillness, her clarity with his bluster.
''Hamish is essentially a comedic actor who has great tragic depth,'' said Oskar
Eustis, the Public's artistic director, in a telephone interview. ''Just as Lily
is essentially a tragedian who has great comic chops. There's a charge that goes
between the two poles of their acting, which is thrilling to watch.''

On their break, they're like more casual versions of their stage selves. Mr.
Linklater, wearing a faded Lakers shirt, is voluble and jesting. Ms. Rabe, in a
gray sundress, is quieter and more serious.

They both come from acting families. Mr. Linklater's mother, the vocal expert
and professor Kristin Linklater, had him playing Shakespeare at 9, for
Shakespeare & Company, in Lenox, Mass., a troupe she helped to found. ''We all
lived in that Edith Wharton house in the Mount,'' he said. ''It was like a
commune.''

He had a brief stint at Amherst College, ''to really try to be an English
major,'' but dropped out quickly and began an acting career that has included
stints on ''The Newsroom'' and ''The New Adventures of Old Christine.'' His 2002
marriage, to the playwright Jessica Goldberg, ended in divorce. He and Ms.
Goldberg have an 8-year-old daughter, Lucinda Rose, who occasionally comes to
rehearsal.

Ms. Rabe's parents, the playwright David Rabe and the actress Jill Clayburgh,
didn't push her toward performing. ''They were making efforts to have me feel
like this was just one of all sorts of options,'' she said.

It didn't work. ''All my mother and I ever did was come into the city and go to
plays,'' said Ms. Rabe, whose mother died during her run in ''The Merchant of
Venice.'' She began to act professionally even before she graduated from
Northwestern University. Her recent roles include a nun and a Stevie Nicks-type
witch on the television anthology series ''American Horror Story.''

The two had met a few times before ''Merchant,'' particularly in 2006, when Mr.
Linklater played opposite Ms. Clayburgh in Keith Bunin's ''The Busy World Is
Hushed.'' (He'd earlier played her son in a TV pilot.) But ''Merchant'' was
their first chance to work together. If Bassanio wasn't much of a stretch for
Mr. Linklater, who downed iambic pentameter with his mother's milk, it was Ms.
Rabe's first crack at Shakespeare, which she'd seen a lot of, but hadn't acted
in, not even in college.

''I was definitely learning on my feet,'' she said in a follow-up conversation.
''Thinking I was going to get fired every second.'' (On the contrary, Ben
Brantley in The New York Times described her Portia as a ''smashing breakout
performance.'')

There was a particularly engaging quality to her scenes with Mr. Linklater.
Jesse L. Martin, who played Gratiano to Mr. Linklater's Bassanio, noticed a
certain sympathy between them, even in rehearsal. ''I don't think they ever
mistrusted each other,'' Mr. Martin said, speaking by telephone. ''They were
always wide open with each other.'' He laughed and added, ''There's something to
be said for chemistry.''

But Mr. Linklater disdained the notion that their stage chemistry is anything
special. He described watching Ms. Rabe with David Furr, who played Orlando to
her Rosalind in ''As You Like It'' and who plays her brother in ''Cymbeline,''
as a kind of torture. ''I get furious,'' he said. ''I'm like, 'They're born to
be together.' '' (Mr. Linklater sounded very impassioned; Mr. Furr should maybe
watch out.) But the likelier truth, he acknowledged, is that Ms. Rabe ''is
really good at acting chemistry,'' and he thinks that he is, too. ''I can't
stand Jesse Tyler Ferguson, but it always seems like we're having a good time,''
he joked.

Ms. Rabe and Mr. Linklater have markedly different acting styles, from the first
day of rehearsal to preferred methods of post-show recovery. (She does a vocal
cool-down; he drinks a shot of Dewars.) As Daniel Sullivan, their director in
both ''Merchant'' and ''Cymbeline'' said: ''Lily is very methodical in relation
to the text. Hamish is really improvisatory. Hamish is off-book early. Lily
carries a script much longer.''

Her work is a process of opening herself up to what a character demands. She
describes ''penny-drop moments'' when a line finally sounds and feels right. Mr.
Linklater, by contrast, has to find ways to settle himself down. He'll hurl
himself at a part, trying out every possible permutation, until he can relax
into it, ''throw everything away'' and see what that evening's performance
requires.

Yet they manage to meet somewhere in the middle. He spurs her on to greater
playfulness, she pushes him toward ''more presence and more depth,'' he said.
Ismenia Mendes, who starred with them in ''Much Ado,'' remembered them sitting
in corners of the rehearsal room together, working scenes privately, giving each
other notes. ''They trust each other so much that they take enormous risks as
actors together,'' she said.

And their work doesn't end in the rehearsal room, which feels natural to them.
''Because of Shakespeare & Company and growing up in a commune, that felt sort
of organic,'' Mr. Linklater said. Ms. Rabe remembered her parents talking
through their work at home. ''I've never had that feeling, 'Oh, I want to close
my script and leave it at the rehearsal space,' '' she said.

Colleagues were worried they'd exhaust each other, but apparently they haven't.
They'll often arrive the next day with a new -- and sometimes misguided --
approach. Ms. Rabe is kind enough to blame Mr. Linklater only occasionally.

No matter how hard they work -- to say nothing of the efforts of co-stars like
Raul Esparza, Patrick Page and Kate Burton -- it's uncertain if they'll make a
success of ''Cymbeline.'' One of Shakespeare's late plays, it borrows from
comedy, tragedy, history, fairy tale, Christian allegory and a few other genres
besides. George Bernard Shaw heckled it in Victorian style, calling it ''vulgar,
foolish, offensive, indecent and exasperating beyond all tolerance.''

But Ms. Rabe and Mr. Linklater profess to love it. She looks forward to another
chance to dress up as a boy (as Portia and Rosalind, she got to put pants on,
not so much as Beatrice) and to play a Shakespeare part that doesn't require a
wig.

Of course, she appreciates the text, too. ''There's so much magic in it,'' she
said. ''It's so incredibly sad, but also full of this softness and this hope.''
She even has a thing for Cloten.

''I love Cloten,'' she said. ''I'm like a fan girl for Cloten.''

Mr. Linklater looked at her darkly. ''Drink it in while you can,'' he warned.
''But when you clock in at the park, remember that Posthumus is your guy.''

Whether or not ''Cymbeline'' is a hit, they're hoping it leads to more summers
in the park. ''As long as they let us come back, we'll do it,'' Ms. Rabe said.
Katherine and Petruchio seem an obvious pairing for them, but maybe they'll try
their hands at the tragedies, too. Macbeth and his lady, perhaps Antony and
Cleopatra.

Mr. Linklater admired Ms. Rabe's profile, then jokingly suggested a role ripe
for her interpretation: ''Othella. You can see it, right?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/theater/lily-rabe-and-hamish-linklater-a-midsu
mmer-nights-couple.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater at Central Park's Delacorte
Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Above, Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater at the Delacorte Theater, where they will
be performing in the Shakespeare in the Park production of ''Cymbeline''
left, as Benedick and Beatrice in last year's staging of ''Much Ado About
Nothing.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ms. Rabe, above, in ''American Horror Story: Coven''
left, with Mr. Linklater in ''Seminar''
below left, with Al Pacino in ''The Merchant of Venice.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MICHELE K. SHORT/FX
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%);
TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); INTERVIEWS (62%)

PERSON: JESSE TYLER FERGUSON (79%); AL PACINO (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stealing the Music

BYLINE: By ALAN LIGHT.

Alan Light is the author of ''Let's Go Crazy: Prince and the Making of 'Purple
Rain.' ''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 726 words


HOW MUSIC GOT FREEThe End of an Industry, the Turn of the Century, and the
Patient Zero of Piracy By Stephen Witt296 pp. Viking. $27.95.  In 2007, with the
record business well into a seemingly bottomless free fall, Doug Morris, the
chairman and chief executive of the Universal Music Group, was interviewed by
Wired magazine. He insisted it was a ''misconception'' that the labels were
caught unaware by the digital revolution that had led to compact disc sales
plummeting by 50 percent in seven years.

''They just didn't know what to do,'' said the head of the world's biggest music
company, going on to add that there weren't really any steps he could take to
stem the tide of illegal downloads. ''We didn't know who to hire.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. I wouldn't be able to recognize a good
technology person.''

Morris, then 69 years old, was vilified for his cluelessness, and told by
Universal's parent company that they would soon be expecting his retirement. But
in the taut, cleareyed ''How Music Got Free,'' Stephen Witt writes that it was
too easy to make a power player like Morris the punching bag for the business's
collapse. ''The decline of the music industry had affected every player, from
the largest corporate labels to the smallest indie,'' and no one in 2007 -- or
still to this day -- had figured out a truly effective strategy in response to a
new paradigm.

The shorthand summary of this era will inevitably point to the debut of Napster
in 1999 as the death knell for the record business, but Witt pulls back to tell
a bigger story. There were numerous forces -- from the creation of the MP3
format to the continuing consolidation of the major labels -- that needed to
align in order to create the situation in which peer-to-peer file sharing could
become so dominant so quickly.

Witt, a first-time author, comes from the world of finance, and his
old-fashioned, connect-the-dots reporting presents a nuanced depiction of an
issue usually reduced to emotional absolutes. Rather than arguing the moral pros
and cons of ''stealing music,'' he examines the stories, and the range of
motivations, behind individuals who played a part in this upheaval, from the
North Carolina factory worker who became the world's primary source for albums
leaked ahead of their release dates to the well-intentioned British college
student prosecuted (and exonerated) for running a popular BitTorrent site in an
attempt to create a global music library.

Perhaps the most telling journey is that of Karlheinz Brandenburg, an idealistic
German professor who invents the MP3 as a near-perfect way to compress audio
files, then watches it lose out as the official industry standard format to a
less effective but better-connected rival. In a last-ditch effort to keep their
work alive, his team releases the MP3 free, and users soon discover its merits.
As his technology gets licensed and bundled into different operating systems,
Brandenburg receives a cut from each transaction, and grows increasingly seduced
by the resulting wealth and acclaim -- profiting from the very sort of piracy he
once resolutely decried.

Within such a strong display of research, Witt occasionally stumbles on the
music side (Tupac Shakur was not part of the original Death Row Records roster;
there were 15 songs, not 12, on Led Zeppelin's ''Physical Graffiti'') and offers
some slightly odd opinions (if he believes R. Kelly's ''Ignition'' is ''the best
song of the decade,'' fair enough, but it's funny to see it stated as an
unquestioned assumption). He is sometimes distracted by nonessential, if
entertaining, subplots, like the predictable story of labels goosing the charts
on MTV's ''TRL'' request show. But these are minor flaws: Far more significant
is the complex, groundbreaking story that ''How Music Got Free'' tells so
confidently.

Exactly one album released in 2014 -- Taylor Swift's juggernaut ''1989'' -- was
certified platinum. It was recently reported that Doug Morris signed a two-year
extension on his deal as chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment, worth
almost $20 million per year. As the noted music executive Jay Z once said, you
can't knock the hustle.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/how-music-got-free-by-stephen-wit
t.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL GARLAND)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%);
HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION
(90%); MUSIC (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); PARENT
COMPANIES (77%); WRITERS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (58%)

PERSON: DOUG MORRIS (77%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 960 words


'Ally'

To the Editor:

Jacob Heilbrunn's review of ''Ally,'' by Michael B. Oren (July 12), goes far
beyond a critical analysis of the book and becomes a platform for his own
political views. He thus does a disservice both to the author and himself.

Heilbrunn sets forth stark alternatives when a more nuanced understanding of
context would be more helpful. For example, contrary to his assertions,
Americans who stand by Israel need not identify with or support the policies of
Netanyahu or recognize that peace is an illusion. Although he is a member of the
governing coalition, Oren does not agree with many of Netanyahu's policies, nor
do many Jewish Americans for whom peace may not seem achievable at present but
is still something to be pursued with hope.

GERALD FLANZBAUM

WARREN, N.J.

â¬¥

To the Editor:

There are more possible views of Israel than the two that Jacob HeilÂ­brunn
discusses in his review. We need not choose between being Zionist or standing
''unflinchingly'' by Israel. Rather we should treat Israel as an ''adult,'' one
that has received strong moral support as well as generous financial assistance
from American taxpayers. When Israeli acts and deeds conflict with our interests
and values, we should treat them as we would any other ally. The United States
should employ the options it has depending on the situation and our goals. We
should use our power to help Israel balance its important self-interest with its
significance to us and the obligations that may entail.

ALLEN FELD

MARGATE, N.J.

â¬¥

A Semblance of Peace

To the Editor:

In his review of Emma Sky's ''The Unraveling'' (July 12), Christopher Dickey
writes that as a result of the American military surge in 2007, ''the situation
in Iraq went from horrible to tolerable to seeming really pretty good,'' and ''a
semblance of peace and stability'' was created in Baghdad.

''Semblance'' is certainly the right word, as this view is essentially a
fantasy. Like Nixon and Kissinger's equally flawed ''peace with honor'' in
Vietnam, the surge did not resolve the underlying conflict but was merely a fig
leaf that provided cover for the United States departure after a disastrously
misguided military misadventure. The tactic bought the temporary loyalty of
Sunni tribes in the so-called Anbar Awakening, for as long as the Americans
continued to pay them, while at the same time allowing Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to
consolidate his power on behalf of the Shiite community. This formula was a
recipe for inevitable failure.

While Sky's personal motivations might have been commendable, she compromised
her integrity by offering her services to Iraq's military occupiers, and like
her predecessors Gertrude Bell and T.E. Lawrence, she served as an agent of
Western imperialism in the Arab world. Dickey quotes Bell's morally blind
question: ''Can you persuade people to take your side when you are not sure in
the end whether you'll be there to take theirs?'' But Dickey, Bell and Sky all
miss the key point: Western interlopers -- first Britain, then the United States
-- did not belong there in the first place.

JOHN S. KOPPEL

BETHESDA, MD.

â¬¥

Olga Lengyel's Achievement

To the Editor:

It is amazing to me that Roger Cohen, in his review of ''KL: A History of the
Nazi Concentration Camps'' (July 12), could refer to ''one Olga Lengyel''
without mentioning that she wrote one of the most important Holocaust books,
''Five Chimneys.''

P.J. LOZITO

MANHATTAN

â¬¥

Education in Virginia

To the Editor:

Thomas Sugrue, in his review of ''Something Must Be Done About Prince Edward
County'' (July 5), writes that ''through the late 1930s, few black students
received a full 12 years of formal education.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. A local elementary school
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. offered some courses through the 11th
grade.''

But in Virginia white public school students didn't always receive a full 12
years of education either. When I attended the white public schools in
Alexandria (just across the Potomac from Washington) in the 1940s, middle school
consisted of grades five to seven, from which we went directly to a four-year
high school.

There is no denying the evil that was subsequently done in Prince Edward County,
but I just want to point out that even before massive resistance to
desegregation, Virginia didn't seem very interested in any of its public school
students, even the white ones.

CORNELIA STRAWSER

FALLS CHURCH, VA.

â¬¥

'Skyfaring'

To the Editor:

Re review of ''Skyfaring: A Journey With a Pilot'' (July 5): Mark Vanhoenacker,
in his book about piloting Boeing 747s, misses a chance to discuss the most
interesting 747 now flying -- NASA's airplane that carries a huge, 100-inch
telescope aloft. Most recently, in June, it flew out of New Zealand to capture
Pluto's passing in front of a distant star, to study Pluto's atmosphere.

JAY M. PASACHOFF

WILLIAMSTOWN, MASS.

â¬¥

To the Editor:

Tom Zoellnr's review of ''Airborne'' recalls the wonders of airplane travel,
which I have long appreciated. He concludes by saying that Vanhoenacker ''often
walks through the cabin to quietly'' point things out ''to anyone who might be
awake.'' I have noticed, to my great astonishment, that on all my flights --
trans-Atlantic and transcontinental -- over the past few years, people in the
window seats keep the shades down from takeoff until landing, never even peeking
outside! Sadly, in-flight movies seem to have won the battle for the public's
attention, obviously more fascinating than what the planet looks like from the
air.

MARILYN VOGT-DOWNEY

BROOKLYN

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/letters-ally.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); JEWS &
JUDAISM (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (62%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (74%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Millennial Named Bush

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KRISTOF.

Maureen Dowd is off today.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 853 words


THE time-honored way to speak of young people is with horror. They're wild,
reckless, irresponsible, narcissistic, immoral and hopeless -- and always have
been.

Now along comes this generation of millennials, and we have a problem. They are
raised on ''service projects,'' apply to Teach for America in torrents and
donate to charity at a higher rate (87 percent) than their elders. Basically,
they've stabbed us older generations in the back with their idealism and
altruism, robbing us of the opportunity to feel superior.

One of the exemplars of this trend, also catering to it, is Barbara Bush, 33.
Yes, President George W. Bush's daughter -- the one you perhaps last heard of
when she was busted for underage drinking in 2001.

That was a relief, for it indicated some youthful irresponsibility for us to
cluck-cluck at: A daughter and granddaughter of presidents, and she provokes a
scandal!

But Barbara joined her father on a 2003 trip to Africa and was staggered by the
human toll of AIDS in Uganda. ''That inequity blew my mind,'' she recalled.

So she returned to Yale and took health classes, and then quietly took a job
(while her father was still in the White House) in a South African hospital,
often working with children with AIDS.

After her return, she and five friends began brainstorming about how to help
recruit more people to global health. Her connections opened doors -- she's
frank about that -- and they ended up starting Global Health Corps, initially
intended as a kind of Teach for America for global health. Bush became chief
executive at age 26.

Today Global Health Corps is booming. It receives nearly 6,000 applications a
year for fewer than 150 positions as fellows. Half of the fellows are American
and half foreign, mostly African, and the program gets plenty of praise from
health professionals.

Barbara Bush acknowledges that her last name has opened doors and helped Global
Health Corps expand, and she offers no apologies for her name.

''I'm crazy about my family,'' she said. ''I was very much taught to care about
the world.''

She has a reputation as the liberal in the family (like her grandmother, also a
Barbara), for she has spoken out in favor of gay rights, lives in New York City,
and at Global Health Corps has built ties to abortion rights groups like Planned
Parenthood Global and Marie Stopes International.

Still, she's wary of being pinned down too much.

''I'm not a huge fan of labels,'' she said, citing the Nigerian novelist
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's comments about the perils of reducing anything to ''a
single story.''

''It's easy to single-story a lot of the people who are very important to me,''
she said.

I asked if it was sometimes awkward when friends were snarky about her father
(I've been critical myself). ''I went to college when my dad was running for
president, and that's pretty awkward,'' she replied. ''I don't take it
personally.''

Her passion for service certainly echoes widely in her generation. Dr. Paul
Farmer, the globe-trotting co-founder of Partners in Health, emailed me from
Rwanda (where he was working with Global Health Corps fellows) to say that when
he was going into medical school there was little interest in global health. Now
young people are passionate about getting involved.

''Looks from my vantage point that the 'me generation' (mine) has been replaced
by a millennial generation much more focused on others,'' he wrote.

Global Health Corps fellows, typically in their late 20s, are placed with groups
like Partners in Health or Covenant House, in Africa and in America. Whether in
Zambia or in the United States, two fellows work for a year side by side, one
from the host country and one from abroad.

I was initially suspicious of Global Health Corps, wondering how young people,
often with no medical training, could be useful. But Bush points to a Global
Health Corps logistics expert who worked on a drug supply chain in Tanzania,
improving drug access. And architects worked on designing clinics in Rwanda with
less air flow, so tuberculosis patients would be less likely to infect others.

''I'm a big fan of the Global Health Corps,'' said Dr. Peter Piot, who helped
discover Ebola and later ran the United Nations program on AIDS. ''They engage
nonmedical people in global health'' -- and that, he said, is a central
challenge of health care worldwide.

Bush's family loyalty and health passions converge when she speaks about her
father's program against AIDS, Pepfar -- which has saved millions of lives (and
is, in my view, his best legacy).

''I'll probably burst into tears,'' she said when I asked about it. ''I'm
extremely proud of him for Pepfar. I'm extremely proud of him -- I could talk to
you till October about it!''

And then she burst into tears.

I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly newsletter. When you do,
you'll receive an email about my columns as they're published and other
occasional commentary. Sign up here.I also invite you to visit my blog, On the
Ground. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and
follow me on Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/nicholas-kristof-a-millennial-n
amed-bush.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); GRANDPARENTS
(76%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); UNDERAGE
DRINKING (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (70%);
EXECUTIVES (69%); ABORTION (63%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); LGBT RIGHTS
(60%); WRITERS (60%); FICTION LITERATURE (60%); CHILDREN (50%); PROFESSIONAL
WORKERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UGANDA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

'Key & Peele' to End After Its Fifth Season

BYLINE: By JONAH BROMWICH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; NYTNow; Pg.

LENGTH: 539 words


The Comedy Central show ''Key & Peele,'' an absurdist sketch comedy that has
become known for recurring skits like one in which an ''anger translator''
expresses emotions on President Obama's behalf, will end after its current
season.

Speaking to the online entertainment journal TheWrap, one of the show's stars,
Keegan-Michael Key, said that it was time for him and his co-star, Jordan Peele,
''to explore other things, together and apart.''

''It's not because of Comedy Central, it's us,'' Mr. Key said.

''Key & Peele'' premiered on the network in 2012 and won a Peabody Award in 2013
for its ''inspired satirical riffs on our racially divided and racially
conjoined culture.'' The show, currently in its fifth season, received seven
Emmy nominations this year, including a nod for Outstanding Variety Sketch
Series.

Fans expressed their sadness at the news on Twitter, many responding to a tweet
Mr. Peele sent entreating fans not to miss the last eight episodes of the show.

@JordanPeele Please. Don't. Stop. The. Show. #weneedyou -- Julie Scelfo
(@JulieScelfo) July 25, 2015

@JordanPeele Nooooo! Say it ain`t so! #KeyandPeele#GuaranteedLaughs -- E!
(@Eloveshersaints) July 25, 2015

One fan compared the comedians' departure to that of Dave Chappelle, another
star who abruptly walked away from Comedy Central when his show was one of the
network's most beloved offerings.

Say it ain't so @KeeganMKey and @JordanPeele.. Key and peele can't be done after
this season!! Don't do us like chapelle!! -- Iain Dennis (@IainSinned) July 26,
2015

Much of ''Key & Peele's'' success has been predicated on its stars' impressions
of characters from all over the American landscape and beyond. From movie nerds
obsessed with Liam Neeson to an embattled Jersey Shore couple to clueless
sportscasters, the range of character types that the show includes makes it
difficult for viewers to predict what they might see in any given episode.

A recent sketch finds the two stars competing to one-up each other as two black
singers performing with an a cappella group. As is typical of the show's humor,
the skit quickly escalates, knowingly playing on racial caricatures as the two
men challenge each other in increasingly expletive-filled tirades.

Both comedians are biracial and much of their comedy is given to exploring,
mocking and confounding racial stereotypes. In accepting the show's Peabody
Award, Mr. Key expressly thanked the network for allowing ''Key & Peele'' to
tell a diverse set of stories.

''We'd like to thank Comedy Central for giving us the opportunity to show the
African-American experience as not a monolith, because it's not,'' he said.
''It's so many different stories and the danger of the world sometimes is trying
to assign a single story to an entire group of people.''

Mr. Key and Mr. Peele met as improv comedians in Chicago and performed together
for five seasons on the Fox show ''Mad TV.'' Aside from starring on ''Key &
Peele,'' both were executive producers and lead writers. Mr. Key told TheWrap
that they plan to continue collaborating.

''We might make a movie and then do our own thing for three years and then come
back and do another movie,'' he said. ''There's lots of stuff we have cooking
up.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/television/key-and-peele-to-end-after-its
-fifth-season.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); EMMY AWARDS (69%); AFRICAN
AMERICANS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%)

PERSON: JORDAN PEELE (94%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); LIAM NEESON (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evoking MGM Spectacle With '80s Music Video Style

BYLINE: By J. HOBERMAN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1349 words


Most movies are made of scenes; others are devoted to making the scene. Julien
Temple's ''Absolute Beginners'' is one -- a big-budget spectacle that, made in
1986, sought to render four decades of Anglo-American pop culture as a symphonic
music video.

Few musicals are as madly ambitious as Mr. Temple's magnum opus, now reissued in
Blu-ray by Twilight Time. It opened on a wave of hype and feverish expectation
and is widely held to have helped topple Britain's Goldcrest studio; the only
British film musical whose aspirations and excesses come close is Ken Russell's
equally ill-fated 1971 adaptation of ''The Boy Friend.''

Even more than Russell's film, which was based on an ersatz 1920s musical,
''Absolute Beginners'' is grandly anachronistic: the cinematic equivalent of a
stylized fake 1950s-style diner. Adapted from a novel by Colin MacInnes, the
movie is set in 1958 -- around the time that the term ''make the scene'' went
mainstream and the year that, according to its youthful hero, Colin (played by
Eddie O'Connell), ''the teenage miracle reached full bloom.'' Its embodiment was
his co-star, Patsy Kensit, barely 18 when the movie opened.

While drawing subtly on the punk attitude of Mr. Temple's early Sex Pistols
quasi-documentary, ''The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle,'', and heavily on the MTV
aesthetic Mr. Temple subsequently helped create, ''Absolute Beginners'' pretends
that it was made in 1958. It's an imaginary MGM-style musical celebrating
Britain's belated postwar prosperity -- a jazz-rock extravaganza that wants to
be as manic as ''On the Town,'' as witty as ''Funny Face'' and as impassioned as
''West Side Story.'' The cartwheels-in-the-street choreography evokes Jerome
Robbins and Michael Kidd; the finale even has cast members singing and dancing
in the rain.

The enormous sets recreate whole blocks of Soho in London. The brash,
cartoonlike production design, including a cross-sectioned multistory building,
suggests Frank Tashlin's mid-'50s comedies. Gil Evans and David Bowie both
contributed to the jazz-rock score -- and Mr. Bowie, who performs a robotic
dance of triumph on the keyboard of a giant typewriter, was only one of the pop
stars that the movie featured.

The veteran comic jazzman Slim Gaillard materializes to perform one of his own
compositions, a sort of bebop Lindy called ''Selling Out''; Sade makes a
stunning movie debut with the smoky ballad ''Killer Blow.'' Old-school British
luminaries who are slipped into the proceedings include the actress Sylvia Syms
and the pop singer Sandie Shaw. Mr. Temple's slyest bit of casting has Ray
Davies of the Kinks as Colin's father and the early-'60s party girl Mandy
Rice-Davies as his mother.

One song follows another, erupting out of parties, fashion shows and recording
sessions. The music scarcely lets up, though the movie does stagger in the
homestretch under its political agenda and narrative weight: Colin abandons his
career as a ''professional teenager'' to do battle with a cartel of unscrupulous
developers and white supremacists that, financed by Mr. Bowie's advertising
mogul and James Fox's effeminate fashion designer, includes a fascist demagogue
(Stephen Berkoff) and Colin's own grease-and-leather ''Teddy boy'' brother (the
punk musician Edward Tudor-Pole, appearing under the name of his former band,
Tenpole Tudor).

A composition in hot magenta, ultra-turquoise and neon yellow, filled with sight
gags and non sequiturs, as well as a fiery switchblade Armageddon, the movie is
in every sense too much. The last half-hour restages the 1958 Notting Hill riot,
in which, encouraged by right-wing extremists, white working-class thugs
attacked Caribbean immigrants.

Still, although he capsized a studio, Mr. Temple and his associates manage to
keep their enterprise afloat. As with the great Hollywood musicals, ''Absolute
Beginners'' is a spectacle of abundance in which the buoyant parts are greater
than the whole.

'Downtown 81'

Although immeasurably more frugal in its means, ''Downtown 81'' could, like
''Absolute Beginners,'' be described as a teenage rock 'n' roll bildungsroman.

Out on DVD from Music Box, ''Downtown 81'' -- which was directed by the
photographer Edo Bertoglio from a script by Glenn O'Brien, then a music
columnist for Andy Warhol's Interview -- is a lightly fictionalized, extensively
post-dubbed documentary of Lower Manhattan boho night life as it was celebrated
back in the day by Mr. O'Brien's column and his cable access TV show, ''Glenn
O'Brien's TV Party.''

''Downtown 81'' features several no-wave bands (DNA, James White and the Blacks)
along with the eclectic funk act Kid Creole and the Coconuts and stars the
painter Jean-Michel Basquiat as himself; not yet 20 and then better known as a
graffiti artist, he checks out of a hospital and into the scene, wandering
around Manhattan looking for a place to crash.

Originally called ''New York Beat,'' the movie belongs to an independent film
tendency rooted in CBGB documentaries and Super-8 movies of the late 1970s, but
its picaresque structure can be traced back to Ron Rice's 1960 beatnik vérité,
''The Flower Thief,'' which featured the poet and performance artist Taylor Mead
as its holy innocent. As Rice's movie preserves a lost San Francisco, so
''Downtown 81'' documents a vanished New York, although it is a more
self-conscious and star-struck work: The vagrant protagonist is redeemed by an
encounter with downtown's most glamorous celebrity, Debbie Harry.

Mysteriously, the DVD purports to commemorate the movie's 30th anniversary,
although it was mostly shot in 1980 and post-dubbed many years later (Basquiat,
whose voice is never heard, died in 1988), and finally released in 2000. Extras
include a May 1980 episode of ''TV Party.'' A picture of Lenin presides over the
chaos orchestrated by Mr. O'Brien, resplendent in a madras sports jacket and
shades. In addition to Basquiat, his guests include some garrulous young men and
several beautiful young women making the scene as mute objets d'art.

NEWLY RELEASED

THE BEAT GENERATION Despite some hilarious coffeehouse scenes and an
anti-beatnik ditty sung by Louis Armstrong, this 1959 Albert Zugsmith production
has less to do with bohemian shenanigans or its nominal star, Mamie Van Doren,
than the shared misogyny of a serial rapist (Ray Danton) and an obsessive cop
(Steve Cochran). On Blu-ray and DVD. (Olive)

THE FISHER KING Part ''Don Quixote,'' part ''Shock Corridor,'' part Woody Allen
urban romance, Terry Gilliam's 1991 fairy tale is held together by its New York
locations and by a powerhouse cast: Robin Williams, Jeff Bridges, Amanda Plummer
and Mercedes Ruehl (who won an Oscar for best supporting actress). Now on
Blu-ray as well as DVD. (Criterion)

FLAMENCO, FLAMENCO After documenting tango and fado, the Spanish director Carlos
Saura returned in 2010 to the art form most identified with Spain and the
subject of three previous movies by him. ''Mr. Saura's museum of dance lacks
subtitles or lengthy explanations,'' Nicolas Rapold wrote in The New York Times
in November. ''This keeps the visuals fluid and intact, but even unambiguous
flamenco could use some translation of lyrics.'' Available Aug. 4 on Blu-ray and
DVD. (Music Box)

A SPELL TO WARD OFF THE DARKNESS The avant-garde film artists Ben Rivers and Ben
Russell joined forces to produce this intensely moody evocation of primeval
Europe and black metal music. ''Avant-garde cognoscenti are surely already in
line, yet the film is accessible and often hypnotic on an intuitive level,'' Ben
Kenigsberg wrote in The Times in December. On Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant
Video. (Kimstim)

THE WRECKING CREW The filmmaker Denny Tedesco sheds light on the Los Angeles
session musicians, including his father, Tommy Tedesco, who backed up the Beach
Boys, Nancy Sinatra, the Monkees, and Sonny and Cher (to name a few). ''Mostly,
it's hagiography, with stars like Cher and Brian Wilson used as character
witnesses to the players' greatness,'' Jon Caramanica wrote in The Times in
March. On Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant Video. (Magnolia)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/movies/homevideo/absolute-beginners-evoking-mg
m-spectacle-with-80s-video-style.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left,Patsy Kensit and Eddie O'Connell in ''Absolute
Beginners''
David Bowie
and Mr. O'Connell and Ms. Kensit. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER STUDIOS)
(AR13)
 Debbie Harry and the painter Jean-Michel Basquiat in ''Downtown 81,'' directed
by Edo Bertoglio from a script by Glenn O'Brien. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSIC BOX FILMS)
(AR16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); JAZZ & BLUES
(89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%);
MUSICAL THEATER (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); COSTUME &
SET DESIGN (73%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(67%); DANCE (67%)

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Sorry Saved the Family Business

BYLINE: By SARAH MAX

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words


The mood was uncharacteristically somber in the conference room of Hincapie
Sportswear as George Hincapie prepared to speak at an all-company meeting on
Oct. 9, 2012.

A top American cyclist in his own right, Mr. Hincapie had been instrumental in
helping others secure Tour de France wins -- one for Alberto Contador, one for
Cadel Evans and seven for Lance Armstrong. Yet as employees in Greenville, S.C.,
were about to learn that day, Mr. Hincapie's career would soon need an asterisk.

Choosing his words carefully, Mr. Hincapie explained that he had cooperated with
a United States Anti-Doping Agency investigation of Mr. Armstrong and had
testified in a related federal case. Mr. Hincapie planned to issue a public
statement the next day with his own admission of doping.

''I didn't give a lot of details because, at that point, I really couldn't,''
recalled Mr. Hincapie, who retired in August 2012 after competing in the Tour de
France 17 times. ''I told them that I was part of a time in cycling that was
really screwed up. I can't take that back, but I rode clean for six years and
contributed to changing the sport for the better.''

Employees were sympathetic and not entirely surprised. Many of Mr. Hincapie's
former teammates, including Tyler Hamilton and Floyd Landis, had already come
forward, describing elaborate regimens for improving performance and evading
testers. The reality, his teammates and other cyclists said, was simple: Dope or
quit.

In the aftermath of these high-profile cases, top performers are under constant
scrutiny. That was evident in this year's Tour de France, which finishes in
Paris on Sunday, as French fans and media questioned how the overall leader,
Chris Froome of Team Sky, dominated the first mountain stage.

Still, everyone affiliated with the Hincapie brand had good reason to worry.
Similar confessions had lasting implications for Mr. Hincapie's contemporaries.
Mr. Armstrong was ultimately stripped of his seven Tour de France titles, lost a
reported $150 million in endorsements and was forced to resign as chairman of
the Livestrong Foundation, which he founded in 1997.

''I didn't believe that it would kill the company,'' said Jennifer Horstmann,
the chief financial officer of Hincapie Sportswear and its affiliated companies,
which in 2012 employed 150 people. ''But I knew we had to prepare for the
worst.''

Rancorous social media posts followed the news. ''And yet another DOPER erased
from my memory. Forever!'' one person posted on Twitter.

''We made him shut off Twitter,'' said Rich Hincapie, George's brother and
business partner.

George's strategy: Ask for forgiveness, win back relationships one phone call
and bike ride at a time, and double down on his efforts to promote cycling, and
by association, the Hincapie brand.

''We saw we had an opportunity to make a difference for the sport and said,
'Let's jump in with both feet,' '' Rich said.

The Hincapie brothers, who were born and raised in Queens, developed an early
love of cycling thanks to their father, Ricardo, a Colombian immigrant. With
Ricardo offering advice and support and their mother, Martha, and sister, Clara,
cheering them on, the boys raced in Central Park and throughout the Northeast.

Whereas George pursued a career in cycling, his brother took a different route.
''I realized in my early 20s that I could not make a career out of cycling,''
said Rich, who moved to North Carolina to study business, then headed to
Greenville to work in computer sales while continuing to compete as an
elite-level amateur.

Hincapie Sportswear was born in 2002 out of Rich's frustrations in finding
uniforms for the amateur cycling team he helped manage. ''We had a small local
team of weekend warriors, and my least favorite part was getting the clothing
together every year,'' said Rich, who at 45 is three years older than George.

Cycling teams, from casual clubs to the most serious professionals, typically
reorder custom-designed ''kits'' of cycling shorts, jerseys, jackets and other
garments every year, in part because the businesses that sponsor the teams
change.

In the early 2000s, few companies catered to these teams, and options were
limited. High-quality products were too expensive for team kits, so most teams
were stuck with low-quality gear.

''There is a very fine line between good and too good,'' said Joe Baratto,
director of Union Bay Cycling, a regional bike-racing program in the Seattle
area, and an early customer of Hincapie Sportswear. ''We don't need a kit that
lasts years, but it needs to be comfortable and hold up for a season.''

Rich asked his brother, already a celebrity in cycling, to join him as a
co-founder, partly to open doors for the fledgling brand. Behind the scenes,
George helped develop and test apparel, though he could not wear it publicly
until 2010 because of team agreements with other makers like Nike.

A turning point came in 2004 when the brothers started moving production to a
plant in Medellín, Colombia, which they own with their aunt and uncle, who live
in Colombia. ''We added a new machine or two every year, and by 2008 were doing
most of our orders ourselves,'' said Rich, who initially outsourced
manufacturing to Italy, but found that the product was inconsistent and costs
were too high.

Today, the Colombian plant employs more than 100 people and makes nearly
everything sold by Hincapie Sportswear, including jerseys, shorts, hats and arm
warmers.

''Since they got their own factory, things have been unbelievably spot on,''
said Mr. Baratto. ''We'll order 1,900 items a year and we'll get 1,900 perfectly
sized pieces.''

Pete Rumsey, co-captain of the Arc en Ciel racing team in Providence, R.I.,
which spends about $20,000 a year with Hincapie Sportswear, said that its
website was ''what makes the relationship really sticky.''

''All of our graphics are already loaded on their website,'' he said. ''I can
switch logos out, or move things around, and the order is ready to go.''

George likes to talk about the story behind the family business -- and he
credits it with helping the brand survive the worst of the doping scandal. ''I
think our customers appreciate our history in the sport,'' he said. ''They
realize the brand is not only me, it's my whole family.''

The brothers agreed that George could not simply fade into the background after
his admission. The first step was coming clean at the all-company meeting.
''That was probably the most painful part for George, but he was upfront with
them, and nobody left,'' Rich said.

George and Rich then divided a list of customers and key business contacts and
went to work calling and emailing them, one by one. They considered canceling
the company's first Gran Fondo, or ''big ride,'' scheduled for the week after
the meeting. But doing so, they decided, would only compound the problem.

''I know it wasn't easy for George to go out there and do the ride, but we only
had three people out of 1,400 ask for a refund,'' Rich said of the event. George
used that ride -- and others after -- to patch relationships with fans and
customers.

Mr. Hincapie had opportunities to make his case on prime-time television and in
national print media, but he initially declined most interview requests.
''George was never the kind of person who sought interviews or wanted to make
headlines, and this was no different,'' said Chris Lyman, whose public relations
firm represents Mr. Hincapie.

He did, however, accept a longstanding invitation from a journalist, Craig
Hummer, to write a book with him. The book, ''The Loyal Lieutenant,'' published
by HarperCollins last year, chronicles Mr. Hincapie's ascent in cycling and
includes details of his doping.

He wrote that in 1996, he started taking erythropoietin, or EPO, a drug used to
increase red blood cell production that is banned in competitive sports. He did
so for nearly a decade, though he said he adopted what he called a ''minimal''
program in 2005. ''No use during the spring, and then an EPO hit before, and a
blood bag during, the race in July,'' he wrote in the book.

After a close call with officials in 2006, Mr. Hincapie wrote, he quit cold
turkey. By his account, he rode clean for the remainder of his career and urged
his peers to do the same.

''If George did what he had to do to survive, it's disappointing, but it is what
it is,'' Mr. Rumsey said. ''Most of my dealings were with Rich, and he had done
a lot for us over the years. At the end of the day, it's a business decision for
me.'' It might have been a different story if the company didn't have an
established product. ''In this case, the brand isn't just an endorsement, it's
an actual product,'' said Thomas Ordahl, chief strategy officer for Landor, a
global brand consulting firm.

Consumers also tend to be more forgiving when the wrongdoers admit guilt, said
Valerie Folkes, a marketing professor at the University of Southern California
Marshall School of Business. Mr. Armstrong ''suffered because he so publicly
denied doing anything wrong,'' said Ms. Folkes, who is an expert on how
consumers respond to negative information.

Until federal authorities forced his hand, Mr. Hincapie was not forthright about
his own use of banned substances -- and he was tight-lipped about Mr.
Armstrong's doping until the very end. When Mr. Hincapie did come forward, he
was credited for his loyalty while Mr. Armstrong became a pariah.

After their initial damage control, the brothers started mapping out a strategy
to move forward. That included a plan for the Hincapie Racing Team, a
professional team co-owned by the investor Mark Holowesko. The team, which is
focused on prominent American races, has posted some strong results in the last
two seasons, including winning the third stage of the Amgen Tour of California
in May.

Though racing teams typically don't make money, the Hincapie team's successes
have increased visibility for the brand, and that spurs sales for Hincapie
Sportswear. It also helps bring guests to Hotel Domestique, which is about 20
miles outside Greenville in the Blue Ridge foothills where Mr. Hincapie likes to
ride. The Hincapies restored the property and opened it in 2013 as a luxury
cycling destination, complete with an on-site mechanic and a fleet of
high-performance bikes. All told, Hincapie Sportswear and its related ventures
have 200 employees and annual revenue of more than $10 million.

In cycling parlance, a domestique is a cyclist who rides for the benefit of the
team's leader, often without glamorous fanfare and seldom in the prized yellow
jersey of the leader of the Tour de France. In the end, that status might have
spared George Hincapie the worst of the doping fallout. ''George was probably
the most successful unsuccessful bike racer there ever was,'' said Mr. Baratto.
''If he had won more, it might have been different.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/how-sorry-saved-the-family-business.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Hincapie, a former professional cyclist, founded
Hincapie Sportswear in 2002 with his brother, Rich. George admitted in 2012 to
doping during his career. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(BU1)
Above, from left: the patio, lobby and lawn at Hotel Domestique in Travelers
Rest, S.C. George and Rich Hincapie opened the hotel in 2013 and market it as a
luxury cycling destination. Below, George Hincapie and Lance Armstrong, who were
teammates, at the 2005 Tour de France. Both men said they used performance-
enhancing drugs during their professional careers. Bottom, Rich Hincapie, the
co-founder of Hincapie Sportswear, helped his brother develop a strategy to pick
up the pieces and redeem their business after George admitted to doping.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OLIVIER HOSLET/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (BU5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOUR DE FRANCE (90%); CYCLING (89%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); FAMILY
COMPANIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%);
INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION
(71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (90%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (72%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good Deal, at Least for Fidelity

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg.
1

LENGTH: 1103 words


As steward of a $5.2 trillion mutual fund and asset management empire, Fidelity
Management and Research promises to treat investors fairly and put their
interests first.

But as a private and controlling investor in the Colt Group, a small British
telecom company, Fidelity is taking a decidedly different approach, some Colt
shareholders say. They contend that the mutual fund giant is putting its own
interests ahead of other Colt owners by forcing them to accept its buyout offer
for the company at a bargain-basement price.

The Colt Group, which generated $1.6 billion in revenue last year, owns data
centers and fiber-optic and voice networks in Britain, elsewhere in Europe and
in parts of Asia. Fidelity, which has four seats on the Colt board, owns 66
percent of Colt's shares, an investment it has held for decades.

During the run-up to the early-2000s technology stock bubble, Colt was a star,
with its shares trading as high as 10,000 pence each. The stock collapsed when
that bubble burst, and for the last decade Colt shares have rarely traded above
200 pence (about $3) in trading on the London stock exchange.

Colt has been struggling: Its revenue declined 5.1 percent in 2014. But the
company's fortunes may at last be turning, Colt's beleaguered shareholders say.
And that's why they are objecting to a 190-pence bid Fidelity made on June 19
for the company's shares it doesn't already own.

The bid, made by Lightning Investors Limited, a unit of Fidelity Management and
Research and Fidelity International Limited, values Colt at $2.7 billion. On
Aug. 11, shareholders will vote on an interim step that would let the
transaction go forward. The deal requires the support of a majority of outside
shareholders.

Fidelity has told Colt shareholders that its offer for the company is fair,
representing a 34.4 percent premium to the company's average closing share price
over the previous 12 months. It will not increase its offer, Fidelity says. (No
independent fairness opinion was provided on the deal.)

The bid translates to a multiple of seven times Colt's earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.

That's a steal, minority Colt shareholders say. They point to recent
acquisitions of operations similar to Colt's that were done at much higher
prices, between 13 times and 16 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.

Lightower Fiber Network's April merger with Fibertech Networks is a prime
example. That deal went for 13 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Companies with data centers, including Telx in
the United States and Telecity in Europe, have received even higher multiples
for their operations recently.

These companies are not exactly like Colt, but the prices paid for them, some of
the minority shareholders say, reinforce the notion that Fidelity's is a lowball
bid.

Even more disturbing, they say, is that Fidelity's cheap bid emerged as
companies are buying up fiber networks across Europe. And the shareholders
wonder if the offer was made after the four Fidelity directors saw internal
signs that Colt was turning the corner.

Shortly after Fidelity made its offer, Colt announced a new business plan that
involved exiting information technology services and refocusing on its core
businesses. By jettisoning its money-losing information technology operation,
the company said, it expects to begin generating free cash flow for the first
time since 2011.

Andrew Sinwell, a longtime telecom investor and chief executive of N2 Capital
Management, a Dallas-based private investment firm that owns Colt shares, is one
of those who don't like the timing or the price of the deal.

''Just when there's light at the end of the tunnel for Colt's minority
shareholders,'' he said, ''Fidelity is squeezing them out at a below-market
price so they can capture the premium for themselves.''

Vin Loporchio, a Fidelity spokesman, defended the proposed deal. In a statement,
he said that the company believed its offer ''fully and fairly values Colt and
reflects the anticipated plans of Colt's management for the business and its
prospects.'' He also noted that the deal had support from two large Colt
investors, Standard Life and Ruffer L.L.P., investment managers in Britain.

But the unhappy Colt shareholders are not alone. The company's independent
directors have also expressed dismay at the bid.

In a letter to Colt shareholders, those directors, who were advised by Barclays,
said they believed Fidelity's offer ''undervalues the company and its
prospects'' and said they ''consider that the financial terms of the offer are
not fair to the independent shareholders of Colt.''

The independent directors went on to say that they believed that a sale of the
company to a third-party purchaser with a strategic interest in Colt's assets
''could potentially achieve a price significantly higher than the offer.''

The dissenting Colt shareholders agree that an auction of the company, where a
number of interested companies could make their best offers, is the right thing
to do.

But Fidelity has slammed the door on this possibility. In its bid it noted that
it would not sell its shares to any third party before December 2016.

''It has always been known that Fidelity is a long-term investor unwilling to
sell its interest in the company,'' Mr. Loporchio said.

This decision hurts Colt's outside shareholders, Mr. Sinwell said. ''In this
situation where Colt is an illiquid stock, it's difficult for a white knight to
show up and protect the minorities.''

The independent directors concede that some shareholders, tired of waiting for a
turnaround at the company, might support Fidelity's offer.

Because Fidelity's acquisition of the minority shares in Colt would not be an
acquisition of control, the spokesman said, the transaction is not comparable to
typical mergers and acquisitions, which include a premium for control. He
questioned the comparison to the Lightower deal and others done at similar
price-to-earnings ratios.

''We also strongly disagree with the multiple range of 13 to 16 times Ebitda''
for the company, Mr. Loporchio said.

Instead, he said, the best comparable transaction was the 30 percent purchase of
Interoute, a European network operator that's 70 percent privately held. That
deal went for seven times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.

Maybe so, but that isn't stopping many Colt shareholders from suspecting that
Fidelity is trying to grab the company's upside potential for itself -- and
using strong-arm tactics to do so.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/fidelity-seen-as-muscling-investors-o
ut-of-upside-in-a-telecom-deal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%);
SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EBITDA (89%); PRICES (89%); MERGERS
(78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FIBER OPTICS (77%);
TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); ANNUAL
FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); FIDELITY INTERNATIONAL LTD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT
ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spat Breaks Out Over Plans for Clinton's Testimony Before Benghazi Committee

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MAGGIE HABERMAN; Michael S. Schmidt reported
from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 999 words


WASHINGTON --  Amid renewed controversy surrounding Hillary Rodham Clinton's use
of private email for government work, a dispute erupted on Saturday over when
and how she would publicly testify before the House select committee
investigating the 2012 terrorist attacks on the American diplomatic outpost in
Benghazi, Libya.

Mrs. Clinton's aides announced Saturday morning that she had accepted an
invitation to testify on Oct. 22. But a spokesman for the Republican-led
committee said hours later that no agreement had been reached.

And by day's end, it was not clear what exactly they were arguing over.

A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton said she accepted the committee's invitation on
Friday, the same day that inspectors general for the State Department and the
nation's intelligence agencies said they had discovered classified information
on the private email account Mrs. Clinton used while she was secretary of state.
The inspectors general said the secret information should never have been stored
outside secure government systems.

Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign, said in a
statement Saturday that the campaign had reviewed the statements by the
inspectors general.

''We want to ensure that appropriate procedures are followed as these emails are
reviewed while not unduly delaying the release of her emails,'' Mr. Merrill
said. ''We particularly do not want their release to be hampered by bureaucratic
infighting among the intelligence community. More emails are slated to be
released by the State Department next week, and we hope that release is as
inclusive as possible.''

But the committee's spokesman issued a statement a few hours later asserting
that Mrs. Clinton's lawyer, David Kendall, had stipulated that acceptance of the
October date would depend on the committee's agreeing to question Mrs. Clinton
only about the Benghazi attacks, not about her private email account, and on a
commitment that the date of the hearing would not change.

''Secretary Clinton's campaign may want to reach out to her lawyer,'' the
committee spokesman, Jamal Ware, said. ''As of last night, Mr. Kendall was still
negotiating conditions for her appearance.''

Mr. Merrill, however, responded with a second statement disputing this. ''We
have made clear that we understand emails are in their jurisdiction,'' he said.
''So unless the committee now believes emails are no longer in its jurisdiction,
we are in agreement.''

The Benghazi committee, in the course of its investigation, discovered that Mrs.
Clinton had used her personal email account for State Department business.

Mrs. Clinton has said for months that she kept no classified information on the
private server she had set up in her house so that she would not have to carry
both a personal phone and a work phone. Her campaign said on Friday that any
government secrets found on the server had been classified after the fact.

Campaigning in Iowa on Saturday, she was asked about the email issue. ''I think
there's so much confusion around this that I understand why reporters and the
public are asking questions, but the facts are pretty clear,'' she told
reporters, according to The Associated Press. ''I did not send nor receive
anything that was classified at the time.''

But the two inspectors general said on Friday that the information they found
was classified when it was sent and remains so. Information is considered
classified if its disclosure would be likely to harm national security. The
investigators said the information was not marked as classified but should have
been stored only on government computer networks with special safeguards.

''This classified information never should have been transmitted via an
unclassified personal system,'' Steve A. Linick, the State Department inspector
general, said in a statement signed by him and I. Charles McCullough III, the
inspector general for the intelligence agencies.

Saturday's testy back-and-forth seemed to boil down to a spat about who should
have announced Mrs. Clinton's agreement to testify. It also pointed up how
contentious the subject of her email account remains -- and that it is only
likely to grow as 2016 draws near.

The Oct. 22 date would give the committee months to receive from the State
Department, and then digest, troves of email traffic involving Mrs. Clinton's
aides. And her testimony would take place when more people were focused on her
campaign.

But her testimony also is expected to be public, as pressed for by her aides,
who were pleased with how she fared in January 2013 when she last testified
before Congress in relation to the Benghazi attacks. The committee had sought to
question Mrs. Clinton in private about the emails.

Mr. Kendall told the committee on May 4 that Mrs. Clinton was willing to testify
the week of May 18. But the committee chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy,
Republican of South Carolina, never scheduled the hearing. He said he would not
call her to testify until the State Department had turned over all the documents
he had requested.

Since then, Mr. Gowdy has repeatedly criticized the State Department for
withholding documents. This month, he postponed the testimony of several of Mrs.
Clinton's aides, saying he could not question them until he had all of the
relevant documents from the State Department.

The inspectors general said the State Department had agreed to allow
intelligence officials with expertise in Freedom of Information Act releases to
play a role in the review. But the inspectors general said the department had
still not created a process for resolving disputes between the department and
other parts of the government about differences over how to classify documents.

''There have been recent examples, such as the Senate Intelligence Committee's
report on torture, where release of information was delayed because of
disagreements among agencies,'' Mr. Merrill said in his statement, ''and we hope
that will not happen here.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/clinton-to-testify-publicly-before-house-co
mmittee-investigating-benghazi-attacks.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNET
PRIVACY (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); LAWYERS
(64%); NETWORK SERVERS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%)

CITY: BENGHAZI, LIBYA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Is the Poison His Party Concocted

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 839 words


The adults patrolling the playpen of Republican politics are appalled that we've
become a society where it's O.K. to make fun of veterans, to call anyone who
isn't rich a loser, to cast an entire group of newly arrived strivers as rapists
and shiftless criminals.

Somewhere, we crossed a line -- from our mothers' modesty to strutting
braggadocio, from dutiful decorum to smashing all the china in the room, from
respecting a base set of facts to a trumpeting of willful ignorance.

Yes, how did we get to a point where up to one-fourth of the party of Lincoln,
Eisenhower and Reagan now aligns itself with Donald Trump? Those same political
marshals would have us believe he's a ''demagogue,'' a ''jackass,'' a
''cancer.''

They say he's trashing the Republic brand. They say he's ''stirring up the
crazies,'' in the words of Senator John McCain. But Trump is the brand, to a
sizable degree. And the crazies have long flourished in the Republican media
wing, where any amount of gaseous buffoonery goes unchallenged.

And now that the party can't control him, Trump threatens to destroy its chances
if he doesn't get his way, running as an independent with unlimited wealth -- a
political suicide bomb.

Trump is a byproduct of all the toxic elements Republicans have thrown into
their brew over the last decade or so -- from birtherism to race-based hatred of
immigrants, from nihilists who shut down government to elected officials who
shout ''You lie!'' at their commander in chief.

It was fine when all this crossing-of-the-line was directed at President Obama
or other Democrats. But now that the ugliness is intramural, Trump has forced
party leaders to decry something they have not only tolerated, but encouraged.

Consider Trump's swipe against McCain's military service, and by extension all
veterans who have been involved in the fog of combat. Republicans were
apoplectic at Trump's claim that McCain was no war hero.

''All of our veterans, particularly P.O.W.s, deserve our respect and
admiration,'' said Jeb Bush. The Republican National Committee was quick to lay
down a similar principle, saying, ''There is no place in our country for
comments that disparage those who have served honorably.''

No place except a presidential campaign, that being the 2004 attempt to destroy
the honorable Vietnam service of candidate John Kerry. Where was Bush's
''respect and admiration'' when his brother was benefiting from a
multimillion-dollar smear of a Navy veteran with a Bronze Star and a Purple
Heart?

The wise men predicted Trump's demise after he demeaned a former prisoner of
war. But polls posted late this week showed Trump still in the lead. How can he
get away with bashing combat veterans? Simple: The party he now wants to
represent wrote the playbook on it.

The racism toward Mexicans that Trump has stirred up has been swooshing around
the basement of the Republican Party for some time. Representative Steve King of
Iowa did Trump one better in 2013 when he said undocumented immigrants had
''calves the size of cantaloupes because they're hauling 75 pounds of marijuana
across the desert.''

Did this make King a pariah? Not judging by the number of presidential
candidates who showed up at his Iowa Freedom Summit in January, there to curry
his favor. Among them was Rick Perry, the former Texas governor. This week Perry
called Trumpism ''a toxic mix of demagogy, meanspiritedness and nonsense that
will lead the Republican Party to perdition if followed.''

Using the X-ray vision of his new glasses, Perry has correctly diagnosed the
problem, and forecast the outcome. But that toxic mix has been just the tonic
for his party for years, including Perry's suggestion that Texas might have to
secede. President Obama was barely into his first months in office when
Representative Joe Wilson of South Carolina shouted ''You lie!'' at him in a
joint session of Congress. For hurling that insult, Wilson was widely praised in
conservative media circles.

Trump also stoked the humiliating lie about President Obama's citizenship. He
began that crusade, he claimed, because so many Republicans still believe it,
and have encouraged him to keep it alive.

Now, the only way to trump Trump is to act like a fool in public. So Senator
Rand Paul, formerly seen raising good questions about national issues, fired up
a chain saw and took it to the tax code a few days ago -- a pathetic stunt. And
there was Senator Lindsey Graham, flummoxed by Trump's exposing him as sycophant
to a plutocrat, destroying his cellphone in a blender. It only made us long for
the real thing: Dan Aykroyd's Bass-O-Matic.

All of this overshadowed the entry into the race of Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a
sensible conservative who could beat Hillary Clinton. But he won't get any
traction until Republicans destroy Donald Trump and the vulgar, nativist element
in their party that they nurtured -- until it became a monster.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/24/opinion/trump-is-the-poison-his-party-concocte
d.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald Trump leaving a news conference on Thursday in Laredo,
Tex., at the World Trade Bridge to Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POISONINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA
(64%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JEB BUSH (78%);
BARACK OBAMA (58%)

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (74%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pearson Talks of Selling Part of Economist

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 356 words


Pearson, the British education company, said on Saturday that it was in
discussions to sell its 50 percent stake in the Economist Group, the publisher
of The Economist.

''Pearson confirms it is in discussions with the Economist Group board and
trustees regarding the potential sale of our 50 percent share in the group,'' it
said in a statement. ''There is no certainty that this process will lead to a
transaction.''

Pearson also owns the Financial Times, but announced late last week, after
releasing a similar statement, that it had reached a deal to sell the newspaper
to the Japanese company Nikkei for $1.3 billion. It said that it wanted to focus
on its core education business.

The discussions involving The Economist, The Financial Times reported, are
focused on other shareholders of the group, including wealthy families like the
Schroders, the Cadburys and the Agnellis. Exor, the Agnelli family's Italian
holding company and a major shareholder in Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, is in
talks with Pearson to raise its 4.72 percent stake in The Economist Group,
according to several news reports.

The German media company Axel Springer and the financial information company
Bloomberg, which came close to buying The Financial Times, were also approached,
the newspaper reported.

But they declined to pursue the purchase because The Economist is held in a
trust that guarantees ''the continued independence of the ownership of the
company and the editorial independence of The Economist,'' according to its
website. The Pearson shares do not allow control.

The Financial Times reported that Pearson's stake was worth more than $600
million, and that the Economist Group, which also includes CQ Roll Call, had
operating profit of about $90 million last year -- more than double the profit
of The Financial Times.

Pearson also owns 47 percent of the publisher Penguin Random House. When asked,
in the wake of the Financial Times sale this week, whether it would also seek to
sell that stake, Pearson's chief executive declined to comment.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/media/pearson-in-talks-to-sell-its-st
ake-of-the-economist-group.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (78%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TRUST
ARRANGEMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (94%); FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (55%)

TICKER: FCAU (NYSE) (55%); F (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING
(55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); SIC3523 FARM
MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Israel Is Steadfast in Criticism of Nuclear Deal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 646 words


WASHINGTON -- In a stern response to Secretary of State John Kerry's recent
comments on the Iran nuclear accord, an Israeli official said Saturday that
Israel would continue to criticize the agreement and could not be pressured to
stop voicing its objections.

In remarks on Friday, Mr. Kerry warned that the international community might
blame Israel if Congress blocked the accord and that as a result Israel might
''wind up being more isolated.''

Mr. Kerry's remarks, made during an appearance in New York at the Council on
Foreign Relations, were taken by Israeli officials as a thinly veiled effort to
muzzle their criticism.

''We reject the threats directed at Israel in recent days,'' an Israeli official
said in a statement to The New York Times.

''The U.S. Congress will make its decision based on American interests, which
include consideration of U.S. allies,'' added the official, who asked not to be
named because of the diplomatic sensitivities. ''The regrettable attempt to
intimidate Israel will not prevent us from voicing our concerns about this deal,
which poses direct threats to Israel's security.''

It was the first response from an Israeli official to Mr. Kerry's remarks, which
occurred shortly before the Jewish Sabbath began in Israel.

American officials insisted on Saturday that Mr. Kerry had never intended to
threaten Israel and were careful not to repeat his observation that Israel might
be blamed if Congress stops the accord from being enacted.

''Secretary Kerry issued no threats,'' said John Kirby, the State Department
spokesman. ''He simply stated a fact: Should the U.S. Congress fail to support
the deal, it will fall apart, and so, too, will any international support for
further sanctions on Iran and its nuclear program. Iran will thus be able to
start rushing its nuclear program forward again.''

In his Friday comments, Mr. Kerry also argued that the nuclear agreement, which
would limit Iran's nuclear program for more than 10 years, was overwhelmingly in
Israel's interest.

''We're gaining a safety and security, I believe, for Israel and the region that
no alternative presents,'' said Mr. Kerry, who added that he still considered
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to be a friend.

Still, it is clear that the considerable strains between the Obama
administration and Mr. Netanyahu's government have grown since the State
Department submitted the accord to Congress on July 19 for a 60-day review.

American officials have been frustrated by Israel's relentless criticism of what
the White House considers President Obama's most significant foreign policy
achievement. Israeli officials, however, have been worried that the Obama
administration is reluctant to stand up to Iran and is ambivalent about
projecting power in the Middle East.

''It is striking that despite years of stepped-up consultations, there is such
rancor and mistrust between the Obama administration and the Netanyahu
government,'' said Robert M. Danin, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations and a former State Department official.

''Even more noteworthy is that their differences over Iran are being aired so
publicly, even with their manifold channels of private communications,'' Mr.
Danin said. ''This failure to come to a common understanding, if not joint
approach, is harmful to both American and Israeli interests.''

The Israeli statement comes just days after Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter
visited Israel to try to reassure officials there that the United States would
continue to be vigilant in confronting what he called ''Iran's malign
influence.''

On Friday, Mr. Kerry said that he would meet with Arab officials in Qatar in
August to discuss ways to counter Iranian activities ''we disagree with.''

Mr. Kerry said his goal was ''to unify the Gulf world, and we hope Israel,'' to
''push back against'' Iran.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/middleeast/israel-is-steadfast-in-critic
ism-of-nuclear-deal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS
(71%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%);
MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Orders Immigrant Children and Mothers Released From Detention

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 948 words


A federal judge in California has ruled that the Obama administration's
detention of children and their mothers who were caught crossing the border
illegally is a serious violation of a longstanding court settlement, and that
the families should be released as quickly as possible.

In a decision late Friday roundly rejecting the administration's arguments for
holding the families, Judge Dolly M. Gee of Federal District Court for the
Central District of California found that two detention centers in Texas that
the administration opened last summer fail to meet minimum legal requirements of
the 1997 settlement for facilities housing children.

Judge Gee also found that migrant children had been held in ''widespread
deplorable conditions'' in Border Patrol stations after they were first caught,
and she said the authorities had ''wholly failed'' to provide the ''safe and
sanitary'' conditions required for children even in temporary cells.

The opinion was a significant legal blow to detention policies ordered by
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson in response to an influx of children and
parents, mostly from Central America, across the border in South Texas last
summer. In her 25-page ruling, Judge Gee gave a withering critique of the
administration's positions, declaring them ''unpersuasive'' and ''dubious'' and
saying officials had ignored ''unambiguous'' terms of the settlement.

The administration has struggled with a series of setbacks in the federal courts
for its immigration policies, including decisions that halted President Obama's
programs to give protection from deportation and work permits to millions of
undocumented immigrants.

''We are disappointed with the court's decision and are reviewing it in
consultation with the Department of Justice,'' said Marsha Catron, a spokeswoman
for the Department of Homeland Security. She said officials would respond to an
order by the judge to present a plan by Aug. 3 for carrying out the ruling.

Judge Gee's decision was based on the 18-year-old settlement in a hard-fought
class action lawsuit, known as Flores, that has governed the treatment of minors
apprehended at the border who are unaccompanied -- not with a parent. Judge Gee
found that the Flores settlement, which has been carried out with little dispute
from the federal authorities, also applies to children caught with their
parents.

The judge also found that the family detention centers in Texas were a
''material breach'' of provisions requiring that minors be placed in facilities
that are not secured like prisons and are licensed to take care of children. The
detention centers are secure facilities run by private prison contractors.

She ruled on a lawsuit that was filed in February by Peter Schey and Carlos
Holguin, lawyers at the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los
Angeles. They sued after two months of negotiations between them and the Justice
Department produced no accord on how to change the detention centers.

''I think this spells the beginning of the end for the Obama administration's
immigrant family detention policy,'' Mr. Schey, the president of the human
rights center, said Friday. ''A policy that just targets mothers with children
is not rational and it's inhumane.''

The detention of the mothers and children has drawn furious criticism from
immigrant advocates and religious and Latino groups, who have called on the
administration to shut the detention centers down.

Since last summer's surge, Homeland Security officials opened detention centers
in Texas in Dilley and Karnes City, in addition to a small family center already
operating in Berks County, Pa. As of June 30, about 2,600 women and children
were held in the three centers, officials said.

Initially, Homeland Security officials said they were detaining the families to
send a message to others in Central America to deter them from coming to the
United States illegally. In February, a federal court in Washington, D.C., ruled
that strategy unconstitutional. Officials stopped invoking deterrence as a
factor in deciding whether to release mothers and children as they seek asylum
in the United States.

But many women and children remained stalled behind bleak walls and fences month
after month with no end in sight. Mothers became severely depressed or anxious,
and their distress echoed in their children, who became worried and sickly.

Under the Flores settlement, officials were required to try first to release a
child to a parent, legal guardian or close relative. Judge Gee concluded that if
the mother was also detained, Homeland Security officials should release her
with the child, as long as she did not present a flight or security risk. She
gave the administration one week to devise a plan to release children and
mothers ''without unnecessary delay.''

For children who could not be released, the Flores agreement required officials
to place them in nonsecure facilities run by agencies licensed for child care.

On June 24, Mr. Johnson announced changes to shorten the length of stay for most
women and children in the centers. The pace of releases picked up, and more than
150 women and children were freed in one week alone in early July. Officials
argued in recent court filings that Judge Gee was ruling on practices no longer
in place.

Advocates disagreed.

''This decision confirms that the mass detention of refugee children and their
mothers violates U.S. law,'' said Elora Mukherjee, a law professor at Columbia
University who with her students has represented women at the Texas detention
centers. ''Prolonging their detention even a single day in light of this
decision would be illegal.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/detained-immigrant-children-judge-dolly-gee
-ruling.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The immigrant detention center in Dilley, Tex. A federal ruling
criticized the conditions in which children who crossed the border from Mexico
are held. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS
& DECISIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE
(90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS
(89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS
(78%); PRISONS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PASSPORTS
& VISAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); CORRECTIONS (77%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LAWYERS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEH JOHNSON (73%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Ransom, Bitcoin Replaces the Bag of Bills

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words


In the old days, criminals liked their ransom payments in briefcases full of
unmarked bills.

These days, there's a new preferred method for hostage takers: the virtual
currency Bitcoin.

In a modern day version of a mob shakedown, hackers around the world have seized
files on millions of computers, taken down public websites and even, in a few
cases, threatened physical harm. The victims -- who have ranged from ordinary
computer users to financial firms and police departments -- are told that their
only way out is through a Bitcoin payment that is sometimes more than $20,000.

One set of attackers, believed to be based in Russia and Ukraine, collected
about $16.5 million in Bitcoins in a little over a month, primarily from victims
in the United States, according to the security firm Sophos.

Criminals like the virtual currency because it can be held in a digital wallet
that does not have to be registered with any government or financial authority
-- and because it can be easily exchanged for real money. At the moment, a
single Bitcoin can be sold online or on the street for around $290.

''The criminal underground very much likes Bitcoin,'' said Curt Wilson, a senior
threat intelligence analyst at Arbor Networks. ''It's enabled a greater sense of
obfuscation.''

Bitcoin, which was released by an anonymous creator in 2009, has recently been
gaining mainstream appeal. Start-ups in the industry have won investments from
big names like Goldman Sachs and the New York Stock Exchange, which have praised
the technology as a faster, more efficient way to complete financial
transactions.

But the proliferation of ransom demands has provided an unhappy reminder of the
virtual currency's continuing appeal to the criminal underworld, long after the
authorities shut down the online drug bazaar, Silk Road, where heroin and
cocaine were sold using Bitcoin.

The latest reminder of Bitcoin's underbelly came last week with the arrest of
two Florida men. The authorities said victims of malware were steered to
Coin.mx, a site run by the two men, to buy the Bitcoins to pay the ransom
demanded by the malware. The complaint suggested that the criminals also used
the site to launder their proceeds.

In a separate set of recent cases, security experts said, several financial
firms have been attacked by a criminal, or circle of criminals, going by the
name DD4BC, who have threatened to overwhelm the firms' public websites with
message traffic unless a Bitcoin payment was made. These corporate victims are
generally asked to pay about $10,000, the security experts said, and the attacks
have shown no signs of abating.

''Do not ignore me, as it will just increase the price,'' DD4BC said in one
email that was made public. ''Once you pay me you are free from me for the
lifetime of your site.''

Ted Weisberg, the president of the brokerage firm Seaport Securities, which was
hit in June, said that he initially thought the message was a joke. But as he
called competitors, he said, he quickly learned that the threat was real.
Seaport's website ended up being down for a day and a half. Mr. Weisberg's firm
did not pay the ransom and repelled the bombardment of traffic with the help of
one of its technical providers.

The extortion attempts have been widespread enough that the brokerage industry's
self-governing regulatory agency, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
warned its members in June to contact the F.B.I. if they received a message from
DD4BC.

Ransom payments entered the digital world long before Bitcoin came on the scene.
Previously, though, the methods for paying attackers could be cumbersome and
risky for the extortionist. A credit card payment or bank transfer could easily
be traced by the police, so the victims were usually asked to buy prepaid cards
like Green Dot's MoneyPak. Partly because of their use by swindlers, these cards
were recently taken off the market.

Bitcoin has made the delivery of ransom more seamless and untraceable for
criminals because the virtual currency system is run by a decentralized network
of computers that collects no personal information about users. Unlike the days
of bulging briefcases, Bitcoin payments can be made without an in-person
meeting. What's more, Bitcoin transactions are designed to be irreversible, so
victims cannot reclaim their money as they could with a credit card or PayPal
transaction.

Early Bitcoin users quickly realized that the currency could be useful for
ransom payments. But in late 2013, the threat spread far beyond the virtual
currency community when the first version of Bitcoin-fueled ransomware, known as
CryptoLocker, began to spread around the globe.

The software encrypted all of the files on a computer and offered a key to
unlock the files in exchange for a Bitcoin payment. Victims were directed to
several websites where they could buy Bitcoins through a bank transfer.

When an alliance of international authorities took down CryptoLocker in mid-2014
and identified the mastermind as a 30-year-old Russian named Evgeniy Bogachev,
the group said that the software had spread to 234,000 computers. Since then,
much more virulent strains have popped up, most of them under the name
CryptoWall, and spread even more widely to the computers of anyone who opened
infected attachments.

The authorities have had trouble estimating the number of victims because many
do not report their problem and quietly pay the price. But in late 2014, Dell
SecureWorks said CryptoWall had infected over 800,000 computers. New versions of
the malware, going by names like TorrentLocker and Dirty Decrypt, have popped up
frequently since then.

A police department in Durham, N.H., that was hit by CryptoWall in June 2014,
refused to hand over the ransom and was able to revert to backup files. But more
recently, police departments in Dickson County, Tenn., and Tewksbury, Mass.,
have said that they chose to pay the roughly $500 ransom rather than deal with
the headache of trying to circumvent the hackers.

Beyond these attacks, extortionists went after two longtime Bitcoin advocates
last year, threatening to exploit personal information about the men's families
if they did not pay up.

When one of the men, Hal Finney, refused to submit, the assailant called the
local police and reported a murder at Mr. Finney's home, resulting in a SWAT
team taking over the home, the family has said. The other victim, Roger Ver,
threw off his attacker by offering a Bitcoin bounty of roughly $20,000 for his
attacker's arrest.

Some leaders in the Bitcoin community have suggested potential ways to fend off
the ransom threats, digitally marking any coins used for ransom payments,
similar to how dollar bills used in hostage situations are marked with invisible
dye.

But such solutions have been held up because of the value that many Bitcoin
believers have put in the virtual currency's unfettered free movement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/dealbook/for-ransom-bitcoin-replaces-
the-bag-of-bills.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Bitcoin conference and trade show in New York last year. The
currency was unveiled by an anonymous creator in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK
LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CURRENCY (97%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING
(90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (89%);
COMPUTER CRIME (78%); EXTORTION (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
HIDDEN WEB (77%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES
(76%); ELECTRONIC WALLETS (73%); COCAINE (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); STOCK
EXCHANGES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); HEROIN (62%); PRICE INCREASES
(50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 69 words


An article in some editions on Friday about a request to the Justice Department
for an investigation regarding Hillary Clinton's personal email account while
she was secretary of state referred incorrectly, using information from senior
government officials, to the request. It was a ''security referral,'' pertaining
to possible mishandling of classified information, officials said, not a
''criminal referral.''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL
(87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's the End of the World as She Knows It

BYLINE: By SLOANE CROSLEY.

Sloane Crosley is the author of two essay collections. Her first novel, ''The
Clasp,'' will be published in October.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRITIC'S TAKE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 998 words


Ninety-nine percent of the world's population has been wiped out. From Stephen
King's ''The Stand'' to Peter Heller's ''The Dog Stars,'' this is the number
most favored by authors of dystopian and post-apocalyptic fiction. It's a clean
way of conveying that we shouldn't expect anyone to receive concerned calls from
mom and dad but also an efficient means of narrowing the stage of human
violence.

In the wake of the superflus and cataclysmic events, male writers tend to jump
to that unholy trinity of rape, murder and cannibalism. (Although not
necessarily in that order; see Cormac McCarthy's ''The Road.'') There's an
elegant, streamlined logic to this kind of narrative: Eyes on the prize and the
prize is survival. What's curious is that female writers take an overwhelmingly
different -- and interior -- view of the same landscape.

It's certainly not because women are squeamish when it comes to writing about
violence. Who better than a woman to detail the vulnerabilities of characters
when cities go dark and tensions run high? P.D. James's ''The Children of Men''
fairly drips with blood. Still, on the whole, female post-apocalyptic writers
have a history of being more interested in memory than dismemberment.

Mary Shelley's ''The Last Man,'' published in 1826, takes place in 2100 and ends
with a man swimming in the Adriatic Sea after the last of his friends have
succumbed to drowning or deadly plague. The novel jettisons descriptions of
physical frailty for those of meditation and memory. ''Why could I not forget
myself like one of those animals,'' the lonely narrator wonders, ''and no longer
suffer the wild tumult of misery that I endure?'' Such sentiments are to be
expected from a woman steeped in suffering. Her mother died days after she was
born and Shelley was outlived by only one of her four children. While writing
''The Last Man,'' she was still mourning her husband, the poet Percy Bysshe
Shelley, who had drowned off the coast of Italy in 1822. She was so accustomed
to reckoning with life's fragility that the ''harrowing shrieks'' of the
apocalypse appeared to hold little interest for her. ''Does the reader wish to
hear .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. of the variety of disease, desertion,
famine, despair and death? There are many books which can feed the appetite
craving for these things; let them turn to the accounts of Boccaccio, Defoe and
Browne.''

More recently, Emily St. John Mandel's ''Station Eleven'' pivots on the
pre-plague lives of its characters. Granted, this is a world where
self-proclaimed prophets kill and impregnate at will (incidentally, plenty of
plots in post-apocalyptic fiction have to do with pregnancy, but, as far as I
know, no one in the history of the genre ever has her period). But gore never
takes center stage. There's a rape, mentioned briefly and answered with swift
justice. Characters get knife tattoos for every life they take, serving as
living headstones, not macabre trophies. But the real nightmare is found in the
threat of forgetting or in the memory of unresolved pre-apocalyptic
relationships. Hell is defined as ''the absence of the people you long for.''
''Survival is insufficient,'' a character says, and it's the recollection of
art, of lovers, of air conditioning, the way refrigerators lit up when opened --
the mundane details of a vanished way of life -- that gives this novel its
tragic punch. We nod at the violence, as if from a passing car, and keep moving.

In ''Find Me,'' Laura van den Berg eradicates a mere 400,000 of the population,
but what she lacks in body count she makes up for by going straight for the
psychological jugular. Here confusion and the scramble to make sense of one's
present and past is not a side effect of the new world, but its defining
feature: The characters face an ''epidemic of forgetting.'' Demonstrating the
ability to remember facts is a marker of immunity. And the heroine, Joy, is
thoroughly immune; she still has all her bitter memories of moving between
foster homes after her mother abandoned her as a baby, and of a creepy Stop &
Shop co-worker who ''was always trying to play a joke where he snuck up behind
me and put a plastic bag over my head, no matter how many times I told him that
I did not find this funny at all.'' Joy's adolescence has steeled her for
post-plague life.

Shelley, Mandel and van den Berg aren't in denial of the brutalities of a
lawless world. Nor are they more nostalgic than their male counterparts. After
all, the unnamed man in ''The Road'' is plenty moved when he comes across relics
of civilization, and Taylor Antrim's new novel, ''Immunity,'' weaves disease and
depravity into social satire. But it seems as if these women are familiar with
Margaret Atwood's observation that what women fear most from men is murder and
what men fear most from women is humiliation. These writers don't need to
destroy the world in order to imagine what it might be like to feel unsafe in
it. The threat of violence is not something that's new to them, and thus they're
less likely to fixate on it in narrative form, opting instead for stories about
psychological preservation. It's hard not to think that women just might be
better prepared for the end of the world.

By presenting physical danger as a given and not the main event, these authors
are free to move the spotlights elsewhere and create multilayered stories. After
all, when the apocalypse comes, you may or may not have to kill (or be killed),
but you will assuredly have to be you. And these novels are concerned with how.
''There is a part of our story that we do not know how to tell to ourselves,''
Joy theorizes in ''Find Me,'' ''and we will away its existence for so long that
finally our brain agrees to a trade: I will let you forget this, but you will
never feel whole.''

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/its-the-end-of-the-world-as-she-k
nows-it.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); NOVELS &
SHORT STORIES (77%); FICTION LITERATURE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); MEN
(70%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (73%)

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 321 words


A Bank on Trial

To the Editor:

While reading ''A Tiny Bank's Surreal Legal Journey'' by Gretchen Morgenson
(Fair Game, July 19), I wondered whether such a fraud prosecution would have
occurred had Abacus Federal Savings Bank not been a minority bank.

With all due respect to Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, I
suspect bias by the prosecutor, and the bank's being an easy target, to have
caused such an injustice. Thank goodness the jury in the trial saw through all
this and, taking the facts as they were, exonerated the bank and its leaders.

Now if only the district attorney's office would reimburse the bank for its
legal expenses and be transparent about the plea agreement for Ken Yu, I would
have more faith in my adopted country and its rule of law.

Alice S. Huang

Pasadena, Calif., July 19

The Value of Bosses

To the Editor:

I read David Gelles's excellent article about Zappos's implementation of
Holacracy, a self-management system for its employees (''Pushing Shoes and a
Vision,'' July 19).

Having worked for large corporations, followed by 12 years as the owner of my
own business, I can say unequivocally that not only are bosses necessary, they
are also wanted by most employees. All employees need guidance and direction.

I'm all for encouraging feedback from employees and an open-door policy;
however, I'll be interested to see if Zappos ultimately scraps Holacracy.

Peter R. Evans

Miami, July 19

Making the Cut

To the Editor:

Re ''To Work Here, Win the 'Nice' Vote'' (Corner Office, July 19), an interview
with Peter Miller, chief executive of Optinose:

I wonder what percentage of people of color who have interviewed with Mr.
Miller's company have gotten the ''blackball vote''? Yet another example of
hiring people you like instead of people who can do the job.

Marsha E. Simms

New York, July 19

Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (78%); RULE OF LAW (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (73%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: ABACUS FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS,
FEDERALLY CHARTERED (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Millions of Marginalized Americans

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1202 words


NOT long ago I had separate chats with two political insiders who offered to
fill me in on Jeb Bush's strategy, if he prevails in the primaries, for winning
the general election.

In each instance I braced for a lengthy exegesis but got only one sentence: He
picks John Kasich as his running mate.

That was the playbook.

It presumed that Bush would collect Florida's electoral votes, having once
governed the state. It presumed that Ohio could be delivered by Kasich, its
current governor, who announced his own presidential bid on Tuesday.

And it presumed that tandem victories in Florida and Ohio would seal the deal,
because so much of the rest of America was dependably Republican -- or
Democratic. Just a handful of states decide the country's fate.

Shortly after my chats with those two insiders, a third described Hillary
Clinton's supposed plan for victory.

''Cuyahoga County,'' this operative said.

It's the densely populated, largely urban part of Ohio that includes Cleveland.
In both 2008 and 2012, Barack Obama got nearly 70 percent of its votes; in the
latter of those contests, he trailed Mitt Romney by about 90,000 votes outside
of Cuyahoga, but his advantage of roughly 255,000 votes inside the county made
up for that, putting Ohio in his win column.

If Clinton could approximate Obama's appeal in Cuyahoga, the thinking went, Ohio
was hers. And without it, no Republican could rack up the 270 electoral votes
needed for the White House.

Obviously, there's an excellent chance that we end up with a pair other than
Bush-Clinton. And the insiders were giving exaggerated distillations of the
dynamics facing the eventual nominees.

But their musings accurately reflect how depressingly small our presidential
elections are, and I'm not referring to the level of the discourse. I mean the
geography. The overwhelming majority of states and voters in this country of
some 320 million people simply fall by the wayside.

In the coming phase of caucuses and primaries, Iowa, New Hampshire and South
Carolina matter disproportionately -- even though they're flawed mirrors of
America -- because they grant or deny momentum and its attendant donations and
media coverage.

And on the far side of the parties' nominating conventions, another cluster of
states -- the ones said to ''swing'' -- crowd out all the others. This cluster
has shrunk over the last four decades, as most other states turned inalterably
blue or red in presidential elections.

It used to be that dozens of states were up for grabs. In 1976, 20 of them,
including California, New York and Texas, were decided by 5 percentage points or
less.

But in 2012, only five were: Florida, Ohio, Colorado, Virginia and North
Carolina. Only a few more were fiercely contested.

A postelection analysis by The Washington Post showed that almost three-quarters
of the $896 million of television advertising for the Obama-Romney race was
spent in five states (Florida, Ohio, Colorado, Virginia and North Carolina) with
just 17 percent of the population. It was as if the other 250 million Americans
didn't count.

More than half of the $896 million was spent in just Florida, Ohio and Virginia.

These advertising patterns were examined further in a 2013 study by Robert
Richie and Andrea Levien of the advocacy group FairVote, which exposes flaws in
how our elections work. Richie and Levien looked at two other swing states in
2012.

''While the Obama and Romney campaigns and their allied groups spent an average
of more than $30 per eligible voter in New Hampshire and Nevada after April
10,'' Richie and Levien wrote in the Presidential Studies Quarterly, ''they
spent less than one cent per eligible voter in 34 states that together
represented two-thirds of all eligible voters.''

The spending tracked where the nominees or their running mates staged public
campaign events during the 2012 general election. There were 23 in Colorado, 36
in Virginia, 40 in Florida and 73 in Ohio, according to FairVote.

But there were none in 38 states, including the eight least populous ones, and
that wasn't some 2012 wrinkle.

''For the last six presidential election, since 1992, the small states have been
zeroed out,'' said John Koza, the chairman of the National Popular Vote, a
campaign to replace the Electoral College with a system that gives the
presidency to whoever has the most votes nationwide. Such a system would make an
extra vote in red Tennessee or blue Connecticut, both of which had no campaign
events, as helpful as an extra vote in purple Iowa, which had 27.

There's little cause to think that 2016 will differ from 2012, and that's
worrisome, because scholars have found strong evidence that presidents favor
swing states with spending over which the executive branch has discretion.

''The weird incentives created by the Electoral College don't just skew
campaigning -- they skew tangible policy outcomes, even dollars and cents,''
said Douglas Lee Kriner, a Boston University professor and a co-author of a
recent book, ''The Particularistic President,'' that examines this issue.
''Regardless of how non-Machiavellian presidents may want to be, in the back of
their minds, there is this idea: Where do I want my first national manufacturing
innovation center to be? Maybe Ohio?''

Based on data from the last few decades, Kriner estimates that the average
county in a swing state receives more than an 8 percent increase in federal
grants, totaling perhaps $35 million, during a year when an incumbent president
seeks re-election.

John Hudak, the author of ''Presidential Pork,'' which was published last year,
has also documented what he characterized to me as ''a pretty robust
relationship between the competitiveness of a state and its receipt of
dollars.''

He told me that there have been ''some pretty glaring examples'' of first-term
presidents, in the months before voters decide on a second term, announcing big
grants or projects for swing states.

It's distressing. The more candidates micro-target their appeals, the less of a
governing consensus they develop, and the less they counter the polarization
that has eroded common ground in this country. And Americans living outside
these few swing states can easily feel disenfranchised, and tune out.

A national popular vote might be a solution. It at least warrants more
discussion. And it has generated considerable interest: Since 2007, 10 states
and Washington, D.C. -- equaling 165 electoral votes -- have enacted legislation
calling for the popular vote. If the tally rises to states possessing 270 or
more electoral votes, the change could actually be instituted.

But for the next presidential election, voters will feel a degree of affection
entirely dependent on their ZIP codes.

Retirees on the Florida coast? They'll swim in Republican love. Union workers in
Cleveland? They'll grow deaf from Democrats' sweet nothings.

Surfers in California and ranchers in Texas? Once upon a time they were courted,
but not anymore.

I invite you to visit my blog, follow me on Twitter at twitter.com/frankbruni
and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/frank-bruni-the-millions-of-mar
ginalized-americans.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%);
ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES
(78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (50%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (50%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK
OBAMA (79%); JOHN KASICH (71%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SOUTH
CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO,
USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terrorism Case Fails, but No One Can Say Why That Happened

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1345 words


LONDON --  Ian Cobain, a reporter with The Guardian, is one of very few people
who know why a student arrested by armed British police officers in 2013 was
finally acquitted this year of terrorism charges.

Problem is, he cannot report what he knows. He was allowed to observe much of
the trial, but only under strict conditions intended to keep classified material
secret. His notebooks are being held by Britain's domestic intelligence agency.
And if he writes -- or even talks -- about the reason that the student, Erol
Incedal, 27, was acquitted, Mr. Cobain faces prosecution and possibly jail.

''I know the essence of what was happening,'' Mr. Cobain said, ''but I can't
tell, I can't even talk to my editor about this.''

Having initially gone along reluctantly with the reporting restrictions, a
number of British news organizations are now challenging them in court. And yes,
the challenge itself is being heard under secrecy rules that leave the public
mostly excluded. Were Mr. Cobain to break the law and disclose what he knows
publicly, his prosecution would also take place in secret.

''Not even the Russians do that to journalists,'' Mr. Cobain said, speaking
recently in the cafe of the Royal Courts of Justice in London.

The case is among the latest to highlight the growing debate about the proper
balance between civil liberties and national security in the age of terrorism.
That debate has intensified this year in the United States and across much of
Europe, with nations reflecting on decisions they have made since the Sept. 11
attacks and reacting to more recent developments, from the Charlie Hebdo attacks
in Paris to disclosures in Germany about eavesdropping by the United States
National Security Agency.

In Britain, which recently lost 30 citizens to a terrorist attack in Tunisia,
public support for the intelligence and security agencies is high, according to
opinion surveys, and Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to expand their
resources and their ability to monitor electronic communications.

But the Incedal case has focused attention on whether governments are cloaking
too many of their activities in national security classifications, insulating
themselves from public debate and accountability for mistakes or collusion with
suspects.

''It's hard to know quite who is being protected in all this,'' said David
Davis, a lawmaker from the governing Conservative Party and a former minister.

''The implication is that this is more about the embarrassment of the agencies
than it is about real questions of national security,'' he added.

Sean O'Neill, a reporter with The Times of London who also attended the secret
hearings, said he believes that the government's desire to keep some of the
trial evidence secret was legitimate, but that this could have been done under
normal rules allowing parts of trials to be held behind closed doors.

Instead, the conduct of the Incedal case demonstrated an ''obsession with
secrecy'' at a time when there is growing debate on the oversight of
intelligence agencies, Mr. O'Neill said.

''There is a refusenik factor in these organizations which thinks 'anything we
give will undermine us, and therefore undermine national security,' '' he said.

The result is that, as things stand, public knowledge about one of Britain's
biggest recent terrorism trials is a patchwork of partial truths and unanswered
questions.

In the parts of the proceedings that were open, jurors heard that Mr. Incedal
traveled to Syria, met a fighter known as Ahmed and discussed terrorist attacks.

In September 2013, Mr. Incedal, who was born in Turkey but lived in London, was
stopped by the police for speeding, and his car was searched. A slip of paper
found in a glasses case contained the address of a property owned by Tony Blair,
a former prime minister.

While he was detained, Mr. Incedal's car was bugged, and a listening device
recorded him talking about buying a gun.

Then came the dramatic arrest by armed police officers when Mr. Incedal was
stopped while driving with a friend, Mounir Rarmoul-Bouhadjar, near Tower Bridge
in central London, and the tires of his Mercedes were shot out. The police found
a memory card with instructions on assembling a bomb in Mr. Incedal's phone
case.

After his first trial last year, Mr. Incedal was convicted of possessing the
bomb-making guide, and was sentenced to 42 months in jail. Mr. Rarmoul-Bouhadjar
was jailed, too, after admitting to having a similar manual. But a jury could
not agree on whether to convict Mr. Incedal of broader terrorism offenses.

After a retrial, Mr. Incedal was acquitted in March, but the reasons remain
unknown to the public.

Mr. Incedal argued in open court that he wanted a gun to protect himself as he
was planning to deal in drugs, and that he had a ''reasonable excuse'' for
having the bomb-making manual. Again, what that excuse was is not clear.

Even these scraps of information are more than the authorities wanted made
public. Initially, prosecutors argued that they might not be able to bring the
case to court unless it was held in complete secrecy.

But after an appeal by news organizations last year, a strange middle way
emerged: Some of the trial was held in public, some in secret, and the rest in a
kind of no man's land.

Ten reporters, including Mr. Cobain and Mr. O'Neill, were admitted to these
segments of the trial on the condition that they published nothing from the
semi-secret sessions and that, at the end of each day, their reporters'
notebooks were locked in a safe.

The notebooks are now being held by MI5, Britain's domestic intelligence service
-- a fact that has been reported by the British news media and is not denied by
the government, although it will not comment officially.

In going along with the reporting restrictions a year ago, the 10 news
organizations accredited to the trial may have believed -- incorrectly as it
proved -- that the secrecy would be lifted at the end of proceedings. Although
not all of the news organizations covered every phase of the trial, no media
group refused to attend on principle. Mr. Cobain says he now has ''real
reservations'' about having gone along with the process, but, of course, cannot
explain why.

In a statement, the Crown Prosecution Service said that the case ''touched on
important issues which related to national security.''

''Some evidence has already been made public as it was dealt with in open
court,'' the statement said. ''We are working to identify evidence heard during
the closed proceedings which could be placed in the public domain.''

''The extent to which further evidence can go into the public domain will
ultimately be a decision for the judge.''

Many are not convinced. ''How is the public to evaluate the state's actions if
the media cannot report on it?'' said Cian C. Murphy, a legal expert at King's
College London.

''In constitutional terms, secrecy is anathema to the rule of law because legal
and political accountability is impossible without transparency,'' he said. ''If
errors are made, they must be brought to light -- but there is little incentive
for the prosecution, intelligence agencies or government departments to
acquiesce when they can invoke national security to ensure secrecy.''

Critics contend that such secrecy risks eroding not only civil liberties, but
ultimately the effectiveness of the intelligence agencies, too.

''The more secret the organization is, the more inefficient it tends to be,''
Mr. Davis said. ''It's unwise to think of them as a bunch of hyperefficient
James Bonds. They probably aren't.''

''The truth is,'' he added, ''that there is no such thing as secret justice. If
it's secret, it's not justice.''

The appeal against the reporting restrictions has now been adjourned until the
autumn, but in one public session this month, Lord Chief Justice John Thomas
acknowledged that there were ''really difficult constitutional issues'' at
stake.

A few minutes later, those reporters without special permission to attend were
politely asked to leave.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/europe/a-terrorism-case-in-britain-ends-
in-acquittal-but-no-one-can-say-why.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUITTAL (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); WRITERS (78%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); 2015 CHARLIE HEBDO
SHOOTINGS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%);
POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (60%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); TUNISIA
(79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Are There Literary Uses for Boredom?

BYLINE: By RIVKA GALCHEN and ADAM KIRSCH

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BOOKENDS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1461 words


Each week in Bookends, two writers take on questions about the world of books.
This week, Rivka Galchen and Adam Kirsch discuss whether boring books might
serve an interesting purpose.

By Rivka Galchen

Boredom is a kind of meditation. To be bored is, for a spell, to not let the
noise out there get in.

Harry is a dirty dog.

Or is he?

He's a white dog with black spots who doesn't like to take a bath. He runs away
from home! What fun he has going around town, getting covered in dirt and soot
and coal, so that he becomes a black dog with white spots. Eventually Harry gets
a bit hungry and tired. When he returns to his house, his family doesn't
recognize him. They watch him do his tricks, then turn their backs and walk
away. Harry is so sad. Until he thinks to run upstairs, and take a bath, and is
again recognized, and welcomed home with love.

I have read ''Harry the Dirty Dog'' (by Gene Zion, with pictures by Margaret
Bloy Graham) approximately three times a day, most days, for about 16 months,
which, in a rough estimate, translates into 1,440 readings. At times, the
tension as to what will happen with Harry does fall slack. But at other times it
doesn't. Boredom bores a hole right over to the antipodes of boring, and I
sometimes find myself, even at moments when I am liberated from this ritual of
rereading, still thinking about Harry.

On occasion, when I turn the page to see Harry performing his old tricks,
rolling over and playing dead, only to find his skeptical family shaking their
heads and walking away -- ''Oh no, it couldn't be Harry,'' they say -- I feel an
intensity of family feeling I associate more with news stories about soldiers
telling their families via Skype that they are gay. Is this just an illustrated
board book, or is it more like a Greek tragedy, hinging on a drama of
recognition? Is it really possible that they don't recognize Harry? Or do they
just refuse to recognize him as he has deviated from the family value of
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. cleanliness?

I admit I don't always make it to the end of the drama. Sometimes my
Â­co-traveler through the book is filled with an urgent need to turn back the
pages and re-experience, on Page 3, the apples. On Page 12, the ladder. On Page
20, sometimes she kisses the sad Harry. Sometimes not. Sometimes I am aware that
my co-traveler is the most interesting person I know. Sometimes I am not.

At least one aspect of boredom is a failure of perception. We can never
legitimately be bored by the world. Moss, under a microscope, exceeds our
imaginative and intellectual capacities. There is no boredom out there. There is
only boredom in here, in the mind.

Yet to be bored is not just a failing. Centuries of artists and writers and
philosophers who have praised boredom (and its genteel cousin, idleness) were
probably not simply conspiring to justify lying around on a sofa for more hours
than seem obviously necessary. (Though, maybe.) Boredom is a kind of meditation.
To be bored is, for a spell, to not let the noise out there get in. Which is
also a way of letting something happen in the meager, but essential, in here. To
never be bored would be to never be prompted to rupture the boredom. So even as
boredom is a kind of failure of perception, it also restores perception. Harry
was always Harry, but his family could no longer see that. ''He started to do
all his old, clever tricks. He flip-flopped and he flop-flipped. He rolled over
and played dead. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. But everyone shook their
heads.''

Often in recognition scenes, someone who had been believed by a character to be
dead is revealed as still alive. We see this with Viola and Sebastian in
Shakespeare's ''Twelfth Night,'' with Joseph in the Bible story of his coat of
many colors. The recognition, in these stories, is also a kind of resurrection.
In boredom, it is the world that had appeared to be dead and that reveals itself
as new, as miraculously returned. ''He jumped into the bathtub and sat up
begging, with the scrubbing brush in his mouth, a trick he certainly had never
done before.'' After the bath, Harry's family ''sees'' him again. Harry's bath
worked, ''like magic.'' Harry then sleeps, at home, and has happy dreams.

Rivka Galchen is a recipient of a William J. Saroyan International Prize for
Fiction, a Rona Jaffe Foundation Writers' Award and a Berlin Prize, among other
distinctions. Her fiction and nonfiction have appeared in numerous publications,
including Harper's and The New Yorker, which selected her for their list of ''20
Under 40'' American fiction writers in 2010. Her debut novel, the critically
acclaimed ''Atmospheric Disturbances,'' was published in 2008. Her second book,
a story collection titled ''American Innovations,'' was published in May.

â--+ â--+ â--+

By Adam Kirsch

Some of the most acclaimed recent books contain long stretches in which barely
anything happens.

There's no book so beloved that someone, somewhere, hasn't found it unreadably
boring. On Goodreads, in response to the question ''What's the most boring book
you've ever read?,'' it's a given that the answers will include dense and
intimidating volumes like ''Moby-Dick.'' But readers have also apparently been
bored by a number of books that in their time were considered thrilling and
shocking -- ''Lolita,'' ''The Catcher in the Rye,'' even an adventure tale like
''Around the World in Eighty Days'' (''Felt like I was reading it for 80
days'').

Often, it is the books enjoying the most official honor -- the syllabus
standbys, the anthology all-stars -- that provide readers with their first
experience of literary boredom. Partly that is because the classroom is seldom
the best setting for encountering works of literature, which after all were not
written to educate, but to seduce. Poetry, Philip Larkin wrote, should rely on
cash customers -- those who are willing to actually put down money in the
expectation of getting something worthwhile, some genuine pleasure, in return.
When this hedonistic motive is eliminated, when seduction turns into obligation,
it's no wonder that readerly appetite cools to mere dutifulness, which is only a
half-step from outright boredom.

But it's not only a sense of obligation that can make the classics boring. A
classic is by definition a book from another time, and the conventions of the
past stand between it and us like a series of locked doors. To learn how to take
pleasure in the art of the past -- and this is true of music and painting, as
much as of literature -- usually means passing through an initial period of
boredom, just as playing the piano requires learning scales before sonatas. The
treasures that lie on the other side of boredom must, at first, be taken on
faith, which is why a serious reader is always a humble one, ready to distrust
his or her own first impression and rely on the consensus of the past.

Boredom, in other words, is usually a form of misreading; or as parents warn
their children, only boring people get bored. But what if an author seems to be
trying to bore us on purpose? Some of the most acclaimed books of recent years
-- I'm thinking in particular of Roberto BolaÃ±o's ''2666'' and Karl Ove
Knausgaard's ''My Struggle'' -- contain long stretches in which barely anything
happens: BolaÃ±o will spend 50 pages listing murder victims, or Knausgaard the
same amount of space recounting a walk to a high school party. At such moments
they seem to have taken too literally W.H. Auden's admonition, in his poem ''The
Novelist,'' that the novelist must ''become the whole of boredom.''

But what feels like boredom, in these cases, might better be described as
aggressive estrangement. Proust describes the way genuine innovation in art
usually strikes us, at first, as mere incompetence, because it refuses to
conform to received aesthetic standards. (The Impressionists, the Cubists, the
Pop artists were all accused of simply not knowing how to paint.) This is not to
say that a boring book is always a clandestine work of genius; but it does
suggest that a certain kind of boredom -- the boredom of incomprehension, rather
than the boredom of overfamiliarity -- should be taken as a challenge. The most
useful question to ask about a boring book is not ''Why is this author
incompetent?'' but ''What is this author trying to do that I don't understand?''
Whether the book in question was published 200 years ago or last week, our
boredom may turn out to be merely the cloak of its splendor.

Adam Kirsch is a columnist for Tablet. He is the author of two collections of
poetry and several other books, including, most recently, ''Why Trilling
Matters.'' In 2010, he won the Roger Shattuck Prize for Criticism.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/are-there-literary-uses-for-bored
om.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY R. KIKUO JOHNSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (89%); FAMILY (74%)

COMPANY: S A WHITE MARTINS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australian Who Says He Was Forced to Help ISIS Is Arrested

BYLINE: By MICHELLE INNIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 460 words


SYDNEY, Australia --  A 39-year-old nurse from Melbourne who said he was forced
to work with the Islamic State militant group in Syria was arrested upon
returning to Australia, the authorities said Saturday.

The nurse, Adam Brookman, was arrested Friday night at Sydney's international
airport on a warrant related to what the authorities said was his involvement in
the Syrian conflict, according to the Australian Federal Police. He surrendered
to the authorities in Turkey on Tuesday, the police said in a statement. The
statement did not identify Mr. Brookman by name, but his activities have been
widely reported in the Australian news media.

The police did not say what charges Mr. Brookman might face. But antiterrorism
laws passed last year make it illegal for Australians to be in the Syrian city
of Raqqa, a control center for the Islamic State, without a legitimate reason. A
conviction is punishable by prison sentences of up to 10 years. Providing
material support to a militant group like the Islamic State, which is also known
as ISIS or ISIL, is punishable by harsher sentences.

Mr. Brookman, a convert to Islam, told The Sydney Morning Herald that he went to
Syria to do humanitarian work, but that he was forced to work with the Islamic
State after he was wounded in an airstrike and taken to a hospital controlled by
the group. He said he never took up arms and focused on medical tasks;
eventually, he said, he was able to escape and, later, to cross the border into
Turkey.

The Sydney Morning Herald, citing court documents, reported Saturday that Mr.
Brookman was accused of working as a guard for the militant group. He was flown
in police custody from Sydney to Melbourne, in the state of Victoria, where he
was expected to appear in court on Monday, the newspaper said.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Thursday that 120 Australians were fighting on
the side of extremists in Syria and Iraq, and that 160 other Australians
actively supported extremist groups. He said that hundreds of people had been
questioned about their travel plans and that the government had confiscated the
passports of more than 100 Australians to stop them from joining the fighting.

''Australians have been consistently warned that by becoming involved in
overseas conflict they are putting their own lives in mortal danger,'' the
federal police said in a separate statement. ''If there is evidence an
Australian has committed a criminal offense under Australia law while involved
in the conflict in Syria and Iraq, they will be charged and put before the
courts.''

The government is preparing legislation that would allow it to prevent known
terrorists who are dual citizens from returning to Australia by stripping them
of their Australian citizenship.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/asia/australia-arrests-nurse-who-says-he
-worked-with-isis-under-duress.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (92%); ARRESTS
(92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SENTENCING (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SYRIAN CRISIS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PASSPORTS &
VISAS (77%); ARREST WARRANTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); JAIL
SENTENCING (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (65%); CITIZENSHIP (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (62%)

PERSON: TONY ABBOTT (79%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (96%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (93%)

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); SYRIA (97%); IRAQ (92%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Next Rodriguez Milestone Is a Number for the Ages

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1054 words


MINNEAPOLIS --  Alex Rodriguez has joined some exclusive clubs this season. He
now finds himself with Willie Mays, Babe Ruth, Henry Aaron and Barry Bonds as
the only players to have hit 660 home runs, and he became the 29th player to
have 3,000 hits, doing so in striking fashion with a home run.

On Monday, Rodriguez will join another select set: He will turn 40.

''It's a milestone,'' Rodriguez said with a knowing smile.

''Milestone,'' of course, was a loaded word earlier this season when Rodriguez
and the Yankees were wrangling over a $6 million marketing bonus tied to his
climb up the career home run list. (The Yankees, before they reached a
compromise with Rodriguez, had refused to call his accomplishments milestones.)

But Rodriguez's sense of accomplishment this year stems not only from his
bouncing back after seasons of decline and his 2014 suspension but also from his
longevity. Only nine active players are older than Rodriguez, according to the
Elias Sports Bureau, and only two of them are not pitchers: outfielders Ichiro
Suzuki of the Miami Marlins and Torii Hunter of the Minnesota Twins. Only
Hunter, who turned 40 on July 18, is a regular starter.

''Definitely 40 is a big birthday,'' said Rodriguez, who was flying his two
daughters to Arlington, Tex., so they could celebrate along with his teammates.
(The Yankees will open a four-game series against the Rangers there on Monday.)

''I came into the league at 18, so for me the remarkable part is it's been 22
years,'' Rodriguez said. ''That's a long time, and it's gone quickly. When I
start thinking about it like that, it's pretty incredible.''

Publicly, Rodriguez has allowed himself little room for rumination this season,
speaking the lines of a humble servant and not saying anything impolitic, even
during the impasse over the bonus. Perhaps for the first time since heading to
New York in 2004, he has let his bat do all the talking.

He is in the midst of perhaps his best season since 2010, batting .277 with 23
home runs, 58 R.B.I. and an on-base plus slugging percentage of .914. The
Yankees have mirrored his comeback: They sit in first place in the American
League East after missing the playoffs the last two seasons.

Rodriguez has fit well into a clubhouse with many new faces and has won over
some skeptics despite his history with performance-enhancing drugs.

''He's been remarkable,'' General Manager Brian Cashman said. ''Forty is a big
number. Bottom line: Normally you're not in a position to be evaluating
40-year-olds anymore in this game, because they're usually out of the game.''

Despite Rodriguez's initial scorched-earth approach to his suspension --
bringing lawsuits against the Yankees' doctor, Major League Baseball and the
players' union -- he said the year off helped set the stage for this season.

''The time off helped me mentally, physically and emotionally,'' Rodriguez said.
''The time off was a blessing in disguise.''

He added: ''From a physical point of view, it allowed me to rest and fully
recover from some of the injuries I've had over the last several years -- two
hip surgeries, wrist, knees. It allowed me to mend fully and recharge my
batteries and train for the first time in many years for a full season. It also
helped me reorganize my training regimen.''

Rodriguez said he worked on his flexibility and motion more than he had earlier
in his career, using exercises such as Pilates and yoga.

Twins Manager Paul Molitor said the mental task a 40-year-old faced in a young
man's game should not be underestimated. Molitor had one of the finest seasons
of his Hall of Fame career in 1996, when he turned 40. He led the American
League with 225 hits, batted .341 and had a career-high 113 R.B.I. for the
Twins.

''When things don't go well or you have a bad day, the immediate question is, am
I getting to that point, or is this part of the downhill?'' Molitor said. ''You
fight that more than you do when you're younger, but for the guys that rise
above that, they have that intangible.''

Another element of Rodriguez's resurgence has been his change in position. The
Yankees had initially seen Rodriguez as the primary designated hitter, with
other older players, such as first baseman Mark Teixeira and right fielder
Carlos Beltran, sharing the role. The team also planned to use Rodriguez as the
backup first and third baseman.

Rodriguez batted seventh on opening day, but within two weeks he was anchored in
his more familiar third spot. He has not started in the field since May 19.

Taking a former Gold Glove away had the potential to be a touchy subject, like
taking the car keys away from an older relative, but Manager Joe Girardi said
that after about the first month he realized that he could play Rodriguez more
often if he used him only as the designated hitter.

''He bought into the idea pretty quickly,'' Girardi said. ''The results were
there. When there's results, I think it's always easier to buy into an idea or
an opportunity.''

Asked if he still considered himself a position player, Rodriguez laughed.

''No, there's no part of that,'' he said.

''Obviously, anyone who has played the field as long as I have, you get the
feeling of aw,'' Rodriguez said, slumping his shoulders, ''but then you realize
you can really help the team by being a D.H. It's something I'm really
enjoying.''

On Wednesday, Rodriguez clubbed a 453-foot home run off the Baltimore rookie
Kevin Gausman that cleared the bullpens in left-center field at Yankee Stadium.

Moments like that notwithstanding, Rodriguez has still provided occasional
reminders that he is not the spry prodigy of his early years, when he was
reaching the 40-40 club (of home runs and stolen bases) instead of the
40-and-over club.

One of those came Thursday, the day after his long home run, when he hustled
from first on a bases-loaded double by Chase Headley. As Rodriguez reached the
plate, he contorted his body to avoid the catcher's tag and then reached down to
touch home plate with his left hand.

The twisting and the turning were too much. Rodriguez tumbled and rolled over
three times, like a child rolling down a grassy knoll. Rodriguez's teammates
laughed when he returned to the dugout, and he laughed, too.

It was one of the few times this season that he had acted his age.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/for-alex-rodriguez-its-another
-big-number.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS
& RECREATION (78%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (72%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (55%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (92%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Desperately Seeking Rambo

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ROAD TRIP; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1086 words


When my father heard I would be vacationing in Mexico and planned to rent a car,
he told me, ''Just don't get lost in the desert down there.'' A week later, I
was lost in the desert in Mexico.

This was in Baja California Sur 10 years ago this summer, an unforgettable
anniversary, for not a July passes that I don't recall the experience and
shudder a little, imagining a darker outcome.

Young dudes flying to Baja for sun and sand typically head to Cabo San Lucas,
the Pacific resort town at the tip of the peninsula. My buddy Burk and I
vacationed in La Paz, 90 miles up the coast on the Gulf of California side, a
busy port city with thick traffic and a thermoelectric plant belching pollution.

You might say this was our first of many mistakes. But we'd been warned off Cabo
by the example of Sammy Hagar. The former Van Halen singer owned a nightclub
there called the Cabo Wabo Cantina, where he promoted a lifestyle -- with
accompanying tunes -- based on tequila-fueled idiocy. The place seemed best
avoided.

Burk is my good friend from Penn State, and all our dude-cations in those
post-grad years featured a road trip. We'd rocked and rolled down I-95 to
Carolina beach towns. Somehow we felt ready for off-road Mexico.

On Day 3 in La Paz, with the foldout map I'd brought, I plotted our route: a
half day's drive that would take us north along La Paz Bay, then inland before
looping back to town and our dated but pleasant hotel overlooking the malecón.
The midway point -- the spot where I had us refueling and eating amazingly fresh
fish tacos from a rustic hut -- was a town called San Juan de la Costa. On the
map it existed as a tiny pin dot hugging the water's edge.

We left midmorning. Burk drove our rented Ford compact, while I eyed highway
signs. La Paz proper quickly gave way to south-of-the-border sprawl (farmacias,
Pemex gas stations, mystery businesses housed in low cinder-block buildings),
which gave way to -- nothing. The day was typical of summer in Mexico: hot,
cloudless, blindingly bright. Out our windshield was a perfect Kodachrome image
of desert blankness. Not awesome, John Ford desert, either, but craggy
scrubland.

For 20 miles this continued. Then cliffs rose along the road on our left, and
the rocks became weirdly bleached-looking. Rounding a curve, we saw a village
with buildings the same bleached white. As we got closer, it was clear there
were no cars, no people, no life of any kind. The place was eerily deserted. It
was as if a plague had swept through. The road forward had been ominously
blocked with large rocks.

''Is this San Juan de la Costa?'' I said, nervously.

Burk shrugged. ''You've got the map,'' he said.

We faced a decision: go back the way we came -- drive two hours for nothing,
basically -- or find a way around the roadblock and continue our awesome Baja
adventure. We idled on the highway, debating.

Here I should pause to mention some things we learned later, historical tidbits
that more informed tourists might have found useful.

San Juan de la Costa isn't really a town so much as a phosphate mine. Hurricane
Juliette destroyed the mine in 2001, explaining the apocalyptic emptiness.

Also, superstitious locals apparently avoid this region at the north end of La
Paz Bay because of the Legend of Mechudo. According to the story, a young pearl
diver, Mechudo, spotted a fantastically large pearl and became obsessed with
retrieving it to hoard for himself. He drowned for his greed, and caused the
deaths of the divers who jumped in after him. Campfire stuff, although there's
been a plane crash and several mining deaths in the area. Into this cursed
ground drove two gringos in a teensy Ford.

After some discussion, we regretfully decided to turn back. Or I thought we did,
anyway. Burk suddenly changed course and turned down a dirt road that went
toward the sea and curved north.

''This isn't a good idea,'' I said, repeatedly, increasingly aware of the
remoteness of our location. Finally Burk conceded, and attempted a three-point
turnaround. Given the car's off-road capabilities this was ill advised; our
wheels sunk into the desert floor and spun futilely.

At this point, two things happened, almost instantaneously. I became urgently,
desperately thirsty, as if a sand dune were lodged in my throat, and discovered
between us we had only half a bottle of agua. And a bird of prey appeared and
began slowly circling overhead.

There's this thing young men do; they fantasize about finding themselves in
perilous situations. It comes from a desire to find out what you are made of, a
belief you will be Rambo in a crisis. Well, I found out who I am in a crisis:
not Rambo but a frightened jerk. I began to panic and lash out at the same time.
We'll be robbed and murdered by narco-bandits! I screamed. The rental car --
secured with my credit card -- will be picked apart by scrappers, its metal
carcass left to rot in the desert like us! I worked up a mighty thirst insulting
and lecturing.

Whether remorseful or just embarrassed for me, Burk stayed calm and said he'd
get the car unstuck, no problem. He opened the trunk, took out the jack and
tried to raise the wheels. Which might have worked had the car not been on sand.
By now I was apoplectic. Still, my solution was no less delusional. I grabbed
one of the white hotel towels we'd taken in case we went swimming, draped it
around my head turban-style and, like Chevy Chase in ''National Lampoon's
Vacation,'' set off under the scorching noonday sun to walk the 30 miles back to
La Paz.

For my continued existence I owe Miguel. For all I know, he was a guardian angel
disguised as a fisherman wearing a Dodgers T-shirt.

He was sitting under a thatch-roofed lean-to, about half a mile south and more
toward the sea from our marooned car. We had missed the place coming in, but now
I went to it like an oasis. Miguel was in there with his boy, both of them
catching shade. Burk trailed in after me, and redeemed himself by using
primitive, high school Spanish to communicate our predicament: ''Mi carro son
malo.''

We all walked to the car, where it was Miguel who became Rambo, stuffing dried
sagebrush under the wheels for traction, finding a length of wire fencing out of
nowhere. He couldn't get the car free, either. But eventually, a guy came along
in a truck, and the wire became a towline.

Seeing our car moving freely and back on pavement, Burk and I laughed the
laughter of grateful idiots and thanked our rescuers.

The day next day we drove to Cabo.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/baja-california-sur-mexico-road-trip-go
ne-wrong.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); POWER PLANTS (68%); SINGERS
& MUSICIANS (67%); GAS STATIONS (60%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (54%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%)

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mike Hale on the Emmy Awards 2015: Predictions, Wishes and What-Ifs

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1498 words


Mike Hale, one of the TV critics for The New York Times, shares his opinions on
this year's Emmy Awards, which will be hosted by Andy Samberg on Sept. 20 on
Fox.

Outstanding Drama Series

''Better Call Saul'' (AMC) ''Downton Abbey'' (PBS) ''Game of Thrones'' (HBO)
''Homeland'' (Showtime) ''House of Cards'' (Netflix) ''Mad Men'' (AMC) ''Orange
Is the New Black'' (Netflix)

Will win: ''Mad Men''Should win: ''Homeland''Should have been nominated: ''The
Americans''

By putting the focus back on suspense, ''Homeland" rebounded to somewhere near
its first-season heights. But ''The Americans,'' in its third season, continued
to be the best drama on television. Other shows better than some (or all) of the
nominees in this category included ''Empire,'' ''Happy Valley,'' ''Justified,''
''The Knick,'' ''The Missing'' and ''Nashville.''

Outstanding Comedy Series

''Louie'' (FX)''Modern Family'' (ABC)''Parks and Recreation'' (NBC)''Silicon
Valley'' (HBO)''Transparent'' (Amazon)''Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt''
(Netflix)''Veep'' (HBO)

Will win: ''Modern Family''Should win: ''Louie''Should have been nominated:
''Broad City''

It's a sign of the times that a comedy as dark and distinctive as ''Louie'' can
be nominated for an Emmy, but it would still be a surprise if it won. Less
surprising would be a breakthrough by ''Veep.''

Lead Actress, Drama

Claire Danes, ''Homeland''Viola Davis, ''How to Get Away With Murder''Taraji P.
Henson, ''Empire''Tatiana Maslany, ''Orphan Black''Elisabeth Moss, ''Mad
Men''Robin Wright, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Viola DavisShould win: Taraji P. HensonShould have been nominated:
Keri Russell, ''The Americans''

Ms. Davis was very good; Ms. Henson was better; Ms. Russell, for the third
season in a row, was best. Also deserving: Eva Green for ''Penny Dreadful'';
Katey Sagal for ''Sons of Anarchy.''

Lead Actor, Drama

Kyle Chandler, ''Bloodline''Jeff Daniels, ''The Newsroom''Jon Hamm, ''Mad
Men''Bob Odenkirk, ''Better Call Saul''Liev Schreiber, ''Ray Donovan''Kevin
Spacey, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Jon HammShould win: Kyle ChandlerShould have been nominated: Matthew
Rhys, ''The Americans''

Mr. Chandler brings the same quiet authority to Netflix's ''Bloodline'' that he
did to ''Friday Night Lights,'' but Mr. Hamm is an overwhelming favorite for his
final season as Don Draper. In addition to Mr. Rhys, others that deserved
nominations are Clive Owen for ''The Knick'' and Michael Emerson for ''Person of
Interest.''

Lead Actress, Comedy

Edie Falco, ''Nurse Jackie''Lisa Kudrow, ''The Comeback''Julia Louis-Dreyfus,
''Veep''Amy Poehler, ''Parks and Recreation''Amy Schumer, ''Inside Amy
Schumer''Lily Tomlin, ''Grace and Frankie''

Will win: Julia Louis-DreyfusShould win; Edie FalcoShould have been nominated:
Kristen Schaal, ''The Last Man on Earth''

Ms. Falco, who won this category back in 2010 in her show's second season, was
painfully honest and funny throughout its seven-season run. But Ms.
Louis-Dreyfus owns the category; a victory would be her fourth in a row.

Lead Actor, Comedy

Anthony Anderson, ''black-ish''Louis C.K., ''Louie''Don Cheadle, ''House of
Lies''Will Forte, ''The Last Man on Earth''Matt LeBlanc, ''Episodes''William H.
Macy, ''Shameless''Jeffrey Tambor, ''Transparent''

Will win: Jeffrey TamborShould win: Jeffrey TamborShould have been nominated:
Josh Gad, ''The Comedians''

Mr. Gad's brilliant performance as himself, if he were the neurotic,
self-obsessed, irritable second banana to Billy Crystal on a mediocre
sketch-comedy show, made ''The Comedians'' much better than it deserved to be.

Supporting Actress, Drama

Joanne Froggatt, ''Downton Abbey''Lena Headey, ''Game of Thrones''Emilia Clarke,
''Game of Thrones''Christine Baranski, ''The Good Wife''Christina Hendricks,
''Mad Men''Uzo Aduba, ''Orange Is the New Black''

Will win: Christina HendricksShould win: Christine BaranskiShould have been
nominated: Laila Robins, ''Homeland''

''The Good Wife'' didn't give Ms. Baranski much to do this past season, but
whenever it did, she was typically superb.

Supporting Actor, Drama

Jonathan Banks, ''Better Call Saul''Ben Mendelsohn, ''Bloodline''Jim Carter,
''Downton Abbey''Peter Dinklage, ''Game of Thrones''Alan Cumming, ''The Good
Wife''Michael Kelly, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Jonathan BanksShould win: Peter DinklageShould have been nominated:
Nick Searcy, ''Justified''

Mr. Searcy's avuncular but capable chief deputy marshal was a key figure
throughout the six seasons of ''Justified.'' No other category is as rich in
possible nominees: Frank Langella in ''The Americans,'' Mandy Patinkin in
''Homeland,'' Andre Holland in ''The Knick,'' Toby Huss in ''Halt and Catch
Fire,'' Stanley Tucci in ''Fortitude,'' Rory Kinnear in ''Penny Dreadful'' and
Vondie Curtis-Hall in ''Daredevil,'' to name a few.

Supporting Actress, Comedy

Mayim Bialik, ''The Big Bang Theory''Niecy Nash, ''Getting On''Julie Bowen,
''Modern Family''Allison Janney, ''Mom''Kate McKinnon, ''Saturday Night
Live''Gaby Hoffmann, ''Transparent''Jane Krakowski, ''Unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt''Anna Chlumsky, ''Veep''

Will win: Allison JanneyShould win: Allison JanneyShould have been nominated:
Stephanie Weir, ''The Comedians''

Ms. Janney, as we've come to expect, gives a clinic in timing, control and cool
professionalism. Ms. Weir goes the other direction, reveling in discomfort and
barely suppressed hysteria.

Supporting Actor, Comedy

Andre Braugher, ''Brooklyn Nine-Nine''Adam Driver, ''Girls''Keegan-Michael Key,
''Key & Peele''Ty Burrell, ''Modern Family''Tituss Burgess, ''Unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt''Tony Hale, ''Veep''

Will win: Tituss BurgessShould win: Keegan-Michael KeyShould have been
nominated: Stephen Tobolowsky, ''Big Time in Hollywood, FL''

Mr. Key is an odd fit in this category, but the sketch comedy format of ''Key &
Peele'' shows off his amazing range. Mr. Tobolowsky, one of the most reliably
funny character actors in the business, brings his special brand of exasperation
to ''Big Time'' (he's also hilarious as a high school principal on ABC's ''The
Goldbergs'' ).

Best Limited Series

''American Crime'' (ABC)''American Horror Story: Freak Show'' (FX)''Olive
Kitteridge'' (HBO)''The Honorable Woman'' (Sundance)''Wolf Hall'' (PBS)

Will win: ''Olive Kitteridge''Should win: ''Wolf Hall''Should have been
nominated; ''One Child'' (Sundance)

''Wolf Hall'' is the best of a tepid bunch in this category.

Outstanding Television Movie

''Agatha Christie's Poirot: Poirot's Last Case'' (PBS)''Bessie'' (HBO)''Grace of
Monaco'' (Lifetime)''Hello Ladies: The Movie'' (HBO)''Killing Jesus'' (National
Geographic Channel)''Nightingale'' (HBO)

Will win: ''Bessie''Should win: ''Hello Ladies: The Movie''Should have been
nominated: ''A Poet in New York''

BBC America's ''Poet in New York'' featured a terrific performance by Tom
Hollander as Dylan Thomas. If it had been on HBO it would have been a shoo-in
for a nomination.

Animated Program

''Archer'' (FX)''Bob's Burgers'' (Fox)''Over the Garden Wall'' (Cartoon
Network)''The Simpsons'' (Fox)''South Park'' (Comedy Central)

Will win: ''Bob's Burgers''Should win: ''Bob's Burgers''Should have been
nominated: ''Star vs. the Forces of Evil'' (Disney XD)

''Bob's Burgers'' would have to buck recent history: No show has repeated in
this category since ''South Park'' in 2008. If that trend continues, look for
''Archer'' to win.

Outstanding Reality Competition Show

''The Amazing Race'' (CBS)''Dancing With the Stars'' (ABC)''Project Runway''
(Lifetime)''So You Think You Can Dance'' (Fox)''Top Chef'' (Bravo)''The Voice''
(NBC)

Will win: ''The Amazing Race''Should win: ''The Voice''Should have been
nominated: ''Face-Off'' (Syfy)

''The Voice'' is the most entertaining of the big competition shows, but ''The
Amazing Race'' has won 10 times in the category's 12 years of existence,
including last year.

Outstanding Variety Series

''The Colbert Report'' (Comedy Central)''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart''
(Comedy Central)''Jimmy Kimmel Live'' (ABC)''Last Week Tonight'' (HBO)''Late
Show With David Letterman'' (CBS)''The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon''
(NBC)

Will win: ''Late Show With David Letterman''Should win: ''The Colbert
Report''Should have been nominated: ''The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson''
(CBS)

The tide of good will generated by Mr. Letterman's retirement from the ''Late
Show'' should carry him to victory over his successor, Stephen Colbert.

Outstanding Variety Sketch Series

''Drunk History'' (Comedy Central)''Inside Amy Schumer'' (Comedy Central)''Key &
Peele'' (Comedy Central)''Portlandia'' (IFC)''Saturday Night Live'' (NBC)

Will win: ''Inside Amy Schumer''Should win: ''Inside Amy Schumer''Should have
been nominated: ''Kroll Show'' (Comedy Central)

The sketch category was created after seven straight years of ''Saturday Night
Live'' being the only nontalk show in the variety category (and losing). In its
new category, ''S.N.L.'' can lose to the unstoppable Ms. Schumer.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/22/arts/television/mike-hale-on-the-emmy-awards-2
015-predictions-wishes-and-what-ifs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMMY AWARDS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS
(90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION
(78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (84%); SA GUYOMARC'H ALIMENTAIRE (SAGAL) (50%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(84%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: TARAJI P HENSON (79%); CLAIRE DANES (79%); ELISABETH MOSS (79%); KATEY
SAGAL (79%); VIOLA DAVIS (79%); ROBIN WRIGHT (79%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Neil Genzlinger on the Emmy Awards 2015: Predictions, Wishes and What-Ifs

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1544 words


Neil Genzlinger, one of the TV critics for The New York Times, shares his
opinions on this year's Emmy Awards, which will be hosted by Andy Samberg on
Sept. 20 on Fox.

Outstanding Drama Series

''Better Call Saul'' (AMC) ''Downton Abbey'' (PBS) ''Game of Thrones'' (HBO)
''Homeland'' (Showtime) ''House of Cards'' (Netflix) ''Mad Men'' (AMC) ''Orange
Is the New Black'' (Netflix)

Will win: ''Mad Men''Should win: ''Game of Thrones''Should have been nominated:
''The Newsroom'' (HBO)

Each nominee in this category has something to recommend, so let's give the
award to the one that has generated the most buzz. On that note, ''The
Newsroom'' had some buzz-inducing moments of its own in its final season.

Outstanding Comedy Series

''Louie'' (FX)''Modern Family'' (ABC)''Parks and Recreation'' (NBC)''Silicon
Valley'' (HBO)''Transparent'' (Amazon)''Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt''
(Netflix)''Veep'' (HBO)

Will win: ''Veep'' Should win: ''Silicon Valley''Should have been nominated:
''Brooklyn Nine-Nine''

The real-life election is dominating headlines, which works in favor of
''Veep,'' but it's ''Silicon Valley'' that actually speaks to themes that
concern us all. Fox's ''Brooklyn Nine-Nine'' got both funnier and smarter this
season.

Lead Actress, Drama

Claire Danes, ''Homeland''Viola Davis, ''How to Get Away With Murder''Taraji P.
Henson, ''Empire''Tatiana Maslany, ''Orphan Black''Elisabeth Moss, ''Mad
Men''Robin Wright, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Viola DavisShould win: Tatania MaslanyShould have been nominated: Vera
Farmiga, ''Bates Motel''

With so many fine actresses in substantive roles, Ms. Maslany, who plays a
dizzying array of characters in the identity-bending ''Orphan Black,'' deserves
to win for sheer quantity. Ms. Farmiga is a lamentable omission; her layered
performance as Norman Bates's mother is a master class.

Lead Actor, Drama

Kyle Chandler, ''Bloodline''Jeff Daniels, ''The Newsroom''Jon Hamm, ''Mad
Men''Bob Odenkirk, ''Better Call Saul''Liev Schreiber, ''Ray Donovan''Kevin
Spacey, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Jon HammShould win: Jon HammShould have been nominated: Mark Harmon,
''NCIS''

This award is overdue for Mr. Hamm. But what about Mark Harmon? Yes. Mark
Harmon. The Emmys sometimes look down on shows that are too popular and too
reliable, and ''NCIS'' has been both for years. He has kept it so of late
despite shouldering some extra burden because of the departure of the popular
character Ziva in 2013.

Lead Actress, Comedy

Edie Falco, ''Nurse Jackie''Lisa Kudrow, ''The Comeback''Julia Louis-Dreyfus,
''Veep''Amy Poehler, ''Parks and Recreation''Amy Schumer, ''Inside Amy
Schumer''Lily Tomlin, ''Grace and Frankie''

Will win: Amy SchumerShould win: Edie FalcoShould have been nominated: Constance
Wu, ''Fresh Off the Boat''

The two Amys (Schumer and Poehler) are trending, but Ms. Falco's long run
deserves to be rewarded in her series's final season. Some might question
whether Ms. Wu, the mother in ''Fresh Off the Boat,'' qualifies as a lead
actress, but in the episodes of that series that really worked in its debut
season, she got all the laughs.

Lead Actor, Comedy

Anthony Anderson, ''black-ish''Louis C.K., ''Louie''Don Cheadle, ''House of
Lies''Will Forte, ''The Last Man on Earth''Matt LeBlanc, ''Episodes''William H.
Macy, ''Shameless''Jeffrey Tambor, ''Transparent''

Will win: Jeffrey TamborShould win: William H. MacyShould have been nominated:
Thomas Middleditch, ''Silicon Valley''

This is a true turning point, both in real life and on TV, for transgender
people and for stories about them. But Mr. Macy has long done quirkily brilliant
work on ''Shameless.'' Mr. Middleditch, as the geek at the center of ''Silicon
Valley,'' makes ''socially awkward'' look way easier than it is.

Supporting Actress, Drama

Joanne Froggatt, ''Downton Abbey''Lena Headey, ''Game of Thrones''Emilia Clarke,
''Game of Thrones''Christine Baranski, ''The Good Wife''Christina Hendricks,
''Mad Men''Uzo Aduba, ''Orange Is the New Black''

Will win: Emilia ClarkeShould win: Christine BaranskiShould have been nominated:
Clara Paget, ''Black Sails''

It's time for Ms. Baranski to get some respect. And Ms. Paget deserved a
nomination just for the way she rocks that hat in Starz's underappreciated
pirate yarn.

Supporting Actor, Drama

Jonathan Banks, ''Better Call Saul''Ben Mendelsohn, ''Bloodline''Jim Carter,
''Downton Abbey''Peter Dinklage, ''Game of Thrones''Alan Cumming, ''The Good
Wife''Michael Kelly, ''House of Cards''

Will win: Peter DinklageShould win: Alan CummingShould have been nominated:
Tobias Menzies, ''Outlander''

The versatile Mr. Cumming is a worthy choice in a category that lacks a
standout. The puzzling Emmy shutout of Starz's ''Outlander'' could have been
rectified here, though the line between leading and supporting actors in that
series is a hazy one.

Supporting Actress, Comedy

Mayim Bialik, ''The Big Bang Theory''Niecy Nash, ''Getting On''Julie Bowen,
''Modern Family''Allison Janney, ''Mom''Kate McKinnon, ''Saturday Night
Live''Gaby Hoffmann, ''Transparent''Jane Krakowski, ''Unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt''Anna Chlumsky, ''Veep''

Will win: Allison JanneyShould win: Niecy NashShould have been nominated:
Christa Miller, ''Cougar Town''

It would be nice to see the saucy but largely undiscovered ''Getting On'' get
some love. Ditto ''Cougar Town,'' which ended after six solid seasons. Ms.
Miller was a steady, deadpan anchor throughout.

Supporting Actor, Comedy

Andre Braugher, ''Brooklyn Nine-Nine''Adam Driver, ''Girls''Keegan-Michael Key,
''Key & Peele''Ty Burrell, ''Modern Family''Tituss Burgess, ''Unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt''Tony Hale, ''Veep''

Will win: Andre BraugherShould win: Keegan-Michael KeyShould have been
nominated: Jordan Peele, ''Key & Peele''

''Key & Peele'' goes places no traditional network comedy dares go. And there's
no Key without Peele.

Best Limited Series

''American Crime'' (ABC)''American Horror Story: Freak Show'' (FX)''Olive
Kitteridge'' (HBO)''The Honorable Woman'' (Sundance)''Wolf Hall'' (PBS)

Will win: ''American Horror Story: Freak Show''

Should win: ''Olive Kitteridge''

Should have been nominated: ''The Lizzie Borden Chronicles''

There are too many weighty dramas around for the well-acted ''Olive Kitteridge''
to set itself apart, so the crowd-pleasing ''Freak Show'' has the edge. But
speaking of freaky, Christina Ricci's performance as Lizzie Borden made that
Lifetime offering a treat.

Outstanding Television Movie

''Agatha Christie's Poirot: Poirot's Last Case'' (PBS)''Bessie'' (HBO)''Grace of
Monaco'' (Lifetime)''Hello Ladies: The Movie'' (HBO)''Killing Jesus'' (National
Geographic Channel)''Nightingale'' (HBO)

Will win: ''Bessie''

Should win: ''Nightingale''

Should have been nominated: ''Beautiful & Twisted''

Queen Latifah's name recognition wins ''Bessie'' the award, though the movie
wasn't very good. Some of the other names on this list, especially ''Killing
Jesus,'' shouldn't even have been nominated. Given that this was such a weak
year for the category, why not throw in another from the ever-improving Lifetime
movie factory -- ''Beautiful & Twisted,'' a bizarre true-crime story. Rob Lowe!
Candice Bergen! What's not to like?

Animated Program

''Archer'' (FX)''Bob's Burgers'' (Fox)''Over the Garden Wall'' (Cartoon
Network)''The Simpsons'' (Fox)''South Park'' (Comedy Central)

Will win: ''The Simpsons''

Should win: ''South Park''

Should have been nominated: ''Rick and Morty'' (Adult Swim)

Throw a dart at your TV these days, and you're bound to hit a witty and
outlandish animated show. This award could go to any of them. ''South Park''
passed 250 episodes this season and is still pushing boundaries. Amazing.

Outstanding Reality Competition Show

''The Amazing Race'' (CBS)''Dancing With the Stars'' (ABC)''Project Runway''
(Lifetime)''So You Think You Can Dance'' (Fox)''Top Chef'' (Bravo)''The Voice''
(NBC)

Will win: ''The Voice''Should win: ''The Voice''Should have been nominated:
''The Quest''

A lot of same-old, same-old here. ''The Quest,'' a fantasy-themed competition
show on ABC, didn't draw many viewers, but it was more interesting than the rest
of this crop.

Outstanding Variety Series

''The Colbert Report'' (Comedy Central)''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart''
(Comedy Central)''Jimmy Kimmel Live'' (ABC)''Last Week Tonight With John
Oliver'' (HBO)''Late Show With David Letterman'' (CBS)''The Tonight Show
Starring Jimmy Fallon'' (NBC)

Will win: ''The Colbert Report''Should win: ''Last Week Tonight With John
Oliver''Should have been nominated: ''Conan'' (TBS)

So many finales; who gets the thank-you award? Mr. Colbert, because voters are
grateful that he's returning rather than retiring. But John Oliver's ''Last Week
Tonight'' is now setting the standard in this genre. The rest seem stodgy by
comparison.

Outstanding Variety Sketch Series

''Drunk History'' (Comedy Central)''Inside Amy Schumer'' (Comedy Central)''Key &
Peele'' (Comedy Central)''Portlandia'' (IFC)''Saturday Night Live'' (NBC)

Will win: ''Inside Amy Schumer''Should win: ''Key & Peele''Should have been
nominated: ''Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee'' (Crackle)

Does Jerry Seinfeld's cars-and-comics show fit into this category? Who knows.
But it's a delight.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/22/arts/television/neil-genzlinger-on-the-emmy-aw
ards-2015-predictions-wishes-and-what-ifs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EMMY AWARDS (90%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES
(89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); FAMILY (71%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (84%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(84%)

PERSON: ELISABETH MOSS (79%); VIOLA DAVIS (79%); ROBIN WRIGHT (79%); JON HAMM
(79%); TARAJI P HENSON (78%); CLAIRE DANES (78%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (87%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WOLLMAN, ANNE CAROLYN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 359 words


WOLLMAN--Anne Carolyn, died at the age of 82 on June 5, 2015. She was a
prominent and discriminating collector of art works including ceramics, prints,
and paintings; and was known for her impeccable taste in the clothing and
jewelry she wore. The Vermont home that she and her husband designed was filled
with works of art and antiques. Some of the ceramics and prints constituted the
material for a show called Cross Currents in 20th Century Art, at the Currier
Museum in Manchester, New Hampshire, during the summer of 2010. As an
enthusiastic supporter of the arts and the artists who created them, she curated
a number of ceramic shows on compelling intellectual and artistic themes, such
as Vanitas and After Palissy.

She served as a trustee of many organizations, including The Clay Studio of
Philadelphia; Watershed Center for the Ceramic Arts, Newcastle, Maine; and The
Vermont Arts Council. She is remembered by those who knew her for her
comprehensive knowledge of the field of art, her unerring eye, and the gently
mischievous teasing which was reserved for certain special friends. She was a
graduate of Radcliffe College in 1954, and of the Harvard-Radcliffe Graduate
Program in Business Administration in 1955. Her three daughters also graduated
from Harvard College and are pursuing careers: Julie as President of Edinboro
University of Pennsylvania; Emily as a Senior Director of Med Assets, a hospital
management and consulting firm; and Diana in tax law as a partner in Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton. The older of her two grandchildren, Sara, is starting
a career in art therapy; and the younger, Rosa, is currently attending Harvard
College. Anne Carolyn Wollman is survived by her husband of 58 years, Harry, who
was a former Medical School Dean, and is now a partner in Alexander, Wollman and
Stark, where he serves as an advisor to executives and developer of talent for
academic medical centers. Memorial services will be held in Woodstock, VT on
September 20, and in Philadelphia on October 17. Donations may be sent to the
Anne and Harry Wollman Scholarship Fund at Edinboro University, 210 Meadville
St., Edinboro, PA, 16444. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PAINTING (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
(88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%);
VISUAL ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CHILDREN
(77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); ART THERAPY
(73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS
(71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS
(70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%);
GRANDCHILDREN (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); TAX LAW (50%); CONSULTING SERVICES
(50%)

COMPANY: CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (71%)

STATE: VERMONT, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW
HAMPSHIRE, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MILLER, DOUGLAS HOWARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 157 words


MILLER--Douglas Howard. After a long illness, Douglas Howard Miller passed away
on July 21, 2015 at his home in Naples, Florida -- just days after he celebrated
his one hundredth birthday. Mr Miller is survived by his wife of eighteen years,
Grace Lurton Miller of New York and Connecticut. He also leaves daughters Leslie
Taylor and Sara Miller of Massachusetts and five grandchildren of his 57-year
marriage to the late Barbara Miller. Mr. Miller's long career was highlighted by
many years as comptroller of the General Foods Corporation here and prospector
of business development abroad. Mr. Miller took special pride in his
career-capping ten years in New Jersey where he introduced public financing and
business development to the still-growing campus of Montclair State University.
The family expects to have a private memorial service on Tuesday, July 28th at
the First Congregational Church in former hometown Madison, Connecticut. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%);
MARRIAGE (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (80%); FOOD INDUSTRY (53%)

COMPANY: MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (71%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311821
COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (71%)

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW
JERSEY, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEONE, RICHARD C

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 393 words


LEONE--Richard C. Former president of the Century Foundation and a past chairman
of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Thursday, July 16. He
was 75 years old. He was being treated for Parkinson's disease and was recently
diagnosed with prostate cancer. Born in Webster, New York in 1940, Dick Leone
spent the bulk of his career in public service.

A graduate of the University of Rochester, he earned a Masters degree and a PhD
at Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. A
pragmatic progressive whose views were forged during the Kennedy era, Leone
worked on many local and national campaigns. One of his proudest moments was
working as an advance man on Robert Kennedy's presidential campaign in Oregon.
He also worked on presidential campaigns for George McGovern, Walter Mondale,
Michael Dukakis and Bill Bradley. In the '60s, he was executive director of the
White House Task Force on The Cities. In addition, Leone managed Brendan Byrne's
two successful campaigns for Governor of New Jersey, in 1973 and 1977. From 1974
to 1977, Leone was state treasurer of New Jersey. In 2005, he served as chairman
of Governor Jon Corzine's transition committee. Leone served as a commissioner
of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and was chairman of the Port
Authority from 1990 to 1994. From 1989 to 2011, he was president of the Century
Foundation (formerly Twentieth Century Fund), a public policy think tank. Leone
steered the foundation to concentrate on such issues as inequality and civil
liberties and he fought against attempts at privatizing Social Security. Leone's
private sector jobs included working as President of the New York Mercantile
Exchange and a managing director at Dillon Read & Co. He has long been a
director/trustee of multiple funds at Dreyfus Corp. and serves on the board of
the Center for American Progress. Burial is private, but a memorial service will
take place in Princeton, New Jersey in September. He is survived by his wife,
Meg Cox Leone; his children Kate Leone and Max Leone, and his granddaughter Lucy
Kirschner, as well as his sister Sandra Leone Thomas Brooks and first wife,
Anita Leone. As well as many nieces, nephews and cousins. Those wishing to honor
his memory can consider donations to New Jersey Policy Perspective or the
Michael J. Fox Foundation. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PORT
AUTHORITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKINSONS
DISEASE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CANCER (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); PROSTATE CANCER
(57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (52%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (93%); DILLON READ & CO INC
(65%); DREYFUS CORP (64%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%);
SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%);
NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES &
COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HARRIS, ELLEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 343 words


HARRIS--Ellen. Passed away on July 7 after a long battle with pancreatic cancer.
A magnetic, compelling woman, Ellen attracted a broad and deep range of smart
and wise people throughout her life.

She brought people together. Her extraordinary immediate and extended family,
remarkably strong circles of friends from different walks of life, political
associates from her work for Senator Jacob Javits in Washington D.C. in the
'70s, and legal colleagues in New Jersey and New York energized her life. To all
of them she was an anchor, ally, advisor, and unwavering friend. Practicing
lawyer for 37 years, Ellen was a Counsel of Securities Law at Sidley Austin LLP
in Manhattan, where she specialized in funds and investments. With a 1969 B.A.
from University of Rochester, 1970 M.A. in history from Stanford University, and
a 1977 J.D. from New York University School of Law, she recognized the
importance of education and served on the Board of Trustees at The Pingry School
in Martinsville, NJ, where her two loving sons, Michael and David, graduated. An
exemplary mother, she showed unwavering devotion to them and pride in their
accomplishments. In addition to her loving family, she became an honorary mother
and aunt to innumerable others, with kindness, class, and intelligent guidance.
Ellen's parents, Mimi West (driving force behind the Los Angeles Free Clinic for
three decades, and founder of Friends of the Los Angeles Free Clinic) and Bernie
West (Emmy-winning writer of All in the Family, and producer of Three's Company)
instilled in Ellen and in her sister, Isabel, both a love of culture and fine
arts and the importance of giving back to society. She was a patron of The
Shakespeare Theatre of New Jersey and on the Board of the Rioult Dance New York,
and she hosted fundraising events to champion the causes and cultural
celebrations in which she believed. Donations in her name can be made to some of
her favorite arts charities Rioult Dance, New York City Ballet, or the
Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. She will be deeply missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); MAJOR US
LAW FIRMS (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); CANCER
(73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); DANCE COMPANIES (69%);
BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BALLET (68%); DANCE (68%); EMMY AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA
(92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CARPENTER, ANTHONY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 139 words


CARPENTER--Anthony. Died on July 12 in Vero Beach, FL. Born in Texas in 1932, he
was the son of Dean Carpenter and Rosemary Hilton Carpenter. He leaves his
loving wife of 60 years Lilan, children Dean, Hilary and Tracey and four
grandchildren. He rose to Vice President of Hilton International, which took the
family all over the world, including St. Thomas, Istanbul and Sydney. Lilan and
Tony met at The Hotel School in Lausanne, Switzerland, where they embarked on a
remarkable life. They returned to the United States from Sydney in 1982 to open
the Vista International division of Hilton International, settling in Greenwich,
CT until retirement when they moved permanently to Vero Beach, FL. The family
will celebrate his life with a private gathering in the near future when his
ashes will be spread. Tony will be deeply missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%)

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC7011
HOTELS & MOTELS (94%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BUNZEL, PETER D

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 233 words


BUNZEL--Peter D. His family mourns the passing of journalist Peter D. Bunzel,
aged 88, on July 20, 2015 in Los Angeles, CA. Peter began his professional
career at the (Martha's) Vineyard Gazette, and was later a staff writer at the
New Yorker, Entertainment Editor at Life Magazine, Co-Founder, Editor and
Publisher of Seattle Magazine (1963 to 1970), Editor of West Magazine and of the
Opinion section of the Los Angeles Times (1971 to 1978), and a television critic
at the Los Angeles Herald-Examiner where in 1986 he won a major victory for free
speech in the California Supreme Court, 42 Cal.

3d 254. Born in 1927 in New York, NY to Harriet Harvey and Ernest Everett
Bunzel, Peter attended Allen-Stevenson, the Kent School and Princeton University
where he was Editor and Chairman of the Daily Princetonian. In 1952, he married
Jane Cole (deceased) and had four children: Cole Bunzel (deceased), Robert H.
Bunzel of Oakland, CA, Jeffrey H. Bunzel of New York, NY and John D. Bunzel of
Los Angeles, CA. In 1982, Peter married Suzanne Belcher Platt in Los Angeles,
CA. Peter was devoted to books, movies, theatre, martinis, politics, freighter
trips and family. He is survived by his wife Suzanne, his brother John H. Bunzel
of Belmont, CA, his three sons, eight grandchildren and two great-grandsons. A
celebration of his life for family and friends will be held in September in Los
Angeles. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%);
JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); PUBLISHING (72%);
SUPREME COURTS (71%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA
(91%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Shadow of Death

BYLINE: By ELIZA GRISWOLD.

Eliza Griswold is the author of ''The Tenth Parallel: Dispatches From the Fault
Line Between Christianity and Islam.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 7042 words


There was something about Diyaa that his wife's brothers didn't like. He was a
tyrant, they said, who, after 14 years of marriage, wouldn't let their sister,
Rana, 31, have her own mobile phone. He isolated her from friends and family,
guarding her jealously. Although Diyaa and Rana were both from Qaraqosh, the
largest Christian city in Iraq, they didn't know each other before their
families arranged their marriage. It hadn't gone especially well. Rana was
childless, and according to the brothers, Diyaa was cheap. The house he rented
was dilapidated, not fit for their sister to live in.

Qaraqosh is on the Nineveh Plain, a 1,500-square-mile plot of contested land
that lies between Iraq's Kurdish north and its Arab south. Until last summer,
this was a flourishing city of 50,000, in Iraq's breadbasket. Wheat fields and
chicken and cattle farms surrounded a town filled with coffee shops, bars,
barbers, gyms and other trappings of modern life.

Then, last June, ISIS took Mosul, less than 20 miles west. The militants painted
a red Arabic ''n,'' for Nasrane, a slur, on Christian homes. They took over the
municipal water supply, which feeds much of the Nineveh Plain. Many residents
who managed to escape fled to Qaraqosh, bringing with them tales of summary
executions and mass beheadings. The people of Qaraqosh feared that ISIS would
continue to extend the group's self-styled caliphate, which now stretches from
Turkey's border with Syria to south of Fallujah in Iraq, an area roughly the
size of Indiana.

In the weeks before advancing on Qaraqosh, ISIS cut the city's water. As the
wells dried up, some left and others talked about where they might go. In July,
reports that ISIS was about to take Qaraqosh sent thousands fleeing, but ISIS
didn't arrive, and within a couple of days, most people returned. Diyaa refused
to leave. He was sure ISIS wouldn't take the town.

A week later, the Kurdish forces, known as the peshmerga, whom the Iraqi
government had charged with defending Qaraqosh, retreated. (''We didn't have the
weapons to stop them,'' Jabbar Yawar, the secretary general of the peshmerga,
said later.) The city was defenseless; the Kurds had not allowed the people of
the Nineveh Plain to arm themselves and had rounded up their weapons months
earlier. Tens of thousands jammed into cars and fled along the narrow highway
leading to the relative safety of Erbil, the Kurdish capital of Northern Iraq,
50 miles away.

Piling 10 family members into a Toyota pickup, Rana's brothers ran, too. From
the road, they called Diyaa repeatedly, pleading with him to escape with Rana.
''She can't go,'' Diyaa told one of Rana's brothers, as the brother later
recounted to me. ''ISIS isn't coming. This is all a lie.''

The next morning Diyaa and Rana woke to a nearly empty town. Only 100 or so
people remained in Qaraqosh, mostly those too poor, old or ill to travel. A few,
like Diyaa, hadn't taken the threat seriously. One man passed out drunk in his
backyard and woke the next morning to ISIS taking the town.

As Diyaa and Rana hid in their basement, ISIS broke into stores and looted them.
Over the next two weeks, militants rooted out most of the residents cowering in
their homes, searching house to house. The armed men roamed Qaraqosh on foot and
in pickups. They marked the walls of farms and businesses ''Property of the
Islamic State.'' ISIS now held not just Mosul, Iraq's second largest city, but
also Ramadi and Fallujah. (During the Iraq War, the fighting in these three
places accounted for 30 percent of U.S. casualties.) In Qaraqosh, as in Mosul,
ISIS offered residents a choice: They could either convert or pay the jizya, the
head tax levied against all ''People of the Book'': Christians, Zoroastrians and
Jews. If they refused, they would be killed, raped or enslaved, their wealth
taken as spoils of war.

No one came for Diyaa and Rana. ISIS hadn't bothered to search inside their
ramshackle house. Then, on the evening of Aug. 21, word spread that ISIS was
willing to offer what they call ''exile and hardship'' to the last people in
Qaraqosh. They would be cast out of their homes with nothing, but at least they
would survive. A kindly local mullah was going door to door with the good news.
Hoping to save Diyaa and Rana, their neighbors told him where they were hiding.

Diyaa and Rana readied themselves to leave. The last residents of Qaraqosh were
to report the next morning to the local medical center, to receive ''checkups''
before being deported from the Islamic State. Everyone knew the checkups were
really body searches to prevent residents from taking valuables out of Qaraqosh.
Before ISIS let residents go -- if they let them go -- it was very likely they
would steal everything they had, as residents heard they had done elsewhere.

Diyaa and Rana called their families to let them know what was happening. ''Take
nothing with you,'' her brothers told Diyaa. But Diyaa, as usual, didn't listen.
He stuffed Rana's clothes with money, gold, passports and their identity papers.
Although she was terrified of being caught -- she could be beheaded for taking
goods from the Islamic State -- Rana didn't protest; she didn't dare. According
to her brothers, Diyaa could be violent. (Diyaa's brother Nimrod disputed this,
just as he does Diyaa's alleged cheapness.)

At 7 the next morning, Diyaa and Rana made the five-minute walk from their home
to Qaraqosh Medical Center Branch No. 2, a yellow building with red-and-green
trim next to the city's only mosque. As the crowd gathered, Diyaa phoned both
his family and hers. ''We're standing in front of the medical center right
now,'' he said, as his brother-in-law recalled it. ''There are buses and cars
here. Thank God, they're going to let us go.''

It was a searing day. Temperatures reach as high as 110 degrees on the Nineveh
Plain in summer. By 9 a.m., ISIS had separated men from women. Seated in the
crowd, the local ISIS emir, Saeed Abbas, surveyed the female prisoners. His eyes
lit on Aida Hana Noah, 43, who was holding her 3-year-old daughter, Christina.
Noah said she felt his gaze and gripped Christina closer. For two weeks, she'd
been at home with her daughter and her husband, Khadr Azzou Abada, 65. He was
blind, and Aida decided that the journey north would be too hard for him. So she
sent her 25-year-old son with her three other children, who ranged in age from
10 to 13, to safety. She thought Christina too young to be without her mother.

ISIS scanned the separate groups of men and women. ''You'' and ''you,'' they
pointed. Some of the captives realized what ISIS was doing, survivors told me
later, dividing the young and healthy from the older and weak. One, Talal Abdul
Ghani, placed a final call to his family before the fighters confiscated his
phone. He had been publicly whipped for refusing to convert to Islam, as his
sisters, who fled from other towns, later recounted. ''Let me talk to
everybody,'' he wept. ''I don't think they're letting me go.'' It was the last
time they heard from him.

No one was sure where either bus was going. As the jihadists directed the weaker
and older to the first of two buses, one 49-year-old woman, Sahar, protested
that she'd been separated from her husband, Adel. Although he was 61, he was
healthy and strong and had been held back. One fighter reassured her, saying,
''These others will follow.'' Sahar, Aida and her blind husband, Khadr, boarded
the first bus. The driver, a man they didn't know, walked down the aisle.
Without a word, he took Christina from her mother's arms. ''Please, in the name
of God, give her back,'' Aida pleaded. The driver carried Christina into the
medical center. Then he returned without the child. As the people in the bus
prayed to leave town, Aida kept begging for Christina. Finally, the driver went
inside again. He came back empty-handed.

Aida has told this story before with slight variations. As she, her husband and
another witness recounted it to me, she was pleading for her daughter when the
emir himself appeared, flanked by two fighters. He was holding Christina against
his chest. Aida fought her way off the bus.

''Please give me my daughter,'' she said.

The emir cocked his head at his bodyguards.

''Get on the bus before we kill you,'' one said.

Christina reached for her mother.

''Get on the bus before we slaughter your family,'' he repeated.

As the bus rumbled north out of town, Aida sat crumpled in a seat next to her
husband. Many of the 40-odd people on it began to weep. ''We cried for Christina
and ourselves,'' Sahar said. The bus took a sharp right toward the Khazir River
that marked an edge of the land ISIS had seized. Several minutes later, the
driver stopped and ordered everyone off.

Led by a shepherd who had traveled this path with his flock, the sick and
elderly descended and began to walk to the Khazir River. The journey took 12
hours.

The second bus -- the one filled with the young and healthy -- headed north,
too. But instead of turning east, it turned west, toward Mosul. Among its
captives was Diyaa. Rana wasn't with him. She had been bundled into a third
vehicle, a new four-wheel drive, along with an 18-year-old girl named Rita,
who'd come to Qaraqosh to help her elderly father flee.

The women were driven to Mosul, where, the next day, Rana's captor called her
brothers. ''If you come near her, I'll blow the house up. I'm wearing a suicide
vest,'' he said. Then he passed the phone to Rana, who whispered, in Syriac, the
story of what happened to her. Her brothers were afraid to ask any questions
lest her answers make trouble for her. She said, ''I'm taking care of a
3-year-old named Christina.''

Most of Iraq's Christians call themselves Assyrians, Chaldeans or Syriac,
different names for a common ethnicity rooted in the Mesopotamian kingdoms that
flourished between the Tigris and the Euphrates Rivers thousands of years before
Jesus. Christianity arrived during the first century, according to Eusebius, an
early church historian who claimed to have translated letters between Jesus and
a Mesopotamian king. Tradition holds that Thomas, one of the Twelve Apostles,
sent Thaddeus, an early Jewish convert, to Mesopotamia to preach the Gospel.

As Christianity grew, it coexisted alongside older traditions -- Judaism,
Zoroastrianism and the monotheism of the Druze, Yazidis and Mandeans, among
others -- all of which survive in the region, though in vastly diminished form.
From Greece to Egypt, this was the eastern half of Christendom, a fractious
community divided by doctrinal differences that persist today: various Catholic
churches (those who look to Rome for guidance, and those who don't); the Eastern
and Oriental Orthodox (those who believe Jesus has two natures, human and
divine, and those who believe he was solely divine); and the Assyrian Church of
the East, which is neither Catholic nor Orthodox.

When the first Islamic armies arrived from the Arabian Peninsula during the
seventh century, the Assyrian Church of the East was sending missionaries to
China, India and Mongolia. The shift from Christianity to Islam happened
gradually. Much as the worship of Eastern cults largely gave way to
Christianity, Christianity gave way to Islam. Under Islamic rule, Eastern
Christians lived as protected people, dhimmi: They were subservient and had to
pay the jizya, but were often allowed to observe practices forbidden by Islam,
including eating pork and drinking alcohol. Muslim rulers tended to be more
tolerant of minorities than their Christian counterparts, and for 1,500 years,
different religions thrived side by side.

One hundred years ago, the fall of the Ottoman Empire and World War I ushered in
the greatest period of violence against Christians in the region. The genocide
waged by the Young Turks in the name of nationalism, not religion, left at least
two million Armenians, Assyrians and Greeks dead. Nearly all were Christian.
Among those who survived, many of the better educated left for the West. Others
settled in Iraq and Syria, where they were protected by the military dictators
who courted these often economically powerful minorities.

From 1910 to 2010, the percentage of the Middle Eastern population that was
Christian -- in countries like Egypt, Israel, Palestine and Jordan -- continued
to decline; once 14 percent of the population, Christians now make up roughly 4
percent. (In Iran and Turkey, they're all but gone.) In Lebanon, the only
country in the region where Christians hold significant political power, their
numbers have shrunk over the past century, to 34 percent from 78 percent of the
population. Low birthrates have contributed to this decline, as well as hostile
political environments and economic crisis. Fear is also a driver. The rise of
extremist groups, as well as the perception that their communities are
vanishing, causes people to leave.

For more than a decade, extremists have targeted Christians and other
minorities, who often serve as stand-ins for the West. This was especially true
in Iraq after the U.S. invasion, which caused hundreds of thousands to flee.
''Since 2003, we've lost priests, bishops and more than 60 churches were
bombed,'' Bashar Warda, the Chaldean Catholic archbishop of Erbil, said. With
the fall of Saddam Hussein, Christians began to leave Iraq in large numbers, and
the population shrank to less than 500,000 today from as many as 1.5 million in
2003.

The Arab Spring only made things worse. As dictators like Mubarak in Egypt and
Qaddafi in Libya were toppled, their longstanding protection of minorities also
ended. Now, ISIS is looking to eradicate Christians and other minorities
altogether. The group twists the early history of Christians in the region --
their subjugation by the sword -- to legitimize its millenarian enterprise.
Recently, ISIS posted videos delineating the second-class status of Christians
in the caliphate. Those unwilling to pay the jizya tax or to convert would be
destroyed, the narrator warned, as the videos culminated in the now-­infamous
scenes of Egyptian and Ethiopian Christians in Libya being marched onto the
beach and beheaded, their blood running into the surf.

The future of Christianity in the region of its birth is now uncertain. ''How
much longer can we flee before we and other minorities become a story in a
history book?'' says Nuri Kino, a journalist and founder of the advocacy group
Demand for Action. According to a Pew study, Christians face religious
persecution in more countries than any other religious group. ''ISIL has put a
spotlight on the issue,'' says Anna Eshoo, a California Democrat in the U.S.
House of Representatives, whose parents are from the region and who advocates on
behalf of Eastern Christians. ''Christianity is under an existential threat.''

One of the main pipelines for Christians fleeing the Middle East runs through
Lebanon. This spring, thousands of Christians from villages in northeastern
Syria along the Khabur River found shelter in Lebanon as they fled an ISIS
assault in which 230 people were seized for ransom. This wasn't the first time
that members of this tight-knit community had been driven from their homes. Many
of these villagers were descendants of those who, in 1933, fled Iraq after a
massacre of Assyrian Christians left 3,000 dead in one day.

On a recent Saturday, 50 of these refugees gathered for a funeral at the
Assyrian Church of the East in Beirut, which sits on the steep slope of Mount
Lebanon, not far from a BMW-Mini Cooper dealership and a Miss Virgin Jeans shop.
The priest, the Rev. Sargon Zoumaya, buttoned his black cassock over a blue
clerical shirt as he prepared to officiate over the burial of Benjamin Ishaya,
who arrived just months before, displaced from one of the villages ISIS
attacked. (He had died of complications following a head wound inflicted by a
jihadist.)

''We're afraid our whole society will vanish,'' said Zoumaya, who left his
Khabur River village more than a decade ago to study in Lebanon. He picked up
his prayer book and headed downstairs to the parish house. The church was
helping to care for 1,500 Syrian families. ''It's too much pressure on us, more
than we can handle,'' he said. The families didn't want to live in the
notoriously overcrowded Lebanese refugee camps that had filled with
one-and-a-half million Syrians fleeing the civil war. They no longer wanted to
live among Muslims. Instead they crammed into apartments with exorbitant rents
that the church subsidized as best it could.

Inside the church, men and women sat in two separate circles. A young woman
passed out Turkish coffee in paper cups. Waves of keening rose from the ring of
women, led by Ishaya's widow. Wearing an olive green suit, she sat at the head
of the open coffin, weeping, as women touched her husband's body. Nearby, her
son, Bassam Ishaya, nursed two broken feet. He'd been trying to support his
family by repairing couches until one dropped on him. The Ishaya family left
Syria with nothing. ISIS, Bassam said, told them they ''either had to pay the
jizya, convert or be killed.'' He pointed to a blue crucifix tattoo on his right
arm. ''Because of this, I had to wear long sleeves,'' he said.

To escape, the Ishayas were airlifted from Al-Hasakah, a town in northeastern
Syria, which had been under the joint control of the Assad government and the
Kurds but has since largely fallen to ISIS, and flown 400 miles to Damascus.
From there, they drove to the Lebanese border. Syrian Air charged $180 for the
flights; Assad's government charged $50 a person, the refugees at the funeral
said.

Since the civil war broke out in Syria in 2011, Assad has allowed Christians to
leave the country. Nearly a third of Syria's Christians, about 600,000, have
found themselves with no choice but to flee the country, driven out by extremist
groups like the Nusra Front and now ISIS. ''As president, he made the sheep and
the wolf walk together,'' Bassam said. ''We don't care if he stays or goes, we
just want security.'' Assad has used the rise of ISIS to solidify his own
support among those who remain, sowing the same fear among them that he tries to
spread in the West: that he is the only thing standing in the way of an ISIS
takeover. This argument has been largely effective. As Samy Gemayel, leader of
the Kataeb party in Lebanon, said: ''When Christians saw Christians being
beheaded, those who saw Assad as the enemy chose the lesser of two evils. Assad
was the diet version of ISIS.''

Like most of the refugees in the parish house, Bassam wasn't planning on
returning to Syria. He was searching for a way to the West. His brother Yussef
moved to Chicago two years earlier. He didn't have a job yet, but his wife
worked at Walmart. Maybe they would help. He wanted to leave like everyone else,
although it would hasten the end of Christianity in Syria. No one would go home
after what ISIS had done. ''Christians will all leave,'' he said. ''What can I
do? I have four kids, I can't leave them here to die.''

After his father's coffin was sealed, Bassam and the rest of the male mourners
filed out. As the women looked on, the men filled waiting cars and drove, past a
cement factory, to a nearby graveyard. Zoumaya swung a censer of frankincense
along the narrow pathway. But neither the smoke nor the wilting rose bushes
could mask the reek of corpses. Behind the priest, Bassam hobbled on crutches.
The mourners lifted the coffin into a wall of doors, which resembled the
shelving units in a morgue. This was a pauper's grave. Since the family couldn't
afford the fee, the church paid $500 to place the coffin here. In a few months,
the body would be quietly burned, although cremation is anathema to Eastern
Christian doctrine. The ashes would take up less space in this overcrowded city
of the dead.

''We ran from the war only to die in the street,'' one mourner said.

Later, Zoumaya talked of his family members, who were among the 230 captured by
ISIS. At noon, on the day ISIS arrived in his wife's village, Zoumaya called his
father-in-law to check in.

''This is ISIS,'' said the man who answered.

''Please let my family go,'' the priest begged. ''They've done nothing to you.
They're not fighting.''

''These people belong to us now,'' the man said. ''Who is this calling?''

Zoumaya hung up. He feared what ISIS might do if they knew who he was. But this
was not the end of his communication with them; they sent him photographs via
WhatsApp. He pulled out his phone to show them. Here was a jihadi on a
motorcycle, grinning in front of the charred grocery store that belonged to his
father. Here was a photo, before ISIS arrived, of a 3-month-old's baptism. Here
was a snapshot of the family dressed up for Somikka, Assyrian Halloween, during
which adults don frightening costumes to scare children into fasting for Lent.

''All these people are missing,'' he said.

ISIS wants $23 million for these captives, $100,000 each, a sum no one can pay.

This spring the U.N. Security Council met to discuss the plight of Iraq's
religious minorities. ''If we attend to minority rights only after slaughter has
begun, then we have already failed,'' Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, the high
commissioner for Human Rights, said. After the conference ended, there was
mounting anger at American inaction. Although the airstrikes were effective,
since October 2013, the United States has given just $416 million in
humanitarian aid, which falls far short of what is needed. ''Americans and the
West were telling us they came to bring democracy, freedom and prosperity,''
Louis Sako, the Chaldean Catholic Patriarch of Babylon who addressed the
Security Council, wrote to me in a recent email. ''What we are living is
anarchy, war, death and the plight of three million refugees.''

Of the 3.1 million displaced Iraqis, 85 percent are Sunnis. No one has suffered
more at the hands of ISIS than fellow Muslims. Other religious minorities have
been affected as well and in large numbers: the Yazidis, who were trapped on
Mount Sinjar in Northern Iraq last summer, as ISIS threatened them with
genocide; as well as Shia Turkmen; Shabak; Kaka'i; and the Mandeans, who follow
John the Baptist. ''Everyone has seen the forced conversions, crucifixions and
beheadings,'' David Saperstein, the United States ambassador at large for
religious freedom, said. ''To see these communities, primarily Christians, but
also the Yazidis and others, persecuted in such large numbers is deeply
alarming.''

It has been nearly impossible for two U.S. presidents -- Bush, a conservative
evangelical; and Obama, a progressive liberal -- to address the plight of
Christians explicitly for fear of appearing to play into the crusader and
''clash of civilizations'' narratives the West is accused of embracing. In 2007,
when Al Qaeda was kidnapping and killing priests in Mosul, Nina Shea, who was
then a U.S. commissioner for religious freedom, says she approached the
secretary of state at the time, Condoleezza Rice, who told her the United States
didn't intervene in ''sectarian'' issues. Rice now says that protecting
religious freedom in Iraq was a priority both for her and for the Bush
administration. But the targeted violence and mass Christian exodus remained
unaddressed. ''One of the blind spots of the Bush administration was the
inability to grapple with this as a direct byproduct of the invasion,'' says
Timothy Shah, the associate director of Georgetown University's Religious
Freedom Project.

More recently, the White House has been criticized for eschewing the term
''Christian'' altogether. The issue of Christian persecution is politically
charged; the Christian right has long used the idea that Christianity is
imperiled to rally its base. When ISIS massacred Egyptian Copts in Libya this
winter, the State Department came under fire for referring to the victims merely
as ''Egyptian citizens.'' Daniel Philpott, a professor of political science at
the University of Notre Dame, says, ''When ISIS is no longer said to have
religious motivations nor the minorities it attacks to have religious
identities, the Obama administration's caution about religion becomes
excessive.''

Last fall, Obama did refer to Christians and other religious minorities by name
in a speech, saying, ''we cannot allow these communities to be driven from their
ancient homelands.'' When ISIS threatened to eradicate the Yazidis, ''it was the
United States that stepped in to beat back the militants,'' Alistair Baskey, a
spokesman for the National Security Council, says. In northeastern Syria, where
ISIS is still launching attacks against Assyrian Christian villages, the U.S.
military recently come to their aid, Baskey added. Refugees are a thornier
issue. Of the more than 122,000 Iraqi refugees admitted to the United States,
nearly 40 percent already belong to oppressed minorities. Admitting more would
be difficult. ''There are limits to what the international community can do,''
Saperstein said.

Eshoo, the Democratic congresswoman, is working to establish priority refugee
status for minorities who want to leave Iraq. ''It's a hair ball,'' she says.
''The average time for admittance to the United States is more than 16 months,
and that's too long. Many will die.'' But it can be difficult to rally
widespread support. The Middle East's Christians often favor Palestine over
Israel. And because support of Israel is central to the Christian Right --
Israel must be occupied by the Jews before Jesus can return -- this stance
distances Eastern Christians from a powerful lobby that might otherwise champion
their cause. Recently, Ted Cruz admonished an audience of Middle Eastern
Christians at an In Defense of Christians event in Washington, telling them that
Christians ''have no better ally than the Jewish state.'' Cruz was booed.

The fate of Christians in the Middle East isn't simply a matter of religion; it
is also integral to what kinds of societies will flourish as the region's map
fractures. In Lebanon, for example, where Christians have always played a
powerful role in government, they increasingly serve as a buffer between Sunni
and Shia. For nearly 70 years, Lebanon was a proxy battleground for the conflict
between Israel and Palestine. Across the region, that conflict is now secondary
to the shifting tectonic plates of the Sunni-Shia divide, which threatens
terrible bloodshed.

Earlier this year, Lebanon closed its borders to almost everyone escaping the
war in Syria but made an exception for Christians fleeing ISIS. When the
extremists attacked the villages along the Khabur River, the interior minister,
Nouhad Machnouk, ordered the official in charge of the border to allow
Christians to enter the country. ''I can't put this in writing,'' the border
official said. Machnouk replied, ''O.K., say it aloud, word by word.''

Machnouk told me this story on a recent evening. ''They're paying much, much,
much more than others,'' in both Syria and Iraq, he said. ''They're not Sunni
and not Shia, but they're paying more than both.'' We sat in his airy office,
housed in a former art school from the Ottoman era. It was decorated with his
private collection of Greek and Roman antiquities, including a carved basalt
head with finely wrought curls. For the minister, a moderate Sunni, sheltering
Christians is as much a sociopolitical imperative as a moral one.

In Lebanon, the tension between Sunni and Shia plays out in a system of
political patronage, which has split the Christian community into two rival
political parties, both born of the country's 15-year-long civil war. The
pro-Saudi Future movement, which consists of mainly Sunnis, supports the
Christian leader Samir Geagea, who lives atop Mount Lebanon behind three check
points, two X-ray machines and a set of steel doors. Hezbollah, which is Shia
and backed by Iran, has been openly allied since 2006 with the Free Patriotic
Movement (F.P.M.), a Christian Party headed by Michel Aoun. For Hezbollah,
Christians offer an opportunity to forge an alliance with a fellow minority. (Of
the world's one and a half billion Muslims, only 10 to 20 percent are Shia.)

''It's a political game,'' Alain Aoun, a member of Parliament for the F.P.M. and
Michel Aoun's nephew, told me. The emergence of ISIS has strengthened the
alliance. ''The Christians are happy to have anyone who can fight against I.S.''
Hezbollah has paid young Christian men from Lebanon's impoverished Bekaa Valley
a one-time $500 to $2,000 fee to fight ISIS.

''Christians here are making the same calculation that Obama does,'' Hanin
Ghaddar, the managing editor of NOW, a news website in Lebanon, said, referring
to Obama's willingness to support Iran as a bulwark against Sunni extremism. For
many Christians in the Middle East, a Shia alliance offers a hope of survival,
however slim. Ghaddar, an independent Shia, says that it is uncertain how these
tenuous allegiances will play out. This spring, pro-Iranian forces of Hezbollah
were battling Sunni extremists in Syria. No one knew who would prevail. ''It's
like 'Game of Thrones,' '' she said. ''We're waiting for the snow to melt.''

The front line against ISIS in Northern Iraq is marked by an earthen berm that
runs for hundreds of miles over the Nineveh Plain. A string of Christian towns
now stands empty, and the Kurdish forces occupy what, for thousands of years,
was Assyrian, Chaldean and Syriac land. In one, Telskuf, seized by ISIS last
year, the main square is overgrown with brambles and thistles. It was once a
thriving market town. Every Thursday, hundreds came to buy clothes, honey and
vegetables. Telskuf was home to 7,000 people; now only three remain.

The Nineveh Plain Forces, a 500-member Assyrian Christian militia, patrols the
town. The N.P.F. is one of five Assyrian militias formed during the past year
after the rout of ISIS. It shares a double aim with two other militias, Dwekh
Nawsha, an all-volunteer force of around 100, and the Nineveh Plains Protection
Units, a battalion of more than 300: to help liberate Christian lands from ISIS
and to protect their people, possibly as part of a nascent national guard, when
they return home. The two other militias are the Syriac Military Council, which
is fighting alongside the Kurds in northeastern Syria, and the Babylonian
Brigades, which operate under Iraq's Shia-dominated militias.

A few of these militias are aided by a handful of American, Canadian and British
citizens, who, frustrated with their governments' lack of response to ISIS, have
traveled to Syria and Iraq to fight on their own. Some come in the name of
fellow Christians. Some come to relive their roles in the United States invasion
of Iraq and Afghanistan -- or to make amends for them. One American named
Matthew VanDyke, the founder of Sons of Liberty International, a security
company, has provided free training for the N.P.U. and is now about to work with
a second militia, Dwekh Nawsha. VanDyke, who is 36, traveled to Libya in 2011 to
fight against Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces; he was captured and spent 166 days in
solitary confinement before escaping and returning to combat. He has no formal
military training, but since last fall, he has brought American veterans to Iraq
to help the N.P.U., including James Halterman, a veteran of Afghanistan and
Iraq, who found the group on the Internet after watching a segment about
Westerners fighting ISIS on Fox News. The United States government does not
support groups like VanDyke's. ''Americans who have traveled to Iraq to fight
are not part of U.S. efforts in the region,'' Joseph Pennington, the consul
general in Erbil, says. ''We wish they would not come here.''

In Iraq, the militias operate at the front only with the approval of the Kurdish
peshmerga, who are using the fight against ISIS to expand their territory into
the Nineveh Plain, long a disputed territory between Arabs and Kurds. Even to
travel 1,000 yards between bases and forward posts, the Christian militias must
ask the Kurds for permission. The Kurds are looking to integrate all the
Christian militias into their force; they have succeeded with the N.P.F. and two
others. But the N.P.U. remains wary. They fear that the Kurds are using the
Christian cause to seize territory for a greater Kurdistan. And because the
Kurdish forces abandoned them as ISIS approached, the militias want the right to
protect their own people. For now, they make do with the help they can find.
Romeo Hakari, the head of the N.P.F., said, ''We want U.S. trainers, but we
can't even afford to buy weapons.'' After his militia purchased 20 AK-47s in an
open market in Erbil, the Kurds gave them 100 more.

Other than a daily mortar or two launched by ISIS from a village a mile and a
half away, the area the N.P.U. patrolled was a sleepy target. After coalition
airstrikes pushed ISIS out of Telskuf last summer, the group retreated about a
mile and a half to the southwest. Beyond a bulldozed trench and a line of burlap
sandbags littered with sunflower-seed shells, 12 black flags fluttered over a
village. Three weeks earlier, at 4:20 a.m., two suicide bombers carrying a
ladder to place over the trench attacked this forward post. The suicide attack
was foiled after the U.S.-led coalition against ISIS launched airstrikes, which
killed 13 ISIS fighters, Manaf Yussef, a Kurdish security official in charge of
this front, said. ''Without airstrikes, we'd lose,'' he said. Minutes later, a
high whistle signaled an incoming ISIS shell, which set fire to a nearby wheat
field. The land is sere due to a drought.

As a column of smoke from the daily ISIS shell billowed into the blue sky, five
Assyrian fighters belonging to the Nineveh Plain Forces went from house to house
to evacuate the last residents of Telskuf -- three old women. When the N.P.F.
commander, Safaa Khamro, pushed open the door of the first house, Christina
Jibbo Kakhosh began to cry. She was 91.

''I have no running water,'' she said. Less than four feet tall, she peered up
at Khamro through bottle-thick glasses.

''I fixed it for you yesterday,'' Khamro said.

''I forgot,'' she said. She shuffled back inside and beckoned him to follow. Her
refrigerator was flung open; because there was no electricity, it served as a
pantry. A half-eaten jar of tahini, a lighter and a pair of scissors sat on a
table in front of the mattress on which she slept. When she heard her visitors
were American, she said: ''Three of my children are in America. Only one has
called me.''

Khamro tried to persuade her to come to a house near the base where she would be
safer. ''It has satellite TV,'' he said. She packed a small satchel and left
with the patrol. ''That's my uncle's house,'' one Assyrian fighter said as he
passed a padlocked gate. ''He's in Australia now.'' The patrol passed St.
Jacob's Church, where ISIS fighters had destroyed a porcelain statue of Jesus,
which was now missing its face. An icon of a martyr having his fingers cut off
by Tamerlane, who massacred tens of thousands of Assyrian Christians during the
14th century, hung on the wall.

Nearby, the N.P.F. had replaced the cross that ISIS fighters filmed themselves
hurling down. Khamro was a politician in Telskuf before ISIS invaded. He owned
one of the 480 now-shuttered shops, a boutique that sold women's and children's
clothes. He'd sent his wife and children to Al Qosh, 10 miles to the north, a
safer Christian city.

Khamro turned off the main drag and into a warren of overgrown pathways. He
stopped before a chicken-wire awning, calling out ''Auntie'' to Kamala Karim
Shaya, who sat on her front stoop, a kerchief tied over her thick white
ponytail. When she learned that Khamro had come to move her out of her clay
home, she began to scream: ''Even if my father stands up in his grave, I will
not leave this house. No, no, no, no, no, never, never, never,'' she shouted.
Khamro, who refused to move her by force, had no choice but to pass on.

Even if ISIS is defeated, the fate of religious minorities in Syria and Iraq
remains bleak. Unless minorities are given some measure of security, those who
can leave are likely to do so. Nina Shea of the Hudson Institute, a conservative
policy center, says that the situation has grown so dire that Iraqi Christians
must either be allowed full residency in Kurdistan, including the right to work,
or helped to leave. Others argue that it is essential that minorities have their
own autonomous region. Exile is a death knell for these communities, activists
say. ''We've been here as an ethnicity for 6,000 years and as Christians for
1,700 years,'' says Dr. Srood Maqdasy, a member of the Kurdish Parliament. ''We
have our own culture, language and tradition. If we live within other
communities, all of this will be dissolved within two generations.''

The practical solution, according to many Assyrian Christians, is to establish a
safe haven on the Nineveh Plain. ''If the West could take in so many refugees
and the U.N.H.C.R. handle an operation like that, then we wouldn't ask for a
permanent solution,'' says Nuri Kino, of A Demand for Action. ''But the most
realistic option is returning home.''

''We don't have time to wait for solutions,'' said the Rev. Emanuel Youkhana,
the head of Christian Aid Program Northern Iraq. ''For the first time in 2,000
years, there are no church services in Mosul. The West comes up with one
solution by granting visas to a few hundred people. What about a few hundred
thousand?'' If Iraq devolves into three regions -- Sunnis, Shia and Kurds --
there could be a fourth for minorities. ''Iraq is a forced marriage between
Sunni, Shia, Kurds and Christians, and it failed,'' Youkhana said. ''Even I, as
a priest, favor divorce.''

Proponents say a safe haven wouldn't require an international force or a no-fly
zone, neither of which is likely to find much support in the United States or
among its allies. U.S. policy does play a role. When Congress was asked to
approve $1.6 billion in aid for Iraqi forces fighting ISIS -- the Iraqi Army,
the Kurds and the Sunni tribes -- it amended the bill to explicitly include
local forces on the Nineveh Plain, but also passed legislation directing the
State Department to implement a safe haven there. Ultimately, however, the
responsibility lies with the Iraqis. Pennington, the consul general, said, ''The
creation of a safe haven in the Nineveh Province would be an idea for the Iraqi
Parliament in accordance with the Iraqi Constitution.''

Tarek Mitri, a former Lebanese minister and a former special representative to
the U.N. secretary general for Libya, says that his impression in speaking to
officials in the White House ''is that Obama is in a withdrawal mood. He thinks
that he was elected to withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq and to make a deal
with Iran. If this is the mood, then we shouldn't expect much or ask much from
the Americans.'' Baskey, of the National Security Council, counters that
''rather than withdrawing, the president and this administration have, in fact,
remained deeply engaged, building and leading a coalition of some 60 nations to
degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL.''

The last time Rana, one of the women taken by ISIS from Qaraqosh, was able to
speak to her family by phone was in September. She told them what had befallen
Rita and Christina. Rita had been given as a slave to a powerful member of ISIS;
Christina was given to a family to be raised as a Muslim.

Rana said little about her own circumstances, and her family didn't ask. To be
honest, they weren't sure they wanted to know what ISIS had done to her.

For months now, the phone Rana used has been switched off. ''There's word
they're still alive,'' Rabee Mano, 36, a refugee from Qaraqosh who runs an
underground railroad out of the Islamic State, told me one recent evening over
beer and kebabs. ''She's been 'married' to a powerful guy in ISIS,'' he added,
as he sat in the garden at the Social Academic Center in Ankawa, a Christian
suburb of Erbil. At the next table, three gleeful men poured straight vodka into
plastic cups. Over the past year, Ankawa has swelled by 60,000 as refugees have
poured in.

For nearly a year, Mano has been trying to buy freedom for Rana, Rita and
Christina from ISIS. Through his network of contacts, a greedy ISIS member,
friends in Arab villages and a brave taxi driver, Mano has paid to free 45
people. The haggling is made easier by the fact that ISIS members frequently
trade women among themselves, so the buying and selling of people doesn't raise
suspicion. This work has cost him $10,000, which he raised by opening a carwash.
He sent $800 to a member of ISIS, saying he would send more when the women and
the child made it to safety. But the man had done nothing of what he promised.

Before Mano fled his hometown last August, he dealt in commercial real estate.
''You can see my buildings from Google Earth,'' he said. At the picnic table, he
pulled an expired Arizona driver's license from his wallet. It was a temporary
license from 2011, the year he came to the United States and tried to buy 48
apartments. The deal fell through, so he went home; now his passport had
expired. He lost about $1.5 million, he said.

He longed to return to the Nineveh Plain. ''Even though all of my money is in
the garbage, I'll be O.K. if we get this safe haven,'' he said. ''If it takes
too long, we'll be annihilated.'' It was all he thought about. ''Are we going
home or not?'' he asked. ''This safe haven is the last chance we have, or
Christianity will be finished in Iraq.''

Earlier, a text message came in from Mosul. One of his contacts was having
trouble locating a woman named Nabila, who was ready to be smuggled to safety.
Mano had instructed her to hang a black cloth in her window so that her rescuer
could find the right house. But the wind had blown the cloth to the ground, and
now her would-be rescuer couldn't tell where she was being held. They would have
to try again. ''I'll tell her to hang a blanket,'' Mano said. They would find
her, he hoped, if the blanket held its weight against the wind.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/is-this-the-end-of-christianity-in-th
e-middle-east.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A roadblock near the headquarters of a Dwekh Nawsha Assyrian
Christian militia unit in Baqofa, Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER VAN AGTMAEL)
(MM30-MM31)
Syrian Christian refugees in Beirut, Lebanon, mourn the death of an elderly man,
Benjamin Ishaya. He died of a head wound after being struck by a militant while
fleeing his home village. (MM32-MM33)
The headquarters of a Dwekh Nawsha Assyrian Christian militia unit near the
front line against ISIS in Baqofa, Iraq. (MM35)
A bullet wound on the arm of Raed Sabah Matt, a former member of the Iraqi Army
who survived an attack by Al Qaeda in Mosul and is now a member of an anti-ISIS
Christian militia. (MM37)
 A member of a Christian militia unit tries to persuade Kamala Karim Shaya, one
of the last residents of Telskuf, to move to a secured home near their barracks.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER VAN AGTMAEL/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM39) MAP
(MM36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES
(71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exploring Yorkshire, One Pub at a Time

BYLINE: By EVAN RAIL

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PURSUITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1811 words


The long hike across the West Yorkshire moors passed over hills peppered with
scrubby grass, through fields of heather and over jagged rocks and gurgling
streams. Along the way I'd been severely scolded by more than one chattering red
grouse, and ignored by innumerable flocks of grazing sheep. Eventually I'd made
it all the way to Top Withens, a ruined farmhouse whose setting was said to have
been the inspiration for Emily Brontë's ''Wuthering Heights.'' Sunburned and
tired after the long walk, I needed refreshment.

I found it in the Fleece, an old pub in the Brontës' Yorkshire hometown,
Haworth: a half-pint (9.6 ounces) of Golden Best, a mild ale from the local
brewer Timothy Taylor. Served with almost no carbonation from a traditional hand
pump, the beer was refreshingly bitter and just sweet enough to renew my energy.

Better still, the small portion and the beer's relatively low alcohol -- just
3.5 percent -- meant that I could sample it again, or try any one of several
delicious alternatives.

''Everybody in the know drinks halves,'' said Leigh Linley, author of ''Great
Yorkshire Beer,'' when I met him in the nearby city of Leeds the next day,
referring to the half-pint serving glass, instead of the more traditional
imperial pint. ''With the amount of choice we have in Yorkshire, it is perfectly
acceptable to drink halves and treat each night out as a giant beer festival.''

Indeed, I'd heard for years about the pleasures of Yorkshire beer, starting with
storied ale breweries like Samuel Smith's, founded in 1758, and Timothy Taylor,
founded a century later. In addition to traditional English ales, the county is
also home to up-and-coming craft breweries that produce more modern styles, as
well as some of Britain's 's most beloved pubs and bars.

Armed with Mr. Linley's book, I decided to take a six-day trip across much of
West, South and North Yorkshire this spring, and soak up a sense of this
northern English county and its renowned beer culture.

I'd found Haworth almost impossibly pretty, both in my walks on the surrounding
moors and in the village itself. Like much of the area, it has quieted down
since its Victorian-era heyday, when textile mills flourished in Yorkshire.
Since then, Haworth has become a storybook vacation destination, best known for
its connection to the Brontës, its old stone cottages and pubs like the Fleece.

Taking a train from Haworth's vintage-1867 railway station, I traveled first to
Timothy Taylor's hometown, Keighley, a few miles away, for samples of the
brewery's wares at the Boltmaker's Arms, an award-winning pub just minutes from
the boarding platforms. I enjoyed my half of Boltmaker, a bitter ale carrying
the pub's name, though, unlike at other taverns in the region, the locals didn't
seem very friendly.

Back at the station, I boarded another train for a quick ride to the Victorian
town of Saltaire, where the spacious stone halls of the town's disused textile
mill housed a huge exhibit dedicated to the Yorkshire-born painter David
Hockney.

After an afternoon with the art and some downtime on the lawn of Saltaire's
sprawling park -- originally built for the health and well-being of the mill
workers -- I was ready for a more urbane setting. Another short ride took me to
Leeds, where I met up with Mr. Linley, who walked with me to a few of his
favorite pubs and offered advice on what to see in his city over the next few
days.

What I found turned out to be one of the best beer-drinking destinations I'd
visited in Europe, a friendly and undertouristed city of about 750,000
inhabitants -- large enough to be interesting, though still walkable. Moreover,
the local beer scene has exploded. With Mr. Linley, I visited a new brewpub,
Tapped, with over two dozen modern craft beers, and the recently rejuvenated
Whitelock's, which calls itself the oldest pub in Leeds, celebrating its 300th
anniversary this year.

On my own, I tried out the upscale Friends of Ham, which focuses on craft brews
and high-end charcuterie, allowing guests to pair four-year-old, acorn-fed
Ibérico Bellota ham from Spain with a fragrant, West Coast-style IPA from West
Yorkshire's Magic Rock brewery, or to contrast the flavors of fennel-flavored
finocchiona sausage from Tuscany with a chocolate chipotle stout from the nearby
Ilkley Brewery.

Just around the corner, I found another new craft beer bar, Bundobust, which
eschews meat entirely, instead offering craft brews with a menu of vegetarian
Indian street food. Sipping a half of Bundobust's house brew, a
coriander-infused Pilsner, I found myself wishing that more pubs served spicy
okra fries and onion bhaji with tangy tamarind chutney as bar snacks.

My two days in Leeds included a number of modern taverns and extremely
up-to-date craft brews, but I wanted to find out more about Yorkshire's most
traditional breweries, and what it was that made the half-pints of old-style
bitter and mild so delicious. Magic Rock's IPAs were good, but I could hardly
tell one from the other, and all of them seemed to be imitations of American
beers, while the bitters and milds felt as much a part of the region as the
moors and the old textile mills.

When I had emailed Timothy Taylor to request a tour, the response came back that
they do not offer tours, instead suggesting that I visit the Black Sheep brewery
in the remote North Yorkshire village of Masham. And so, after 42 minutes on a
high-speed train to the town of Thirsk and a 15-minute taxi ride across
beautiful North Yorkshire farmland, I arrived at the Black Sheep brewery just as
a tour was beginning. The brewery, I learned, had opened in 1992, when one of
the Theakstons had split from the local Theakston brewery, starting a second
major beer producer in a town of just over a thousand inhabitants.

If the brewery was originally a black sheep, it certainly seemed to have moved
into the mainstream. Other tourgoers were clearly fans, and a number of guests
were drinking and dining in the airy, on-site restaurant. The hourlong tour
showed off the historic building -- originally part of Lightfoot's, another
local beer producer -- where the new Black Sheep brewery had been built. There
was also a focus on the unusual fermenting vessels, called Yorkshire squares.
Despite the name, most of them were round, roughly the size of a small
aboveground swimming pool, with an upper chamber that allowed the fermenting
liquid to drain through a hole in its ''deck,'' or floor, into a second chamber.
Every three hours for three days, our guide explained, the fermenting beer in
the lower chamber was pumped through a ''rouser'' onto the upper level for six
minutes. The fermenters themselves were open on top, allowing the fruity scent
of yeast to fill the room.

The result, I realized, must be why the traditional milds and bitters from
Yorkshire tasted so remarkable. Old breweries throughout Europe sing the praises
of open fermenters, rather than more modern cylindroconical tanks, but the
unusual process of rousing the yeast in Yorkshire squares must cause the strong
local flavors.

After a lunch of crispy fish and chips with malt vinegar and a half of Golden
Sheep, a moderately bitter ale, in the brewery's bistro, I walked across Masham
to the storied Theakston brewery, founded in 1827. Along the way, I peeked into
a greengrocer's, housed in a hobbit-like stone building, and followed the signs
to the brewery down a narrow, walled lane. At one point I caught a glimpse of a
grand manor, hiding behind a lavish gated entrance. The walk had taken only 10
minutes, but the weather was overcast and chilly, leaving me too cold and tired
for another tour. Instead I repaired to the on-site pub, the Black Bull in
Paradise, and ordered halves of Theakston beers while warming up next to the
fireplace.

Theakston's best bitter and XB were excellent, with more of that yeast aroma I'd
noticed at the Black Sheep. But the big surprise was the brewery's strong ale,
Old Peculier, named after the Peculier of Masham, a legal district created by
the Archbishop of York in the 12th century. Dark, plummy and mysteriously
bitter, with 5.6 percent alcohol it was much stronger than many of the local
beers, though still weaker than many American craft brews.

After the two traditional breweries in Masham, I wanted to see how things were
changing elsewhere in Yorkshire. After a night in the beautiful walled city of
York and an afternoon in Tadcaster, Samuel Smith's hometown, I headed down to
Sheffield, the South Yorkshire manufacturing city.

Sheffield seemed to be in transition, not quite recovered from its industrial
past, including the wartime bombing that had scarred it. But the town's two
major universities gave it a youthful air, as did Sheffield's diverse list of
bands and musicians, including Joe Cocker, the Human League, Pulp, Def Leppard
and the Arctic Monkeys.

Following a Sheffield Ale Trail map from ourfaveplaces.co.uk, I stopped for
half-pints at some the city's best-known pubs. Along the way, I discovered
several new arrivals. En route to the Devonshire Cat, a student pub, I found a
year-old BrewDog bar, serving beers from the upstart Scottish brewery. Not far
from the historic Rutland Arms, I had a quick half of mild at the
then-four-month-old Tap and Tankard, where a bartender chatted with me about her
favorite ska and soul tunes. In the Kelham Island industrial district, I paired
a fancy pizza -- with baked beets, Yorkshire goat cheese and pumpkin seeds --
with a can of Beavertown's outstanding Gamma Ray pale ale at Craft and Dough,
which opened last December.

It seemed as if the city's beer scene was almost growing too quickly. At the
Kelham Island Tavern around the corner, I stopped to take a photograph at the
front entrance, where I met the owner, Trevor Wraith.

''The neighborhood has improved greatly since I opened here,'' he said, noting
that he'd been running it since 2002, opening it close to another destination
pub, the Fat Cat. Otherwise, there hadn't been much in the area at the time. He
gestured to the vacant lots on either side. ''This used to be all factories.
That was a scissors factory next door until last year.''

One of Mr. Wraith's regulars arrived, and they walked into the pub, leaving me
to look around the neighborhood as the sun set over the warehouses. It seemed as
if half the pubs I'd visited in Yorkshire were less than a year old, though
others dated from the Victorian era, if not earlier. Many of the breweries I'd
enjoyed were also brand new, though some of my favorites -- like Samuel Smith
and Theakston -- had histories that could be counted in centuries. It felt like
the best of a couple of different worlds.

I shivered, feeling the chill of a spring evening. And then I went inside the
pub myself, to contemplate the future of Yorkshire brewing over another
half-pint or two.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/a-tasting-tour-of-yorkshires-beers-and-
ales.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IF YOU GO: WHERE TO EAT AND DRINK Bundobust, 6 Mill Hill, Leeds

bundobust.com. Vegetarian snacks and small plates, £2.50 to £6, or $3.75 to $9
at $1.50 to the pound. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Friends of Ham, 4
New Station Street, Leeds
friendsofham .com. Charcuterie and cheese boards, £12.50 to £16.60. .. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . Craft and Dough, 1A Kelham Square, Sheffield
craftanddough.co.uk. Pizzas, £4.50 to £9. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Black Sheep Brewery Bistro, Wellgarth, Masham
blacksheepbrewery.com. Evening main courses, £10.95 to £16.95. WHERE TO STAY The
Fleece, 67 Main Street, Haworth
fleeceinnhaworth .co.uk. In this scenic old West Yorkshire village, this cozy
pub also offers guest rooms. Doubles from £80. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . Discovery Inn, 15 Bishopgate Street, Leeds
discovery-inn -leeds.co.uk. Around the corner from Bundobust and Friends of Ham,
this budget hotel has an excellent location close to the train station. Doubles
from £35. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Best Western Cutlers Hotel, George
Street, Sheffield
cutlershotel.co.uk. Centrally located, not far from the city's pedestrian
shopping district. Doubles from £65.
Top left, a half-pint of Timothy Taylor's Golden Best ale. Above and left, from
top: At the Fleece in Haworth
Top Withins, the ruined farmhouse believed to be the inspiration for Emily
Brontë's ''Wuthering Heights''
cobbled street in Haworth, the town where the Brontë family lived, left, and a
steam locomotive at the Keighley rail station, right
Black Sheep brewery in Masham, which offers tours
 and the Theakston's brewery visitors' center in Masham. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY
HASLAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); BREWERIES (89%);
BURN INJURIES (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); WRITERS (66%); FABRIC
MILLS (62%); TRAINS (62%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%)

CITY: LEEDS, ENGLAND (94%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (92%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Turkish Fighter Jets Strike Kurd Militants in Iraq, Ending an Uneasy Truce

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Aspen, Colo.,
and Kamil Kakol from Sulaimaniya, Iraq.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 925 words


ISTANBUL -- Turkish fighter jets, which on Friday attacked Islamic State targets
in Syria, have launched a wave of airstrikes in northern Iraq, targeting camps
of the militant Kurdistan Workers' Party for the first time in four years, the
prime minister's office said Saturday.

The Iraq raids, which began late Friday and continued into Saturday, effectively
ended an unstable two-year cease-fire between the Turkish government and the
Kurdish militants, also known by the initials of their Kurdish name, P.K.K.
After a three-decade conflict that claimed at least 40,000 lives, the two sides
reached a fragile peace in 2013, though there have been a few minor clashes
since then.

Fighter jets also struck Islamic State targets in Syria for a second day, Prime
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu's office said in the statement on Saturday. The jets
entered Syrian airspace to do so, the statement said, unlike during the previous
strikes, which the government said were carried out from the Turkish side of the
border.

''No one should doubt our determination,'' Mr. Davutoglu said, speaking to
reporters in Ankara, the capital, on Saturday. ''We will not allow Turkey to be
turned into a lawless country.''

In the past week, Turkey began taking a more active role in fighting the Islamic
State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, agreeing to let the United States use its air
bases to attack the militants in Syria as well as carrying out its own strikes.
The moves came after a suicide bomber suspected of having Islamic State ties
struck a cultural center in the Turkish border town of Suruc on Monday, killing
at least 32 people, in one of the worst cases of spillover violence from the war
in Syria.

Turkey has been pressing the United States to establish a no-fly zone in
northern Syria, and that goal seems to have gained traction with the Turks' air
campaign.

''Once ISIS has been cleared from the areas in northern Syria, 'safe zones' will
be formed naturally,'' offering havens for displaced people, Foreign Minister
Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Saturday.

In a separate but parallel operation, Turkish authorities have carried out a
series of counterterrorism raids over the past two days, arresting 590 people
suspected of being members of the Islamic State or the P.K.K., Mr. Davutoglu
said.

In the past year, Turkey, a longtime American ally and NATO member, has faced
increased pressure from Western governments to take a more active role in the
American-led coalition formed to fight the Islamic State.

Turkey's reluctance stemmed in part from the fact that the government did not
want to embolden Kurdish militias, who have been making gains across its
frontier with Syria, having received increased military support from the United
States to fight the Islamic State.

One militia, the People's Protection Unit, or Y.P.G., which is leading the fight
against the Islamic State on the ground in Syria, is an affiliate of the P.K.K.,
and Turkey had been cautious about taking action in Syria to avoid straining
relations with its own Kurdish minority.

But the peace efforts, now in their third year, have broken down as the Turkish
government has failed to meet Kurdish demands for greater rights and more
autonomy after decades of being ostracized by the Turkish state.

''The truce has no meaning anymore after these intense airstrikes by the
occupant Turkish army,'' the P.K.K. said on its website on Saturday.

The bombing at the cultural center on Monday also inflamed tensions between
Turkey and Kurdish nationalists, who accused the government of collaborating
with the Islamic State and facilitating their activities within Turkey.

Most of the victims of the attack were young Kurdish activists, who had gathered
at the center to discuss the rebuilding of Kobani, a war-torn border town in
Syria that has come under numerous attacks from the Islamic State over the past
year.

The P.K.K.'s military branch killed two Turkish police officers in southeastern
Turkey on Tuesday, in what it said was retaliation for the Suruc bombing.

On Friday, Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said that all terrorist
organizations must lay down their weapons or ''face consequences.''

Analysts say that Turkey's decision to attack P.K.K. bases in Iraq was a
disproportionate response to the increased violence across Turkey in the past
week.

The last time Turkey carried out strikes against P.K.K. camps in northern Iraq
was in 2011, when it launched a six-day offensive, striking 132 targets.

''It seems Erdogan has decided to shelve the peace process and go on an all-out
military offensive against the P.K.K.,'' said Asli Aydintasbas, a Turkish
columnist and analyst for CNN Turk.

''This is coming out of the blue,'' Ms. Aydintasbas said. ''It is worrisome, and
one cannot help but think that part of Erdogan's calculus is galvanizing the
nationalist vote before a possible early election.''

The general elections on June 7 stripped Mr. Erdogan's governing Justice and
Development Party, or A.K.P., of its majority in Parliament, necessitating the
formation of a coalition government for the first time in over a decade.

The party's failure to secure a majority was partly attributed to the success of
a pro-Kurdish party that gained representation in Parliament for the first time.

Mr. Erdogan gave Mr. Davutoglu a mandate to form a new government this month,
beginning rounds of coalition talks with the country's three main opposition
blocs. If he fails to do so within 45 days of the mandate, the president could
call for an early election.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/middleeast/turkey-attacks-kurdish-milita
nt-camps-in-northern-iraq.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Left-wing protesters in Istanbul on Friday denounced police
action against Kurdish militants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YASIN AKGUL/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ISLAMIC
STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY &
MILITIA (89%); TERRORISM (78%); SYRIAN CRISIS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%);
MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SUICIDE
BOMBINGS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (84%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrants' New Path Has Perils All Its Own

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Helene Bienvenu contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1443 words


SUBOTICA, Serbia -- They call it ''the jungle,'' but it's really just a tangle
of dirt paths through stunted trees near an abandoned brick factory.

Between 150 and 200 people -- mostly men, with a smattering of young families --
cluster in discrete groups in scattered campsites, most resting on dusty
blankets, the earth blackened here and there by the remains of the previous
night's fires.

''We have people from Iraq, Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia,
Morocco,'' said Mohamd, 42, a former truck driver for a factory near Aleppo,
Syria, who hopes to reach the Netherlands. ''Am I forgetting anyone?''

His cousin Walid, 45, scratched his well-worn sandal into the hard clay.
''Algeria?''

Mohamd waved him off. ''That group went into Hungary two nights ago,'' he said.
''We have not seen them back yet.''

With war continuing to plague the Middle East and Afghanistan, and thousands
trying to flee Africa's grinding poverty, the swell of refugees and migrants
hoping to reach Western Europe shows no signs of abating this summer.

For the last few years, the most popular route has been across the Mediterranean
on boats run by Libyan smugglers that aimed for the nearest islands off the
Italian coast. But as that route has become increasingly dangerous -- the range
of threats include drowning, abandonment by unscrupulous smugglers and
crackdowns by European border patrols -- the human tide is shifting.
Increasingly, migrants are following a land-based route into Europe by way of
Greece and the West Balkans.

But with the alternative crossing come other perils: violence, exploitation,
intolerance. Though most European countries are overwhelmed by the tide, fueling
an anti-immigrant backlash in many places, Eastern European countries like
Hungary, Serbia and Bulgaria are considered particularly hostile.

Still, the migrants keep coming.

Mohamd, like more than two dozen migrants interviewed at the brick factory and
other sites along the border here with Hungary, declined to give his last name
for fear of reprisals against relatives left behind and unwelcoming authorities
on the road ahead. His was a typical story.

He left Syria on May 16, made his way through Turkey and slipped across the
border into Greece.

Along the way, there may be short bus rides or miles covered by train. But for
many of the migrants -- including almost all of those interviewed at the brick
factory -- the journey was largely undertaken on foot. They follow rail lines or
paths passed along by smugglers or passed down the communications chain from
refugees farther ahead.

For a bird, the trip from Damascus, Syria, to Szeged, just across the Hungarian
border, is 1,200 miles. From Kabul, Afghanistan, it is 2,700 miles. The
migrant's route, though, is rarely the most direct.

The journey from Aleppo to Szeged is 1,100 miles on a direct route, but more
than 1,500 miles by roads, and more than that to skirt risky checkpoints and
follow meandering forest paths and railbeds.

''I took a few short trains and a bus,'' Mohamd said. ''But mostly, we walked.''

It took 10 days to get through Greece. Macedonia was crossed quickly, but he has
been stuck in Serbia for a month. Twice he had sneaked into Hungary and was
quickly arrested, spending 16 days in jail the first time and five the next. He
also earned an official document that bans him from entering the country for
three years.

''I will try again either tonight or tomorrow,'' he said, shrugging. ''What else
can I do? There is no life anymore in Syria, only bombing.''

In a report this month by Amnesty International, the organization acknowledged
the dangers of the land route. ''Refugees face considerable obstacles in
accessing asylum in any country along their journey,'' the report said.

''Refugees and migrants alike are at constant risk of exploitation, arbitrary
detention and ill treatment.''

Echoed in interviews, reports of abuse by smugglers and border guards are
plentiful. So are the constant dangers of bandit gangs and the police demanding
bribes.

''Police in Hungary, no good,'' said Sachid, 36, a Kurdish refugee from northern
Iraq hoping to meet up with a cousin in Germany.

He crossed his wrists behind his back to indicate how he had been handcuffed,
then pantomimed being punched.

''In Serbia, the police say, 'Give us 50 euros and you can go,' '' he said. ''In
Hungary, it is not money, it is just arrest.''

The Hungarian town of Asotthalom sits, invitingly, at the point where the
national highway dips closest to the border, not far from the brick factory.
Laszlo Toroczkai, a former activist in an anti-Semitic youth group who was
supported in his election campaign by the right-wing Jobbik party, has drawn
national attention for his fierce opposition to the migrant tide.

''I really respect Islam,'' he said, seated in his small, sparsely decorated
office in the town hall. ''But Europe is not a continent of Islam. That's why we
fought them in the Middle Ages, to get them out.''

While Hungary has a responsibility to care for genuine refugees, he said, he
believes that many crossing into Hungary are just illegal immigrants angling for
a better life in a more open society.

Mr. Toroczkai is credited with first proposing the idea of building a fence
along Hungary's entire border with Serbia, which stretches more than 100 miles
-- something that the current government has begun to do.

''It is not important who had the idea first,'' he said. ''To me, the important
thing is to protect the village, the country and Europe.''

The actual border near Asotthalom, a short drive from the mayor's office, is
little more than a narrow concrete bridge over a reed-choked creek, crisscrossed
with steel cables to stop cars from passing.

''It's become part of daily life here to see migrants,'' said Barnabas Heredi,
one of three locals hired by the mayor to act as ''field police'' and help
patrol the border.

After checking the border bridge, he drove to an abandoned farm complex nearby,
where migrants sometimes rest.

The yellow house was alive only with a frenzy of flies orbiting dozens of
abandoned backpacks, sneakers, blankets and plastic bags.

''I don't really feel sorry for them,'' Mr. Heredi said. ''Maybe the money we
are spending to take care of them should be used to take care of Hungary's
poor.''

In the small Serbian town of Kanjiza, several miles east of Subotica, a slightly
more affluent cluster of migrants gathered in a park beside the bus depot.

The walk across the border to Szeged, Hungary's third largest city, is just 20
miles.

Many of them said they, unlike the campers at the brick factory, still had
enough money to sleep in hotels, and to pay premium prices to trusted smugglers.

Annas, 26, a mechanical engineering student from Damascus, took shelter in the
stifling shade. ''The Syrian military wanted to take me for military service,''
he said, ''so I escaped.''

Serbian gangs stalk small groups of migrants in the borderlands, he said.

''If you are just four or five, you lose everything. That is why we travel in
groups of 50.''

He described the plan: They would leave in less than an hour and try to arrive
in Szeged shortly after midnight. A certain taxi stand is known to have cars
waiting every night between 3 and 5 a.m., to drive anyone with 100 euros the two
hours north to Budapest, no questions asked.

From there, minivans would continue the journey into Germany for another 400
euros a person.

''It is possible if you know where to go and you have enough money,'' Annas
said.

A young man with a pointed beard barked an order and the group rose, gathered
its belongings and shuffled across a nearby street.

Slowly, they ambled through a block of townhouses, across an empty park and up
the hill to a shimmering lake. They went past a playground where children
hammered a soccer ball against a metal door, and along an earthen berm toward a
distant stack belching smoke, before turning and vanishing into the woods.

''I am really interested in them,'' said Tibor Varga, an evangelical Christian
minister whose Eastern European Outreach Mission in Subotica has been gathering
food and water for the brick factory migrants. ''I want to know their story.''

Europe has entered into a post-Christian era, he said, and Islam is part of the
evil, along with homosexuality and abortion.

''The punishment is coming,'' he said.

But with luck and decent treatment, the migrants might well embrace ''European
values,'' Mr. Varga said.

''We all make our own decisions about how we will react to them,'' he said. ''It
is a test of humanity. In this way, you see, everybody is passing their exams.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/europe/seeking-sanctuary-more-migrants-c
onfront-land-routes-perils.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Syrian migrants made their way through Kanjiza, Serbia, this
month, hoping to cross into Hungary. Below, an Afghan read the Quran as he
waited with a group of migrants near the border. (A6)
 Three Syrian migrants in Kanjiza, northern Serbia, took a break to consult a
map this month en route to Hungary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICIO LIMA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A9) MAPS (A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); REFUGEES (88%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); BORDER CONTROL (70%);
TRAINS (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%)

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (57%); ALEPPO, SYRIA (57%)

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (95%); SERBIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPE
(92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%);
ERITREA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ITALY (79%); LIBYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA
(79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); MOROCCO (77%); NETHERLANDS
(71%); GREECE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stew of Global Ingredients

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | STAMFORD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words


Olio, on Hope Street in the Springdale section of Stamford, is hard to
categorize. Its décor is Spanish, its chef and co-owner, Steve Costanzo, is
Italian, and its menu is New American, with Asian and South American
inflections. In a phone conversation with me after my visits, Mr. Costanzo
explained that, after a long and diverse culinary career, which included stints
at the now defunct restaurants Baang in Greenwich and Splash in Westport, he
grew fond of matching flavors and cuisines.

''The name Olio reflects the variety of the menu,'' he said.

Merriam-Webster defines olio as a ''miscellaneous mixture'' or ''hodgepodge,''
or as a shortened name of olla podrida, a Spanish stew mentioned fondly by
Sancho Panza in ''Don Quixote.''

Sancho might well find Olio's fish stew a pleasant version of the dish. It
features a luscious assemblage of mussels, shrimp, scallops and cod with baby
heirloom tomatoes, grilled corn and chorizo in a peppery roasted tomato guajillo
chili broth.

Many dishes on Olio's short, intriguing menu have a surprising snap. Among the
starters is chile barbecue squid, a mélange of salty squid, sweet red peppers,
green onion shards and fermented black beans, sprinkled with sesame seeds. And
all of that covered by a chile barbecue sauce, the dish breathing heat and fire.

Also fiery was crispy pork belly yucca cake, which was enlivened by soy-ginger
jalapeños, pickled red onions and a lively chile-garlic-vinegary sriracha aioli.

But just as enjoyable were the milder steamed vegetable dumplings, coupled with
baby bok choy and wild mushrooms in a hoisin-ginger sauce.

Of the four (out of 14) dinner entrees that my dining quartet navigated, we
enjoyed most the herb-roasted organic half-chicken (with a perfect light
crusting and roasted garlic-lemon-thyme pan gravy), served with crunchy-edged
hash brown potatoes and green onions.

The cumin-coriander pork chop was faultless, a 12-ounce giant embraced by
flavor-rich roasted tomatoes on a mattress of grilled corn and chipotle-mashed
potatoes. I also liked the house-made spring pea ricotta gnocchi, although
chunks of lobster in the dish were a tad too chewy. The sauce, on the other
hand, was lovely, a roasted tomato brandy cream sauce with a mere whisper of
spiciness.

Almost perfect was a lunchtime rendition of pan-roasted shrimp (superjumbos in a
lemony white wine and shallot cream sauce with white beans, zucchini and summer
squash spaghetti).

Olio panini, a sandwich of toasted bread packed with paper-thin slices of
prosciutto, delicate Burrata cheese, arugula and roasted plum tomatoes swabbed
with pesto and balsamic reduction, was served alongside a hillock of crispy
truffle fries. The dish was so generous I took half the sandwich home.

Brunch is a compelling option here as well, with such appealing choices as egg
in-a-hole, huevos rancheros (with crumbled chorizo), buttermilk pancakes (with
applewood-smoked bacon) and Creole grits (with Tasso ham, shaved black truffles
and fried okra). Olio's bread is non-kneaded, chef-made, served at dinner with a
white bean-rosemary dip.

Desserts at Olio are few, but all four were sweet-tooth satisfying: a flourless
chocolate cake topped with almost two inches of real whipped cream and daubs of
chocolate and berry sauces; an ethereal tres leches cake, also tucked under a
thick layer of whipped cream; a caramel-accented banana bread pudding; and
cinnamon-dusted, ricotta doughnut balls with two dipping sauces (mixed berry and
chocolate).

Olio is small, but choice, a sparkling gem that radiates culinary expertise and
pleasure on a mostly ordinary commercial street.

Olio

934 Hope Street, Stamford203-817-0303oliostamford.com

Very Good

THE SPACE: Two small dining areas, seating 46 in front and back, separated by a
small bar. Décor is stunning simplicity: black and white with white walls and a
handsome oak floor. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Varying ages, couples and groups, most in neat casual attire.
Waitstaff friendly and accommodating.

THE BAR: Full bar, for drinks or meals. Limited global wine selection, 15 house
wine bottles, $18 to $32; nine reserve list bottles, $35 to $65; eight wines by
the glass, $6 to $11.

THE BILL Lunch entrees: $10 to $18 (for herb lobster roll), most between $10 and
$14. Dinner entrees: $16 to $36 (14-ounce veal porterhouse chop), most $20 to
$26. Sunday brunch entrees, $14 to $18.

WHAT WE LIKED: Wild mushroom crostini, steamed vegetable dumplings, crispy pork
belly yucca cake, chile barbecue squid; house-made spring pea ricotta gnocchi,
12 ounce pork chop, herb-roasted organic half chicken, pan-roasted shrimp, Olio
panini, Creole grits, huevos rancheros, buttermilk pancakes; cinnamon
sugar-dusted doughnuts, flourless chocolate cake, tres leches cake.

IF YOU GO: Lunch: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Dinner:
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 5:30 to 10 p.m. Sunday brunch: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Closed all day Monday. Reservations accepted, but for Fridays and Saturdays
evenings only for five or more. Free parking behind the restaurant and on the
street. RATINGS Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/restaurant-review-olio-in-stamford-of
fers-a-stew-of-global-ingredients.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Olio, many dishes have a distinct snap, like the crispy pork
belly yucca cake, far left, fiery with soy-ginger jalapeños, pickled red onions
and a chile-garlic-vinegary sriracha aioli. Left, the cumin-coriander pork chop.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); PORK (69%); GARDENING (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%)

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Ultimate Temple Raider?

BYLINE: By TOM MASHBERG and MAX BEARAK; Max Bearak contributed reporting from
Chennai and Suthamalli, India.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2225 words


The 30 or so guests enjoying spring rolls and white wine were gathered in a
small third-floor gallery at the Metropolitan Museum of Art to celebrate Subhash
Kapoor, a convivial Manhattan art dealer who had donated 58 miniature drawings
of Indian aristocrats, deities and beasts.

On this spring evening in 2009, Mr. Kapoor, 60, owner of Art of the Past on
Madison Avenue, stood atop the Indian art world. After his 35 years in business,
museums and collectors were paying seven figures for his Hindu, Buddhist and
South Asian antiquities. A 900-year-old dancing Shiva went to the National
Gallery of Australia, a thousand-year-old bronze Ganesha to the Toledo Museum of
Art in Ohio. Now, he was being toasted by the Met for a gift of artworks from
his homeland.

''He had become quite a big fish, and he seemed thrilled,'' said Eleanor
Abraham, a fellow gallery owner in the crowd that night.

What no one in the room knew was that Mr. Kapoor was under investigation on two
continents, suspected of running a $100 million art smuggling operation.

Two years earlier, Indian officials had tipped American authorities that a
company in West Nyack, N.Y., Nimbus Import Export, was about to receive seven
crates from overseas labeled ''marble garden table sets.'' The contents were in
fact 3,000 pounds of stolen antiquities, the Indians said, and Nimbus's owner
was the proprietor of Art of the Past.

Today, American and Indian investigators say they have compiled an enormous
dossier against Mr. Kapoor: emails and databases seized under search warrants;
bank-transfer records and shipping forms; the testimony of former associates,
including his office manager, who were arrested and have agreed to cooperate.

Much of the material has been the product of an investigation called Operation
Hidden Idol. American authorities say they have concluded that the modest and
esteemed Mr. Kapoor was, in volume and value, the most ambitious antiquities
smuggler in American history. Mr. Kapoor has adamantly denied doing anything
illegal.

Their best evidence, they say, is an almost unimaginable 2,622 items, worth
$107.6 million, confiscated mostly from storerooms in Manhattan and Queens, and
virtually all of it contraband from India.

James T. Hayes Jr., who oversaw the office of Homeland Security Investigations
during much of the case, called Mr. Kapoor ''one of the most prolific
commodities smugglers in the world.''

''We might see an individual with a handful of pieces,'' he added. ''What we
haven't seen is someone who basically created a black-market Sotheby's.''

Mr. Kapoor's case has been a cause célèbre in India and Australia. Many websites
devoted to antiquities scandals, like Chasing Aphrodite and Poetry in Stone,
have also questioned Kapoor-related acquisitions in museums around the world.

Since 2011, when Indian officials had him arrested on charges of theft and
smuggling, Mr. Kapoor has been awaiting trial in a jail cell in Chennai, a port
city on the Bay of Bengal formerly known as Madras. When that case is resolved,
prosecutors with the Manhattan District Attorney's office hope to extradite him
to face charges that include receiving stolen property. In April, they filed
court papers asking for formal custody of Mr. Kapoor's trove of merchandise so
that it can eventually be returned to India and other nations.

Officials are also urging unlucky Kapoor clients to surrender hundreds of costly
treasures that they say were not his to sell. Museums in America and abroad,
including institutions in Massachusetts, Ohio, Hawaii, Singapore and Australia,
are shedding rare holdings because they came from Art of the Past, which closed
in 2012. The next year, investigators seized two statues Mr. Kapoor had boldly
put on display inside the Pierre Hotel in New York, trundling them through the
lobby in front of aghast executives.

Mr. Kapoor, who started in the trade working alongside his father, rejects the
allegations. His lawyer in India, S. Kingston Jerold, said his client dealt only
in replicas and never exported or bought actual antiques.

''They've cooked up the case, it's all fixed up,'' he said during an interview
in his dim, overstuffed office in Chennai. ''This case is fabricated for some
other political purpose.''

It is a hard fall for a man long lauded by the international art market. In
2009, a prospering Mr. Kapoor told Apollo magazine that his gift to the Met --
which has not been challenged as illicit -- was ''my way of giving back to the
field.''

Six years later, investigators say, Mr. Kapoor will be giving back nearly
everything.

Thievery in the Temple

For almost a millennium, priests have climbed the ruined stone steps of the
Varadharaja Perumal temple, in what is now the village of Suthamalli in the
state of Tamil Nadu, India, and entered a moss-covered chamber where dozens of
11th-century bronze and iron idols awaited prayers.

Balakrishnan Gurukkal, the latest in that line of priests, trod those steps on
April 14, 2008, to celebrate the Tamil New Year. Though the site had once been a
vital place of worship, locals now favored another temple nearby, and Mr.
Gurukkal had not been there for months. He reached for the rusty lock on the
flimsy metal gate and found it broken.

He lit a candle and stepped inside. The idols were gone.

Within an hour, said Chelamma Kumar, who lives beside the weed-strewn temple in
a thatch hut overshadowed by a white and lime-green water tower, ''there was a
big crowd and lots of police with sniffer dogs and all that.''

Some 200 miles south of Chennai, the modest temple was just the kind of spot
bandits and black marketers had targeted for years -- rural, seldom visited and
barely secure, but laden with intricate, sensual statuary from the Chola period
(300 B.C.-A.D. 1279). To major museums and wealthy collectors, such artifacts
could be worth millions.

The Suthamalli site held 29 such statues, the police say, some brought over from
another temple for ''safekeeping'' after a bungled burglary there in 1968. Some
were for worship, others carried in an annual procession.

''They were things we had managed to protect since our ancestors' time,'' said
Mr. Gurukkal, conversing on a cot outside his house in July, shirtless in a red
lungi. ''I'm not sure I'll ever be able to see them again.''

The theft had occurred a bit more than a month earlier, Indian investigators
said. Since that time, the artifacts had sped from Suthamalli to Chennai to Hong
Kong, then on to London and New Jersey; been falsely labeled inexpensive
handicrafts; and been deposited in a New York storage unit controlled by Mr.
Kapoor. Scrubbed and restored, they would soon be displayed in his gallery,
often identified as objects from private collections.

Targets Ripe for Looting

No one really knows when the looting Mr. Kapoor is accused of began.

But India is a ripe target: It is home to thousands of remote shrines and
archaeological sites with rare Hindu artifacts that sit unguarded. Vishakha N.
Desai, a scholar at Columbia University who knew Mr. Kapoor, said government
officials ''show little concern for the protection of ancient heritage.''

Representatives from the Idol Wing of the Tamil Nadu Police Department, in
Chennai, which focuses on antiquities crimes, said Mr. Kapoor was already active
in 2005 when he met with an associate, Sanjivi Asokan, at the five-star Taj
Connemara hotel there.

Investigators say the men mapped out a straightforward scheme to rob dozens of
ancient temples in Tamil Nadu that were watched, essentially, by no one.

Indian prosecutors believe that men Mr. Asokan hired to commit the break-ins
would even spread tales of killer bees and bat infestations to keep villagers
away from the targets. Mr. Asokan and Mr. Kapoor would then smuggle the
artifacts out of India, the police say, and send them on serpentine journeys to
the United States.

''The scale and brazenness of the thefts is truly mind-blowing,'' said S. Vijay
Kumar, a private investigator from Singapore who grew suspicious after noticing
that Mr. Kapoor was selling an extraordinary number of rare Indian idols out of
New York.

With Mr. Kumar's help, the Idol Wing set about matching lustrous pictures from
Mr. Kapoor's catalogs with black-and-white images of the Tamil Nadu statues,
which had been photographed in the 1960s by French archivists from a scholarly
institute in India.

They saw that the objects being offered, in many cases for millions of dollars,
bore a singular resemblance to pictures of religious icons that had disappeared
from Tamil Nadu and other sites across India. In 2009, the Idol Wing distributed
wanted posters of the statues.

Soon, three burglars suspected of being paid by Mr. Asokan were arrested with
Suthamalli statuary in their possession, the police say. They implicated Mr.
Asokan (who has been charged in India with theft and smuggling) and Mr. Kapoor.

After comparing notes with those of American investigators, Indian officials in
October 2011 issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Kapoor, who was then in Frankfurt
for an exhibition, and German officials jailed him in Cologne. In July 2012, Mr.
Kapoor, a United States citizen, was extradited to his homeland.

Back in Manhattan, Matthew Bogdanos, an assistant district attorney, and Brenton
M. Easter, an agent with Homeland Security Investigations, were building their
own case. According to court documents, an informant who visited Art of the Past
in 2011 while fitted with a recording device discussed the sales of
multimillion-dollar statues, including one titled ''Shiva Nataraja,'' or
''Dancing Shiva,'' with Mr. Kapoor. The Shiva had already been matched to one of
the items missing from Suthamalli.

Mr. Kapoor is accused of skillfully falsifying paperwork to make his items
appear legitimate. Some buyers intent on acquiring the objects could have been
duped, officials say, but others likely tossed aside misgivings in a rush to
augment their collections.

Convinced that Mr. Kapoor and his associates knew that most of his goods were
contraband, the authorities raided his gallery and two of his storage units in
January 2012. They confiscated $20 million in antiquities, seized decades of
paperwork and computer data, and questioned Art of the Past's office manager,
Aaron M. Freedman.

Mr. Freedman, officials have said in court papers, has since linked Mr. Kapoor
to countless illegal sales, fraudulent customs forms, fake invoices and
six-figure bank transfers to Mr. Asokan. After 12 raids from 2012 to 2014,
officials had their 2,622 items in custody.

A Gift for Obscuring a Trail

One big question lingers amid the fallout from the Kapoor case: How could a
gallery owner run such a large smuggling operation yet remain undetected for so
long?

Chiefly, investigators say, Mr. Kapoor had a talent for importing black market
antiquities under false pretenses. He routinely received approval from Indian
customs officials to ship items free of inspection. And he relied on
confederates in Hong Kong to mislabel his cargo and mix it with other freight to
help obscure its trail.

Mr. Kapoor also counted on friends in the art trade to create fake letters
claiming his contraband had a history of ownership outside India that predated
the temple burglaries. One dealer in Singapore who vouched for him in writing
was Paramaspry Punusamy, a former girlfriend. She became a witness against him
in 2011, Indian officials said, after the two broke up and sued each other in
Singapore -- each claiming ownership of objects that were not truly theirs.

''She is behind all this,'' Mr. Kapoor's lawyer, Mr. Jerold, said. ''It is a
case of revenge.'' Ms. Punusamy, who was unavailable for comment, has not been
charged but remains under investigation.

The museums and collectors who spent lavishly on artworks from Mr. Kapoor are
unlikely to recoup their money. The National Gallery of Australia, for example,
bought a dancing Shiva from Mr. Kapoor in 2008 for $5.1 million. After an outcry
from India, it returned the statue last fall, and is now suing Mr. Kapoor, whose
assets have dwindled, for restitution.

The criminal case against Mr. Kapoor is less linear. A revolving door of
prosecutors in India has slowed his trial to a glacial pace. Manhattan
prosecutors, meanwhile, must wait until India is done.

Investigators say they are still trying to unravel Mr. Kapoor's network, and
they believe his hoard will surpass 3,000 statues and relics taken from India,
Pakistan, Cambodia and Tibet. They also face the monumental task of determining
where exactly the items came from and how to return them.

A Dream of Restitution

Today, the Varadharaja Perumal temple in Suthamalli is more or less abandoned.
Without its precious inheritance, the temple has seen its long fall from glory
into a mossy pile of rubble accelerate. Mr. Gurukkal visits Suthamalli only on
the most auspicious days to light small clay oil lamps in the temple's empty
chamber.

When told of the idols' value on the international art market, his eyes bulged.
Could it truly be that just one of the statues he had been visiting so casually
was worth many times what he could hope to earn in a lifetime?

''I don't know whether Kapoor will get punished, but they need to return the
idols to us,'' said Mr. Gurukkal, overcoming his surprise. ''That's all we're
asking.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/design/the-ultimate-temple-raider-inside-
an-antiquities-smuggling-operation.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A statue of the Hindu deity Ganesha. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ART OF THE
PAST) (AR1)
Gandhara Buddha
Saint Manikkavachakar
Mithuna
Vikuntha or Vishnu head
Uma Parmeshvari
Subhash Kapoor, who is suspected of smuggling antiquities. (AR18)
Top, the Varadharaja Perumal temple, which was looted. Above, Balakrishnan
Gurukkal, a priest who tends the temple. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMIRTHARAJ STEPHEN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mahakoka Devata (AR19) GRAPHIC (AR1)
 CHART: How to Smuggle a Saint Out of India (Sources: Indian law enforcement
officials and investigators from the Tamil Nadu Idol Wing in Chennai, India)
(AR18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%);
SMUGGLING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (87%); HISTORY (78%);
PAINTING (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); RELIGION (75%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ARRESTS
(72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%);
FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); CHENNAI, TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA
(56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After a Scare in the 20th Stage, Froome Is Virtually Assured a Victory

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 764 words


L'ALPE D'HUEZ, France -- In the end, victory came with a slightly more desperate
than triumphant tone. But Chris Froome, 30, the British leader of Team Sky,
effectively won his second Tour de France on Saturday. All that remains is for
him to safely make his way through the largely ceremonial final stage in Paris.

After being widely seen as the obvious winner since his decisive stage win on
July 14, Froome's hold over the Tour wavered over the final two days of racing,
reaching the point on Saturday where he said he feared that a follow-up to his
2013 win might slip away.

''There was a moment when I thought this could go the other way,'' Froome said
of the 68-mile stage from Modane to this ski resort. ''I was on my absolute
limits. I thought I was dying a thousand deaths up l'Alpe d'Huez today.''

The man who put Froome in that position was Nairo Quintana, 25, a Colombian
climber with the Movistar team. He was assisted by the 21 switchbacks -- long
one of the Tour's biggest magnets for spectators -- climbing up to this Alpine
resort.

It took three attempts, but Quintana, who started the day in second place over
all, left Froome behind as they were making their way through the crowd, which
included a number of people waving around flaming safety flares.

''It was the last day to go for it,'' Quintana said.

While Froome credited Quintana with a remarkable ride, he also said he had been
battling a cold that had left him ''a big chesty'' and coughing since Tuesday's
rest day.

It was the second time in two days that Quintana livened up the Tour by gaining
time on Froome. For most of the race, Froome's superiority had been so great
that it prompted unsubstantiated allegations and innuendo that he was doping or
had hidden a tiny electric motor in his bike.

On Friday, Froome said he had let Quintana get away to save energy for l'Alpe
d'Huez, and on Saturday, it became apparent that Froome was not holding back. At
points, gaps briefly opened between Froome and his teammates who were trying to
shepherd him up to Quintana. Froome's usual windmill-like pedaling pace was
nowhere to be seen.

Quintana started Saturday 2 minutes 38 seconds behind Froome. While he did not
open enough of a gap to snatch the overall win, he narrowed the gap to 1:12.

''Being second at the Tour de France isn't half-bad,'' Quintana said.

Quintana finished the stage second to the French rider Thibaut Pinot, who
attacked early. The Canadian Ryder Hesjedal, who led the stage partway, was
third.

Pinot, who was third last year, was plagued by bad luck this year, including a
crash on a descent that caused little serious injury but deprived him of what
appeared to be a certain stage win earlier in the Alps.

While Froome's expected victory ultimately proved far tighter than he hoped, it
was still a significant comeback. Last year he watched much of the Tour on
television after being sent home during the first week with fractures to his
wrist and hand.

This year the Tour began with an action-packed first week that saw two holders
of the yellow leader's jersey leave the race because of injuries and crashes.

That changed after Froome won his first and only stage on July 14, when the race
entered the Pyrenées.

Froome and Team Sky exerted so much control over the Tour that it ultimately
became focused on who would stand beside him on the podium, as well as the
competitions for secondary prizes.

That lack of suspense, Froome said Saturday, was precisely what he and the team
wanted.

Froome said the key to his expected victory was consistency through the entire
three weeks rather than bold gestures.

''There was really only one stage where I really made my mark,'' he said.

Like many riders, Froome said that this year's route, which was heavy on
mountains and short on time trials, proved relentless. ''There weren't really
any easy transitional stages,'' he said.

Much was made during the Tour about rude gestures directed Froome's way by a few
spectators. At one point, someone tossed urine at him. The outbursts were
apparently prompted by doping allegations made by French television
commentators. Froome's teammates were also hit and spat on.

''I just want to thank the guys for putting up with all the rubbish which has
been going on for the last few weeks,'' Froome said.

Except for the final sprint, which is hotly contested by the specialists in that
field who make it to Paris, Sunday's stage will finally give the riders an easy
day. Its 68 miles will include a spin past the Eiffel Tower before the
traditional 11 laps of the Champs Élysées.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/cycling/chris-froome-set-to-win-tour-de
-france.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richie Porte, left, with Chris Froome, behind him. ''There was a
moment when I thought this could go the other way,'' Froome said Saturday after
the 20th stage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYN LENNON/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOUR DE FRANCE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); RESORTS (75%);
SKIING (73%); SKIING FACILITIES (68%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Newer Lower East Side

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 679 words


For nearly half a century, the view south from the corner of Essex and Delancey
Streets has been of vacant parking lots behind chain-link fences, carving a
desolate hole in the otherwise vibrant neighborhood. But this month,
construction finally began on a $1 billion redevelopment project that will
reshape the Lower East Side.

With financing secured, developers can now begin work on Essex Crossing, a 1.65
million-square-foot project that will eventually add 1,000 units of housing to
the area, half of which will be permanently affordable. The first development
phase will deliver 556 mixed-income units, a new home for the historic Essex
Street Market, a movie theater, a bowling alley, a museum and a new shopping
corridor along Broome Street.

''The whole neighborhood is going to be completely different,'' said Gigi Li,
the chairwoman of Community Board 3.

The community and the city spent years hammering out an agreement for the site,
finally reaching one in 2013, settling a bitter dispute that started when the
area was bulldozed in 1967, displacing nearly 2,000 residents in the name of
urban renewal. Over the years, various attempts to redevelop the site, known as
the Seward Park Urban Renewal Area, fizzled as vying neighborhood factions
sparred over how it should be rebuilt, with some groups calling for only
affordable housing and others demanding none. The final agreement provides a mix
of retail, housing, offices, a park and space for a new public school. In
September 2013, the city chose Delancey Street Associates, an umbrella group of
three separate developers, to rebuild the site now called Essex Crossing. ''You
have this important population that is just cut off from the rest of the Lower
East Side by the size and scale of those parking lots -- this just reconnects
the fabric,'' said Margaret Anadu, a managing director in the Goldman Sachs
Urban Investment Group, which is the project's equity partner, investing $200
million in the development.

Many of the nine parcels are spread out along the south side of Delancey Street
from west of Essex Street to the Williamsburg Bridge. On Essex Street, north of
Delancey, three existing buildings will also be redeveloped, including the
original Essex Street Market building, which will be demolished after its new
home opens.

For many New Yorkers, the most striking change will be the new retail, a
continuous three-block stretch of shopping along Delancey and Broome Streets
between Essex and Clinton Streets. The new Essex Street Market will be housed on
the ground floor of a 24-story building that will also include part of the
Market Line, a mix of shops and restaurants descending below grade and on the
second floor. The complex will also house a Regal Cinemas multiplex and a
rooftop farm. On a separate parcel on Essex and Broome Streets, the bowling
alley Splitsville Luxury Lanes will open along with a 15,000-square-foot museum,
which currently has no occupant. The original tenant, the Pittsburgh-based Andy
Warhol Museum, bowed out this spring.

''It's almost like a little city within a city,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, the
chairwoman of Douglas Elliman's retail leasing and sales division.

For the Essex Street Market vendors, the wait for a new home has been tense, as
foot traffic has dwindled in the aging market building. ''There's the myth of
misunderstanding that the market is closed,'' said Anne T. Saxelby, the
chairwoman of the Essex Street Market Vendor Association and an owner of Saxelby
Cheesemongers. The market, which was founded by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in
1940, has been in continuous operation for 75 years.

At its new location, the market will double in size, providing vendors with
options to expand, stay open later and prepare food on-site, according to the
city's Economic Development Corporation, which operates the market. ''It's cool
now, it's going to be incredible later,'' said Donald A. Capoccia, a principal
of BFC Partners, which is developing the Essex Crossing site with L & M
Development Partners and Taconic Investment Partners.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/new-mixed-income-housing-onthe-lowe
r-east-side.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The first phase of the project will include 556 mixed-income
units, a movie theater, a bowling alley and a museum. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM HANDEL
ARCHITECTS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); REAL
ESTATE (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING
(89%); RETAILERS (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LOW COST
HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); BOWLING (74%); BOWLING CENTERS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Erin McNamara, Henry Blechman

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 168 words


Erin Elizabeth McNamara and Henry Chase Blechman were married Friday at the
Roundhouse, a hotel in Beacon, N.Y., in an interfaith ceremony officiated
jointly by their fathers, Dr. Peter J. Blechman and Mark A. McNamara, who were
ordained by the American Fellowship Church.

The bride, 30, who is keeping her name, is an associate director for the
nonprofit Success Academy Charter Schools in New York, where she focuses on
building corporate and foundation partnerships. She graduated summa cum laude
from Binghamton University and received a master's degree in international
development from Columbia.

She is the daughter of Mr. McNamara of Newburgh, N.Y., and Kim E. Ferrari of
Hyde Park, N.Y.

The groom, also 30, is a sales director in New York for Boingo Media, a company
that provides Wi-Fi for places like airports, where he works on advertising and
business development across the East Coast. He graduated cum laude from
Syracuse.

He is a son of Dr. Blechman and Rebecca P. Blechman of Fishkill, N.Y.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/erin-mcnamara-henry-blechman.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (87%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%)

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (75%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ah, but It's Aptly Named

BYLINE: By EDNA ISHAYIK

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 574 words


Blazing summertime glory barely penetrated Irish Haven's darkness. The air
inside was sudsy -- that classic dive-bar tang of decades of beers sloshed
around wood paneling and century-old tile floors.

Each time the door opened, heads turned in unison. It was 4 in the afternoon,
and few entered, but none were strangers to the patrons clustered at the elbow
of the oak bar. They have lived in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for decades -- since
immigrating from Ireland, or since birth -- and this watering hole on the corner
of Fourth Avenue and 58th Street has served as their neighborhood hub since
1964.

Among the bar's regulars, stories unwind over hours, weaving from present to
past and back again.

Linda McDonagh, 63, sat on her usual stool recounting teenage nights of
barhopping from the Rainbow on 39thStreet to the Rainbow on 62nd Street but
always ending at Irish Haven.

''This is all that's left,'' said Ms. McDonagh, her County Meath lilt
detectable, though she left when she was 7. ''All the other bars are gone.''

In his boggy brogue, Martin Pryce, 74, told a tale of a Norwegian dockworker
shipwrecked in the harbor for two days. The gang nodded along -- they remembered
the man and they knew the story.

Only if Jimmy Gillick, 66, is bartending will Millie Rodman turn up, sipping
vodkas with Coca-Cola from dainty Georgian Irish coffee glasses. Refusing to
disclose her age, she said she was old enough to remember Sunset Park, now home
to Hispanic and Chinese immigrants, when it was primarily Irish and Scandinavian
and the pubs kept legions of stevedores and carpenters in drink and good
company.

Brooklyn's longshoreman trade has thinned, but construction jobs abound. At
quitting time, six workers filed in, each choosing a stool. Not one spoke a word
except to Mr. Gillick. For Scott Ventre, 53, of East Bedford-Stuyvesant, it's
the same every day: two Guinness and two shots.

''When I leave the job and get to the corner, I say, 'There's the subway, and
there's the bar. What do I want to do?' So I'll have a beer.''

John Fitzgerald, 53, a contractor, lives a few blocks away and has been drinking
at the Haven since moving to New York in 1984.

''I know a lot of people who used to come here,'' he said.

''Their ghosts are still floating around. The neighborhood, it's become
hipsterized,'' he added, but he doesn't mind the change. ''You need new blood.
It's a culture shock for the old-timers, but not for me. I'm not that old.''

In 2011, the Irish Haven's future was uncertain, but Matt Hogan stepped in and
leased the bar from the original family owners, who he said had discussed
leasing the space to a Dunkin' Donuts. ''They were going to cook the doughnuts
here and sell them in the satellite ones, like a gas station or 7-Eleven,'' Mr.
Hogan said.

He changed little: a Facebook page, two functioning air-conditioning units and a
trivia night. When bar stool vinyl cracked, he paid a premium to special-order a
comparable vintage. Raising the price of a Guinness from $4 to $5 exposed a
downside to regulars with long memories. ''Some people are still mad,'' Mr.
Hogan said. ''They used to pay $3.50.''

Before leaving, Ms. McDonagh and Mr. Pryce contemplated where they would go if
the Haven shuttered.

''The Leif would be the next stop,'' Ms. McDonagh said of another of the last
remaining neighborhood Irish bars.

Mr. Pryce raised an eyebrow. ''That or the cemetery,'' he said. ''We'd go in the
ground.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/irish-haven-survives-in-a-changing-br
ooklyn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IRISH HAVEN: Since 1964. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAKE NAUGHTON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (87%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY
(69%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Courtney Young

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY.

Kate Murphy is a journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York
Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DOWNLOAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 514 words


Courtney Young, immediate past president and a board member of the American
Library Association, travels widely lecturing on the field of library science,
which is gaining importance in an era of vast online data. Her day job is head
librarian and professor of women's studies at Pennsylvania State University,
Greater Allegheny campus, near Pittsburgh.

READING I'm currently reading the book ''El Deafo,'' a cool graphic novel by
Cece Bell. It's kind of autobiographical because the author has a hearing
impairment and the character El Deafo, a rabbit, gets superpowers from listening
devices. And I'm about to start ''Every Day I Fight,'' the Stuart Scott
autobiography. His death this year had an emotional effect on a lot of us who
watched him on ESPN. He had a real impact on sports reporting. He made it more
accessible and very hip.

LISTENING I'm listening in the car to the young adult novel ''How It Went
Down,'' by Kekla Magoon. It's about a racially charged shooting and how everyone
has a different perception of the events leading up to it, which is interesting
in the context of what's been going on in the country. For music I can listen to
my Basement Jaxx station on Pandora anytime of day. What comes up is Daft Punk,
Deadmau5, Groove Armada -- that kind of thing. And I have a soft spot for smooth
jazz because my dad played it when I was growing up -- Herb Alpert, Grover
Washington, George Benson.

WATCHING ''Pittsburgh Dad'' on YouTube. It's funny and I'm not originally from
Pittsburgh, so it helps explain some local inside jokes and terminology. I'm
also watching ''Bar Rescue'' on Spike TV, which gives advice to bars that are
failing. I've learned the role of training and understanding the customer, which
for me has been helpful in the library because, like a bar, we need to work to
make everyone feel welcome and also have something that appeals to everyone. And
then ''Magic Mike XXL'' is definitely on the docket for this weekend. You've got
to have guilty pleasures.

FOLLOWING I follow a lot of librarians and library-related accounts like
@sketchlibrarian, a creative librarian in South Carolina with amazing drawing
skills, and @TisforTraining, a library talk show focused on training. And I
recently met the amazing Newbery Medal winner Kwame Alexander, so I follow him.

CHEERING I grew up cheering for the St. Louis Cardinals. My dad would get
tickets and he'd always ask my older brother if he wanted to go. But then I
said, ''Gee, Dad, you never ask me if I want to go.'' And he said that broke his
heart. So he took me to a Cardinals game. And I had so much fun and we kept
going together. I love baseball. But when I moved to Pittsburgh I started
cheering for the Pirates.

BAKING I'm known for my pecan pies. I've been known to carry them on the plane
from Pittsburgh to Chicago when we have committee meetings at A.L.A.
headquarters. I've been told if this librarian thing does not work out, I could
have a career in baking.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/courtney-young.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARY SCIENCE (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); WRITERS (78%); BUSINESS &
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES
(72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ADULTS (72%); YOUNG ADULT
LITERATURE (71%); DEAFNESS (70%); BASEBALL (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS
(60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (84%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stew of Global Ingredients

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | STAMFORD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words


Olio, on Hope Street in the Springdale section of Stamford, is hard to
categorize. Its décor is Spanish, its chef and co-owner, Steve Costanzo, is
Italian, and its menu is New American, with Asian and South American
inflections. In a phone conversation with me after my visits, Mr. Costanzo
explained that, after a long and diverse culinary career, which included stints
at the now defunct restaurants Baang in Greenwich and Splash in Westport, he
grew fond of matching flavors and cuisines.

''The name Olio reflects the variety of the menu,'' he said.

Merriam-Webster defines olio as a ''miscellaneous mixture'' or ''hodgepodge,''
or as a shortened name of olla podrida, a Spanish stew mentioned fondly by
Sancho Panza in ''Don Quixote.''

Sancho might well find Olio's fish stew a pleasant version of the dish. It
features a luscious assemblage of mussels, shrimp, scallops and cod with baby
heirloom tomatoes, grilled corn and chorizo in a peppery roasted tomato guajillo
chili broth.

Many dishes on Olio's short, intriguing menu have a surprising snap. Among the
starters is chile barbecue squid, a mélange of salty squid, sweet red peppers,
green onion shards and fermented black beans, sprinkled with sesame seeds. And
all of that covered by a chile barbecue sauce, the dish breathing heat and fire.

Also fiery was crispy pork belly yucca cake, which was enlivened by soy-ginger
jalapeños, pickled red onions and a lively chile-garlic-vinegary sriracha aioli.

But just as enjoyable were the milder steamed vegetable dumplings, coupled with
baby bok choy and wild mushrooms in a hoisin-ginger sauce.

Of the four (out of 14) dinner entrees that my dining quartet navigated, we
enjoyed most the herb-roasted organic half-chicken (with a perfect light
crusting and roasted garlic-lemon-thyme pan gravy), served with crunchy-edged
hash brown potatoes and green onions.

The cumin-coriander pork chop was faultless, a 12-ounce giant embraced by
flavor-rich roasted tomatoes on a mattress of grilled corn and chipotle-mashed
potatoes. I also liked the house-made spring pea ricotta gnocchi, although
chunks of lobster in the dish were a tad too chewy. The sauce, on the other
hand, was lovely, a roasted tomato brandy cream sauce with a mere whisper of
spiciness.

Almost perfect was a lunchtime rendition of pan-roasted shrimp (superjumbos in a
lemony white wine and shallot cream sauce with white beans, zucchini and summer
squash spaghetti).

Olio panini, a sandwich of toasted bread packed with paper-thin slices of
prosciutto, delicate Burrata cheese, arugula and roasted plum tomatoes swabbed
with pesto and balsamic reduction, was served alongside a hillock of crispy
truffle fries. The dish was so generous I took half the sandwich home.

Brunch is a compelling option here as well, with such appealing choices as egg
in-a-hole, huevos rancheros (with crumbled chorizo), buttermilk pancakes (with
applewood-smoked bacon) and Creole grits (with Tasso ham, shaved black truffles
and fried okra). Olio's bread is non-kneaded, chef-made, served at dinner with a
white bean-rosemary dip.

Desserts at Olio are few, but all four were sweet-tooth satisfying: a flourless
chocolate cake topped with almost two inches of real whipped cream and daubs of
chocolate and berry sauces; an ethereal tres leches cake, also tucked under a
thick layer of whipped cream; a caramel-accented banana bread pudding; and
cinnamon-dusted, ricotta doughnut balls with two dipping sauces (mixed berry and
chocolate).

Olio is small, but choice, a sparkling gem that radiates culinary expertise and
pleasure on a mostly ordinary commercial street.

Olio

934 Hope Street, Stamford203-817-0303oliostamford.com

Very Good

THE SPACE: Two small dining areas, seating 46 in front and back, separated by a
small bar. Décor is stunning simplicity: black and white with white walls and a
handsome oak floor. Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Varying ages, couples and groups, most in neat casual attire.
Waitstaff friendly and accommodating.

THE BAR: Full bar, for drinks or meals. Limited global wine selection, 15 house
wine bottles, $18 to $32; nine reserve list bottles, $35 to $65; eight wines by
the glass, $6 to $11.

THE BILL Lunch entrees: $10 to $18 (for herb lobster roll), most between $10 and
$14. Dinner entrees: $16 to $36 (14-ounce veal porterhouse chop), most $20 to
$26. Sunday brunch entrees, $14 to $18.

WHAT WE LIKED: Wild mushroom crostini, steamed vegetable dumplings, crispy pork
belly yucca cake, chile barbecue squid; house-made spring pea ricotta gnocchi,
12 ounce pork chop, herb-roasted organic half chicken, pan-roasted shrimp, Olio
panini, Creole grits, huevos rancheros, buttermilk pancakes; cinnamon
sugar-dusted doughnuts, flourless chocolate cake, tres leches cake.

IF YOU GO: Lunch: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Dinner:
Tuesdays through Saturdays, 5:30 to 10 p.m. Sunday brunch: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Closed all day Monday. Reservations accepted, but for Fridays and Saturdays
evenings only for five or more. Free parking behind the restaurant and on the
street. RATINGS Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/restaurant-review-olio-in-stamford-of
fers-a-stew-of-global-ingredients.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Olio, many dishes have a distinct snap, like the crispy pork
belly yucca cake, far left, fiery with soy-ginger jalapeños, pickled red onions
and a chile-garlic-vinegary sriracha aioli. Left, the cumin-coriander pork chop.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); PORK (69%); GARDENING (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%)

COMPANY: MERRIAM-WEBSTER (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

George Coe, 86, Actor and Director of a Bergman Parody

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 674 words


George Coe, a film, stage and television actor who earned an Oscar nomination
for his single picture as a director -- the 1968 short feature ''De Düva: The
Dove,'' a mock-Swedish-inflected sendup of Ingmar Bergman that has endured as a
cult favorite -- died on July 18 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 86.

His daughter Amy Bickers confirmed his death.

Mr. Coe, whose half-century-long career encompassed roles on Broadway; in movies
like ''The Stepford Wives,'' ''French Postcards'' and ''Kramer vs. Kramer''; and
-- in a seminal if seldom-remembered achievement -- in the original cast of
''Saturday Night Live,'' also served for more than a decade on the board of the
Screen Actors Guild.

In ''De Düva,'' of which Mr. Coe was a director (with Anthony Lover), producer
(with Mr. Lover and Sidney Davis) and star, he out-Bergmaned Bergman. About 14
minutes long and shot in brooding black and white in the woods of upstate New
York, the film features Mr. Coe, in heavy age makeup, as a professor looking
back on his love (read: lust) for his comely sister, Inga.

The screenplay, by Mr. Davis, is a lilting stew of ersatz Swedish (a great many
words end in -ska), with a bissel Yiddish thrown in. In proper Bergmanesque
fashion, Death, portrayed by a black-shrouded Mr. Davis, materializes to play
Inga in a game of badmintönska.

''De Düva'' was nominated for an Academy Award for best live-action short
subject and proved wildly popular on college campuses. Writing in The New York
Times in 1968, Vincent Canby called it ''an extremely amusing spoof.''

The film also stars Pamela Burrell as Inga and Madeline Kahn, in her screen
debut, as the woman who pines for Inga. ''Somedaysk,'' Ms. Kahn sighs, ''Inga
loven mir.''

George Julian Cohen was born on May 10, 1929, in the Jamaica section of Queens
and reared on Long Island. He adopted the surname Coe early in his acting
career.

After attending Hofstra College (now Hofstra University), he spent four years as
a Navy submariner during the Korean War. Aboard the sub, he did a comedy radio
broadcast, fell in love with performing and on his discharge studied at the
American Academy of Dramatic Arts.

In 1975, Mr. Coe, playing various roles, was seen in the first episode of Season
1 of ''Saturday Night Live.'' In that episode, and in nearly a dozen subsequent
appearances on the show, he served as a conspicuously grown-up counterweight to
the youthful anarchy wrought by Dan Aykroyd, John Belushi, Chevy Chase, Gilda
Radner and their ilk.

He had recurring or guest roles on scores of other TV shows, among them ''Hill
Street Blues,'' ''Max Headroom,'' ''Thirtysomething,'' ''Murphy Brown,'' ''L.A.
Law'' and ''Curb Your Enthusiasm.''

On Broadway, Mr. Coe was in the original casts of the musicals ''What Makes
Sammy Run?,'' ''Mame,'' ''Company'' and ''On the Twentieth Century.''

On film, he played the head of the advertising agency for which Dustin Hoffman
works in ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' and a Stepford husband in ''The Stepford Wives.''

In later years, Mr. Coe, a resident of Pacific Palisades, Calif., concentrated
on voice-over work. He was long heard on Toyota's television commercials and
supplied the voice of Woodhouse, the title character's butler, on the animated
series ''Archer.''

Mr. Coe's first marriage, to Nancy Baker, ended in divorce, as did his second,
to Karen Foray. His survivors include his third wife, the former Susan Massaron;
two daughters, Ms. Bickers and Jennifer Coe, both from his first marriage; and
four grandsons.

Writing in The Times about ''De Düva,'' which was notable not only for its
polyglot pidgin but also for subtitles that were deliciously unfaithful to the
dialogue, Mr. Canby recounted what happened when it was screened at the New York
Film Festival in 1968:

''At the showing at Philharmonic Hall, a number of patrons at the festival
yesterday didn't realize that what they were hearing on the soundtrack,'' he
wrote, ''was strictly Svensk American.

'' 'My God,' said one man with alarm in the balcony, 'is this the feature?' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/television/george-coe-actor-and-director-
of-a-bergman-parody-dies-at-86.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Coe in 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FILMWAYS, VIA EVERETT
COLLECTION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); ACADEMY AWARDS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); LATE NIGHT
TELEVISION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (78%);
BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (65%); KOREAN WAR (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Search of Calm After the Storm

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOMMERS

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | UNION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 693 words


In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, which is when ''By the Water'' opens, a
blue-collar couple returns to a ravaged home on Staten Island and starts to
clean up the mess.

As Sharyn Rothstein's family drama unfolds in this fine production at Premiere
Stages at Kean University in Union, it becomes apparent that this home was
damaged in a different way long before the storm hit.

Marty Murphy (Brian O'Neill) and Mary (Jo Twiss), his wife, have lived for more
than 30 years in their modest house, where they raised their sons Sal (Mike
DiSalvo) and Brian (Billy Finn).

Sal is a successful businessman, but Brian had a drug habit that put him in
prison for several years. Now sober and working as a short-order cook, Brian
remains his parents' favorite. The judgmental Sal is not so fondly regarded by
his father, who snipes at his ''uppity'' ways. Although Brian and Sal are not
completely estranged, some friction between them becomes evident.

Most critically, the brothers have different attitudes regarding their parents'
rebuilding of the house. Sal urgently prods Marty and Mary to move away from the
flood plain, while the easygoing Brian feels they should do whatever makes them
happy.

Marty is so stubbornly intent upon remaining there that he organizes a local
campaign to oppose a federal buyout plan that would level the entire community
for wetlands. It is finally revealed, however, that Marty harbors a shady
ulterior motive for hanging on to his property that has little to do with his
much-professed love for the neighborhood.

This 90-minute story regarding a troubled man, his clashing sons and the
conciliatory wife and mother who loves them in spite of their flaws might
suggest an Arthur Miller-like tragedy in the making. Instead, Ms. Rothstein
offers a sympathetic study of people who must start over.

Other poignant victims of the storm are the Murphys' best friends, Philip
(Damian Buzzerio) and Andrea (Sheila Stasack), yet another older couple coping
with devastation, whose daughter, Emily (Deanna McGovern), happens to be Brian's
ex-girlfriend. The rekindling of Brian and Emily's relationship and the
compassion that Sal ultimately shows for his father, along with the strength of
Mary's devotion, all contribute to ending the story on an upbeat note.

A relative newcomer as a playwright, Ms. Rothstein structures her touching drama
in brief scenes composed in conversational language that is affecting in its
mostly understated emotions. Speaking in slightly urban accents that complement
the everyday dialogue, the actors provide well-grounded performances under Adam
Immerwahr's thoughtful direction.

Mr. O'Neill's forceful Marty is a silvery lion who literally gets backed up
against a wall. Ms. Twiss is a cozy presence as Mary, whose eventual
confrontation with Marty mingles deep hurt and anger. The sleek Mr. DiSalvo and
the scruffy Mr. Finn still somehow share fraternal looks, and Mr. Finn's growing
affinity for Ms. McGovern's Emily is expressed by the actors with a playful
physicality.

Making smart use of varied sound effects designed by Karin Graybash -- subsiding
thunder and rain, later the distant sound of waves and sea gulls, and brisk
acoustic guitar music between the scenes -- Mr. Immerwahr enhances these solid
performances and the play's changing moods.

This New Jersey premiere is visually superior to Manhattan Theater Club's
original staging in 2014. A dirty high-water mark left by Hurricane Sandy
smudges the white vinyl background of the expansive setting designed by Anya
Klepikov, which otherwise purposefully looks barren. A portion of water-stained
wall that is later stripped to its studs aptly suggests the wrecked house. A few
pieces of grubby patio furniture indicate what little the Murphys have salvaged
from a lifetime's belongings. And the autumnal lighting designed by Brant Thomas
Murray is streaked in lovely blues and purples, as an ironic comment, perhaps,
upon the natural beauty of living by the water.

''By the Water'' is at the Zella Fry Theater, Kean University, 1000 Morris
Avenue, Union, through Aug. 2. Information: kean.edu/premierestages;
908-737-7469.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/review-in-by-the-water-a-search-for-c
alm-after-the-storm.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: Billy Finn, left, and Brian O'Neill, who
portrays a longtime Staten Island homeowner
from left, Sheila Stasack, Jo Twiss and Deanna McGovern
Mr. Finn and Ms. McGovern. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE PETERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE SANDY (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (73%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (63%); WETLANDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

By the Book: William T. Vollmann

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BY THE BOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2033 words


The author, most recently, of ''The Dying Grass'' says the deader the author,
the more worthwhile the book. ''Who would keep bringing out editions of
'Gilgamesh' if there weren't some magic in the story?''

What books are currently on your night stand?

Until recently I was working as hard as I could on a novel about the Nez Percé
War of 1877. During those years I would keep Native American ethnographies;
soldiers' memoirs; monographs on weapons, uniforms and petroglyphs at my
bedside, in hopes of a little sleep learning -- which often translated into
vivid dreams. I loved that research, but now books of another species infest the
shelf behind my pillow: I am taking a supernatural vacation!

Having just finished a beautifully understated forerunner of ''Dracula'' -- J.
Sheridan Le Fanu's ''Carmilla'' -- I am midway through the same author's much
inferior but pleasantly preposterous Gothic novel ''Uncle Silas,'' which offers
the creepiest French governess of all time: ''I am Madame la Morgue -- Mrs.
Deadhouse! I will present you my friends, Monsieur Cadavre and Monsieur
Squelette. Come, come, leetle mortal, let us play.'' Uncle Silas is also a
creep. The heroine is a fetching young heiress who will surely live happily ever
after.

Beneath that 1899 potboiler lies Sir Thomas Browne's ''Urne-Burial,'' which I
reread from time to time for its zany sentences (''But to subsist in bones, and
be but Pyramidally extant, is a fallacy in duration'').

Completing the grotesquerie is Dr. Wilhelm Stekel's two-volume ''Sexual
Aberrations.'' (''The sale of this book is strictly limited to members of the
medical profession.'' Fortunately, nobody from Homeland Security was at the
bookstore to demand my stethoscope.) Dr. Stekel is a character right out of
Nabokov, and I can almost see him wandering the churchyards of ''Uncle Silas.''
He has a genius for making everything sordid and vile; he believes that the
fundamental human emotion is hatred. I collect his monographs for their gemlike
oddities. Here is my favorite Stekelism, which I hope someday to use in a short
story: ''The former picture of a working together of all the organs in the human
body can no longer be retained. We must conceive of an ever-persisting struggle
of cells and of organs. ... We still know very little as to how the liver and
the spleen think.''

Who is your favorite novelist of all time?

Lady Murasaki Shikibu, because her ''Tale of Genji'' is inexhaustible. I admit
that in John Dos Passos'  ''U.S.A.'' one can also watch characters live out
their entire life cycle; they even (more than Genji can say) get transformed by
great techno-political events; it is certainly a masterpiece, but ''Genji''
stands far above it. Tranquilly selfish, the 11th-century ruling class to which
''Genji's'' eponymous protagonist belongs will never get my plaudits, but its
aesthetic appreciations of nature, love and transience might have been
unsurpassed. Murasaki envisions her Prince Genji as the most perfect of all
these royals. His sensitive charisma, his exile and his fairy-tale return to the
capital are as dreamlike as life itself. Each of his many sweethearts offers us
her own ornately poetic sensibility. I find it very sweet the way that Murasaki
writes herself in as his best-loved wife. And I much admire the way in which
after his death the tale continues on without him, eavesdropping on the people
whom he has affected, detailing the ever-altering shimmers, breaks and
reconstitutions of their social web -- after which it abruptly ends. This too
reflects true life, which begins before us and continues after us.

What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?

I love anything to do with sagas and epics. The Elder Edda is one of my
favorites. Generally speaking, the deader the author, the more worthwhile the
work. Who would keep bringing out editions of ''Gilgamesh'' if there weren't
some magic in the story?

I try to avoid any book that praises instantaneous electronic communication,
although I might make an exception for something pornographic. I would rather
read the phone book (and sometimes do, when hunting for my characters' names)
than any self-help book.

What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?

Kat Harding, ''The Lesbian Kama Sutra''; Cathy Cade, ''A Lesbian Photo Album:
The Lives of Seven Lesbian Feminists''; and Kristine L. Falco, ''Psychotherapy
With Lesbian Clients: Theory Into Practice.''

I might also mention the nine-volume Sahih Al-Bukhari. This particular anthology
of the sayings and doings of the Prophet Muhammad was recommended to me by the
Taliban when I visited their country in 2000. Here is a line from Bukhari that I
like very much: ''Narrated Abdullah bin Amr: A man asked the Prophet, 'Whose
Islam is good?' The Prophet replied, 'One who feeds others and greets those whom
he knows and those whom he does not know.' '' I might add that in my travels
through Muslim countries I have again and again found myself the grateful
beneficiary of that expression of faith.

Your writing often concerns issues of war and violence. What do you consider to
be the best works of war fiction and nonfiction?

There are so many ''bests''! Fifteen come to mind: the ''Iliad''; Vasily
Grossman's ''Life and Fate''; Thucydides'  ''Peloponnesian War''; Lucan's
''Civil War''; Milovan Djilas's ''Wartime''; A. Anatoli Kuznetsov's ''Babi
Yar''; Hemingway's ''For Whom the Bell Tolls''; and Tadeusz Konwicki's
underappreciated masterpiece ''A Dreambook for Our Time,'' which is one of the
many treasures in the late, lamented Penguin ''Writers From the Other Europe''
series. I'd better not forget the anonymous Japanese ''Tale of the Heike,''
whose relation of hubris and fall may be unequaled in pathos. Tolstoy's ''War
and Peace'' is another obvious choice, although war is actually not the core of
it. Donald Cameron Watt's ''How War Came: The Immediate Origins of the Second
World War'' is fascinating and almost suspenseful, even though we know how the
peace negotiations will turn out. Sherman's memoirs, as literature far superior
to Grant's, create an unforgettable autoportrait of this brilliant, angry,
ruthless warrior. The Library of America volume on our Revolutionary War
contains eye-opening primary sources, detailing miserable forced marches,
treason, bravery, atrocities in Indian country -- not to mention that
terroristic upstart Benjamin Franklin, who answered back to his British betters
''with rather a sneering laugh.'' Michael Walzer's ''Just and Unjust Wars'' is a
very important ethical treatment of the subject. T. E. Lawrence's ''Seven
Pillars of Wisdom'' is written with feeling and elegance, and sometimes achieves
an epic quality (well, he did translate the ''Odyssey'').

Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine?

Probably Sigrid Undset's strong-willed, sensual, self-destructive and ultimately
rock-solid Kristin Lavransdatter, to whom I was introduced by my mother when I
was young. Kristin's eponymous trilogy bears many rereadings. Right away one
somehow identifies with this daughter of medieval Norway; soon one
compassionates her in her sufferings. Then one grows to notice that she is often
the architect of her own misery. But this is not the last word on Kristin, who
for all her faults inspires love in many around her, including this reader. Her
faith and loyalty make her quite beautiful to me. Like Murasaki and Dos Passos,
Undset tells the story of a whole life. The end of any life can be fearful, and
Kristin's final days are gruesome, but unlike Undset's other great protagonist,
Olav of Hestviken (who gets his own tetralogy), Kristin leaves behind her some
kind of light.

If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?

''A Tomb for Boris Davidovich,'' by Danilo Kis, whose lyrical concision I admire
from far below. His interrelated characters, who occasionally make cameo
appearances in each other's stories, play vivid parts in a Stalinist drama whose
grim vastness invariably swallows them up. My novel ''Europe Central'' was
homage to Kis. Unfortunately, I tend to be a wordier sort.

You're hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited?

Any three who are already my friends.

What book hasn't been written that you'd like to read? And what book has been
written that you wish you'd never read?

I wish that someone would compile a massive English-language oral history of the
Iraq-Iran war. (Perhaps something of the sort already exists in Farsi or
Arabic.) One day in between our two gulf wars, I stood in Baghdad beneath that
triumphal arch composed of the much enlarged hands of Saddam Hussein, and I
could not stop thinking about tales I had heard of child soldiers crawling
through minefields. The Iraq-Iran war bears comparison (in the degree to which
people were mobilized, and certainly in atrocity) to the life-and-death struggle
between Hitler and Stalin. The extreme stories of this conflict deserve to be
more widely heard.

Although I have found some books unspeakably dreary, there is no book I wish I'd
never read.

Whom would you want to write your life story?

Sappho.

Of the books you've written, which is your favorite or the most personally
meaningful?

Whichever is my latest. As do many of us, I cultivate the illusion that I am
''going somewhere''; of course that somewhere is a hole in the ground. It
follows that the book I'm working on is going to be better than any of the
previous ones.

What books do you find yourself returning to again and again?

I often reread certain parts of my Oxford Revised Standard Bible, which I
recommend for the maps and footnotes. The parables of Jesus are haunting in the
fashion of certain Zen koans. And the story of Jacob, Leah and Rachel, and the
way it leads to young Joseph's conceit and fall, is of gripping psychological
interest. When she was very young I used to tell my daughter about the coat of
many colors, and she would say: ''But, why, Daddy? Why did they throw Joseph
underground?'' -- ''Because they were jealous.'' -- ''Why were they jealous?''
-- ''Because his father loved him more than the others.'' She and I would follow
the story backward and forward; its elegance was so perfect that my little child
could understand it.

Georg Christoph Lichtenberg always inspires me to try to be myself. Here is one
of his powerful aphorisms: ''I believe that man is in the last resort so free a
being that his right to be whatever he believes himself to be cannot be
contested.''

I love that fountainhead of Norse myth and saga, the Elder Edda. It is, after
all, part of my ethnocultural heritage. Its glorification of ruthless and often
pointless cruelty troubles me, and I refuse to identify with that. But I can
enjoy the delicate eeriness of other ghost stories without reveling in gruesome
murders and wailing horrors, so why can't I drink in the strangeness of
Skirnir's ride down to Hel on his quest to win the giant maiden? Moreover, the
Norse ethos privileges steadfast endurance in the face of pain, bravery in the
face of inevitable doom, and loyalty. These qualities would well become all of
us mortals, and may grow more relevant once climate change really kicks in.

What do you plan to read next?

(This won't be next, but it will be one of these days.) Waiting patiently in my
studio is that two-volume Library of America anthology ''The Debate on the
Constitution.'' I want to think as hard as I can about what our country ought to
be. Being human, the original framers must have gone wrong in places; all the
same, their measured formulations still shine in us as some kind of hope. What
would they say about universal suffrage, interracial marriage, transgender
rights, covert killings of American citizens, undeclared wars and corporate
ecocide? How should I feel when someone ''violates the Constitution''? On these
questions they might have disagreed with me and with each other, but if I better
understood how they argued out their purposes, I might become a better citizen.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday. Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/william-t-vollmann-by-the-book.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS
(70%); BOOKSTORES (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Pedroia Is Back on the D.L.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASEBALL; Pg.

LENGTH: 32 words


Boston Red Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia returned to the 15-day disabled
list with a strained right hamstring, the same injury that caused him to miss 16
games before the All-Star break.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/dustin-pedroia-is-back-on-the-
dl.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (91%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Cal's New Confidence Is Homegrown

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 839 words


BERKELEY, Calif. --  Jared Goff stands high above the University of California's
Memorial Stadium and can see his hometown across San Francisco Bay. He can look
down the other way and point to the spot in the stadium where he sat for his
ninth birthday party, a place where his family had season tickets.

Heading into his junior season, Goff feels right at home at Cal.

He plays for the team he has cheered for his entire life, has his family close
by, and has an increased comfort in the offense and the art of quarterbacking
that was missing earlier in his career. Goff is ready for a breakthrough season
that can return the Golden Bears to a contender in the Pacific-12 Conference
after years of struggles.

''I'm trying to soak it all in,'' he said. ''It's still kind of surreal.''

How much longer Goff will get to experience the college life remains to be seen.
For now, he will enjoy the moments he cherishes, such as interacting with fellow
students whom he calls ''some of the smartest people in the country''; walking
the same campus his parents did; and hearing ''Go, Bears!'' cheers each day from
students eager to witness a winner again.

Goff is projected as a first-round pick if he leaves school after this season
and is considered one of the top pro passing prospects in the country.

That issue remains on the back burner for Goff, who has more immediate goals of
getting the Bears to a bowl game, and beyond, after winning just six games his
first two years.

''I'm not concerned about that right now,'' he said. ''I need to go out here and
get better every day and win games and let that stuff happen when it happens.
Now is not the time to make that decision.''

Goff has strong support from his family, including his father, Jerry, a former
big league catcher who played 90 games for Montreal, Pittsburgh and Houston.

Jerry Goff always instilled in his son the importance of staying in the moment
and having fun, lessons that have not changed -- even as the stage has gotten
bigger.

''His focus just needs to be on winning football games and getting better,''
Jerry Goff said. ''Everything else will take care of itself. Looking ahead
doesn't work in any sport, anytime, anywhere.''

So Jared Goff tunes out talk of the Heisman Trophy, the N.F.L. draft and
everything else that does not have to do with becoming a sharper quarterback, an
improved leader or a better teammate.

At the top of the list for Goff, a player who remembers celebrating big wins at
Memorial Stadium and the pain of tough losses as a youngster in the stands, is
turning the Bears back into the contender they were a decade ago under Coach
Jeff Tedford.

The Bears bottomed out in Goff's first year, winning just one game in the first
year under Coach Sonny Dykes as defections and a new system left the team
outmatched.

There was significant improvement last season, when Cal won five games and had a
shot at being a bowl team, except for late losses to Arizona, U.C.L.A. and
Brigham Young.

''We made so many little mistakes that cost us games,'' Goff said. ''That
happens with an inexperienced team, but talent-wise, we were a six- , seven- or
eight-win team if little things go our way. This year, we're not even being
close to that. We want to take it to the next level and blow through the roof.''

The numbers Goff has put up in two years in the pass-happy system are
staggering. He has completed 61.2 percent of his passes for 7,481 yards and 53
touchdowns, with 17 interceptions. He ranks in the top 10 in completions, yards
and touchdown passes since starting college ball.

This year could be even bigger because of the increased comfort level in the
offense. Most of the players have been in the system for two or three seasons,
creating seamless chemistry between quarterback and receivers that should
benefit the team on the field.

Goff said he is amazed when he looks back and realizes how much he did not know
as a freshman, yet knows he will experience that same feeling again in a few
years when he reflects on the end of his college career.

''I'll go back and watch film from last year and see something I did that was
really dumb or something,'' he said. ''Just little stuff that is so obvious to
me now, I wasn't noticing last year. It's just part of the maturation process
when you're a college quarterback.''

With that increased knowledge comes increased responsibility. At the start of
his career, Goff usually ran the play called by the coordinator Tony Franklin.
Now he has the freedom to change things at the line of scrimmage if he thinks a
different play would work better against a certain defense.

That led to a more efficient offense this spring and has Cal hoping for big
things this season.

''When you learn to do that as a quarterback, it allows you to execute at a
higher level,'' Dykes said. ''The defense will try to take something away from
us, and we want to be able to counter it. When your quarterback makes good
decisions and gets in the right play, the offense operates at a higher level.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/ncaafootball/cals-new-confidence-is-hom
egrown.html

GRAPHIC: California quarterback Jared Goff. A junior, he is ranked in the top 10
in completions, yards and scoring passes. ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS  Goff
(16) is projected as a first-round pick in the N.F.L. draft should he leave
after this season. ''I'm not concerned about that right now,'' he said. BEN
MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS  BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL (86%); SPORTS (86%); ATHLETES (84%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS
& RECREATION EVENTS (70%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (90%); CHICAGO BEARS (55%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

John Scalzi

BYLINE: By JOHN SCALZI.

John Scalzi is the Hugo-winning author of ''Redshirts.'' He'll begin his next
tour on Aug. 11 in support of his novel ''The End of All Things.''

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 267 words


When you're an author on tour -- and if you are lucky -- you will have some
dozens or even hundreds of people attend your event. Some of these lovely people
will want to stick out in the author's memory of the evening. Others want to
give the author something in trade for the good read the author has given them.
And so, at every event, you'll get gifts.

Which are, in truth, usually both unique and thoughtful. Gifts that I have
received on tour include individually handcrafted stuffed animals, United States
Army officer insignia, fan art showing scenes or characters in my books, and
tokens for family members, whom fans have read about on my blog and feel they
know.

New authors will sometimes give you their own books; on my 2007 tour, a young
writer left me his ridiculously hefty first tome, and I was too tightly packed
to put it in my luggage. I had to carry the book with me in my hand for the rest
of the tour. Patrick Rothfuss got his advertising dollar out of me.

I'm often given food, usually cookies and baked goods, and bottles and bottles
of Coke Zero, which I am known to drink. Friends ask me if it's safe to accept
cookies from strangers; I point out that most of my fans don't want me dead,
because that would mean no more books. One time I mentioned that if I reached
30,000 Twitter followers, I would celebrate by smearing myself in buttercream
frosting and posting a picture of it. (I did, and I did.) On tour during this
time, a fan came up to me with a two-quart tub of homemade frosting. I asked him
what I was going to do with that. ''Practice,'' he said.

I did not.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATHENA SCALZI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); ARMIES (71%); BLOGS &
MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Make Sure an Album Is Understood, Include Instructions

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 982 words


Patrick Stickles, the lead singer of the Brooklyn via New Jersey punk band Titus
Andronicus, calls his new album -- a 29-track, 93-minute, five-act rock opera
about his manic depression called ''The Most Lamentable Tragedy'' (Merge) --
''precious and belabored.'' He means it lovingly, with a realistic amount of
self-deprecation, long a key tenet of his songwriting.

It's that inward-looking awareness, and Mr. Stickles's caustic wit, which spares
no one, that consistently keeps Titus Andronicus on the right side of
pretentious grandeur. (Somehow even on ''The Monitor'' (2010), another concept
album, in which he used Civil War imagery to address heartbreak and suburban
angst.) On its fourth full-length album, out Tuesday, Titus Andronicus is
doubling down on everything that has made it beautiful and absurd: multimovement
songs, including a pair of nine-minute epics; thrashing shout-a-longs with
unabashedly big guitar riffs; and therapist-couch honesty. Now there is also
singing about time travel, covers of Daniel Johnston and the Pogues, a
slopped-up rendition of ''Auld Lang Syne,'' at least one ''Seinfeld'' reference,
strings (from the indie rock go-to Owen Pallett) and accompanying handwritten
lyrics meant to guide the listener through every obsessed-over narrative turn.

None of which is to say this isn't a punk album: On ''I'm Going Insane (Finish
Him),'' Mr. Stickles just sneers the title line 24 times in two minutes, leaving
time for a quick guitar solo.

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Stickles was Iggy Pop thin and motor-mouthed while
seated on a ratty couch inside Shea Stadium, the Bushwick D.I.Y. space that
serves as Titus Andronicus's unofficial clubhouse. (The venue is also hosting
the band for five sold-out shows leading up to the album's release on Mr.
Stickles's 30th birthday.) He held forth with what could accurately be described
as manic energy about the influence of his mental illness, why he prefers to
spell everything out and the commercial ceiling for a rock band in 2015. These
are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. A lot of artists who make concept albums are reticent to explain the plot or
ideas behind it, but you came out before anyone heard a note and said exactly
what the album would be about. Now you have supplemental literature that
explains exactly what's happening in each song. Why?

A. It's because I was traumatized by the rock opera ''David Comes to Life'' [by
a Toronto band with an unprintable name]. It was a great album with a perfectly
coherent narrative and plenty of supplemental materials as well. But every
review of the record said the exact same thing, which is that this record is
ostensibly a rock opera but you're never going to be able to tell what's going
on because the story is incoherent and you can't understand what the singer is
saying anyway. It was extremely condescending and I wanted to avoid that at any
cost. As much as it would be nice if [''The Most Lamentable Tragedy''] spoke for
itself, it's not about just anything. It's not about whatever the listener
thinks it's about. Every single word in here is about one thing, from my life --
from this story that I very carefully constructed to illuminate something. The
author is still alive.

Did you specifically make this record for people suffering from manic
depression?

Mostly just for one person that does.

Yourself?

That's right. In my more self-aggrandizing moments, I fantasize that this could
elucidate some secret truth hidden in the subconscious of some young person
that's as troubled as I was five or six or three years ago, two years ago, last
year, this month. Art has shown us time and time again that none of us are
really alone in our earthly experiences. We all feel alienated and freakish and
grotesque.

What was that art for you?

Consider ''Triumph'' by Wu-Tang Clan, which came to me in the seventh grade. It
doesn't appear to articulate that many secret truths, but it does seem to say
that there's a way to achieve a certain level of strength within yourself that
doesn't just get handed down from Mom and Dad or society. The Wu-Tang Clan
learned that the pen is mightier than the sword, and they defeated the
oppressive, inherently violent society that gave birth to them. But any number
of things: the Replacements, the Cure, the Smiths -- any kind of sensitive,
crying music. A couple years after Wu-Tang, I got ''Let It Be'' [by The
Replacements] and ''Daydream Nation'' [by Sonic Youth] for Christmas from my
father and stepmother. They sowed the seeds of their own undoing.

Were there other musicians you looked to who have dealt explicitly with mental
illness?

There must be thousands. Daniel Johnston is the greatest manic-depressive
songwriter of them all and one of the most empowered artists ever, who never got
permission from anyone. Roky Erickson, Brian Jonestown Massacre -- any deranged,
demented rock star that has a movie about them, basically. Lil Wayne, the Weeknd
-- are they not talking about their own mental illnesses when they admit [in
lyrics] that they're drug addicts?

Do you see a time when rock 'n' roll leads youth culture again?

Never, right? With a guitar? About being a crazy person? Not this band. Where's
Nirvana? Nirvana's nowhere. The Weeknd is Nirvana. Darn.

Does it bother you?

Do I mind that we were sold a bankrupt dream in the boom days of the late '90s
major-label gold rush? When we went down that road that we're still on, more
than half our lives later? And now we find out that it's basically impossible?
Yeah, it sucks for sure. But whatever. Now that that carrot's no longer dangling
in front of all these rockers -- that they can run the world and get a
multimillion-dollar Reebok sponsorship -- it's not tantalizing anymore, because
it's an impossible fantasy. Now the bands with guitars have the opportunity to
actually be a genuine alternative to the mainstream.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/patrick-stickles-gets-very-specific
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patrick Stickles and Titus Andronicus, whose new album is a
rock opera. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW GREELEY)
The Replacements, seen here in 1987, were an early influence for Mr. Stickles,
who said he favored bands that played ''any kind of sensitive, crying music.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG HELGESON/SIRE RECORDS)
The Weeknd performing at the 2015 Much Music Video Awards in Toronto.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS YOUNG/CP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The Wu-Tang Clan in 2006. The group's members ''defeated the oppressive,
inherently violent society that gave birth to them,'' Mr. Stickles said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%);
MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (89%); RECORD RELEASES (89%);
MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); MUSIC (78%); SONG WRITING (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jessica Pabst, Eric Southern

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 256 words


Jessica Marie Pabst and Edward Frederick Southern III are to be married Sunday
at the Greenpoint Loft, a warehouse space in Brooklyn. Samuel D. Hunter, a
friend of the couple who became a Universal Life Minister for the occasion, is
to officiate.

The couple met at New York University, from which they graduated and from which
the groom also received a master's degree in design for stage and film.

The bride, 33, is keeping her name. She is a costume designer who, this year,
worked on ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' on Broadway, and ''The Qualms,'' at
Playwrights Horizons in Manhattan.

She is a daughter of Georgia I. Pabst and Ralph A. Pabst of Milwaukee. Her
father owns a video production company in Milwaukee. The bride's mother retired
as a reporter for The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

The groom, also 33, is known as Eric. He is a lighting designer who, this year,
worked on the dance performance ''Play/Pause'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music
and ''collected stories: memoir,'' a musical performance in 2014 at Carnegie
Hall. The groom is also an adjunct professor in the theater department at
Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J.

He is the son of Melissa J. Williams of Dublin, Va., and Edward F. Southern Jr.,
also of Dublin, and the stepson of Roger A. Williams. His mother is the business
manager for the mechanical engineering program at Virginia Tech, in Blacksburg,
Va. His father owns EF Southern Machine and Welding in Pulaski, Va., and his
stepfather retired as an accountant for Simpson Construction in Dublin.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/jessica-pabst-and-eric-southe
rn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY
(77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); VISUAL
ARTS (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE
(73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); WRITERS (70%);
MUSIC (67%); DANCE (67%); STEPPARENTS (65%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (64%);
THEATER (56%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (54%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%); MACHINE & WELDING SUPPLY CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%); SIC5169 CHEMICALS & ALLIED PRODUCTS, NEC (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW
JERSEY, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Store: Island Winds

BYLINE: By EVIANA HARTMAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words


From aristocratic roots to a peaceful beachside existence on Harbour Island, the
model-turned-designer's new lifestyle brand reveals no shortage of inspiration.


From what she describes as ''a small rock in the middle of nowhere,'' India
Hicks has built a life -- and business -- that upends expectations cast by her
patrician origins. As the daughter of the fabled British designer David Hicks
and the aristocrat Pamela Mountbatten, India Hicks grew up in London in tented
rooms amid pet peacocks. In the '80s and '90s, she traveled the world as a
model, a ''slightly gypsy-like existence,'' she says, which informed her
decision to settle down far from the posh city set, with her partner, David
Flint Wood, also a decorator, on tiny Harbour Island in the Bahamas.

There, she is raising five children and has developed a distinctive yet
approachable voice in the world of interiors. For her new eponymous lifestyle
brand, launching Sept. 5, she has opted to eschew the well-trod boutique path in
lieu of direct sales, marshaling a cadre of representatives to host Avon-like
''get-togethers'' to show off the collection's personal accessories, jewelry and
fragrance. And though the beachy-chic brand with its gentle price tags bears
little resemblance commercially or aesthetically to her father's work -- ''the
way I design is much softer,'' Hicks says -- she has more in common with the
elder Hicks's outré sensibility than one might imagine. ''I think that the fact
that I've led an unusual life in the way that my father did is appealing to
other women,'' she says. ''And certainly part of my message is for them to stand
on their own two feet and to be independent and to live differently.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/07/20/india-hicks-style/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH VIA INDIA HICKS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFESTYLE TRENDS (90%); RETAILERS (71%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (71%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%)

COUNTRY: BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jesse Horwitz, Mark Severs

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 223 words


Jesse Scott Horwitz and Mark David Severs were married Saturday at the Brooklyn
Botanic Garden. The officiant was Gillian I. Horwitz, Mr. Horwitz's sister, who
became an affiliate of the First Nation Ministry for the occasion.

Mr. Horwitz (left), 26, is an investment analyst in Manhattan for Columbia
Investment Management Company, which manages Columbia University's endowment. He
graduated magna cum laude from the university.

He is the son of Richard J. Horwitz of Manhattan and Amy E. Genkins of Stamford,
Conn. His mother retired as the senior vice president for business and legal
affairs at DC Comics in Manhattan. His father is a financial risk management
consultant in Manhattan. The groom is also the stepson of Stephen J. Pratt.

Until last month, Mr. Severs, 32, was the director for financial programs at
Start Small Think Big, a Bronx organization that helps low-income women build
small businesses. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received a law
degree and an M.B.A. from Harvard.

Mr. Severs is the son of David H. Severs and Patricia A. Severs of East
Freetown, Mass. His mother, who is retired, was a fourth-grade teacher at
DeMello Elementary School in Dartmouth, Mass. His father retired as an
accountant in the auditing department in the Fall River, Mass., office of the
Massachusetts Department of Revenue.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/jesse-horwitz-and-mark-severs
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMA McDONALD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT
(77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); MANAGEMENT
CONSULTING (72%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PRIMARY &
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (65%); FINANCIAL RISK
MANAGEMENT (54%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (85%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Junot Díaz

BYLINE: By JUNOT DÍAZ.

Junot Díaz is the author of ''Drown'' and ''This Is How You Lose Her,'' and the
novel ''The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize in
2008.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 248 words


I remember my first book event in Boston. Two people attended, one of them my
boy Shuya. Despite all the empty chairs, he said, I'm proud of you, brother. I
remember the young woman at Union Square, how she had been planning to buy a
book for her boyfriend but then spotted him at the head of the line holding
hands with another girl. Will you still sign a book for him? she asked, tears in
her eyes. Tell him he'll never see me again. I remember all the teachers who
brought their students to my readings, the ones who didn't want to ask questions
and the ones who had written them out for me. I remember the two Navajo brothers
who'd had it rougher than most and how eager they were to talk about books; and
the doña in London who had been living in that city more than 20 years and
wanted the audience to know there were Dominicans in London, yes there were.

But what I remember most are the young people. Especially the kids of color, who
spend their lives erased. Looking for themselves in books, in the literature, in
the canon, and not finding anything. Not a trace. I don't like to read, they
tell me, but I read your book to the end.

I remember one young Dominican woman in particular, from Lawrence, Mass., with a
nose piercing that looked infected. After a long silence she said, You saved my
life, you really really did. Embarrassed, she hurried to go and I tried to say
something, anything. Books saved my life too, they did. They really really did.

But words failed me.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY HENSON SCALES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mary Cowan, Jerrold Lundquist

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 196 words


Mary Skoby Cowan and Jerrold Theodore Lundquist were married Saturday. Stephen
C. Waluk, the chief clerk of the Rhode Island District Court, in Providence,
officiated at Ocean Cliff, a hotel in Newport, R.I.

Mrs. Lundquist, 54, is an owner and the managing partner of Cowan & Zellers Real
Estate Professionals, a residential real estate firm in Concord, N.H. She
graduated from Wheaton College.

She is a daughter of Nicholas M. Skoby of Burnham, Me., and the late Mae Stone
Skoby, who had lived together in Manchester, N.H. The bride's previous marriage
ended in divorce.

Mr. Lundquist, 65, retired as the global leader for the aerospace and military
practice at McKinsey & Company, the management consultancy in New York. He
graduated from the United States Air Force Academy, received a master's degree
in international relations from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and a
master's degree in public policy from Harvard. In 1985 and 1986, while serving
as a White House fellow, he was the special assistant to Transportation
Secretary Elizabeth Dole.

He is a son of the late Mae Obenland Lundquist and the late Gilmore J. P.
Lundquist, who lived in Faribault, Minn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/mary-cowan-and-jerrold-lundqu
ist.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS SAUNDERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (86%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS
(76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS
(72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (71%); US AIR FORCE (68%);
CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (56%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (54%)

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); CONCORD, NH, USA (90%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%);
MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
MINNESOTA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muffled in the Hamptons, Uber Makes Some Noise

BYLINE: By JACOB BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1731 words


MONTAUK, N.Y. -- It was just past 1 on a Saturday night, and the scene outside
the Memory Motel had an air of frenzied desperation. Hedge fund types and N.Y.U.
students stumbled out of bars in their white jeans and Tod's loafers as barely
legal women in crop tops, jean shorts and Gisele sandals flagged down taxi
drivers.

One by one, drivers rolled down their windows, asking potential customers how
far they were going, then naming their prices, which ran upward of $30 a head
for Amagansett and $50 for Sag Harbor.

An Australian man in his 20s was sitting inside one cab, moaning about the guy
he was sharing it with, who was waiting on a slice from Pizza Village. Twenty
feet away, a couple were propped up against a wall, making out.

Callie Harris, 25 and decked out in a denim romper from Splendid and a pair of
Tory Burch sandals, wanted to go home.

''Come on, $40 a person?'' she said into her iPhone, pleading with a taxi
dispatcher. ''Are you serious? It cost $65 for us to get here.''

Her friend Colleen Elrod (also 25, black Splendid romper) shook her head in
disbelief.

''We're not spending $80 to get home,'' Ms. Harris said.

''We so need Uber,'' Ms. Elrod said.

Ah, yes. Uber: the trusty car service that is as much a part of modern life as
iPhones, Seamless and kale smoothies. Sadly for Ms. Elrod and Ms. Harris, the
app is unusable from Montauk to Sag Harbor, having essentially skipped town in
June after running afoul of local regulations that stipulate that all drivers
picking up and dropping off in the town of East Hampton (which includes Montauk,
Amagansett and much of Sag Harbor) have a business office here and a license
from the town to operate.

The law took effect in the spring of 2014 after gypsy cabs and Ubers clogged the
parking lot at the 7-Eleven and camped out by Marshall & Sons service station.
For the next year, Uber floated more or less under the radar, until the town
cracked down shortly after Memorial Day.

The dispute predictably morphed into a big local news story as Uber suspended
use of the app in East Hampton in June and celebrities like Andy Cohen took to
Twitter on its behalf, saying: ''I am trying to be a responsible citizen. I
don't drink & drive. Plz don't ban my designated driver in EHampton.'' The East
Hampton Star published an editorial calling for an accommodation for Uber.

But there was a vocal group of dissenters as well.

''The town did a brave thing,'' said Steven Gaines, author of the book
''Philistines at the Hedgerow.'' ''Because this isn't just about Uber. This is
about East Hampton becoming overwhelmed. Every resort town goes through a cycle,
and we've hit a moment when the tail is wagging the dog, and we are completely
at the mercy of the summer crowd who trample over everything.''

Welcome back to the East End, where local controversies have always abounded,
like teenagers drinking on the beach or last year's brouhaha, noise emanating
from the airport. Each time, the scripts are similar: preservationists against
developers, the little guy against big business, everyone else against the
wealthiest 1 percent.

The difference this time is that the local population seems pretty divided over
who the real villain is. Is it Uber, whose behavior toward community leaders was
brusque? Is it the local taxi drivers who have united against the company, but
are notorious for showing up late (if at all) to appointments and overcharging
their customers? Or is it the party crowd in Montauk?

Few people out here dispute that getting a taxi is a drag.

Just witness Janet Baker, 61, who lives in Detroit and came to the East End this
summer with her husband, David Gawlowski, 56. After touching down at La Guardia
Airport on July 8, Ms. Baker and Mr. Gawlowski ventured east on the Hampton
Jitney and arrived in Amagansett around 5 p.m., where no cabs were on the
street.

''I thought there would be a line,'' Ms. Baker said.

Through Yelp, Ms. Baker found the number of a local cab company, then spent a
half-hour waiting for her driver, who arrived in a dilapidated minivan. ''He
barely looked 16 and he drove like a 16-year-old,'' she said.

First, it turned out the young man had no gas. Then he made a sharp left while
going through the main part of town, driving up onto the sidewalk, and crashing
into a rock. ''Because of the damage to the car, we couldn't open the back
door,'' Ms. Baker said. ''I climbed into the front seat and got out.''

This reporter could not even get a cab. Two weeks ago, I took a late jitney to
East Hampton and called seven cab companies from the bus. Four didn't answer.
Three were ''too busy.'' An eighth, Super Taxi, said taxis were available, but
to call when the bus reached Southampton. When I did, the call went straight to
voice mail.

And that is to say nothing of the fares, which vary about as much as the time of
day, because the town does not regulate pricing.

''Complaints about inadequate service go back a long time,'' said David Rattray,
the editor of The East Hampton Star. ''The town really shot a blank on this one
and limited a superior service that people wanted. Uber is less of a pain in the
neck than other guys, they are driving safer vehicles, and they're
first-step-of-the-ladder entrepreneurs, whether they're from Massapequa or
Montauk.''

Ted Kopoulos of Ted's Taxi claims to offer better service. ''If you call, the
car will be there to pick you up,'' he said. ''You never get stranded. Not with
my company.''

It was 3 p.m. on Saturday, and Mr. Kopoulos, 61, was pacing around the kitchen
of his East Hampton home in a denim polo shirt, faded jeans and flip-flops. His
cellphone and walkie-talkie barely stopped making noise.

''Are you sure you're going to keep your appointment?'' he said to one potential
customer, sounding less like a customer service professional than a high school
guidance counselor.

To another, he said: ''Where are you? Northwest woods? How many people? When?
That would be impossible. More like 4:15. Sorry!''

Mr. Kopoulos arrived in the United States from Portes, Greece, as a child and
settled in East Hampton. He has lived here since then and spent two decades as a
waiter at the Palm restaurant before opening a cafe in Amagansett in 1997. In
2009, it shut down and he began his taxi business.

Understandably, Mr. Kopoulos is not thrilled that he pays annual fees of more
than $4,000 to the town for his six cars and that Uber takes much of his summer
business.

''They should have respect for the local drivers,'' he said. ''They tried to
take over. They had 500 cars and no permits. I have a place where I park my
cars. I have office space at 62 Newtown Lane. Uber doesn't have any of that.''

Daniel G. Rodgers, a lawyer hired by Uber to represent the company in the
Hamptons, was not expecting a battle like this. In the summer of 2014, he said,
only four drivers received summonses, and all paid small fines.

But things changed after Memorial Day when News 12, Cablevision's 24-hour news
station for Long Island, broadcast a report about Uber operating illegally in
Montauk, quoting a driver who said that Uber had offered to pay legal fees for
any out-of-town drivers who got into trouble with local authorities.

The report gave the impression of a lawless Montauk, filled with noxious
partyers and semi-homeless drivers camped out on the weekends to earn a fast
buck. And numerous local officials viewed it, including East Hampton's town
supervisor, Larry Cantwell.

''I was upset that they would organize an effort to deliberately break the
law,'' Mr. Cantwell said. ''More importantly, it's hardly delivering the hand of
cooperation.''

Over the weekend, 21 drivers were charged with operating without a business
license, a misdemeanor. The town's assistant attorney, Michael Sendlenski,
threatened unusually harsh sentences that included jail time for the drivers,
who would have a permanent criminal record.

The following Friday, a group from Uber including its New York general manager,
Josh Mohrer, 33, arrived in East Hampton master-of-the-universe style via
helicopter for a meeting with Mr. Cantwell.

By all accounts it did not go well, but who is to blame depends on whom you talk
to. According to Alix Anfang, a spokeswoman for Uber in New York, Mr. Cantwell,
64, essentially told Uber at the meeting that the only way to keep its drivers
out of jail was to leave town.

According to Mr. Cantwell, Mr. Mohrer and his colleagues essentially came in and
warned him he could face the wrath of their consumers.

Shortly after the meeting dispersed, the businessmen reboarded their helicopter
and announced on the app that they were suspending service in East Hampton,
after the town ''banned'' them from operating there.

At the bottom, Mr. Cantwell's phone number was listed, along with a directive to
call and complain. Which people did, by the thousands.

On a recent afternoon, Mr. Cantwell seemed sanguine, and even somewhat
supportive of the idea of Uber's presence.

''Uber is a terrific service,'' he said, sitting on foldout chair on the lawn of
the Eastville Community Historical Society, which traces the history of ethnic
groups in part of Sag Harbor from 1800 onward. ''You don't get to be a $40
billion company in this short a period of time without providing a service
people want. My perspective is all they have to do is be a little flexible.
There is more than one way to do business.''

For example, he said, a group of Uber drivers could open an office together in
town and then run the business through the Uber app. Or Uber could find a way to
go into business with the existing local cab companies.

But some continue to assert that that amounts to protectionism.

''I'm in the service business just like Uber is,'' said Mr. Rodgers, the lawyer
representing several of its drivers. ''And it annoys me when guys come up island
to take a D.W.I. case. That's a case I could get. But competition is good. It
means I have to work hard.''

Jayma Cardoso, the founder of the Surf Lodge, a popular Montauk club, would like
to see a compromise.

''I want to support the local taxi companies like Surf Taxi,'' she said.
''They're fair. You know what to expect. But in Montauk on Saturday nights,
there are hundreds of gypsy cabs that aren't regulated. One day they're asking
$20 and another it's $50. Uber is basically standardized. People should have
options.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/style/uber-hamptons-dark-blackout-cabs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Outside the Memory Motel in Montauk, N.Y. (ST1)
 While some believe that Uber would alleviate the crush for taxis outside many
Hamptons locales, others see the company as encroaching on tradition.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST6-ST7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); DRIVING WHILE
INTOXICATED (76%); PRICES (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES
(72%); SMARTPHONES (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); WRITERS (64%);
CELEBRITIES (64%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%);
NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Arts of Living

BYLINE: By BILL CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; EVENING HOURS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 160 words


Vibrant scenes around every corner of the city. Here are some examples: On July
19, The Rubin Museum of Art, which is dedicated to art and culture from art the
Himalayas, India, Tibet and neighboring regions, held a street fair on 17th
Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, free of any commercial touches. It
featured tables for children to make crafts, and also a stage for musicians and
performers. On July 20: A conversation in front of the Temple of Dendur at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art about the China exhibit as well as a delightful
conversation with Nicole Kidman about the costumes she wore in her films and how
they helped her make the transformation into the characters she played. And on
July 16, the Museum of Modern Art held a reception on the Cullman library
terrace, with its spectacular view over the musuem's sculpture gardens.

Related article

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/the-arts-of-living.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Musicians from the Brooklyn Raga Massive. 2. Members of the
Acha Himalayan Sisterhood. 3. Members of the Ajna Dance group. Some wore
regional dress, a woman came with a mirrored umbrella and others came with
costumes with their own imaginative touches.
4. The gardens. 5. Behind the guests, the windows of St. Thomas Church. 6. More
guests.
 7. ANNA WINTOUR. 8. The setting for the event. 9. HAMISH BOWLES with NICOLE
KIDMAN, who discussed film costumes she has worn. 10. KLAUS BIESENBACH and WENDI
DENG MURDOCH. Below, women dressed elegantly in white. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL
CUNNINGHAM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (87%);
SCULPTURE (72%); MUSIC (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%)

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (68%); ANNA WINTOUR (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%)

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); HIMALAYAS (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); NEW YORK,
USA (54%)

COUNTRY: TIBET (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swagata Biswas, Matthew Regan

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 264 words


Swagata Biswas and Matthew David Regan were married Saturday evening at Crest
Hollow Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y. Capt. Arnold Wonsever, a minister ordained
through the Esoteric Interfaith Church, officiated.

Earlier in the day, Nirmal Bhattacharyya, a Hindu priest, led another wedding
ceremony at the Hindu Temple Community Center in Flushing, Queens.

The couple are both chemical engineers who work on wastewater treatment and
other infrastructure projects for engineering consulting firms. The bride is a
technical specialist in White Plains for Woodard & Curran, and the groom is a
resident engineer in Manhattan for Aecom.

Mrs. Biswas Regan, 32, is also an Indian classical dancer. She graduated from
Stony Brook University and received a master's in chemical engineering from the
City College of New York.

She is the daughter of Tripti Biswasof Briarwood, Queens, and the late
Samarendra Biswas. The bride's father, who worked in Manhattan, retired as a
computer technician at the Unisys Corporation, the computer services provider,
in Blue Bell, Pa. Her mother is a paraprofessional, assisting teachers who work
with children with learning disabilities, at Long Island City High School in
Queens.

Mr. Regan, 40, graduated from Manhattan College, from which he also received a
master's in chemical engineering.

He is a son of Inez Regan of Bellerose, Queens, and Michael D. Regan of
Craryville, N.Y. The groom's mother is a school nurse at Public School
234/Intermediate School 235 in Astoria, Queens. His father, who is retired,
worked in Manhattan as a technician with IBM.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/swagata-biswas-and-matthew-re
gan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); RELIGION (90%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
(90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%);
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); PARAEDUCATORS (72%); PRIMARY &
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NURSES & NURSING
(71%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (67%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE
(56%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%)

COMPANY: UNISYS CORP (69%); BELL PA (69%)

TICKER: USY (LSE) (69%); UIS (SWX) (69%); UIS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER
MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%);
NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (69%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not Lonely at the Top

BYLINE: By ADAM WAYTZ, EILEEN CHOU, JOE MAGEE and ADAM GALINSKY.

Adam Waytz is an assistant professor of management and organizations at
Northwestern University. Eileen Chou is an assistant professor of public policy
at the University of Virginia. Joe Magee is an associate professor of management
and organizations at New York University. Adam Galinsky is a professor of
management at Columbia University.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 764 words


FOLK wisdom tells us it's lonely at the top. This makes intuitive sense: To
occupy the sole position atop a hierarchy, to have the sole authority for tough
decisions nobody else wants to (or can) make, and to bear the sole
responsibility for the consequences of those decisions is, almost by definition,
to be alone. Power implies isolation.

Yet behavioral science research has demonstrated that power confers
psychological resources on its holders that might help stave off the loneliness
that can accompany isolation. In recent years, studies have found that power
enhances power-holders' beliefs that they control their own fates, buffers them
from stress and creates the perception that others' are consistently ''in their
corner.''

So is it lonely at the top or not? To find out, we tested the relationship
between power and loneliness in a series of studies to be published in a
forthcoming issue of Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. Our
research suggests that it is not, in fact, lonely at the top -- not because
you're not alone, but because being alone is not the same as feeling alone.

We began by presenting a sample of 309 people from around the world with
questionnaires assessing their general feelings of power and general feelings of
loneliness. The loneliness questionnaire asked them to indicate how often they
felt, for example, ''I lack companionship,'' and the power questionnaire asked
them how much they agreed or disagreed with statements such as ''In my
relationships with others, I think I have a great deal of power.'' We then
computed loneliness and power scores for each participant.

Our results revealed a sizable and statistically significant negative
relationship between the two: The more powerful people perceived themselves to
be in their everyday lives, the less frequently they reported feeling lonely.

We also conducted several experiments with American adults and college students.
First, we induced them to momentarily experience feelings of high or low power
(for example, by asking one group of participants to write about the ways they
had power in their daily lives and asking another group to write about the ways
they lacked power in their daily lives). Then we gave them questionnaires that
asked how often they felt left out, isolated and lacking in companionship.
People who reflected on having power reported feeling less lonely than did
people who reflected on lacking power.

Another study involved participants drawn from Amazon.com's Mechanical Turk, an
online marketplace for advertising and accepting all manner of jobs. We created
a boss-subordinate relationship by asking one group of participants to choose
seven tasks (e.g., a proofreading assignment, a logic game) for another
participant in the marketplace to perform. Other participants, in the
subordinate role, were given these assignments to complete. Again, those in the
''boss'' role consistently reported experiencing less loneliness than
participants in the ''subordinate'' role.

In five other studies, we manipulated participants' feelings of power with a
decision task that those in power often face: allocating money and resources. We
assigned some participants to divide up a small windfall of money ($1 to $12)
with another participant any way they liked (with the option of giving the other
participant everything or nothing) and assigned other participants as potential
recipients of these allocations. Participants given power over making these
financial decisions consistently reported experiencing less loneliness than
participants given no financial decision-making power.

How to explain these results? We speculate that the psychological benefits of
power can substitute for the human need to belong to social groups. In two of
our studies, we included a separate questionnaire assessing how much
participants experienced this need to belong. The results were clear: Power
decreased loneliness by reducing the felt need for affiliation with others.

Being alone is not the same as feeling alone. You can have thousands of friends
and feel lonely, or have only a single friend and feel connected. The separation
from others -- in stature, rank or responsibility -- that power confers does not
translate into loneliness. In fact, power has the opposite effect on its
possessors, alleviating the need to belong and making them feel less alone.

Our research should give further enticement to power-seekers and further angst
to those who resent those in power. Not only is it not so lonely at the top; it
is far lonelier at the bottom.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/not-lonely-at-the-top.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOKA MAER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION &
RESEARCH (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); ADULTS (67%);
INTERNET RETAILING (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER
HOUSES (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

We Need Optimists

BYLINE: By ARTHUR C. BROOKS.

Arthur C. Brooks is the president of the American Enterprise Institute, the
author of the book ''The Conservative Heart'' and a contributing opinion writer.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words


MY wife, Ester, and I had just endured a difficult parent-teacher conference for
one of our teenage children. It was a grades issue. The ride home was tense,
until Ester broke the silence. ''Think of it this way,'' she said. ''At least we
know he's not cheating.''

That's an optimist. We need more optimism in America today -- especially in our
politics.

Are you an optimist or a pessimist? At the personal level, optimism clearly
seems superior. Psychologists find that optimists generally enjoy better
physical health than pessimists, and a greater ability to cope with setbacks.
Optimists are happier than pessimists, as a rule.

On the other hand, optimism is not without cost. Research shows that optimists
are more likely than pessimists to keep gambling after losing money. Optimism
bias can be a contributing factor in car accidents, as drivers overrate their
own abilities. Playing down the probability of disaster can lead us astray in
other situations where assessing risk is vital, like choosing a profession or
selecting a mate.

Optimism and pessimism have always competed in the American character. Think of
it as Horatio Alger versus the Zombie Apocalypse.

On one hand, rags-to-riches confidence has always drawn entrepreneurs and
immigrants to our shores and captured the popular imagination. The American
attitude that all will be well often amazes our European friends -- and not
always in a positive way. In The New York Times in 2003, a former adviser to the
president of France derisively declared that, ''The United States compensates
for its shortsightedness, its tendency to improvise, with an altogether biblical
self-assurance in its transcendent destiny.''

But at the same time, Americans have often been attracted to apocalyptic
predictions. In 1988, for example, a former NASA engineer named Edgar C.
Whisenant published a book titled ''88 Reasons Why the Rapture Will Be in
1988.'' Scoff if you want; it sold millions of copies. When 1988 came and went
and the end times did not materialize, Mr. Whisenant updated his prediction to
1989. And then 1993 and 1994.

While the citizenry may vacillate, leaders generally have to select one
disposition or the other. Pessimism arouses fear and anger, while optimism
inspires hope. Hope can accompany fear in times of extraordinary sacrifice (such
as war), but this is rare. As a practical matter, a leader must choose.

Look beneath the platitudes that every candidate recites, and you'll find
politicians on both sides. Among both liberals and conservatives, there have
been true optimists -- like Presidents Reagan and Clinton -- who seemed to exude
faith in and affection for the American people. In recent times, however, right
and left have more often produced competing pessimists who insist that the
country is going down the tubes, the citizens are being stepped on, and everyone
ought to be taking up torches and pitchforks.

''This is the most important presidential election of our lifetimes,'' we hear
year after year. If the other side wins, we can practically expect a jackbooted
thug and a knock in the night. I exaggerate, but only a little. Witness the
extraordinary political negativity of the past three weeks from presidential
candidates on both sides.

Why on earth would a politician choose pessimism? Because it seems the smarter
bet for connecting with a sour public. After all, the wisecracking cynic and
smirking hipster are certainly more emblematic of popular culture today than the
cockeyed optimist.

And there is a tangible, growing mainstream depression about the future of the
nation that seems ripe for politicians to tap into. You simply can't find a
survey or poll that doesn't show this. For decades, for example, Gallup has
asked a large sample of Americans their view of ''the way things are going in
our country.'' Averaging each month's results for the year 2000, 37 percent said
they were dissatisfied. So far in 2015, that number is 69 percent. In 2014, a
Wall Street Journal/NBC poll revealed that 76 percent of Americans did not feel
confident that ''life for our children's generation will be better than it has
been for us.'' This is 10 percentage points worse than the poll had ever
recorded.

But we are paying a steep price for our politicians' choosing the dark side.
More than half of Americans said that our last presidential election was too
negative, and complaints about the destructive, ad hominem discourse that
dominates Washington have become a national cliché.

Furthermore, in taking the pessimism shortcut, our politicians are neglecting a
major strategic advantage. Business studies identify optimism as a core trait of
the most successful executives. And recently, social science has shown a big
advantage for optimistic leaders. In 2013, for example, Dutch researchers
published a study in The Leadership Quarterly showing that a positive, happy
leader is judged to be 132 percent more effective than a dour, negative one.

A positive vision requires the hard work of winning over new friends, which
means going where politicians have not been invited, and enduring
less-than-adoring crowds. This is much harder than telling true believers what
they already believe. But voters will reward candidates who have the talent and
perseverance to do this. This isn't wishful thinking or naïveté; just look to
history.

Take the case of Ronald Reagan, the patron saint of the political party that
most Americans currently see as the more negative of the two. Conservatives
revere Reagan, but frequently misremember why he was so phenomenally effective.
It was not a result of raging against liberals or fighting against big
government. Reagan's success came from his sunny optimism.

Reagan's ''Morning in America'' campaign theme is an obvious example, but his
optimism went much deeper, to his faith in Americans' desire to fight for
people. ''Together, let us make this a new beginning. Let us make a commitment
to care for the needy,'' said Reagan at the 1980 Republican National Convention
in Detroit as he accepted the nomination of his party. ''We have to move ahead,
but we're not going to leave anyone behind.''

My own analysis of this speech found that ''people'' is Reagan's most frequently
repeated word, uttered 38 times. When we add in all the specific people he is
fighting for -- ''families,'' ''children,'' ''the needy'' and so on -- the
number more than doubles.

Reagan was not a cheerful milquetoast. He was perfectly capable of a vigorous
fight -- just ask the Soviets. But he studiously avoided being grim about it. He
was Wordsworth's happy warrior, ''Whose high endeavours are an inward light /
That makes the path before him always bright.''

I was 16 years old when Reagan was first elected. If I could have voted, I
certainly would not have voted for him. When I was growing up in Seattle, no one
I knew could stand him. But his optimism had an effect on me. Despite all of my
biases and influences, I wanted a leader with this optimistic attitude.
Secretly, I was not sorry he won.

Reagan's optimism should not be understood ideologically; it was simply about
people and our potential. He possessed an unflinching belief that all people --
the poor, children, the elderly -- were human assets, waiting to be developed so
they could earn their success.

In contrast, pessimists see people as liabilities to manage, as burdens or
threats that we must minimize. This manifests itself on the political left when
we construct welfare programs that fail to boost unemployed Americans back into
the work force. On the right, it shows up in strains of anti-immigrant sentiment
or throw-away-the-key criminal sentencing.

Millions of Americans are frustrated by the environment of competing pessimisms
in Washington today. Some say it is a result of the fact that the parties have
never been further apart ideologically. They hark back to better times when
there was more overlap between Democrats and Republicans.

I disagree. Maximum progress would come not from convergence on an unsatisfying
centrism, but from a true competition of optimistic visions for a better future.
Research suggests that optimists can find solutions where pessimists do not. And
while competing optimists may disagree, sometimes fiercely, they don't mistake
policy differences for a holy war.

But let's say that competition does not occur. What happens if one side
unilaterally breaks out of the current negative equilibrium? I predict it will
see victory -- especially if the other side doubles down on pessimism and
division.

Naturally, I might be wrong. But I would offer a political version of Pascal's
wager to a politician who is of a naturally Churchillian or Reaganite
disposition: Let's say you lose an election because you were your positive and
joyful self.

Hey, at least you weren't cheating.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/arthur-c-brooks-we-need-optimis
ts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SR1
SR4) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JOHNNY SELMAN) (SR1
 SR4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); PROFESSIONAL
WORKERS (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS
(68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); FRENCH PRESIDENTS (64%); RELIGION (63%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 235 words


SPIELMAN--Arthur. Art was born on March 6, 1947, to Jerry and Sunny, and grew up
in Forest Hills, Queens.

He was a pioneering figure in sleep research. Art worked at the first sleep
center in the United States, his development of Sleep Restriction Therapy is a
core component of insomnia treatment, and what became known as the Spielman 3P
Model of Insomnia remains a cornerstone of the field. Art had a long association
with Cornell, most recently as Co-Director of the Weill Cornell Center for Sleep
Medicine. As a professor at CUNY for more than thirty years, he mentored
graduate students and co-authored more than fifty scholarly articles and book
chapters. In June of this year, he was honored with the Outstanding Scientific
Achievement Award from the Society for Sleep Research. Art was a caring man who
loved life. He treasured his friends, and meant so much to so many people. He
was a love to his wife, Marlene, an inspiration to his children, Evan and David,
a light to his daughter-in-law Melissa, an adored brother to his sister Eileen,
and a joy to his grandchildren, Emma, Jason, and Hayley. He will be an eternal
presence to his entire family. Services will be held on Sunday, July 26, 2015 at
4pm at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 Street. In lieu of flowers,
his family asks that donations be made to the Art Spielman Memorial Fund at the
Weill Cornell Center for Sleep Medicine. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP (94%); SLEEP DISORDERS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY
(77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 360 words


DUKESS--A. Carleton, 85, died at home in Larchmont, New York, on July 20, 2015
with his adored wife of 60 years, Mona Dukess, and his beloved daughters, Linda,
Laura and Karen Dukess, at his side. The most loveable of men, he was treasured
by his six grandchildren: Joanna and Sam Bernstein, Ben and Stephen Schwed, and
Joseph and Johnny Liesman, and was a cherished father-in-law to Jody DiPerna,
Roger Schwed and Steve Liesman. He loved his nieces and nephews, rejoiced in his
friendships with people young and old, and was known as a great raconteur and a
wise listener.

Carleton was pre-deceased by his older brother, Joseph Dukess. A graduate of
Syracuse University and Columbia University School of Law, Carleton had a
distinguished career as a real estate attorney and developer. He drafted the
documentation for the nation's first condominium development and lectured
extensively on the then-novel form of ownership. His interest in the restoration
of urban buildings for low and moderate income housing led to his co-founding of
Continental Wingate Company, Inc., a housing and rehabilitation company. He was
a president of the National Housing and Rehabilitation Association and served on
the Citizens Housing & Planning Council of New York. He later was a partner in
Castle Properties Co. and a director of Apple Bank for Savings in New York.
Appreciative of his good fortune, Carleton devoted significant time and
attention to charitable endeavors. He was a trustee of Barnard College, and a
member of the boards of the New York Foundation, Community Resource Exchange,
Castle Hill Center for the Arts and the Provincetown Art Association and Museum.
Carleton loved Italian opera, the music of Benny Goodman, fishing, boating,
single-malt Scotch and reading, but loved nothing more than spending time with
his friends and family, especially in his favorite place, his home in Truro,
Massachusetts. A memorial service was held at 11am on Friday, July 24 at John J.
Fox Funeral Home in Larchmont, New York. In lieu of flowers, the family requests
donations to Cancer Support Team of Purchase, New York, or the Provincetown Art
Association and Museum. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (87%); CHILDREN (78%);
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); REAL
PROPERTY LAW (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTRATION (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%);
PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); CHARITIES (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Fiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 547 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Combined Print &
                E-Book Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   4   GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A sequel told from Christian's
                point of view.
2       3  26   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London is full of
                complications and betrayals.
3           1   NEMESIS,  by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam) In Coulter?s 18th
                F.B.I. suspense thriller, the agents Lacey Sherlock and Dillon
                Savich must discover who is responsible for bombings in New
                York City.
4           1   CODE OF CONDUCT,  by Brad Thor. (Emily Bestler/Atria) In Thor?s
                15th thriller, the counterterrorism operative Scot Harvath
                undertakes a deadly assignment set in motion by a leaked video.
5           1   EARTH BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove) A stranger becomes
                infatuated with Lexi after freeing her from a cult's clutches.
6       2   2   THE ENGLISH SPY,  by Daniel Silva. (Harper) Gabriel Allon, an
                art restorer and occasional spy for the Israeli secret service,
                helps British intelligence track down the killer of a beautiful
                former member of the royal family.
7       5  43   ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner) The
                lives of a blind French girl and a gadget-obsessed German boy
                before and during World War II; the winner of the 2015 Pulitzer
                Prize.
8       6   7   THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Crown) Abandoned by his crew, an
                astronaut embarks on a dogged quest to stay alive.
9           8   WHISKEY BEACH,  by Nora Roberts. (Putnam) A former criminal
                attorney who has been acquitted of his wife?s murder retreats
                to his family estate on a rocky New England cliff, where he is
                comforted by the house?s caretaker amid continuing danger.
10      7   4   THE RUMOR,  by Elin Hilderbrand. (Little, Brown) Two friends on
                Nantucket must deal with damaging gossip about themselves and
                their husbands.
11     13   9   LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE,  by Jessica Knoll. (Simon & Schuster) The
                life of a successful magazine writer is shaken when secrets
                from her past are revealed in a documentary.
12     12  23   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                are separated in World War II France: one in the countryside,
                the other in Paris.
13     10   3   TRUTH OR DIE,  by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Little,
                Brown) An attorney discovers a shocking secret that must be
                kept out of the wrong hands.
14      4   2   A NEW HOPE,  by Robyn Carr. (Mira) After a man makes a
                spectacle of himself at his sister's wedding, will he be able
                to make amends?
15          6   ZOO,  by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown)
                A young biologist warns world leaders about the reasons for
                escalating animal attacks on cities.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. MANWHORE +1,  by Katy Evans. (Gallery)

17. PROTECTING JESSYKA,  by Susan Stoker. (Susan Stoker)

18. DARK PLACES,  by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway)

19. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT,  by Judy Blume. (Knopf)

20. QUEEN OF FIRE,  by Anthony Ryan. (Ace)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE
LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ESPIONAGE
(89%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%);
RETAILERS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); TRAINS (69%); MURDER (68%);
FAMILY (68%); TERRORISM (67%); BOMBINGS (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); MARS (69%); NORTHEAST USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Advice and How-To: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 479 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Advice and How-To
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1  37   THE LIFE-CHANGING MAGIC OF TIDYING UP,  by Marie Kondo. (Ten
                Speed) A guide to decluttering by discarding your expendable
                objects all at once and taking charge of your space.
2       2  111  THE FIVE LOVE LANGUAGES,  by Gary Chapman. (Northfield) A guide
                to communicating love in a way a spouse will understand ? with
                quality time, affirmative words, gifts, acts of service and
                physical touch.
3       4  12   THE WHOLE30,  by Melissa Hartwig and Dallas Hartwig. (Houghton
                Mifflin Harcourt) An overview of a 30-day guide to better
                health and weight loss. ?
4       5  37   THUG KITCHEN,  by the staff of Thug Kitchen. (Rodale) More than
                100 vegan recipes, including cornmeal waffles with strawberry
                syrup, from the creators of the popular, irreverent website. ?
5       6  18   GET WHAT'S YOURS,  by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, Philip Moeller and
                Paul Solman. (Simon & Schuster) A guide to deciding when to
                claim Social Security benefits and to getting all you're
                eligible for when you do.
6       7  91   WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING,  by Heidi Murkoff and
                Sharon Mazel. (Workman) Advice for parents-to-be. ?
7          50   THE GIFTS OF IMPERFECTION,  by Brene Brown. (Hazelden)
                Embracing who you are, not who you should be.
8*     10  36   THE FAST METABOLISM DIET,  by Haylie Pomroy with Eve Adamson.
                (Harmony) A program to lose weight by rotating food groups.
9           6   TRIGGERS,  by Marshall Goldsmith and Mark Reiter. (Crown
                Business) How to resist the tug of habit and embrace change. ?
10      9  11   BRAIN MAKER,  by David Perlmutter with Kristin Loberg. (Little,
                Brown) A neurologist links brain health to the population of
                microbes inhabiting our bodies.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. IT STARTS WITH FOOD,  by Dallas Hartwig and Melissa Hartwig. (Victory Belt)

12. 10-DAY GREEN SMOOTHIE CLEANSE,  by JJ Smith. (Atria)

13. FRANKLIN BARBECUE,  by Aaron Franklin and Jordan Mackay. (Ten Speed)

14. DARING GREATLY,  by Brene Brown. (Avery)

15. THE UNTETHERED SOUL,  by Michael A. Singer. (New Harbinger/Noetic)

16. YOU ARE A BADASS,  by Jen Sincero. (Running Press)

17. TEAM OF TEAMS,  by Stanley McChrystal with Tantum Collins, David Silverman
and Chris Fussell. (Portfolio/Penguin)

18. THE SKINNYTASTE COOKBOOK,  by Gina Homolka with Heather K. Jones. (Clarkson
Potter)

19. GO THE -- TO SLEEP,  by Adam Mansbach. Illustrated by Ricardo Cortés.
(Akashic Books)

20. MONEY: MASTER THE GAME,  by Tony Robbins. (Simon & Schuster)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); DIETING (87%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BOOK SALES
(78%); RETAILERS (73%); PARENTING (71%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS
(70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 541 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover
                Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1  10   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight.
2       2   4   MODERN ROMANCE,  by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
3       3   3   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street/Morrow)
                Life inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and
                girlfriend of Hugh Hefner.
4           1   A FULL LIFE,  by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster) At 90, the
                39th president (and Nobel Prize winner) reflects on his private
                and public life.
5       4  18   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915.
6      11   6   ADIOS, AMERICA!,  by Ann Coulter. (Regnery) The political
                commentator denounces immigrants and their liberal supporters.
                ?
7           1   A TIME FOR TRUTH,  by Ted Cruz. (Broadside/HarperCollins) The
                Texas senator and Republican presidential candidate tells his
                personal and political story, denounces the lack of
                accountability in Washington and offers ideas for "reigning the
                promise of America."
8       5  40   BEING MORTAL,  by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt) The surgeon
                and New Yorker writer considers how doctors fail patients at
                the end of life and how they can do better.
9*      6  13   THE ROAD TO CHARACTER,  by David Brooks. (Random House) The
                Times columnist extols personal virtues like kindness and
                honesty in a materialistic age.
10     10   2   THE OREGON TRAIL,  by Rinker Buck. (Simon & Schuster) The
                author and his brother travel 2,000 miles by mule and wagon
                from Missouri to Oregon.
11      7   4   SICK IN THE HEAD,  by Judd Apatow. (Random House) Thirty years?
                worth of the filmmaker?s interviews with comedians.
12      9   8   THE QUARTET,  by Joseph J. Ellis. (Knopf) How Washington,
                Hamilton, Jay and Madison created the Constitution.
13          1   THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. ( Doubleday) A
                Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist's biography of Adolf
                Tolkachev, who spied for the United States inside the Soviet
                Union.
14      8   2   ALLY,  by Michael B. Oren. (Random House) A memoir by a former
                Israeli ambassador to the United States, now a Knesset member.
15     13   8   ELON MUSK,  by Ashlee Vance. (Ecco/HarperCollins)  Musk?s life
                from his difficult South African childhood to his involvement
                in Internet start-ups like the rocket company SpaceX and the
                electric-car company Tesla.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. PRIMATES OF PARK AVENUE,  by Wednesday Martin. (Simon & Schuster)

17. LIFE IS SHORT (NO PUN INTENDED),  by Jennifer Arnold and Bill Klein.
(Howard)

18. AND THE GOOD NEWS IS ...,  by Dana Perino. (Twelve)

19. H IS FOR HAWK,  by Helen Macdonald. (Grove)

20. IT'S A LONG STORY,  by Willie Nelson with David Ritz. (Little, Brown)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK
SALES (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); RETAILERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); COURTSHIP & DATING (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); LIBERALISM (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: AZIZ ANSARI (76%); TED CRUZ (67%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 575 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       2  26   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London.
2       3  62   ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner) The
                lives of a blind French girl and a gadget-obsessed German boy
                before and during World War II; the winner of the 2015 Pulitzer
                Prize.
3           1   CODE OF CONDUCT,  by Brad Thor. (Emily Bestler/Atria) In Thor?s
                15th thriller, the counterterrorism operative Scot Harvath
                undertakes a deadly assignment set in motion by a leaked video.
4       1   2   THE ENGLISH SPY,  by Daniel Silva. (Harper) Gabriel Allon, an
                art restorer and occasional spy for the Israeli secret service,
                helps British intelligence track down the killer of a beautiful
                former member of the royal family.
5           1   NEMESIS,  by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam) In Coulter?s 19th
                F.B.I. suspense thriller, the agents Lacey Sherlock and Dillon
                Savich must discover who is responsible for bombings in New
                York City.
6       4   3   TRUTH OR DIE,  by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Little,
                Brown) An attorney discovers a shocking secret that must be
                kept out of the wrong hands.
7       5   6   FINDERS KEEPERS,  by Stephen King. (Scribner) A deranged
                reader's infatuation with a Salingeresque novelist has
                dangerous consequences in a sequel to "Mr. Mercedes."
8      14   9   LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE,  by Jessica Knoll. (Simon & Schuster) The
                life of a successful New York magazine writer is shaken when
                secrets from her past are revealed.
9       6   4   THE RUMOR,  by Elin Hilderbrand. (Little, Brown) Two friends on
                Nantucket must deal with damaging gossip about themselves and
                their husbands.
10      8  23   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                in World War II France: one struggling to survive in the
                countryside, the other joining the Resistance in Paris.
11      9   3   THE MELODY LINGERS ON,  by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon &
                Schuster) A designer is drawn into the lives of family of a
                hedge fund billionaire who has disappeared suspiciously.
12      7   6   IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT,  by Judy Blume. (Knopf) Secrets are
                revealed and love stories play out against the backdrop of a
                series of plane crashes in 1950s New Jersey.
13     10   4   TOM CLANCY UNDER FIRE,  by Grant Blackwood. (Putnam) A former
                collaborator continues Clancy?s series about the covert
                intelligent expert Jack Ryan Jr. (Clancy died in 2013.)
14     12   4   THE PRESIDENT'S SHADOW,  by Brad Meltzer. (Grand Central) In
                the third Culper Ring novel, a severed arm is found in the
                White House Rose Garden.
15     16   2   THE LITTLE PARIS BOOKSHOP,  by Nina George. (Crown) A
                bookseller with a knack for finding just the right book for
                making others feel better embarks on a journey in pursuit of
                his own happiness.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. COUNTRY,  by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte)

17. STAR WARS: DARK DISCIPLE,  by Christie Golden. (LucasBooks)

18. WICKED CHARMS,  by Janet Evanovich and Phoef Sutton. (Bantam)

19. RADIANT ANGEL,  by Nelson DeMille. (Grand Central)

20. THE CARTEL,  by Don Winslow. (Knopf)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ESPIONAGE (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%);
BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS &
SHORT STORIES (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%);
RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); BRITISH ROYALTY
(71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); FAMILY (69%); BOMBINGS (68%);
TERRORISM (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%); STEPHEN KING (58%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (56%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Hardcover Graphic Books: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 454 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Hardcover Graphic
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1      161 BATMAN: THE KILLING JOKE,  by Alan Moore and Brian Bolland. (DC
           Comics) This critically acclaimed story from 1988 offers a
           possible origin for the Joker.
2       62 CAN'T WE TALK ABOUT SOMETHING MORE PLEASANT?,  by Roz Chast.
           (Bloomsbury) In this memoir, the cartoonist examines her
           parents from their early days as mother and father to their
           later years facing old age and poor health.
3       47 SECONDS,  by Bryan Lee O'Malley. (Ballantine) A restaurant chef
           discovers how to go back and ?fix? previous events in her life,
           but each change brings unintended, and potentially dangerous,
           consequences.
4       12 NATHAN HALE?S HAZARDOUS TALES: THE UNDERGROUND ABDUCTOR,  by
           Nathan Hale. (Abrams) Harriet Tubman?s escape from slavery is
           the latest subject to be covered in this nonfiction series.
5        1 IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME: SWANN'S WAY,  by Marcel Proust,
           Stéphane Heuet and Arthur Goldhammer. (Liveright) The first
           part of Proust?s seven?volume novel is adapted here, where the
           narrator recalls moments from his childhood.
6       12 THE THRILLING ADVENTURES OF LOVELACE AND BABBAGE,  by Sydney
           Padua. (Pantheon) This alternate history tale imagines a world
           where the mathematicians Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace are
           able to build a mechanical, steam?powered computer in the
           1840s.
7        4 BATGIRL, VOL. 1,  by Cameron Stewart, Brenden Fletcher and Babs
           Tarr. (DC Comics) Barbara Gordon moves to Burnside, but
           Gotham?s hippest neighborhood has problems of its own: like
           twin sister assassins, blackmailers and a Batgirl impostor.
8       21 THE SCULPTOR,  by Scott McCloud. (First Second) A young artist
           in a creative and financial rut makes a pact with Death where
           he is granted incredible powers, but has only 200 days to use
           them before he dies.
9        4 NATHAN HALE'S HAZARDOUS TALES: DONNER DINNER PARTY,  by Nathan
           Hale. (Abrams Books) This nonfiction graphic novel chronicles
           the various delays and mishaps that contributed to the
           disastrous Donner Party wagon train expedition in the 1840s.
10       9 BONE, NO. 1 (TRIBUTE EDITION),  by Jeff Smith. (Scholastic) The
           great Bone saga begins in this new edition ? with bonus
           material ? as Fone Bone, Phoney Bone and Smiley Bone meet new
           friends, and some scary monsters, outside of Boneville.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%);
BESTSELLERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); NON
FICTION LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%);
RESTAURANTS (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (68%); SCULPTURE (65%); SLAVERY (65%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511120
PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Series Books: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 328 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Series
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1        5 LAND OF STORIES,  by Chris Colfer. Illustrated by Brandon
           Dorman. (Little, Brown & Company) Alex and Conner join forces
           with friends -- and enemies -- in these fairy tale adventures.
           (Ages 8 to 12)
2      144 THE MAZE RUNNER,  by James Dashner. (Random House Publishing)
           Amnesiac teenagers endure a series of trials. (Ages 12 and up)
3      329 HARRY POTTER,  by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic) A wizard hones
           his conjuring skills in the service of fighting evil. (Ages 10
           and up)
4      130 DORK DIARIES,  by Rachel Renée Russell. (Simon & Schuster)
           Nikki Maxwell navigates the halls of middle school. (Ages 9 to
           13)
5       47 THE SELECTION,  by Kiera Cass. (HarperTeen) A competition
           offers girls a chance to escape a life laid out since birth.
           (Ages 13 and up)
6        2 STAR WARS: JEDI ACADEMY,  by Jeffrey Brown. (Scholastic) A jedi
           chronicles his training in these graphic novels. (Ages 8 to 12)
7        2 DAUGHTER OF SMOKE AND BONE,  by Laini Taylor. (Little, Brown &
           Company) Humans, seraphim and chimera in an epic battle. (Ages
           14 and up)
8      331 DIARY OF A WIMPY KID,  written and illustrated by Jeff Kinney.
           (Abrams Books) The travails and challenges of adolescence.
           (Ages 9 to 12)
9        7 WINGS OF FIRE,  by Tui T. Sutherland. (Scholastic) Only the
           five dragonets of destiny can unite the seven, warring dragon
           tribes. (Ages 9 to 12)
10      90 DIVERGENT,  by Veronica Roth. (HarperCollins Publishers) A girl
           must prove herself in a dystopia divided into five factions.
           (Ages 14 and up)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%);
CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%);
FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%);
RETAILERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (56%);
SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%)

PERSON: VERONICA ROTH (79%); J K ROWLING (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: E-Book Fiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 485 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: E-Book Fiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   4   GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A sequel told from Christian?s
                point of view.
2           1   NEMESIS,  by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam) The F.B.I. agents
                Lacey Sherlock and Dillon Savich must discover who is
                responsible for bombings in New York City.
3       3  26   THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN,  by Paula Hawkins. (Riverhead) A
                psychological thriller set in the environs of London is full of
                complications and betrayals.
4           1   CODE OF CONDUCT,  by Brad Thor. (Emily Bestler/Atria) In Thor?s
                15th thriller, the counterterrorism operative Scot Harvath
                undertakes a deadly assignment set in motion by a leaked video.
5           1   EARTH BOUND,  by Christine Feehan. (Jove)  A stranger becomes
                infatuated with Lexi after freeing her from a cult?s clutches;
                a Sea Haven novel.
6          11   WHISKEY BEACH,  by Nora Roberts. (Putnam) A former criminal
                attorney who has been acquitted of his wife?s murder retreats
                to his family estate on a rocky New England cliff, where he is
                comforted by the house?s caretaker amid continuing danger.
7       2   2   THE ENGLISH SPY,  by Daniel Silva. (Harper) Gabriel Allon, an
                art restorer and occasional spy for the Israeli secret service,
                helps British intelligence track down the killer of a beautiful
                former member of the royal family.
8       7   4   THE RUMOR,  by Elin Hilderbrand. (Little, Brown) Two friends on
                Nantucket must deal with damaging gossip about themselves and
                their husbands.
9      10   8   LUCKIEST GIRL ALIVE,  by Jessica Knoll. (Simon & Schuster) The
                life of a cutthroat and successful New York magazine writer is
                shaken when secrets from her past are revealed during the
                filming of a documentary about a shooting at the prestigious
                high school she attended.
10         18   THE NIGHTINGALE,  by Kristin Hannah. (St. Martin's) Two sisters
                in World War II France: one struggling to survive in the
                countryside, the other  joining the Resistance in Paris.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Crown)

12. ALL THE LIGHT WE CANNOT SEE,  by Anthony Doerr. (Scribner)

13. MANWHORE +1,  by Katy Evans. (Gallery)

14. PROTECTING JESSYKA,  by Susan Stoker. (Susan Stoker)

15. EASY CHARM,  by Kristen Proby. (Ampersand)

16. SEALS OF SUMMER 2,  by Elle James and others. (SOS Ladies)

17. TRUTH OR DIE,  by James Patterson and Howard Roughen. (Little, Brown)

18. QUEEN OF FIRE,  by Anthony Ryan. (Ace)

19. WHEN A BETA ROARS,  by Eve Langlais. (Eve Langlais)

20. PARIS ARCHITECT,  by Charles Belfoure. (Sourcebooks)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING
(90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%);
WRITERS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); MURDER (69%); FAMILY (69%); TERRORISM (68%); BOMBINGS
(68%); WORLD WAR II (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); NORTHEAST USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 547 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: Combined Print &
                E-Book Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   3   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street) Life
                inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and girlfriend of
                Hugh Hefner.
2       3  60   THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) The
                University of Washington?s eight-oar crew and their quest for
                gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.
3       4   4   MODERN ROMANCE,  by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
4       2  10   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight; by the author of ?1776? and ?The Greater
                Journey.?
5       5  18   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915; by the author of ?The Devil in the White City.?
6       6  21   I AM MALALA,  by Malala Yousafzai with Christina Lamb. (Little,
                Brown) The experience of the Pakistani girl who advocated for
                women?s education and was shot by the Taliban.
7           1   LIAR, TEMPTRESS, SOLDIER, SPY,  by Karen Abbott. (Harper) Four
                courageous women in the Civil War.
8           1   A FULL LIFE,  by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster) At 90, the
                39th president (and Nobel Prize winner) reflects on his private
                and public life.
9          47   OUTLIERS,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown) Why some people
                succeed; from the author of "Blink" and "The Tipping Point."
10          1   THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. ( Doubleday) A
                biography of Adolf Tolkachev, who spied for the United States
                inside the Soviet Union.
11          1   LET'S TAKE THE LONG WAY HOME,  by Gail Caldwell. (Random House)
                A tribute to a deep friendship between two women writers.
                Originally published in 2010.
12          1   THE OREGON TRAIL,  by Rinker Buck. (Simon & Schuster) The
                author and his brother travel 2,000 miles by mule and wagon
                from Missouri to Oregon.
13          1   A TIME FOR TRUTH,  by Ted Cruz. (Broadside/HarperCollins) The
                Texas senator and Republican presidential candidate tells his
                personal and political story, denounces the lack of
                accountability in Washington and offers ideas for ?reigniting
                the promise of America.?
14          1   FOUNDING MOTHERS,  by Cokie Roberts. (HarperCollins) The news
                analyst details the lives of the many women (Abigail Adams and
                Martha Washington among them) who "raised our nation."
                Originally published in 2004.
15          7   THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY,  by Erik Larson. (Vintage) How an
                architect and a serial killer were linked by the Chicago
                World's Fair of 1893.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

16. BEING MORTAL,  by Atul Gawande. (Metropolitan/Holt)

17. ¡ADIOS, AMERICA!,  by Ann Coulter. (Regnery)

18. WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf)

19. UNBROKEN,  by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House)

20. THE GLASS CASTLE,  by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WOMEN (86%); BIOGRAPHICAL
LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); RETAILERS (73%);
CRUISES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); WORLD WAR I (69%); COURTSHIP &
DATING (69%); TALIBAN (68%); OLYMPICS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES
(61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: MALALA YOUSAFZAI (73%); AZIZ ANSARI (70%); TED CRUZ (60%); JIMMY CARTER
(53%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 449 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback
           Nonfiction
This    On
Week  List
1       59 THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) A group
           of American rowers pursued gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympic
           Games.
2        6 I AM MALALA,  by Malala Yousafzai with Christina Lamb. (Little,
           Brown) The Nobel Peace Prize-winner and teenage activist
           recounts her path to learning.
3      195 OUTLIERS,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) Why
           some people succeed ? it has to do with luck and opportunities
           as well as talent.
4      295 THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY,  by Erik Larson. (Vintage) A story
           of how an architect and a serial killer were linked by the
           World's Fair of 1893.
5      367 THE GLASS CASTLE,  by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner) The author
           recalls a bizarre childhood during which she was constantly on
           the move. ?
6       91 A LONG WAY GONE,  by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar,
           Straus & Giroux) A former child soldier's killing spree and
           return to humanity.
7      178 THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS,  by Rebecca Skloot.
           (Broadway) A woman's cancer cells were cultured without her
           permission in 1951.
8       36 THE OTHER WES MOORE,  by Wes Moore. (Spiegel & Grau) A tale of
           two Wes Moores: the author, a Rhodes scholar; the other, a man
           in prison.
9       88 AMERICAN SNIPER,  by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim
           DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins) A memoir recounts the
           battlefield experiences in Iraq by the Navy SEALs sniper; a
           2014 movie.
10      50 UNBROKEN,  by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic
           runner?s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese during
           World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific. A 2014
           movie.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Vintage)

12. A WORK IN PROGRESS,  by Connor Franta. (Keywords/Atria)

13. THE TIPPING POINT,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)

14. ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK,  by Piper Kerman. (Spiegel & Grau)

15. THINKING, FAST AND SLOW,  by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)

16. THINK LIKE A FREAK,  by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow)

17. DAVID AND GOLIATH,  by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown)

18. THE POWER OF HABIT,  by Charles Duhigg. (Random House)

19. QUIET,  by Susan Cain. (Broadway)

20. THE NEW JIM CROW,  by Michelle Alexander. (New Press)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%);
WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); CHILD SOLDIERS
(75%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (75%); NAVIES (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(75%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); RETAILERS
(73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); MURDER (71%); RUNNING (69%); HOMICIDE (66%);
CHILDREN (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (64%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: MALALA YOUSAFZAI (71%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic Books: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 406 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback Graphic
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1       32 FUN HOME,  by Alison Bechdel. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) In
           her first memoir, the author chronicles the life and death of
           her father, a closeted gay man and funeral director.
2      102 DRAMA,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Middle-school drama
           becomes much more intense when Callie becomes the stage manager
           for a production of "Moon Over Mississippi."
3      161 SMILE,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Raina experiences
           braces, an earthquake, boy troubles, frenemies and other
           plagues of the sixth grade.
4       47 SISTERS,  by Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Raina is stuck in
           the back seat between her younger brother and sister for a
           weeklong road trip in this family memoir. Will such close
           quarters force the siblings to finally get along?
5       49 PERSEPOLIS,  by Marjane Satrapi. (Pantheon) The author?s life
           in Iran during its 1979 revolution and its war with Iraq.
6        2 THE WICKED + THE DIVINE, VOL. 2,  by Kieron Gillen and Jamie
           McKelvie. (Image Comics) After the death of Lucifer, the pop
           star gods and their fans prepare for the Ragnarock festival.
7       35 EL DEAFO,  by Cece Bell. (Amulet) A young girl experiences
           hearing loss and receives the Phonic Ear, a bulky hearing aid
           that comes with a mischievous benefit: She can hear her teacher
           no matter where she goes in school.
8       13 ROLLER GIRL,  by Victoria Jamieson. (Dial Books) Astrid decides
           to join a summer roller derby camp before she begins junior
           high, but can she keep up with the older girls and stay close
           to her best friend even though they are growing apart?
9        8 NIMONA,  by Noelle Stevenson. (HarperCollins) Nimona is a
           shapeshifter and super villain in training who continually
           confounds her mentor with her unpredictability.
10      11 THE BABY?SITTERS CLUB GRAPHIX: KRISTY'S GREAT IDEA,  by Ann M.
           Martin and Raina Telgemeier. (Scholastic) Four best friends
           start a babysitting business in this all-color adaptation of
           the first book in the popular series.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC
NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); BOOK SALES (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%);
RETAILERS (73%); HEARING AIDS (63%); DEAFNESS (63%); ROLLERBLADING &
ROLLERSKATING (61%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); IRAQ (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Paperback Trade Fiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 465 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Paperback Trade
           Fiction
This    On
Week  List
1        4 GREY,  by E. L. James. (Vintage) A sequel, told from
           Christian?s point of view, revisits the tortured romance
           between the controlling billionaire and the unassuming Ana.
2       37 THE MARTIAN,  by Andy Weir. (Broadway) After a dust storm
           forces his crew to abandon him, an astronaut embarks on a
           dogged quest to stay alive on Mars.
3      362 THE ALCHEMIST,  by Paulo Coelho. (HarperOne/HarperCollins) In
           this fable, a Spanish shepherd boy ventures to Egypt in search
           of treasure and his destiny.
4        5 THE VACATIONERS,  by Emma Straub. (Riverhead) Well-heeled New
           Yorkers and their friends spend two weeks in Majorca, a time
           when rivalries and secrets come to light.
5       88 DARK PLACES,  by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway) A woman who, as a
           child, was spared when her mother and sisters were murdered
           begins to reinvestigate the case against her imprisoned
           brother.
6        6 EVERYTHING I NEVER TOLD YOU,  by Celeste Ng. (Penguin) A
           daughter?s death from drowning tears away at a Chinese-American
           family in 1970s Ohio.
7       14 THE GOLDFINCH,  by Donna Tartt. (Back Bay/Little, Brown) After
           his mother is killed in a museum explosion, a young man
           grapples with the world alone while hiding a prized Dutch
           painting.
8        6 STATION ELEVEN,  by Emily St. John Mandel. (Vintage) After a
           pandemic, a small troupe of actors and musicians dedicate
           themselves to keeping the remnants of art and humanity alive.
9        8 EUPHORIA,  by Lily King. (Grove) Three anthropologists, in the
           wilds of 1930s New Guinea, find themselves caught in a
           passionate love triangle.
10      10 THE INVENTION OF WINGS,  by Sue Monk Kidd. (Penguin) The bond
           between a wealthy Charleston girl, who grows up to become an
           abolitionist, and the slave she is given for her 11th birthday.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. READY PLAYER ONE,  by Ernest Cline. (Broadway)

12. THE HUSBAND'S SECRET,  by Liane Moriarty. (Berkley)

13. ORPHAN TRAIN,  by Christina Baker Kline. (Morrow/HarperCollins)

14. LEAVING TIME,  by Jodi Picoult. (Ballantine)

15. THE ROSIE PROJECT,  by Graeme Simsion. (Simon & Schuster)

16. AMERICANAH,  by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. (Anchor)

17. GONE GIRL,  by Gillian Flynn. (Broadway)

18. WHAT ALICE FORGOT,  by Liane Moriarty. (Berkley)

19. SOME LUCK,  by Jane Smiley. (Anchor)

20. MR. MERCEDES,  by Stephen King. (Gallery Books)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK
SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(73%); ORPHANS (72%); BIRDS (69%); MURDER (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); THEATER
COMPANIES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); PAINTING (67%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: DONNA TARTT (79%)

STATE: MARS (71%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (70%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: Children's Picture Books: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 327 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Children's Picture
           Books
This    On
Week  List
1      107 THE DAY THE CRAYONS QUIT,  by Drew Daywalt. Illustrated by
           Oliver Jeffers. (Philomel) Problems arise when Duncan's crayons
           revolt. (Ages 3 to 7)
2       41 THE BOOK WITH NO PICTURES,  by B. J. Novak. (Dial) Silly songs
           and sound effects in a book without images. (Ages 4 to 8)
3       77 DRAGONS LOVE TACOS,  by Adam Rubin. Illustrated by Daniel
           Salmieri. (Dial) What to serve your dragon-guests. (Ages 3 to
           5)
4      197 GOODNIGHT, GOODNIGHT, CONSTRUCTION SITE,  by Sherri Duskey
           Rinker and Tom Lichtenheld. (Chronicle) As the sun sets,
           hard-working trucks get ready for bed. (Ages 4 to 8)
5      200 PRESS HERE,  by Hervé Tullet. (Handprint/Chronicle) A whimsical
           dance of color and motion, at the touch of a finger. (Ages 4 to
           8)
6       32 WAITING IS NOT EASY!,  by Mo Willems. (Hyperion) Impatient
           Gerald has to wait for Piggie?s promised surprise. (Ages 2 to
           7)
7       57 ROSIE REVERE, ENGINEER,  by Andrea Beaty. Illustrated by David
           Roberts. (Abrams) A young inventor learns to fail better. (Ages
           4 to 8)
8       17 THE ADVENTURES OF BEEKLE,  by Dan Santat. (Little, Brown) A
           heretofore imaginary friend sets off to find a real child.
           (Ages 3 to 6)
9        5 YOUR BABY'S FIRST WORD WILL BE DADA,  by Jimmy Fallon.
           Illustrated by Miguel Ordóñez. (Feiwel & Friends) Animal
           fathers hope to hear a certain word from their little ones.
           (Ages 3 to 5)
10       6 I WILL TAKE A NAP!,  by Mo Willems. (Hyperion) Red-eyed Gerald
           needs some sleep, or is it Piggie who's due for a nap? (Ages 6
           to 8)

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK SALES (78%);
RETAILERS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Best Sellers: Manga: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 360 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



     Weeks                               Best Sellers: Manga
This    On
Week  List
1        4 TOKYO GHOUL, VOL. 1,  by Sui Ishida. (VIZ Media) Ken Kaneki is
           attacked by a monster, but somehow survives the encounter and
           becomes the first half-human, half-ghoul hybrid.
2        1 BLEACH, VOL. 64,  by Tite Kubo. (VIZ Media) Ichigo Kurosaki
           sees dead people he helps into the afterlife. In this volume,
           the war between the Soul Reapers and the Quincies rages on.
3        2 SWORD ART ONLINE: PROGRESSIVE, VOL. 2,  by Reki Kawahara and
           Kiseki Himura. (Yen Press) Can the high-achieving student Yuuki
           Asuna adapt to her new, fantastical surroundings?
4       16 BIG HERO 6, VOL. 1,  by Haruki Ueno. (Yen Press) In this
           series, Hiro investigates the disappearance of his brother,
           with help from his robot, Baymax.
5       15 ASSASSINATION CLASSROOM, VOL. 1,  by Yusei Matsui. (VIZ Media)
           The students of class 3?E have only one assignment: kill their
           teacher, a supremely powerful being.
6        6 NARUTO, VOL. 70,  by Masashi Kishimoto. (VIZ Media) As this
           series barrels toward its conclusion, Naruto is out of
           commission, forcing Guy to face Madara.
7      106 ATTACK ON TITAN, VOL. 1,  by Hajime Isayama. (Kodansha Comics)
           A group of survivors must go into hiding to escape the giant
           humanoids known as the Titans.
8        4 ASSASSINATION CLASSROOM, VOL. 3,  by Yusei Matsui. (VIZ Media)
           A socially awkward Norwegian robot joins the students of class
           3?E.
9        1 POKÉMON ADVENTURES, VOL. 29,  by Hidenori Kusaka and Satoshi
           Yamamoto. (Perfect Square) Some of the Pokémon have been turned
           to stone and only defeating Archie can save them.
10       3 NORAGAMI, VOL. 5,  by Adachitoka. (Kodansha Comics) To build a
           lavish temple in his own honor, Yato takes on odd jobs and
           helps those in need for a nominal fee.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); BOOK SALES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RETAILERS
(73%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, July 26th 2015

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 457 words


About the Best Sellers:

These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 26, 2015
print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending July 11,
2015. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable
from those of the book above it. A dagger (?) indicates that some retailers
report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit
http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.



          Weeks                               Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction
This Last  On
Week Week List
1       1   3   DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE,  by Holly Madison. (Dey Street/Morrow)
                Life inside the Playboy Mansion, by a former bunny and
                girlfriend of Hugh Hefner.
2       2  77   THE BOYS IN THE BOAT,  by Daniel James Brown. (Penguin) The
                University of Washington?s eight-oar crew and their quest for
                gold at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.
3           1   LIAR, TEMPTRESS, SOLDIER, SPY,  by Karen Abbott. (Harper) Four
                courageous women during the Civil War.
4           1   LET'S TAKE THE LONG WAY HOME,  by Gail Caldwell. (Random House)
                A tribute to a deep friendship between two women writers,
                cemented by their love of dogs. Originally published in 2010.
5           3   FOUNDING MOTHERS,  by Cokie Roberts. (HarperCollins) The ABC
                News commentator details the lives of the many women (Abigail
                Adams and Martha Washington among them) who ''raised our
                nation.'' Originally published in 2004.
6       5   4   MODERN ROMANCE,  by  Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. (Penguin
                Press) The comedian enlists a sociologist to help him
                understand today?s dating scene.
7           1   CARY GRANT,  by Geoffrey Wansell. (Arcade) A biography of the
                actor, with photographs. Originally published in 1997.
8       3  10   THE WRIGHT BROTHERS,  by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster)
                The story of the bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the
                age of flight; by the author of ?1776? and ?The Greater
                Journey.?
9       7  18   DEAD WAKE,  by Erik Larson. (Crown) The last voyage of the
                Lusitania, the passenger liner sunk by a German torpedo in
                1915; by the author of "The Devil in the White City."
10          1   THE BILLION DOLLAR SPY,  by David E. Hoffman. ( Doubleday) A
                biography of Adolf Tolkachev, who spied for the United States
                inside the Soviet Union.

*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****

11. CLOSE TO SHORE,  by Michael Capuzzo. (Broadway)

12. THE LOST HISTORY OF CHRISTIANITY,  by Philip Jenkins. (HarperOne)

13. THE OREGON TRAIL,  by Rinker Buck. (Simon & Schuster)

14. THE CLASS OF 1846,  by John C. Waugh. (Ballantine)

15. BLACKOUT,  by Sarah Hepola. (Grand Central)

16. THE QUEEN'S HOUSES,  by Alan Titchmarsh. (BBC Books)

17. TRIUMPH,  by Carolyn Jessop with Laura Palmer. (Three Rivers Press)

18. WILD,  by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf)

19. ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK,  by Piper Kerman. (Spiegel & Grau)

20. UNBROKEN,  by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House)


URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS
(90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(89%); BOOK SALES (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); RETAILERS (73%); CRUISES (73%); WORLD
WAR I (72%); WOMEN (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); COURTSHIP & DATING (69%); OLYMPICS
(67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: AZIZ ANSARI (73%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Transformation

BYLINE: By JAMES HANNAHAM.

James Hannaham is the author of the novels ''God Says No'' and ''Delicious
Foods.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2890 words


A sinewy black man with a shaved head, wearing shiny gold ankle boots, sashays
runway-style across the pine floorboards of the New 42nd Street Studios,
microphone in hand. In addition to the boots, he wears black drop-crotch
sweatpants and a gray tank top that soon becomes drenched in sweat. His nails
sparkle with dark green glittery polish. He's still a little wobbly on the
platform heels and exaggerates the swing of his hips, but when the choreography
calls for a high kick, his leg stretches up almost impossibly above his
shoulders. He drops to the floor and rolls his body from head to toe with an
impressively liquid suppleness. When he turns, his smile is bashful, modest.

On the far side of the space, several puffy blond wigs on stands wait on a
folding table, at least one of which you know must eventually grace that taut
head. The man kicks over the mike stand and pulls it back toward his face with
the cable, singing, ''Try and tear me down!'' The mike stand falls. Playing
Hedwig will need to look easy for this guy in two weeks, but right now it looks
like disco-funk boot camp with Grace Jones.

The man standing before you, stumbling over the gnarled roots of a fake German
accent, is Taye Diggs. That's right. Taye Diggs, the buffed, straight,
44-year-old African-American sex symbol Ebony magazine once called ''the black
Clark Gable.'' The star who gave Angela Bassett (and most other warm-blooded
animals) a love catharsis in ''How Stella Got Her Groove Back'' (1998), with a
complexion smoother than osmosis and a solar smile. He's an actor who radiates
as much sex appeal when he's wearing a suit, a pair of thick glasses and a
fedora as when he's naked to the waist.

Hold up, though -- is this not madness? Black America's most eligible bachelor
is about to play a glammed-out Teutonic genderqueer mash-up of Nico and Axl
Rose?

''Hedwig and the Angry Inch,'' currently in an open-ended Broadway run, began
life in the early 1990s as a series of monologues and songs by the writer-actor
John Cameron Mitchell and the composer and lyricist Stephen Trask, which they
first developed in the SoHo club Don Hill's during a queer punk-rock drag party
called Squeezebox. In this glitter-laden rock musical, the East German chanteuse
Hedwig Robinson (née Hansel Schmidt) recounts her sordid, tragic life story.
Born in a male body, Hansel concocts a scheme to flee his Communist nation by
getting a sex change and legally marrying an American G.I. But the surgery goes
wrong, leaving Hansel with an ''angry inch.'' He decides thereafter to live as a
woman, changing his name to Hedwig.

The character's humor, vulnerability and quirky theatricality immediately caught
on with beings of all genders and sexual orientations. ''Hedwig'' played for 857
performances, became an award-winning 2001 film and since 2014 has enjoyed a
Broadway comeback that won four Tony Awards. Playing the part of Hedwig in the
current run has become something of a rhinestone scout badge for both gay and
straight white male theater geeks -- perhaps most famously Neil Patrick Harris,
who assumed the role with athletic, cheeky panache, shedding once and for all
his square Doogie Howser past and winning a Tony. How to shake things up after
all that? Mitchell and Trask keep a running list of people they would like to
see step into Hedwig's gilded boots. ''It's so exhaustive that it includes Meryl
Streep,'' Trask told me. They figured Meryl Streep wasn't available, so they
made a more daring choice and asked Taye Diggs.

Diggs, until now, has been the kind of sex symbol you could marry. He plays
stable, intelligent, sane guys, like the good doctor Sam Bennett on ''Grey's
Anatomy'' and its spinoff, ''Private Practice,'' and the hapless novelist Harper
Stewart in the highly popular and profitable black upscale comedy ''The Best
Man'' (1999) and its sequels. Diggs's roles aren't irritatingly wholesome
dweebs, or overly ambitious jerks, or capricious bad boys, but brothers who
could wear Tommy Hilfiger while playing croquet and still look as if they were
keeping it halfway real. If you start to salivate when you hear the phrase
''black men with jobs,'' then Diggs is your guy.

Though Diggs has seen ''Hedwig'' many times -- he's a Broadway boy, after all,
who got one of his first breaks as part of the original cast of ''Rent'' -- he
admits that the first time, it freaked him out. ''I was young, and back then,
transgender scared me, and there was this man onstage with a crazy wig,'' he
said. Then he had a gradual, though radical, change of heart. ''Since I was a
kid, I've been trying to wean myself off of seeing things as right and wrong and
black and white and good and bad. And Hedwig was a mixture of all that stuff.''
It became a role he dreamed of doing. ''But I didn't think it would ever
happen,'' he said. ''I assumed that nobody would ever have the open-mindedness
to cast this character black.'' Au contraire, mon hunk!

Trask sees hiring Diggs as an augmentation of the show's original mission
statement. ''The whole point of many of the songs and much of the subject matter
of the show,'' he says, ''was to break down the walls between different
categories that we perceive as being opposites, like male and female or straight
and gay.'' With the demolition of the Berlin Wall as the musical's central
metaphor for the destruction of binary thinking, it makes sense that
obliterating the line between black and white would follow.

That said, while watching Diggs in rehearsal, you immediately notice how his
presence makes the show's many European influences stand out. I think of the
Zora Neale Hurston quote smeared across the artist Glenn Ligon's canvases: ''I
feel most colored when I am thrown against a sharp white background.''
''Hedwig'' mines Greek myth for inspiration: You can't get much whiter than
drawing from the foundation of the Western liberal arts education, though some
of the classical ideas the show borrows are queer. The song ''The Origin of
Love'' updates Aristophanes's speech about the nature of gender and sexuality
from Plato's ''Symposium'' -- ''There were three sexes then,'' one verse begins.
Sure. But his blackness is thrown into relief. I noticed this particularly at
the start of the show, as Hedwig develops her gestalt and recounts her musical
influences: They are soft-rock white ladies (Toni Tennille, Debby Boone) and
hard-rock white dudes (Lou Reed, Iggy Pop). I feel a bit sad to think that a
black European kid of the era might not have discovered the German black
glitz-funk band Boney M. But that lament is esoteric enough to feel slightly
unfair (and later in the show, Hedwig does mention Tina Turner and Aretha
Franklin). It's more exciting to assume that the creators simply chose Diggs and
leapt in, knowing they would have to reshape the show around him, but not
exactly how.

The dining room of the Lambs Club, a glitzy showbiz hangout right across the
street from the theater, was mostly empty on the Tuesday night when I arrived to
meet Diggs. The restaurant's interior was all ribbed red and black neo-Art Deco
-- shiny leather banquettes, mirrors, crisp white tablecloths. Generic soul
music played at a pleasant volume, creating the odd sensation of being on the
set of a Taye Diggs film.

I found Diggs facing the back wall in the rear of the dining room, presumably so
that no one would recognize him. He wore a black T-shirt that revealed the
tattoos on his arms: One says RISE inside a black box, the other is a drawing by
his son that resembles a cave painting, accompanied by the words I LOVE YOU
DADDY in kid-scrawl. By his side, his trademark fedora sat on his duffel bag. He
was a little bit slumped in his chair after an eight-hour rehearsal, and he
seemed to be muttering to himself. When I tapped his arm to get his attention, I
saw there was a script in his lap and he was memorizing his lines. ''Tonight
I'll go over this with my mom,'' he said, hiding the script in his bag. His
mother, Marcia Berry-Diggs, was staying in Harlem, conveniently; an actor and a
teacher, she frequently gives him expert advice.

''This role is somewhat representative of my life right now,'' he said, without
acknowledging how strange that sounds, given who Hedwig is. He has not appeared
on Broadway in more than a decade, and he spoke wistfully of his recent
(reportedly amicable) divorce from his wife of 10 years, the ''Frozen'' snow
queen and ''Wicked'' Tony-winner Idina Menzel. The two of them met when they
both starred in ''Rent''; their son, Walker, was born in 2009. Perhaps taking
this part falls into that category of crazy things newly divorced guys do to
express their autonomy. Before the first course arrived, he blurted out: ''I tip
my hat to Idina. She's been doing it'' -- this kind of Broadway work, he means
-- ''and with Walker. I look at her with even more respect and a little bit of
awe. TV is like a walk in the park,'' he said, compared with this.

''It's not like you've never done it before,'' I said.

''Not like this.''

He seemed almost dazed. Our fast-talking, decisive waiter, a brother with
bolt-upright posture, expertly provided long descriptions of the dishes,
involving tarragon jus and glazed lamb belly, and ended up choosing his entree
for him (it wasn't until the check arrived that the waiter let on that he
recognized Diggs, wishing him luck with the show). Maybe it was his exhaustion,
but Diggs appeared to think very hard about everything that crossed his mind.
His movements all took place as if in slow-mo, whether he squinted, smiled or
nodded. When he moved his jaw to speak or chew, his scalp undulated.

Diggs has built a bankable career largely by playing successful black men, with
not a gang member or drug fiend among them. I admire him for finding gold in
that small niche, but after representing so many role models, I can see why he
wants to break out and be outrageous. It will be a reach: I can detect little
difference between the solid, dependable men he usually plays and his actual
demeanor. He does not seem uncomfortable with his image on any front. Asked if
it bothers him that people constantly objectify him, he said: ''I can't really
complain. I grew up skinny and nerdy, so there are worse things.'' A tuna
tartare arrived garnished with a caper-like vegetable neither of us could
identify. Diggs poked at it and muttered, ''Fancy,'' as if most of his daily
life did not already merit that word.

The man born Scott Berry -- Taye was shortened from the nickname Scotty, which
was pronounced ''Scott-taye'' -- did not grow up particularly fancy. He was born
in 1971 in Newark to Marcia Berry and a visual artist named Andre Young, and
then moved, at age 3 or 4, to Rochester. ''The family was me and my mother,'' he
explains. ''She wanted to get away,'' he continues, ''so she moved to Rochester,
New York.'' He never knew his father.

In Rochester, his mother met and married Jeffries Diggs and had four more
children with him. Taye adopted his last name. His stepfather took the family on
a whirlwind tour of many religious denominations -- Catholic, Pentecostal,
Baptist, even Jews for Jesus, ''or something of that nature,'' Diggs says. In
the '70s, they also changed neighborhoods a lot, which may help explain Diggs's
open-mindedness; at many points in his life, it must have been a survival skill.
This quality has clearly served him as a man of color navigating not one but
three cutthroat worlds -- Broadway, Hollywood and America.

His parents were strict and protective -- ''I was never out late, I was never
hanging with the wrong crowd; that wasn't even an option,'' he told me -- but
they made the surprising choice to send him to high school at Rochester's School
of the Arts, a progressive public school in the city's cultural district, where
he had lessons in experimental theater and Afro-Caribbean dance. ''I remember at
the time I didn't want to leave my friends at the other school,'' Diggs recalls,
''even though I wasn't doing much. But then once I got there, I shone.''

Ah, a rare moment in which Diggs directs a compliment toward himself. He's so
modest that he follows nearly 500,000 people on Twitter. That's him following
them. His gameness has become a running Internet joke. Humility and ambivalence
pour so easily from him that everyone within range seems to want to help him.
''I'm attracted to nice people, people that are kind, to a certain extent
selfless,'' he tells you. If ''Hedwig'' goes well, I think, perhaps his next
role will be Blanche DuBois? But then I think: That's me! I'm kind! I'm to a
certain extent selfless! But my reverie is cut short when Diggs glances at his
watch, picks up his bag and fedora and goes off to meet his mother. He's got a
role to inhabit, the strangest one of his life.

The creators of ''Hedwig and the Angry Inch'' must recognize that casting Diggs
is a powerful, timely move. They're celebrating both the ambiguity of gender and
the beauty and skill of a black actor at a time when displays of black people's
bodies in peril have become daily news. But it wouldn't be like them to say that
they were trying to inject even more political complexity into the show. It
would seem too obvious, or too much pressure to put on an effervescent musical.

Some people who see the show will probably raise the age-old objection to the
spectacle of black male performers cross-dressing. The roster of comedy stars
who have regularly done drag is almost a who's who of top-grossing black comics:
Flip Wilson, Tyler Perry, Martin Lawrence, Eddie Murphy. Black folks wary of
mainstream -- that is to say, predominantly white -- tastes argue that white
consumers are reveling in the degradation of black masculinity. In 2006, for
example, Dave Chappelle insinuated, while speaking to Oprah Winfrey, that doing
drag has negative effects on the black male image, and that white power brokers
coerce these black stars into feminizing themselves all the way to the bank.

But seeing drag as fundamentally degrading is definitely close-minded, and
possibly homophobic. Criticisms of this sort have never gotten any traction in
the theater world, where eine kleine nachtemasculation might be just what the
doctor ordered for macho cultures. If any misgivings about feminizing black men
(or men of any color, really) were raised with Mitchell or Trask, they would
voluptuously roll their eyes in response. These peacocks wouldn't care if you
put a sack of Idaho potatoes onstage in drag as long as it could sing.

A few days after our dinner, I caught up with Diggs at Soho House, a
members-only club in the Meatpacking District to which he belongs. The dining
room had the hushed elegance of a library, with windows overlooking the bustle
of Ninth Avenue on a sunny Saturday late afternoon and an abundance of
unfinished round wooden tables. Diggs is a regular here, and he seemed more
relaxed, even though he had bitten his tongue during one of those eight-hour
rehearsals. ''It doesn't hurt to talk,'' he reassured me. Later I noticed a
bright spot of blood in his mouth.

Upstairs, on the roof deck, dance music blasted and a crowd of half-naked
sunbathers swarmed around a swimming pool like some MTV special on
30-somethings. People know Diggs here -- a fit young woman with voluminous
Beyoncé hair who used to date a friend came over to say hello; later, a pal with
a bright gold grill covering his upper and lower front teeth sat down,
describing himself as a ''visual artist-slash-troublemaker.'' Enthusiastic about
the grill, Diggs said that he wanted one, too -- ''Some kind of a deal where
it's just one tooth.''

Despite his image as a debonair race man, Diggs seems never to have gone through
the requisite period of self-consciousness about macho posturing. Starring in
''Rent'' at 25 must have accelerated his evolution. He apparently doesn't share
any of Chappelle's anxiety: For him, donning Hedwig's wig seems to highlight a
more personal transformation. Before divorcing, Diggs says, he clung to labels
as keys to his identity -- husband, father, actor, black, man. But afterward,
everything changed -- ''aggressively, and in a fierce way.'' Nevertheless, Diggs
remains open to possibility. If you can credit Hedwig's high-profile
boundary-bashing with gaining more acceptance for L.G.B.T. people, surely the
show can unbutton a heretofore strait-laced black actor's image and open doors
for everyone else.

The role of Hedwig is ''everything I've ever wished for,'' he said. Then he
turned, in what seems unusual for him, ferocious: ''This is me telling myself,
'O.K., bitch, put your money where your mouth is. You've been telling agents and
your best friends -- I told Idina -- 'I want a chance to show everybody
everything. I can dance and I can sing, and everybody knows I can act.' ''

''Well,'' I heard myself say, as if I were Diggs' life coach, ''Everybody wants
you to do well, and nobody has a bad word to say about you.''

He laughed heartily. ''I hope that doesn't change after they see me in this
show! Oh, that would be awful.'' But then he paused, his eyes narrow, his chin
lowered slightly. ''They're going to end up saying something good. 'Cause I'm
not gonna mess up all three.''

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/how-taye-diggs-is-transforming-the-ro
le-of-hedwig.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM25)
Dressing Diggs as Hedwig, Broadway's nonbinary star. (MM26)
 Diggs calls the role ''everything I've ever wished for.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN
PFLUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POP & ROCK (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%);
MUSIC (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (69%); WRITERS
(69%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (69%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%); SONG WRITING
(64%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hole in the Heart

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WEIL.

Elizabeth Weil is a contributing writer. She last wrote for the magazine about
the middle-distance runner Mary Cain.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4860 words


One day in February, a notice appeared on the website San Francisco Eater. An
unknown outfit called Eastside Bagels was hosting a pop-up at a Mission District
bar called Dear Mom. One morning only: actual New York bagels, with schmear, lox
or pastrami. Doors open at 11:30 a.m.

But even before Sonya Haines pulled out her slicing knife, she was in well over
her head. She had 10 dozen bagels (five plain, five everything) overnighted to
herself, and by 10:30 a.m. there were more than 200 people standing on the 16th
Street sidewalk in the rain. When you offer an East Coast Jewish transplant the
possibility of a fresh New York bagel on a Sunday morning, you arouse a lot of
yearning. Californians, spoiled by Platonic produce, excellent burritos and
fine-art coffee, have a tormented relationship with this particular food item.
Even expert local bakers, like Joe Wolf, the owner of Marla Bakery, concede,
''San Francisco has struggled with the bagel.''

Conventional wisdom, at least among former East Coasters and California Jews,
holds that you can't buy a good one in the Golden State. On the sidewalk outside
Dear Mom, the mood quickly turned from grateful to complaining. Many customers
felt disgusted by the line (though, of course, they themselves were the line).
Others were outraged by the prices: $6 for a bagel with cream cheese; $10 for a
lox or pastrami bagel sandwich, the latter with a poached egg. Half the
customers left unfulfilled because of lack of inventory.

The New York bagel, as everybody knows, is an institution. No bagel definition
will satisfy all, but for starters, let's just say: A good one requires a chewy
interior with blisters, called fisheyes, on a shiny, crispy crust. Making a
bagel requires several steps: Hand-roll enriched dough; let it rise, or proof;
retard the rising in a refrigerator; boil briefly in malted water; then bake.
Mitchell Davis, the executive vice president of the James Beard Foundation -- a
man who is currently living in Milan and who almost came to tears one recent
Sunday morning at the thought of his husband back home in Gramercy Park, reading
the wedding announcements and eating an everything from Brooklyn Bagel --
believes that the secret to a good bagel is technique, the length of time, say,
for proofing and boiling, more than the type of water or flour. Achieving the
right crust is foremost. ''That's the hardest thing, that outer crunch,'' Davis
told me. He recalled that his father described the bagel as ''a doughnut dipped
in cement.''

''So he wasn't a fan?'' I asked.

''No!'' Davis said. ''He loved them.''

The obvious saviors in San Francisco's bagel situation should have been Evan
Bloom and Leo Beckerman -- occasional chefs at the Hillel chapter at the
University of California, Berkeley, and the owners of San Francisco's relatively
new and much beloved Jewish deli, Wise Sons, which opened in 2012. Many already
believed Wise Sons made the best deli rye west of the Hudson River. The
restaurant sold so much house-made pastrami that, after several years of Bloom's
transporting the smoky, fatty meat to catering events, his girlfriend could no
longer stand the smell and insisted he buy a new car. A disclaimer on the menu
reads NOT A NEW YORK DELI. Bloom and Beckerman added the notice just a few
months after opening because even though the place was packed, customers groused
that Wise Sons' offerings didn't taste like the food they grew up eating on the
East Coast. ''Our kugel is definitely not as good as your bubbe's kugel,''
Beckerman told me, sitting on the bench where he used to sleep after working
20-hour shifts. ''The actual food we serve is better,'' he said. ''I'm very
proud of our food. But it's never going to match the memory of what your
grandmother made you between the ages of 5 and 15.''

Bloom, 29, grew up in Ventura, Calif., the great-grandson of Jewish deli owners
from Swampscott, Mass. Beckerman, 31, was raised in Los Angeles, attended Jewish
day school for a couple of years and, as a child of a feminist mother, made what
he describes as unimpressive dinners for his family once a week. A few years
after graduating from Berkeley, the two started working on cooking projects --
in particular, on perfecting the kosher pastrami sandwich that Bloom's father
remembered from his youth but could no longer find, a sandwich that Bloom
eventually realized ''may or may not exist.'' Then, in 2010, Bloom was laid off
from his job as a construction manager, and Bloom's brother, who was enrolled in
Harvard Business School, started sending Bloom and Beckerman business plans. The
two worked up recipes for rye bread, bialys and smoked salmon. Then, in January
2011, like seemingly everybody else in San Francisco, they opened a pop-up
restaurant -- one that didn't sell bagels.

Wise Sons deli now occupies a former taco joint on the corner of 24th and
Shotwell Streets in San Francisco's Mission District. They also have an outpost
at the San Francisco Contemporary Jewish Museum. From the start, Beckerman says:
''We knew making a bagel would open us up to so much criticism. There isn't
another product as personal as the bagel. It was already struggle enough.''

Still, by mid-2014, Bloom, the more optimistic and heavily bearded of the Wise
Sons pair, was lobbying his partner. ''We need a great bagel,'' Bloom said to
Beckerman every day for a month. ''How hard can it be?''

The bagel, originally from Poland, has done poorly in the diaspora from New
York. In the late 1920s in New Haven, a Polish immigrant named Harry Lender
opened one of the first bagel shops outside New York City. Over the years, he
grew tired of slow weekdays followed by hectic Saturday nights to meet the
Sunday-morning rush. So in the early 1950s, without telling his customers, he
started baking and freezing bagels through the week and selling them as fresh on
Sunday. Nobody noticed for nearly two years. Lender then started selling them
frozen and presliced in grocery stores. By 1984, when the Lender family sold the
business to Kraft Foods, they were making more than two million bagels a day. To
celebrate with their sales reps, Murray and Marvin Lender, two of Harry's sons,
walked Len, an eight-foot-tall Lender's bagel, down the aisle to meet Phyl, his
Kraft Philadelphia cream cheese bride.

Further bagel debasement followed. In 1995 Boston Chicken, which owned a string
of restaurants, mostly in New England, saw an opening in the breakfast market,
to compete with the doughnut. The company started buying mom-and-pop bagel
bakeries, and the resulting Einstein Noah Restaurant Group now owns 852 bagel
shops in 42 states. A very nice team of marketing and R. & D. people told me
that the company, which uses steam ovens for its Noah's bagels instead of
boiling and baking separately, prides itself on its innovative flavors, like
Cheddar jalapeño, as well as what it calls its ''traditional'' ones, like . . .
blueberry.

The San Francisco bagel famine broke for a short time in 2011, when four former
Dartmouth students started an outfit called Schmendricks. (The name means
''stupid person'' in Yiddish.) They decided to follow tech start-up protocol --
''to A/B test our way to a perfect bagel,'' says Dan Scholnick, one of the
schmendricks who not at all stupidly kept his day job as a venture capitalist.
By November 2011 they had a product ready to take to beta. So Schmendricks
posted an announcement on Facebook and Twitter and placed a sign in front of
Faye's Video and Espresso Bar, across the street from Bi-Rite Market, a sort of
Dean & DeLuca of San Francisco. Then, on the appointed morning, they showed up
with four dozen bagels -- and found a line stretching down the block. The bagel
columnist for J., a Northern California Jewish weekly, described the product as
''everything you could ever want.'' But the glory didn't last. Before
Schmendricks opened a storefront, its bagel disappeared. ''We were never going
to grow the way a top-tier tech company is going to grow,'' Scholnick told me,
stating the obvious. Besides, after months of hand-rolling, Schmendricks'
primary baker discovered she had a gluten intolerance.

Other bagels emerged, none as beloved. After Dan Graf, 30, quit his job at
Saul's deli in Berkeley, he decided to take on the challenge. His boss at
Saul's, who trained under Alice Waters, encouraged Graf to go to New York and
learn the bagel craft as most chefs learn technique -- by apprenticing at a
master's knee. But instead, Graf, who majored in genetics, took a scientific
approach, turning his apartment into a lab for isolating variables (proofing
times, retarding times, baking times, ratio of malt to boiling water). He opened
Baron Baking a few months later, when he achieved a dense midsize bagel he
liked. He supplies Saul's and does a brisk wholesale business, but when I
presented one of his bagels to an East Coast transplant, he looked at it and
said, ''I don't even want to taste it -- I know it will make me sad.''

Joe Wolf, of Marla, says his partner and wife, Amy Brown, did not refer back to
any primary bagel source, either. ''Amy never tasted a bagel and said, 'I want
to make a bagel like that!' '' Wolf told me. What she makes now is a truly
accomplished round bread product, with a tight crumb and a hint of sourness.
Even Beauty's Bagel Shop, which had been supplying Wise Sons, did not try to
produce the New York bagel so many California Jews crave. Instead, the owners,
Amy Remsen and Blake Joffe, veered toward the Montreal bagel, which is fine but
more or less to a New York bagel what Chicago deep-dish pizza is to New York
pizza. (A Montreal bagel, which is smaller and sweeter than a New York bagel, is
baked in a wood oven and lacks salt.)

All of this makes you wonder if the problem is really cultural, if California
bagel bakers are too hooked on innovation and culinary self-expression for the
bagel's good. Mitchell Davis of the Beard Foundation believes that the bagel,
like ketchup, is a product ill served by current food trends. ''The effect of
artisanship does not always produce a better result,'' he told me. What's more,
he says, an up-and-coming San Francisco baker may have a hard time realizing his
fantasy of learning how to make a New York bagel from an authentic Jewish
source. Not that it matters. Bagel baking remains the province of immigrants,
even if it's no longer particularly the province of Jews. Among the great bagel
bakers right now is Samak Thongkrieng, who owns Absolute Bagel on Broadway near
107th Street. Thongkrieng came to New York from Thailand in 1980 and worked for
three years at Ess-a-Bagel, considered by many to produce some of the best
bagels in the city.

Late last year, Beckerman finally relented and agreed to make a bagel, much to
the relief of Wise Sons' fans. He continued, however, to worry about how those
same customers would behave once they had an actual, not idealized, bagel in
hand. Beckerman told me that his customers seem to feel entitled to express
their disappointment, as if eating at Wise Sons were like eating at a family
member's home. About a year after the opening, a woman came in, ordered the
matzo-ball soup, asked to speak to the chef and then proceeded to tell Beckerman
that though his was O.K., it could be better. She returned a few days later with
her own matzo-ball soup, as promised, as well as her specialty
white-chocolate-and-cranberry mandelbrot. Beckerman sat down with her and ate.

This insistence on the part of customers to make the Wise Sons experience
personal rather than transactional makes sense to Rabbi Michael Lezak, who lives
in Marin County, over the Golden Gate Bridge, and leads Congregation Rodef
Sholom. ''San Francisco is a radically assimilated community,'' Lezak explains.
''So there's something about being in an out, public Jewish space that's rare
here. We don't have a Jewish neighborhood. Wise Sons serves a purpose for people
who fled the East Coast.''

In New York, where he attended rabbinical school in the late 1990s, Lezak lived
on First Avenue across the street from Ess-a-Bagel, which, he says, ''lit me up
in beautiful ways and left an imprint on my soul.'' No California bagel, at
present, affects Lezak in that way, but he is touched by Wise Sons. ''Their
challah is off the charts,'' he says. ''It's a language for Shabbat.''
Connecting to religion through food may be even more important for secular Jews.
''Food is an easy vehicle; it's a great first step,'' Lezak says. ''Religion
needs to lead to something bigger, something outside yourself. But food can
resuscitate your dead grandmother.'' It evokes the past. ''If we make a
commitment to meet for lunch once a week at Wise Sons, you tell me about who is
alive in your family and who is not, what your life is about,'' he says. ''That
summons us toward something greater.'' Many Jews, Lezak thinks, have arrested
religious development -- ''their bar or bat mitzvah might be the last great
religious experience they had,'' he says. ''They're 13 years old, Jewishly.''
Temple may be intimidating -- not so a deli. As Beckerman notes, ''We're not
asking about God here.''

Beckerman destroyed two mixers in trying to perfect the bagel. But after just
three test batches, Bloom said: ''Go no further! That's it!'' So Beckerman
started practicing the production of bagels at scale -- first four dozen, then
eight, up to his test run of 25 dozen, which he baked in Wise Sons' commissary
kitchen, on Mission and 22nd Street the morning of Jan. 28. The following day,
Wise Sons planned to drop bags of bagels and cream cheese at its big San
Francisco catering accounts, like Airbnb. The day after that, bagels for all.

That evening, Beckerman's and Bloom's phones started ringing. A text message
arrived: ''Bakery on fire. Not a joke.'' Bloom set down the chopped liver he was
serving to Warriors season-ticket holders at an event on the Embarcadero. By the
time he'd raced up and over Potrero Hill to the three-story mixed-use building,
he could smell the smoke. On Mission Street, along with a cluster of fire
trucks, Bloom found Beckerman and their bakers, still in aprons, watching flames
erupt from the building's roof.

The fire, which started elsewhere in the building, was devastating; one of the
building's tenants died, and six others were hospitalized. The next day, Bloom
and Beckerman came back to salvage a few things. Beckerman grabbed the rye
starter and his brother's bar mitzvah certificate. Bloom focused on the
shorted-out machine that they had used to shape bagels.

This past spring, I drove with Bloom and Beckerman to look at a potential new
space for both baking and selling bagels, near the corner of Geary and Fillmore
Streets, a spot much closer to Congregations Sherith Israel and Emanu-El than
their original deli. Rabbi Lezak believes a worthy bagel would make Jewish life
in the Bay Area more complete. ''My hope and prayer is that someday I'm
schlepping into San Francisco on Sunday mornings for a bagel,'' he told me.

The space turned out to be a rundown former sushi restaurant. Beckerman stared
at the stained red walls and peeling linoleum floor. Ever optimistic, he said,
''You gotta have vision to feed your dreams!''

But not too much vision. After all, creativity is not the bagel's friend. ''The
bagel is the Jewish madeleine,'' says Niki Russ Federman, a fourth-generation
owner of the New York appetizing store Russ & Daughters on the Lower East Side.
''You bite into it, and you're reminded of where you came from and who you
are.''

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Recipe: Baron Bagels

Dan Graf, a genetics major who dropped out of Rutgers University, founded Baron
Baking in Oakland after working in a delicatessen.

The son of a Bergen County contractor, he grew up accompanying his father to
jobs on weekends. Stopping for bagels was part of the ritual. After moving to
California, he worked for two years at Saul's Restaurant and Delicatessen in
Berkeley where he became fascinated with baking. He began baking bagels in his
apartment and eventually won an account with his former employer. There are all
kinds of bagels; Mr. Graf's has a chewy bite and an almost pretzel-like crust.
This is his recipe.

The son of a Bergen County contractor, he grew up accompanying his father to
jobs on weekends. Stopping for bagels was part of the ritual. After moving to
California, he worked for two years at Saul's Restaurant and Delicatessen in
Berkeley where he became fascinated with baking. He began baking bagels in his
apartment and eventually won an account with his former employer.

There are all kinds of bagels; Mr. Graf's has a chewy bite and an almost
pretzel-like crust. This is his recipe.

There are all kinds of bagels; Mr. Graf's has a chewy bite and an almost
pretzel-like crust. This is his recipe.

1 teaspoon active dry yeast

5 cups bread flour

2 teaspoons salt, plus more for boiling

1 tablespoon diastatic malt powder

1/4 cup poppy seeds, optional

1/4 cup sesame seeds, optional

1. Put the yeast in the bowl of a standing mixer. Add 1 2/3 cups lukewarm water
and allow the yeast to activate, about 5 minutes. Add flour, salt and malt
powder and mix at low speed for 5 minutes using the paddle attachment. Cover the
dough and allow to rise at room temperature for about 2 hours.

2. Punch the dough down and shape into a rough rectangle about 1 to 1 1/2 inches
thick, and about 2 times longer than it is wide. If you are having trouble
forming the dough, stretch it, wait for the gluten to relax and reform.

3. Cut the dough into 10 pieces of about 3 ounces each. Roll each into an
8-inch-long snakelike shape, tapering the dough at each end. Circle the dough
around your hand, pinching the ends together and rolling under your palm once or
twice to seal. Put the bagels on a Silpat or other nonstick baking sheet on top
of a jellyroll pan. Cover well with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 10
hours, or up to 24 hours.

4. Heat the oven to 425 degrees. If you have a baking stone or brick you use for
baking, put it on a rack near the bottom of the oven; it will retain heat and
produce a crisper bagel. Bring a large pot of water to boil, throw a handful of
salt into the boiling water and remove the bagels from the refrigerator.

5. Using your hands, carefully place just enough bagels into the pot to cover
the surface of the water, making sure that there are no bagels resting on top of
one another. Let them float on one side for about 30 seconds before flipping
them to the other side for another 30 seconds or so. Remove the bagels and drain
well on a cooling rack.

6. Pour poppy or sesame seeds into a bowl wider than the bagels. Working very
quickly, remove the bagels one by one and dip them into the topping. Place them
back on the Silpat-covered baking sheet, topping side down.

7. Bake on the second to highest shelf of the oven for about 7 minutes. Then
flip the bagels and continue baking for about 8 minutes, or until they are
golden brown.

Yield: 10 bagels

Adapted from Dan Graf

Recipe: Peter Reinhart's Whole Wheat Bagels

When I order a whole wheat bagel in a coffee shop what I get is a white bagel
with a little bit of whole wheat flour thrown in. These bagels are different;
they are truly whole grain. I've been enthralled lately with Peter Reinhart's
new cookbook, Bread Revolution. Reinhart, a baking teacher and cookbook author
whom I have long admired, has discovered the magic of sprouted whole grain
flours, which he uses in the recipes in this book (you can get sprouted whole
wheat flour in whole foods stores and from several online sources). He also
illuminates many of the mysteries of baking with whole grain flours in general.
The recipes that I have tried work with regular whole wheat flour as well; I
have Community Grains whole wheat flour on hand but did not have sprouted whole
wheat flour when I was developing this week's Recipes for Health, so that is
what I used. One of the important things I learned -- relearned really -- from
Peter is that when you make dough with whole wheat flour, which absorbs liquid
more readily than white flour, it is important to give the dough a little time
to absorb the water so that it will be workable. So there is a rest after you
add the liquid to the flour; you'll think the dough is going to be way too wet,
then it miraculously firms up, in very little time. Reinhart has two methods for
bagels in his cookbook; one requires an overnight rest in the refrigerator after
shaping (that is the method I have used in the past), the other, made with
sprouted wheat flour, can be boiled and baked after rising and shaping. If you
use sprouted whole wheat flour Reinhart says the overnight rise isn't required
because the sprouted wheat allows the bagels to develop optimum flavor in a
shorter time. I couldn't discern much of a difference between the flavor of my
overnight regular whole wheat bagels and those I made with the shorter rise; and
the ones I made with the shorter rise were prettier. Barley malt is the
traditional sweetener used in bagel dough and in the water bath, but either
honey or agave syrup can be substituted.

510 grams / about 4 1/4 cups sprouted whole wheat flour or whole wheat flour

1 1/4 teaspoons fine sea salt

1 1/4 teaspoons instant yeast

1 2/3 cups plus 1 1/2 teaspoons / 408 milliliters lukewarm water

1 tablespoon barley malt, agave syrup, or honey

2 tablespoons baking soda, malt syrup or honey for boiling water bath

Cornmeal or semolina flour for baking sheets

2 to 4 tablespoons topping of your choice: sesame seeds, poppy seeds, caraway
seeds, nigella seeds, onion flakes

1. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle or in a large bowl
combine flour, salt and yeast. Stir together or mix at low speed for about 30
seconds. In a small bowl or measuring cup combine lukewarm water and 1
tablespoon barley malt, honey or agave syrup and whisk together.

2. Add liquid mixture to flour mixture and mix on low speed or stir for 1
minute. Mixture will be shaggy and sticky. Remove paddle and let dough stand,
uncovered, for 5 minutes. Switch to dough hook or turn dough onto lightly oiled
work surface and mix on low speed or knead for 2 minutes, until smooth and
slightly tacky. Add more flour if necessary (a few tablespoons) if dough is very
sticky or wet, and mix or knead for another minute. Finished dough should be
firm but supple and smooth to the touch. If it is tacky wait 5 minutes, then add
a little more flour as necessary and beat or knead until incorporated.

3. Shape dough into a ball. Clean and oil bowl. Place dough in bowl rounded side
down first (to oil the dough), then rounded side up. Cover bowl tightly with
plastic and allow dough to proof at room temperature for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, until
it has swelled and increased in size by about 1 1/2 times.

4. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment and lightly oil parchment. Turn out the
dough and divide into 8 equal pieces. Shape each piece into a ball by placing on
an unfloured work surface under a cupped hand and rolling it around and around.
Lightly oil work surface if dough sticks. To shape bagels, using both hands roll
each ball into an 8-inch long rope, tapering from the middle of the dough to the
ends. Moisten the last inch of each end, place one end on the palm of your hand
and wrap the rope around your hand, bringing the other end between your thumb
and forefinger. Overlap the ends by about 2 inches and stick the ends together.
Press onto the work surface and roll back and forth to seal, then lay the ring
down and even out the thickness with your fingers. The hole should be about 2
inches in diameter. Place on the prepared baking sheets. (Another way to shape
the bagels is to press your thumbs through the center of the balls, then
gradually pull apart and shape the bagel with your hands by rotating the dough
around your thumbs, until the hole is 2 inches in diameter; I find that,
although this method is a bit quicker, the bagels tend to close up, so I prefer
the rope method). Place on prepared baking sheet(s), at least 1 inch apart.
Lightly oil tops and cover loosely with plastic wrap.

5. Allow bagels to proof for 30 to 60 minutes, until just beginning to swell and
rise. Meanwhile, heat oven to 425 degrees with a rack positioned in the middle.

6. Carefully remove parchment paper with bagels from baking sheet and replace
parchment with clean sheets. Lightly oil parchment and sprinkle with cornmeal or
semolina (if you have lots of baking sheets, just line two more baking sheets).
To see if bagels are ready, drop one into a bowl of water. It should float to
the surface within 15 seconds. If it does not, wait 20 minutes and do another
float test.

7. Bring 4 to 6 inches water to a boil in a large saucepan and add baking soda,
malt syrup or honey. Adjust heat so water is at a gentle boil. Two at a time,
drop bagels into water. After 30 seconds flip over and simmer for another 30
seconds. Using a slotted spoon or a skimmer, remove from water and place on
prepared baking sheet, rounded side up. Sprinkle topping over bagel right away.
Place in oven and bake 12 minutes. Rotate baking sheet and bake another 8 to 12
minutes, until golden brown. If bottoms are getting too brown slide a second
baking pan underneath the first one for insulation after first 12 minutes.
Remove from heat and allow to cool.

Yield: 8 bagels

Nutritional information per bagel: 241 calories; 3 grams fat; 1 gram saturated
fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams
cholesterol; 48 grams carbohydrates; 7 grams dietary fiber; 354 milligrams
sodium; 9 grams protein


Recipe: Montreal Bagels

As with most ethnic foods, bagels are prepared differently from city to city,
community to community. But the special appeal of Montreal bagels draws even
those accustomed to the New York variety.

Montreal bagels are a different breed, chewy and tinged with a tantalizing
sweetness. The real thing is still baked in wood ovens, which give the bagels an
irregularly charred outer surface. These bagels shine, too, with a gloss that
only a short swim in a bath of honey- or malt-sweetened water can impart. With
no chemical additives or dough conditioners, these bagels stand out in taste and
looks.

Montreal bagels are a different breed, chewy and tinged with a tantalizing
sweetness. The real thing is still baked in wood ovens, which give the bagels an
irregularly charred outer surface. These bagels shine, too, with a gloss that
only a short swim in a bath of honey- or malt-sweetened water can impart. With
no chemical additives or dough conditioners, these bagels stand out in taste and
looks.

1 1/2 cups water, room temperature

2 packages dry quick-rising yeast (or 1 1/2 ounces fresh yeast)

1 teaspoon sugar

2 1/2 teaspoons salt

1 whole egg

1 egg yolk

1/4 cup oil

1/2 cup honey

5 cups or more flour (preferably bread flour)

3 quarts water for boiling

1/3 cup honey or malt syrup

Sesame or poppy seeds for sprinkling on top

1. In a large mixing bowl or in the bowl of an electric mixer that has a dough
hook, blend together the water, yeast, sugar and salt. Stir in the whole egg,
the yolk, oil and 1/2 cup honey, and mix well.

2. Add the 5 cups flour, and mix until the dough is too stiff to mix by hand.
Transfer to a lightly floured work surface (if using electric mixer, attach
dough hook), and knead to form a soft, supple dough. Add a bit more flour as
needed to prevent dough from getting too sticky.

3. When the dough is smooth and elastic, place it in a lightly oiled bowl, and
cover with a sheet of plastic wrap or with a plastic bag. (See note.)

4. Let the dough rest about 20 minutes. Punch it down, and divide into 18 equal
portions. Pour the water into a Dutch oven, along with the remaining 1/3 cup
honey or malt syrup, and heat to boiling. Cover, reduce the heat, and allow to
simmer while preparing the bagels.

5. Shape the dough portions into bagels or doughnutlike rings by elongating each
portion into an 8- to 10-inch coil that is 3/4 inch thick. Fold the ends over
each other, pressing with the palm of one hand and rolling back and forth gently
to seal. This locks the ends together and must be done properly or the bagels
will open while being boiled. Let the bagels rest 15 minutes on a towel-lined
baking sheet.

6. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Bring the water back to a boil and remove the
lid. Have bowls of poppy seeds and sesame seeds nearby.

7. When the water is boiling, use a slotted spoon, and add three bagels to the
water. As they rise to the surface, turn them over, and let them boil an
additional minute before removing them and quickly dipping them in either bowl
of the seeds. Continue boiling the bagels in batches of three until all have
been boiled and seeded.

8. Arrange the boiled bagels on a baking sheet, and bake on the lowest rack of
oven until they are medium brown, approximately 25 minutes. Remove from the
oven. Once cooled, the bagels can be placed in a plastic bag, sealed and frozen.

Yield: 18 bagels





URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/why-is-it-so-hard-to-get-a-great-bage
l-in-california.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beauty's Bagel Shop: Oakland Whole wheat
Baron Baking: Berkeley Sesame
House of Bagels: San Francisco Poppy seed
Noah's New York Bagels: San Francisco Pumpernickel
Brooklyn Water Bagel: Los Angeles Egg
Marla Bakery: San Francisco Poppy seed. (MM40-MM41)
Left to right: Bagel Boy, Brooklyn
Ess-a-Bagel, Manhattan
Absolute Bagel, Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM SCHIERLITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES

 FOOD STYLIST: JAMIE KIMM) (MM42-MM43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); PRICES (64%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA,
USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A 'De Düva' Lexiconska

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 38 words


Mooska: Cow

Zooner-or-lätsker: Eventually

Skå she vinska, you godda set her freesk: If she wins, you must set her free.

Me yoost haf dis schmatte waschen: I just had this clothing washed.

H20ska: Water

Phalliken zymbol: Cigar




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/television/a-de-duva-lexiconska.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Global Ambitions, Cash and Strings Attached

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and KEITH BRADSHER; Clifford Krauss reported from El
Chaco and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong and Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE CHINA FACTOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4311 words


EL CHACO, Ecuador --  Where the Andean foothills dip into the Amazon jungle,
nearly 1,000 Chinese engineers and workers have been pouring concrete for a dam
and a 15-mile underground tunnel. The $2.2 billion project will feed river water
to eight giant Chinese turbines designed to produce enough electricity to light
more than a third of Ecuador.

Near the port of Manta on the Pacific Ocean, Chinese banks are in talks to lend
$7 billion for the construction of an oil refinery, which could make Ecuador a
global player in gasoline, diesel and other petroleum products.

Across the country in villages and towns, Chinese money is going to build roads,
highways, bridges, hospitals, even a network of surveillance cameras stretching
to the Galápagos Islands. State-owned Chinese banks have already put nearly $11
billion into the country, and the Ecuadorean government is asking for more.

Ecuador, with just 16 million people, has little presence on the global stage.
But China's rapidly expanding footprint here speaks volumes about the changing
world order, as Beijing surges forward and Washington gradually loses ground.

While China has been important to the world economy for decades, the country is
now wielding its financial heft with the confidence and purpose of a global
superpower. With the center of financial gravity shifting, China is aggressively
asserting its economic clout to win diplomatic allies, invest its vast wealth,
promote its currency and secure much-needed natural resources.

It represents a new phase in China's evolution. As the country's wealth has
swelled and its needs have evolved, President Xi Jinping and the rest of the
leadership have pushed to extend China's reach on a global scale.

China's currency, the renminbi, is expected to be anointed soon as a global
reserve currency, putting it in an elite category with the dollar, the euro, the
pound and the yen. China's state-owned development bank has surpassed the World
Bank in international lending. And its effort to create an internationally
funded institution to finance transportation and other infrastructure has drawn
the support of 57 countries, including several of the United States' closest
allies, despite opposition from the Obama administration.

Even the current stock market slump is unlikely to shake the country's resolve.
China has nearly $4 trillion in foreign currency reserves, which it is
determined to invest overseas to earn a profit and exert its influence.

China's growing economic power coincides with an increasingly assertive foreign
policy. It is building aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and stealth jets.
In a contested sea, China is turning reefs and atolls near the southern
Philippines into artificial islands, with at least one airstrip able to handle
the largest military planes. The United States has challenged the move,
conducting surveillance flights in the area and discussing plans to send
warships.

China represents ''a civilization and history that awakens admiration to those
who know it,'' President Rafael Correa of Ecuador proclaimed on Twitter, as his
jet landed in Beijing for a meeting with officials in January.

China's leaders portray the overseas investments as symbiotic. ''The current
industrial cooperation between China and Latin America arrives at the right
moment,'' Prime Minister Li Keqiang said in a visit to Chile in late May.
''China has equipment manufacturing capacity and integrated technology with
competitive prices, while Latin America has the demand for infrastructure
expansion and industrial upgrading.''

But the show of financial strength also makes China -- and the world -- more
vulnerable. Long an engine of global growth, China is taking on new risks by
exposing itself to shaky political regimes, volatile emerging markets and other
economic forces beyond its control.

Any major problems could weigh on China's growth, particularly at a time when it
is already slowing. The country's stock market troubles this summer are only
adding to the pressure, as the government moves aggressively to stabilize the
situation.

While China has substantial funds to withstand serious financial shocks, its
overall health matters. When China swoons, the effects are felt worldwide, by
the companies, industries and economies that depend on the country's growth.

In many cases, China is going where the West is reluctant to tread, either for
financial or political reasons -- or both. After getting hit with Western
sanctions over the Ukraine crisis, Russia, which is on the verge of a recession,
deepened ties with China. The list of borrowers in Africa and the Middle East
reads like a who's who of troubled regimes and economies that may have trouble
repaying Chinese loans, including Yemen, Syria, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe.

With its elevated status, China is forcing countries to play by its financial
rules, which can be onerous. Many developing countries, in exchange for loans,
pay steep interest rates and give up the rights to their natural resources for
years. China has a lock on close to 90 percent of Ecuador's oil exports, which
mostly goes to paying off its loans.

''The problem is we are trying to replace American imperialism with Chinese
imperialism,'' said Alberto Acosta, who served as President Correa's energy
minister during his first term. ''The Chinese are shopping across the world,
transforming their financial resources into mineral resources and investments.
They come with financing, technology and technicians, but also high interest
rates.''

China also has a shaky record when it comes to worker safety, environmental
standards and corporate governance. While China's surging investments have
created jobs in many countries, development experts worry that Beijing is
exporting its worst practices.

Chinese mining and manufacturing operations, like many American and European
companies in previous decades, have been accused of abusing workers overseas.
China's coal-fired power plants and industrial factories are adding to pollution
problems in developing nations.

Issues have already surfaced in Ecuador.

A few miles from the site of the hydroelectric plant, the Coca River vaults down
a 480-foot waterfall and cascades through steep canyons toward the Amazon. It is
the tallest waterfall in Ecuador and popular with tourists.

When the dam is complete and the water is diverted to the plant, the San Rafael
falls will slow to a trickle for part of the year. With climate change already
shrinking the Andean glacier that feeds the river, experts debate whether the
site will have enough water to generate even half the electricity predicted.

Ecuadoreans on the Chinese-run project have repeatedly protested about wages,
health care, food and general working conditions. ''The Chinese are arrogant,''
said Oscar Cedeno, a 20-year-old construction worker. ''They think they are
superior to us.''

Last December, an underground river burst into a tunnel at the site. The
high-pressure water flooded the powerhouse, killing 14 workers. It was one of a
series of serious accidents at Chinese projects in Ecuador, several of them
fatal.

The Rise of China

When the research arm of China's cabinet scheduled an economic development
conference this spring, the global financial and corporate elite came to
Beijing. The heads of major banks and pharmaceutical, auto and oil companies
mingled with top Chinese officials.

Some had large investments in the country and wanted to protect their access to
the domestic market. Others came to court business, as Beijing channeled more of
its money overseas.

At the event, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund,
Christine Lagarde, commended China's efforts to engage globally through
investment and trade, as well as to enact economic reforms. It ''is good for
China and good for the world -- their fates are intertwined,'' she said in her
keynote address.

China's pull is strong.

It is the world's largest buyer of oil, which gives China substantial sway over
petropolitics. It is also increasingly the trading partner of choice for many
countries, taking the mantle from Western nations. China's foreign direct
investment -- the money it spends overseas annually on land, factories and other
business operations -- is second only to the United States', having passed Japan
last year.

Chinese companies are at the center of a worldwide construction boom, mostly
financed by Chinese banks. They are building power plants in Serbia, glass and
cement factories in Ethiopia, low-income housing in Venezuela and natural gas
pipelines in Uzbekistan.

The evolution has been swift. When China started to open its economy in the late
1970s, Beijing had to court companies and investors.

One of the first multinationals to enter was the American Motors Corporation,
which built a factory in Beijing. The project was initially aimed at producing
Jeeps for export to Australia, rather than building cars for Chinese consumers.

''We didn't devote a lot of our boardroom discussions to it,'' said Gerald
Meyers, then the chief executive of the carmaker. ''We were really trying to
scrape out a living in our domestic market.''

Today, China produces two million cars a month, far more than any other country.
It mirrors the broader transformation of the economy from an insular agrarian
society to the world's largest manufacturer.

While the change has showered wealth on China, it has also brought new demands,
like a voracious thirst for energy to power its economy. The confluence of
trends has compelled China to look beyond its borders to invest those riches and
to satisfy its needs.

Oil has been on the leading edge of this investment push. Energy projects and
stakes have accounted for two-fifths of China's $630 billion of overseas
investments in the last decade, according to Derek Scissors, an analyst at the
American Enterprise Institute.

China is playing both defense and offense. With an increased dependence on
foreign oil, China's leadership has followed the United States and other large
economies by seeking to own more overseas oil fields -- or at least the crude
they produce -- to ensure a stable supply. In recent years, state-controlled
Chinese oil companies have acquired big stakes in oil operations in Cameroon,
Canada, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Iraq, Nigeria, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sudan,
Uganda, the United States and Venezuela.

''When utilizing foreign resources and markets, we need to consider it from the
height of national strategy,'' Prime Minister Li said in 2009, when he was a
vice premier. ''If the resources mainly come from one country or from one place
with frequent turmoil, national economic safety will be under shadow when an
emergency happens.''

Road to Dependence

For President Correa of Ecuador, China represents a break with his country's
past -- and his own.

His father was imprisoned in the United States for cocaine smuggling and later
committed suicide. At the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Mr. Correa
focused his doctoral thesis on the shortcomings of economic policies backed by
Washington and Western banks.

As a politician, he embraced Venezuela's socialist revolution. During his 2006
campaign, Mr. Correa joked that the Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez's
comparison of President George W. Bush with Satan was disrespectful to the
devil.

In an early move as president, Mr. Correa expelled the Americans from a military
base in Manta, an important launching pad for the Pentagon's war on drugs. ''We
can negotiate with the United States over a base in Manta if they let us put a
military base in Miami,'' President Correa said at the time.

Next, he severed financial ties. In late 2008, Mr. Correa called much of his
country's debt, largely owned by Western investors, ''immoral and illegitimate''
and stopped paying, setting off a default.

At that point, Ecuador was in a bind. The global financial crisis was taking
hold and oil prices collapsed. Ecuador and Petroecuador, its state-owned oil
company, started running low on money.

Shut out from borrowing in traditional markets, Ecuador turned to China to fill
the void. PetroChina, the government-backed oil company, lent Petroecuador $1
billion in August 2009 for two years at 7.25 percent interest. Within a year,
more Chinese money began to flow for hydroelectric and other infrastructure
projects.

''What Ecuador wants are sources of capital with fewer political strings
attached, and that goes back to the personal history of Rafael Correa, who holds
the United States directly or indirectly responsible for his father's death and
suffering,'' said R. Evan Ellis, professor of Latin American studies at the
United States Army War College Strategic Studies Institute. ''But there is also
a desire to get away from the dependence on the fiscal and political conditions
of the I.M.F., World Bank and the West.''

The Ecuadorean foreign minister calls the shift to China a ''diversification of
its foreign relations,'' rather than a substitute for the United States or
Europe. ''We have decided that the most convenient and healthy thing for us,''
said the foreign minister, Ricardo Patiño, is ''to have friendly, mutually
beneficial relations of respect with all countries.''

The Chinese money, though, comes with its own conditions. Along with steep
interest payments, Ecuador is largely required to use Chinese companies and
technologies on the projects.

International rules limit how the United States and other industrialized
countries can tie their loans to such agreements. But China, which is still
considered a developing country despite being the world's largest manufacturer,
doesn't have to follow those standards.

It is one reason that China's effort to build an international development fund,
the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, has faced criticism in the United
States. Washington is worried that China will create its own rules, with lower
expectations for transparency, governance and the environment.

While China has sought to quell those fears over the infrastructure fund, its
portfolio of projects around the world imposes tough terms and sometimes lax
standards. Since 2005, the country has landed $471 billion in construction
contracts, many tied to broader lending agreements.

In Ecuador, a consortium of Chinese companies is overseeing a flood control and
irrigation project in the southern Ecuador province of Cañar. A Chinese
engineering company built a $100 million, four-lane bridge to span the Babahoyo
River near the coast.

Such deals typically favor the Chinese.

PetroChina and Sinopec, another state-controlled Chinese company, together pump
about 25 percent of the 560,000 barrels a day produced in Ecuador. Along with
taking the bulk of oil exports, the Chinese companies also collect $25 to $50 in
fees from Ecuador for each barrel they pump.

China's terms are putting countries in precarious positions.

In Ecuador, oil represents roughly 40 percent of the government's revenue,
according to the United States Energy Department. And those earnings are
suddenly plunging along with the price of oil. With crude at around $50 a
barrel, Ecuador doesn't have much left to repay its loans.

''Of course we have concerns over their ability to repay the debts -- China
isn't silly,'' said Lin Boqiang, the director of the Energy Economics Research
Center at Xiamen University in China's Fujian province and a government policy
planner. ''But the gist is resources will ultimately become valuable assets.''

If Ecuador or other countries can't cover their debts, their obligations to
China may rise. A senior Chinese banker, who spoke only on the condition of
anonymity for diplomatic reasons, said Beijing would most likely restructure
some loans in places like Ecuador.

To do so, Chinese authorities want to extend the length of the loans instead of
writing off part of the principal. That means countries will have to hand over
their natural resources for additional years, limiting their governments'
abilities to borrow money and pursue other development opportunities.

China has significant leverage to make sure borrowers pay. As the dominant
manufacturer for a long list of goods, Beijing can credibly threaten to cut off
shipments to countries that do not repay their loans, the senior Chinese banker
said.

With its economy stumbling, Ecuador asked China at the start of the year for an
additional $7.5 billion in financing to fill the growing government budget
deficit and buy Chinese goods. Since then, the situation has only deteriorated.
In recent weeks, thousands of protesters have poured into the streets of Quito
and Guayaquil to challenge various government policies and proposals, some of
which Mr. Correa has recently withdrawn.

''China is becoming the new company store for developing oil-, gas- and
mineral-producing countries,'' said David Goldwyn, who was the State
Department's special envoy for international energy affairs during President
Obama's first term. ''They are entitled to secure reliable sources of oil, but
what we need to worry about is the way they are encouraging oil-producing
countries to mortgage their long-term future through oil-backed loans.''

Plagued by Problems

A pall of acrimony surrounds the Coca Codo Sinclair hydroelectric plant,
Ecuador's largest construction project.

Few of the Chinese workers speak Spanish, and they live separately from their
Ecuadorean counterparts. When the workers leave their camp in the village of San
Luis at noon for lunch, they walk down the main street in separate groups. At
night, they also walk in separate groups up the hill to the local brothel.
(Prostitution is legal in Ecuador.) The workers sit at separate tables drinking
bottles of the Ecuadorean beer, Pilsener.

When the Chinese and Ecuadorean workers return to camp, typically drunk, there
have been shoving matches. Once a Chinese manager threw a tray at an Ecuadorean
worker at mealtime.

''You make a little mistake, and they say something like, 'Get out of here,' ''
said Gustavo Taipe, an Ecuadorean welder. ''They want to be the strongmen.''

Like other workers, Mr. Taipe, 57, works 10 consecutive days. Then he drives
seven hours home to spend four days with his family, then returns for another 10
days. Mr. Taipe and others have complained about low pay for grueling work. He
initially made $600 a month. After work stoppages, he now earns $914 a month, a
decent wage by Ecuadorean standards.

Kevin Wang, a Chinese supervisory engineer at the project, played down the
issues, saying, ''Relations are friendly.'' He predicted that the project would
be a success. ''We can do something here really important,'' he said.

The hydroelectric project -- led by Sinohydro, the Chinese engineering company,
and financed by the Chinese Export-Import Bank -- was supposed to be ready by
late 2014. But the project has been plagued by problems.

A drilling rig jammed last year, suspending the excavation for a critical
tunnel. Then in December, 11 Ecuadorean and three Chinese workers were killed
and a dozen were hurt when an underground river burst into the tunnel and
flooded the powerhouse. Workers drowned or were crushed by flying rocks and
metal bars.

At a legislative hearing after the accident, one worker, Danny Tejedor, told the
lawmakers, ''I am a welder, and on various occasions I have been obligated to
work in extreme conditions of high risk, deep in water.''

The environmental impact, too, has been controversial. The site sits in an area
prone to earthquakes and near the base of a volcano that erupted this spring and
produced short lava flows. ''We all thought it was too dangerous to put the
project there,'' said Fernando Santos, a former energy minister who served in
the late 1980s.

The construction of multiple access roads threatens the Amazon ecosystem. The
roads allow farmers and cattle ranchers to push their way into some of the most
remote tropical rain forests in Ecuador, a major corridor for roaming bears and
jaguars.

The dam, which will divert water to produce electricity, will nearly dry up a
40-mile stretch of the Coca River for several months of the year, including the
falls. An entire aquatic system will be wiped out, because the life cycles of
many fish and other species are linked to variations in water flow.

''It would be like leaving Niagara Falls without water,'' said Matt Terry,
executive director of the Ecuadorian Rivers Institute.

Sinohydro said the location of the project had been determined by its employer,
Ecuador's government.

The Ecuadorean foreign minister brushes aside many environmental concerns. ''If
you worry about earthquakes, you wouldn't build anything,'' said Mr. Patiño,
pointing to the experience of California.

''I don't know if with climate change, after 50 or 30 years we will have a
deficit of water, but in 50 years we may be living on Mars,'' added Mr. Patiño,
who is on a brief leave of absence to help organize popular support for
President Correa. ''Right now, there is plenty of water.''

When Ecuadorean delegations visited China in recent years to seek support for
the refinery project outside Manta, a festive atmosphere pervaded the trips. The
Ecuadorean representatives stayed in penthouse suites at luxurious hotels, with
Chinese businesses paying the bills. The Chinese provided buses and
Spanish-speaking guides to tour the Forbidden City and the Great Wall.

After each meeting, Chinese government and officials were eager to celebrate,
taking their Ecuadorean counterparts to dinners in Beijing of boiled seafood and
steamed rice. ''They were gracious to take us to restaurants that suited Western
tastes,'' said a consultant who attended one trip, but was not authorized to
speak publicly about it. ''There were no scorpions served.''

A 'White Elephant'

Officials took turns toasting one another, hoisting baijiu, the traditional
Chinese spirit. With each drink, the Chinese and Ecuadoreans pledged their
commitment.

Confident of China's support, Ecuador has been moving aggressively on the
refinery project. Outside the port of Manta, Ecuadorean workers have flattened
2,000 acres for the Refineria del Pacifico. Workers are busy laying Chinese-made
pipe. Ecuador has already spent $1 billion of its own money on the project.

But for now, the pipes just go to several empty white sandy plateaus. The
Chinese banks have not officially agreed to finance $7 billion of the project,
which is expected to cost roughly $10 billion.

Depending on what happens, the refinery will either be the crown jewel of
Ecuador's relationship with China or an expensive monument to the limits of its
largess.

For the Ecuadorean government, the sophisticated refinery is central to making
the country self-sufficient in energy. For Beijing, it could mean more gasoline
and other petroleum products shipped directly to China, without depending on the
American refineries that now process them.

While Chinese officials and executives have said they are interested in the
project, they are sending mixed signals and the talks have stalled. ''China is
definitely interested in this project because it is important for Ecuador and
PetroChina,'' said a Chinese diplomat in Quito, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. ''It will be negotiated.''

But senior executives at PetroChina have misgivings. Even before oil prices
started tumbling in 2014, the company, like many in the industry, cut investment
spending sharply. This year, PetroChina plans to cut it another 10 percent. A
continuing anticorruption campaign has added to the chill on energy spending.

China is broadly reassessing its global investment strategy as the country faces
new economic challenges at home and abroad. Rather than blindly spreading its
wealth around the world, China is growing more sophisticated about its
deal-making in an effort to protect its profits and to ensure the right mix.

The prospects for the Ecuador refinery project now look hazy.

The chief financial officer of PetroChina, Yu Yibo, said the company's cuts
would include refinery projects, but he would not discuss Ecuador specifically.
Wu Enlai, the board member who is the company secretary, said PetroChina had not
yet approved the project.  ''It is in the stage of feasibility study.''

Several Ecuadorean energy experts question the economic sense of the project.
Ecuador, they say, cannot justify the refinery unless the country significantly
increases production. For that to happen, it must drill deeper into the Amazon,
an environmentally risky and expensive proposition that has been politically
charged since the operations of Texaco and the state oil company caused
widespread pollution in the 1970s and 1980s. ''If there is no guarantee of more
production, this refinery will be a white elephant,'' said Mauricio Pozo Crespo,
a former economy minister.

The uncertainty worries many in Ecuador.

''Correa says there is no limit to how much we can borrow from China,'' said Mr.
Acosta, the energy minister during the president's first term. ''But if the
Chinese don't put up the money, there will be no refinery. I have my doubts.''

So does Luis Kwong Li, one of a handful of Chinese-Ecuadorean restaurateurs in
Manta.

When he and his Chinese-born parents heard about the refinery project in 2009,
they closed their restaurant in Guayaquil and moved to Manta to open a new one.
They thought the restaurant would cater to Chinese employees looking for dim
sum. But by this spring, only two Chinese investors, who hoped to build a valve
factory, had come for lunch.

''The president built up a lot of expectations,'' said Mr. Kwong Li. ''Maybe it
will still happen, maybe in two years. There's a big hope among the Ecuadorean
people that the refinery will create business and jobs.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/international/chinas-global-ambitions
-with-loans-and-strings-attached.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Water pipes near a site outside the port of Manta where Ecuador
wants a Chinese oil company to build a giant refinery. (A1)
At left, the $2.2 billion Coca Codo Sinclair hydroelectric project, which
employs nearly 1,000 Chinese workers. It will feed water to eight turbines
designed to produce enough electricity to light more than a third of Ecuador.
Above left, some of the Chinese men in their room in a camp for workers, and,
right, sitting at separate tables from Ecuadorean workers at the local brothel.
(A10-A11)
When the dam is finished, this waterfall on the Coca River is expected to slow
to a trickle for part of the year. (A11)
José Tixi, who works at the Coca Codo Sinclair hydroelectric project, with his
family in their home in San Luis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN KASHINSKY FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A12) CHART: The World According to China: China's enormous overseas
spending has helped it displace the United States and Europe as the leading
financial power in large parts of the developing world. Here's where China has
the most influence, based on its share of foreign investment since 2005.
(Sources: United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and The Heritage
Foundation/American Enterprise Institute (foreign direct investment)
Worldwide Governance Indicators, World Bank (country risk)) (CHART BY GREGOR
AISCH
JOSH KELLER
K.K. REBECCA LAI/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)
 MAPS: Spreading Its Wealth: Major Chinese-backed projects in Ecuador China has
lent nearly $11 billion to Ecuador, much of which has gone for hydroelectric,
bridge, road and other infrastructure projects. (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS
(89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (83%); MILITARY VESSELS (83%);
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES
(77%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (76%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%);
SHIPBUILDING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT
(75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (74%); EURO
(74%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
(71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%);
PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); OIL & GAS PLANT
CONSTRUCTION (70%); DIESEL FUEL (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (69%); US
PRESIDENTS (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (63%); SUBMARINES & SUBMERSIBLES
(60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%)

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); ECUADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%);
EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America Starts to Push Away From the Plate

BYLINE: By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ; Emily Hopkins contributed reporting, and Kitty
Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SCALING BACK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words


After decades of worsening diets and sharp increases in obesity, Americans'
eating habits have begun changing for the better.

Calories consumed daily by the typical American adult, which peaked around 2003,
are in the midst of their first sustained decline since federal statistics began
to track the subject, more than 40 years ago. The number of calories that the
average American child takes in daily has fallen even more -- by at least 9
percent.

The declines cut across most major demographic groups -- including higher- and
lower-income families, and blacks and whites -- though they vary somewhat by
group.

In the most striking shift, the amount of full-calorie soda drunk by the average
American has dropped 25 percent since the late 1990s.

As calorie consumption has declined, obesity rates appear to have stopped rising
for adults and school-aged children and have come down for the youngest
children, suggesting the calorie reductions are making a difference.

The reversal appears to stem from people's growing realization that they were
harming their health by eating and drinking too much. The awareness began to
build in the late 1990s, thanks to a burst of scientific research about the
costs of obesity, and to public health campaigns in recent years.

The encouraging data does not mean an end to the obesity epidemic: More than a
third of American adults are still considered obese, putting them at increased
risk of diabetes, heart disease and cancer. Americans are still eating far too
few fruits and vegetables and far too much junk food, even if they are eating
somewhat less of it, experts say.

But the changes in eating habits suggest that what once seemed an inexorable
decline in health may finally be changing course. Since the mid-1970s, when
American eating habits began to rapidly change, calorie consumption had been on
a near-steady incline.

''I think people are hearing the message, and diet is slowly improving,'' said
Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian, the dean of the Friedman School of Nutrition Science
and Policy at Tufts University.

Barry Popkin, a University of North Carolina professor who has studied food data
extensively, described the development as a ''turning point.

There is no perfect way to measure American calorie consumption. But three large
sources of data about diet all point in the same direction. Detailed daily food
diaries tracked by government researchers, data from food bar codes and
estimates of food production all show reductions in the calories consumed by the
average American since the early 2000s. Those signals, along with the flattening
of the national obesity rate, have convinced many public health researchers that
the changes are meaningful.

The eating changes have been the most substantial in households with children.
Becky Lopes-Filho's 4-year-old son, Sebastian, has always been at the top of the
growth chart for weight. Ms. Lopes-Filho, 35, is the operations manager of a
pizzeria in Cambridge, Mass., and her son, like her, loves food. As he has
gotten older, she has grown more concerned about his cravings for sweets.
Instead of a cookie every day now, she said, she has been trying to limit him to
one a week. ''If he was given access, he would just go nuts,'' she said. ''He, I
think, would tend to be a super obese kid.''

There is no single moment when American attitudes toward eating changed, but
researchers point to a 1999 study as a breakthrough. That year, researchers from
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published a paper in The Journal
of the American Medical Association that turned into something of a blockbuster.

The paper included bright blue maps illustrating worsening obesity rates in the
1980s and 1990s in all 50 states. Researchers knew the obesity rate was rising,
but Dr. Ali Mokdad, the paper's lead author, said that when he presented the
maps at conferences, even the experts were gasping. A year later, he published
another paper, with a similar set of maps, showing a related explosion in
diabetes diagnoses. ''People became more aware of it in a very visual and
impactful way,'' said Hank Cardello, a former food industry executive who is now
a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, a conservative policy center. ''That
created a lot of attention and concern.''

Shortly afterward, the surgeon general, Dr. David Satcher, issued a report --
''Call to Action to Prevent and Decrease Overweight and Obesity'' -- modeled on
the famous 1964 surgeon general's report on tobacco. The 2001 report summarized
the increasing evidence that obesity was a risk factor for several chronic
diseases, and said controlling children's weight should be a priority, to
prevent the onset of obesity-related illnesses.

Slowly, the messages appear to have sunk in with the public. By 2003, 60 percent
of Americans said they wanted to lose weight, according to Gallup, up from 52
percent in 1990 and 35 percent in the 1950s.

The Obama administration has increased pressure. The Affordable Care Act, passed
in 2010, required chain restaurants to publish the calorie content of their
meals. The federal government has also changed requirements, making school
lunches healthier, although the effort has created some backlash.

Several cities have gone further. Philadelphia  subsidizes produce purchases for
the poor. New York limits the kind of food available in day care centers.
Berkeley, Calif., last year became the first city in the United States to tax
sugar-sweetened beverages. The evidence for the effectiveness of these
interventions is mixed, but their popularity reflects public health officials'
emphasis on diet and obesity.

Still, the timeline of the calorie declines suggests that people started eating
a little less before policy makers got involved. That follows the pattern for
tobacco use, which peaked right around the time of the 1964 surgeon general's
report. The policy changes that many credit with the country's sharp reductions
in smoking -- advertising bans, warning labels, taxes and restrictions on
smoking in public -- came later, accelerating change after attitudes had already
begun to shift.

The anti-obesity public health campaigns have focused on one subject more than
any other: beverages.

Anti-soda messages hit their target. Americans, on average, purchased about 40
gallons of full-calorie soda a year in 1998, according to sales data from the
industry trade publication Beverage Digest analyzed by the Center for Science in
the Public Interest. That fell to 30 gallons in 2014, about the level that
Americans bought in 1980, before the obesity rates took off.

''I think the attitude more and more in this country is that it's not a good
idea to consume a lot of soda,'' said Dr. Satcher, now a professor at the
Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta.

Beverage companies have reacted by marketing diet drinks and investing heavily
in new products, including iced teas and flavored water. ''A lot of the changes
we are seeing are consumer-driven,'' said John Sicher, Beverage Digest's
publisher.

Outside of beverages, there are few clear trends. Experts who have examined the
data say the reductions do not mean that Americans are flocking to farmer's
markets and abandoning fast food. Consumption of fruits and vegetables remains
low; consumption of desserts remains high. Instead, people appear to be eating a
little less of everything. Although consumption in nearly every category has
been ''cut some,'' said Mr. Popkin, ''the food part of our diet is horrendous
and remains horrendous.''

The calorie reductions are seen across nearly every demographic group, but not
equally. White families have reduced their calorie consumption more than black
and Hispanic families. Most starkly, families with children have cut back more
than households with adults living alone, further evidence, experts say, that
the public health emphasis on childhood obesity is driving the changes.

Ms. Lopes-Filho said she's seen how her concern about her son's diet has subtly
changed her own eating habits. ''I think I'm still sneaking stuff behind his
back, but I have tried to change,'' she said. ''I haven't been drinking soda or
doing a lot of sugary drinks in a while, but all because of him -- because I
know that if I have it, he's going to want it. And there's really no fair way to
say, 'No, this is Mommy's drink.' ''

Perhaps the biggest caveat to the trend is that it does not appear to extend to
the very heaviest Americans. Among the most overweight people, weight and waist
circumference have all continued rising in recent years.

The recent calorie reductions appear to be good news, but they, alone, will not
be enough to reverse the obesity epidemic. A paper by Kevin Hall, a researcher
at the National Institutes of Health, estimated that for Americans to return to
the body weights of 1978 by 2020, an average adult would need to reduce calorie
consumption by 220 calories a day. The recent reductions represent just a
fraction of that change.

''This was like a freight train going downhill without brakes,'' Kelly Brownell,
dean of the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, said. ''Anything
slowing it down is good.''

More information about the data sources we examined, and their various strengths
and weaknesses, can be found here.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our weekly
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/25/upshot/americans-are-finally-eating-less.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Becky Lopes-Filho and her 4-year-old son, Sebastian, eating
seaweed rice crackers and a pear at a park in Cambridge, Mass. Ms. Lopes-Filho
says she has reduced the sweets in Sebastian's diet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAYANA
SZYMCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) CHART: Calories Have Fallen: Food
diaries, logs of food purchases and measures of the food supply all show daily
calories falling over the last decade. (Sources: United States Department of
Agriculture
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 University of North Carolina food research program analysis of Nielsen Homescan
Services data.) (A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); ADULTS (90%);
DIETING (90%); NUTRITION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (87%); EPIDEMICS (78%); JUNK FOODS (78%); POPULATION &
DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); FAMILY (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); SCIENCE
POLICY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); FRUITS &
VEGETABLES (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); CANCER (66%);
AGRICULTURE (64%); DIABETES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
(59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA
PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 78 words


Chelsea Co-op

$790,000

MANHATTAN 314 West 19th Street, #4A

A one-bedroom one-bath with a decorative fireplace in a prewar walkup. Zoya
Litinetskaya, Halstead Property (212) 381-4237; halstead.com

MAINTENANCE $828 a month

PROS Original wood floors, moldings and a fireplace with a slate mantel add
charm to this sunny apartment. The kitchen is renovated and there are windows in
every room.

CONS The bathroom is reached through the bedroom and could use an update.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA JAQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Please Don't Do That

BYLINE: By RON CARLSON.

Ron Carlson's most recent novel is ''Return to Oakpine.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1017 words


A HAND REACHED DOWN TO GUIDE MEBy David Gates 314 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95.
The world of the knowing and frank stories in David Gates's new collection is
located north of New York City, ranging roughly from Peekskill to Vermont. The
bright, educated, sardonic people who inhabit this world call themselves
refugees from New York, dismissing their new locale as Olde Quaintsburgh or the
boonies. Full of rueful badinage, like the characters in his novels ''Jernigan''
and ''Preston Falls,'' they make for witty and cautionary company. ''A Hand
Reached Down to Guide Me'' is a smart book about smart, articulate people who
get in their own way again and again, engaging in episodic festivals of bad
decisions and then talking about their plight with arresting candor, in language
rife with humor and allusion.

Many of Gates's characters are polished professionals, well into the second acts
of their lives. Some, like 71-year-old Dr. Don Blakey in ''A Secret Station,''
are already embarked on the third. Soon after the doctor's much younger wife,
Martine, has left him, he's badly beaten by a ''street boy'' he's impulsively
picked up on a Hudson River bike path. Wanting more sympathy, Blakey asks his
tenant what she's in a bad mood about. Her response: ''About half the time.''

It's hard to get a straight answer from any of these clever people; happily,
there's always wiggle room for a double meaning. The entire book is rich in that
regard, with not a lazy phrase on view. An ailing musician says he has the best
Adderall, ''the real stuff. Made from adders.'' When the married man in
''Desecrators'' picks up his girlfriend in a rented convertible, he cheerily
tells her, ''Welcome to my midlife Chrysler.'' The quips never stop, a thorny
chorus commenting as things go south.

In ''An Actor Prepares,'' an aging actor on the verge of giving up his career is
called to Vermont to play Feste in ''Twelfth Night.'' He's always been at the
periphery of success in the theater and on television, but now he teaches at a
college in Westchester County. Feste is the perfect role for him, confirmed by
what he reads in an essay on the play: a man with ''more wit than sense.'' True
to form, the actor uses his ''autumnal charms'' to get involved with the play's
ingénue, who happens to be the daughter of one of the town's most influential
citizens. Even seeing it coming, the calamity can't be avoided. ''We're both
adults,'' the girl remarks in one wry, winning moment. ''Especially you.'' The
director, a dear friend, tells him directly: ''You need a keeper.'' ''Listen,''
the actor responds, ''if you know of any.'' Again and again, we exhort
characters like him: Please don't do that. Then they do it and, like it or not,
it's ugly. Yet still we smile. Gates's stories bristle with sharp, darkly
derisive moments.

In the novella ''Banishment,'' a woman recounts a good portion of her life, a
serial love story told with verve and affectionate disdain. She marries a much
older ''once-almost famous architect,'' one of the many brilliant older men in
this book. They know art, literature, culture -- and that they themselves are
old. It's part of their wily charm. Her story, she deftly reflects, goes like
this: ''I don't know, somebody goes, somebody stays, somebody latches on to
somebody else, the thing with somebody else does or doesn't go on for a while.
Am I missing something here?'' She knows that in literature love can move the
sun and the stars, but: ''That's the big kicker. I have to say, I'm not seeing
it.'' She's a cool pragmatist. She does things simply because she can -- so she
ditches the architect when he starts to acquire the less alluring aspects of old
age.

The 60-ish composer in ''Alcorian A-1949'' has tapped into the bitter rantings
of Ted Williams to compose his last ''big score.'' Meanwhile, he plays piano at
the Merri­vale nursing home, begun as community service for his D.W.I., and
according to the staff he's the residents' favorite visitor -- except for the
woman who brings in her Labrador retriever. One afternoon, back at home, he
watches his hand reach for the wrist of a reluctant guest as they sit on his
front porch. The violence that follows is hardly news; he's already admitted
that his shame is on permanent display, ''one of the local attractions.''

Throughout the collection, there's this heady, disturbing mix of antic, addict
play and stark abnegation. We rubberneck to see the accidents and then are
sobered by the view. The dark and lively title character in ''Jernigan'' behaved
this way, and his shadow, that of the unrelenting antihero, falls on many of
these aging strivers.

Gates's stories often end on a mournful note, with the summer's last gin and
tonics and the speaker looking back. At times, his narrators address the reader.
''As for you, whom I've been trying to sweet-talk this whole time,'' the
composer con­fesses, ''I get the feeling there's nobody here anymore.'' He's
wrong; even through the harm, we're here. Another narrator announces that ''this
late in the story, we need a little hit of the elegiac.'' He means that remark,
but he also wants to take it back. His own nostalgia is suspect.

Best perhaps is the title story, narrated by an English professor who would love
to have had a career as a banjo player. He and his girlfriend turn their
farmhouse into a hospice for an old friend, a former bluegrass standout, and his
arrival (and departure) signal the change they've needed. At times, their
self-awareness is achingly felt. As the professor doggedly, ruefully drags his
past forward, his ironic note of affirmation could be a credo for most of the
collection's narrators: ''You all see this as a defeat. I know. I would have.
But I can't begin to tell you.'' No, he has begun. Like so many characters in
this book, he's all too aware of the complicated reasons people find -- or make
up or confess to -- as they try to explain why (and how) they manage to go on.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday. Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/a-hand-reached-down-to-guide-me-b
y-david-gates.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROMAN MURADOV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (85%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(78%); FICTION LITERATURE (78%); THEATER (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); REFUGEES (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bit of Concealer

BYLINE: By THOMAS BELLER.

Thomas Beller's most recent book is the biography ''J.D. Salinger: The Escape
Artist.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2106 words


THE LOVED ONES By Mary-Beth Hughes 286 pp. Atlantic Monthly Press. $26.  ''Only
a flurry. A thin blanket of white, something to take the gray mounds of snow and
make them new.'' So begins Mary-Beth Hughes's third book, ''The Loved Ones.'' It
is 1969, and Jean Devlin is leaving her house on the Jersey Shore in ''the
Valiant wagon she used for errands.'' The departure is fraught, partly because
the fraughtness of departure is one of the book's themes, and partly because of
the nature of the driveway. ''Jean made the reverse up the steep curve, then
backed into the roadside pull-off where most delivery drivers chickened out and
parked. They'd rather hand carry a refrigerator than make the plunge, but Jean
could do it blindfolded.''

People back out of driveways all the time. As long as no one gets smashed into,
it should be banal enough. But Hughes, for better and for worse, does not do
banal, and I often thought of this maneuver -- I suppose you could call it a
detail of the house's design -- as I read her book. It is emblematic of Hughes's
creative DNA: counterintuitive and hard to follow, but producing interesting
effects.

From the turnout Jean can see the house below, which has a name, Gooseneck Cove,
a pretty cottage nestled beside the Navesink River. Her thoughts follow her
gaze, both up and down; she recalls the ruined state of the house when she and
her father first saw it, shortly after he won it in a poker game. She has
resuscitated it, brought it to heights of not just beauty but glory. ''Every
summer for the last five Jean's quiet little Cape had made the designer's
showcase.''

So Jean, we understand, is not only an appreciator of beauty, she is a creator,
not exactly an artist but that more nebulous, sinister talent, a ''stylist.''
One of the Â­uppercase ironies of this book is the difficulty, even or
especially among people with a talent for making things look pretty, of making
life pretty. Life, fate -- and more specifically Jean's adolescent daughter,
Lily -- all resist it.

One hears many names in this book. They fall faster than you can catch them,
like a flurry of snowflakes: Lionel, Billy, Sheldon, Sister Charitina, Father
Mulroney, Margaret, Doris, Cubbie, Mimi, Nick, Clyde Boll, Irving Slater,
Vivienne Vimcreste, someone named Teedle (who shovels snow), to cite just a few.
Who are these people? Some are negligible and never returned to. Â­Others,
central. It's like being at a party where you know no one, and where everyone is
talking about people you have never heard of, in a manner so oblivious to
outsiders it feels actively hostile. Perhaps my early agitation with ''The Loved
Ones'' -- which culminated in leaving the book in a city I had flown to, unaware
until I was boarding the plane home -- was animated in part by self-pity. There
is a point beyond which in medias res is no longer a style but an act of
reproach, if not hostility, from writer to reader. For the first 50 pages the
book put me in a bad mood.

As it happens, the coffee shop where I left the book was called Cafe Grumpy. A
similar sense of echo begins to establish itself in ''The Loved Ones.'' In the
flurry of names and facts there turns out to be much that is significant; it's
just that you must enter a kind of dream state and accept that you cannot infer
what is or is not important, but must absorb it all and let it do its work.

Perhaps it's a clever pun that in a book at least partly about design, the
writer's method should yield its pattern so slowly. But like a language you are
exasperated by and then begin to understand, the design is there. The words of
that first line, for example -- the ''thin blanket of white'' that covers ''gray
mounds'' to ''make them new'' -- seem merely decorative, while being about
decoration itself, yet their resonance increases as we learn that the plot is
driven by the business machinations of a bunch of suave, debonair, gangsterish
businessmen (Jean's husband, Nick, among them) whose product is makeup. The
essential gestures of makeup, the product and the motivations for its use, are
both well summarized by the book's first words.

As for those names, one slowly begins to recognize some and understand who is
important. Chief among these is Cubbie, Jean and Nick's son, Lily's younger
brother, who became ill and died when he was very young. The surface plot is
kicked into action when Nick gets a big job at a cosmetics company that requires
him to move to London. Jean does not want to go. Gradually we realize this
resistance is due in part to her attachment to the house, but also to the life
that transpired there before Cubbie's death.

Hughes's prose is elusive, allusive, artful, intriguing and infuriating. There
are no quotation marks; a character's speech blends into the text; the points of
view shift often. Line to line, there is no guidance for the reader. Hughes
likes to start her scenes with close attention to minor characters, and when we
arrive at last at the central characters' points of view, we don't see what they
see so much as occupy their cluttered, confused thoughts, with only now and then
a bit of empirical evidence edging in. Many of the gestures described are mental
ones. Thus, in lines that would be impressive if they weren't so confusing, we
get a portrait of Jean's stepmother, Doris, putting on jewelry: ''All of her
necklaces, good and trash, had been adjusted once she'd healed. All of her
dresses taken in and then discarded altogether. She was a different woman since
the surgery; everyone said so.''

The nature of the surgery we are left to guess at, while that ''everyone''
indicates the partygoing, ornamented milieu. It's as though Hughes has decided
to make her prose inhabit the shortcomings of her characters, who are burnished
and function in a haze of anxious self-regard. I realize this makes them sound
very contemporary -- but one of the things I like about the book, which is set
over a few seasons in 1969-71, is the way it evokes musty, outdated visions of
success, definitions of the good life that now feel antique. Hughes is very good
at portraying male self-regard as grandiose to the point of comedy but also
somehow moving.

Here, for instance, is Doris's husband, Clyde, enjoying his bourbon until Doris
surprises him: ''His mouth made a little bowl and the aroma snuck up through his
sinuses and pleasantly stewed his brain with thoughts of success, all that had
been his, that still was, that he'd grabbed from misfortune and worse.
Everything he'd done and made and was, and a smile whispered across his
black-brown eyes, a wisp of joy, until there she was standing right in front of
him. He'd swallow and say, What the hell? I thought you'd gone.''

This same theme -- the man's fantasy interrupted by the reality of his wife --
is handled with more overt comedy in a short story in Hughes's collection,
''Double Happiness,'' in which the heroine's mother is married to an aspiring
novelist to whose ambitions the mother has become devoted. The
stepfather/novelist ends up being a wife abuser. On the way to this discovery
the narrator takes a peek at one of his manuscripts and sees that it seems to
feature women with ''surprisingly active nipples, and insatiable appetites for
very straight-ahead penis-worshiping sex acts.''

In ''The Loved Ones,'' it is Nick, Jean's husband, who stands in for that
failed, wife-abusing, active-nipple-writing novelist. He is very attractive and
libidinal, and Jean speaks of him with lustrous, lustful admiration. We do not
trust him.

Every now and then Hughes reminds us that makeup is both a total fantasy of
marketing and a thing produced in Â­factories. A character will erupt in
stream-of-Â­consciousness inspiration for a new blush (''Melon Felony'') or
fragrance (''My Felonious Heart''). Market research is done, in part, by
executives loitering in department stores; when the company president spots one
ideal customer at Harrods, the woman turns out to be Jean. This head honcho is
an irascible, impulsive tycoon named Billy; he is surrounded by henchmen and
acolytes who move rapidly in and out of favor. One of the first pleasures I
gleaned from this book, through the thicket of its methods, was the comic
juxtaposition of these gangsterish figures against Hughes's otherwise dreamy
lyricism. At one point, Billy erupts into a minor tantrum directed mostly at
Nick: ''You're a time waster, Devlin. You're pretty and you're smart, but tell
your brother I'd like what he promised sometime soon. We clear? Now, let's get
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. out of the car. And Irving, try not to look
like you ate the goldfinch. Because believe me, you did not.''

It's as though Mickey Spillane sneaked into Virginia Woolf's study to add some
dialogue.

The big disadvantage, from Jean's point of view, to leaving the house in New
Jersey is also its advantage: a chance to get away from the trauma of losing her
little boy. But it trails along behind her like a fragrance, and in gossipy
London there is no escape. Near-strangers broach the topic in a mode of false
intimacy:

''He was your little angel, said Anna. Am I right? And God plucked him right
back, and now you're wondering why. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. To say
that Jean was wondering why was like saying that she was breathing; nothing
separated her from that question. This Anna was only the latest to try to break
to her the news of her lifetime.''

There are plenty of period details -- Jean drives that Valiant; her stepmother
drives a Pontiac, which Jean borrows at a dramatic juncture for a drive through
the night only to remember she doesn't like the way it is tuned: ''Silent,
plush, slow.'' There's a lot of smoking, bourbon, bangs and center parts. People
have live-in help with whom they play bridge. But the book glosses these details
lightly; to the extent it is a period piece, it is in the way it summons a now
somewhat dated idea of luxury, ambition and, by extension, accomplishment.

Lily, drawn to misanthropic boys on two continents, is besieged with her
perceptions of her parents, especially Jean, who confides to Lily that ''she'd
really given up on friendship. She'd discovered its profound limitations.

''It's very sad. But not for you of course, your life hasn't even started yet!

''I think it's started, Lily said. It's started for me. Her mother laughed but
really she listened to the percussion of the sidewalk, waiting for her father
now. She'd fallen in love with him all over again she said. Not that she'd ever
stopped! Even in her pajamas she kept on her eyelashes.''

On first read this seemed sappy and melodramatic, but revisiting the passage I
see it is an ingenious depiction of a young daughter perceiving her mother's
self-delusions.

In my copy of the book the publisher included a note comparing Hughes to James
Salter. Publishers say all kinds of things -- it's not the book's fault, or the
author's. Nevertheless, I confess this provoked me. The two do share a certain
postcoital atmosphere to their prose, with occasional delving into the act
itself (Hughes uses the word ''juddered'' memorably). Then there is the
proximity -- alternately fateful, delightful and tragic -- of sex to money, an
interest in the chemical reactions between them. Â­Salter and Hughes also share
an attention to the fineness of detail, as though attention to finery, in
clothes or in prose, were itself a kind of aesthetic morality. With Salter,
though, I always feel pressed into a moment in time. With Hughes I am lost in
space.

But it amazes me how many of the book's images have stayed with me. The winglike
pattern of a towel made on Jean's cheek when she fell asleep at the baby pool
with Cubbie, say, or Lily's recollection of the last time she saw her brother,
whisked up the Jersey Turnpike. The nature of Cubbie's sallow skin, the way Lily
lay beside him on his hospital bed with her feet on the ground, so as not to
disturb the weight, are indelible. Even some of the simple scenes of people --
Nick especially, walking alone in London -- resonate. ''He liked this walk. Dead
of the night, no one on the streets, the wild quiet of the place still surprised
him. Middle of London and you could hear the treetops shiver in a breeze and
breathe in the damp sour scent of those branches in the dark. At three in the
morning his footsteps were the only ones on the square.''

Hughes is not Salter -- but she is very much Hughes, and, for readers patient
enough to look beneath the makeup, there are marvels to behold.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday. Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/the-loved-ones-by-mary-beth-hughe
s.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ABIGAIL GOH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nell Zink

BYLINE: By NEIL ZINK.

Nell Zink is the author of the novels ''The Wallcreeper'' and ''Mislaid.''

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 276 words


In the taxi to my first reading last October, Jonathan Franzen (far be it from
me to be coy) remarked that I seemed awfully relaxed for someone who'd never
read in public before. I said: ''You don't get it. Rave reviews aren't pressure.
They're my life finally making sense!''

Having faked my way through noise guitar sets, a doctoral thesis defense,
meetings I wasn't invited to, et cetera ad infinitum, I know about stage fright,
even the catatonic kind. But I am by popular consensus and the grace of God a
writer. Plus, reading to a crowd resembles something I actually know how to do
-- sing Schubert in a clear mezzo-soprano -- minus all the hard parts. Whee!
Then comes the Q. and A., during which I am expected to display knowledge of --
get this -- myself.

Afterward, young women creep forward with battered copies of ''The Wallcreeper''
to declare their love. The middle-aged men know better, but I can tell what's on
their minds. It's an orgy waiting to happen. I like readings.

Still, my editor says there's no imminent danger of my being sent on a book
tour. Nothing beats the cost-benefit ratio of social media. Of the five readings
I've done, four were at my own expense. I'm told they more often turn out like
the one in Daniel Kehlmann's ''Fame,'' where the writer stews in a utility
closet ''green room,'' tongued by the flames of hell, as a bookseller urges him
to wait for a promised eighth audience member. Or was that an anecdote about his
last reading in Seattle? Either way, only famous writers go on tour now -- ones
who can pack big auditoriums -- so I hope in five years I'll be whimpering like
a rock star about life on the road.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED FILKORN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (65%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS
(52%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (51%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Laura Zanzal, Christopher Ford

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 215 words


Laura Ann Zanzal, the daughter of Joanne I. Zanzal and Andrew G. Zanzal of
Cheshire, Conn., was married Friday to Christopher Reilly Ford, the son of
Patricia A. Oehl of Scituate, Mass., and Christopher M. Ford of Rowayton, Conn.
The Rev. Norman L. Brockett performed the ceremony at St. Patrick's Roman
Catholic Church in Waterbury, Conn., where he is the pastor.

Mrs. Ford, 30, is a senior account supervisor at Zeno Group, a public relations
agency in New York. She graduated summa cum laude from Marist College in
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

Her father works in Cheshire as the vice president for sales atBenchmark
Technologies, a product supplier and technical consulting company for the
semiconductor industry.

Mr. Ford, also 30, teaches Spanish and is chairman of the foreign-language
department at Park East High School in Manhattan. He is also the assistant coach
for the girls softball team of Park East and its neighborhood school consortium.
He graduated from the University of Richmond and is studying for a master's
degree in social studies education at Lehman College in the Bronx.

The groom's mother teaches kindergarten at Wampatuck Elementary School in
Scituate. His father, who is retired, was the chief financial officer at
Connolly, a corporate auditing firm in Wilton, Conn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/laura-zanzal-christopher-ford
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); RELIGION
(76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%);
ELECTRONICS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS
(73%); COACHES & TRAINERS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (70%); ACCOUNTING (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); SOFTBALL (67%);
PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Saudi Forces Agree to Halt in Yemen War

BYLINE: By SHUAIB ALMOSAWA and KAREEM FAHIM; Shuaib Almosawa reported from Sana,
and Kareem Fahim reported from Amman, Jordan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 322 words


SANA, Yemen --  Saudi Arabia said Saturday that it would halt its military
offensive in Yemen for five days to allow the distribution of humanitarian
relief supplies, according to a statement carried by the official Saudi news
agency.

A Saudi-led military force has been bombing Yemen since late March in order to
defeat the Houthis, a rebel group that drove Yemen's Saudi-backed government
from power this year and controls substantial territory.

The truce announcement came a day after the Saudi-led coalition was accused of
being responsible for killing more than 100 civilians in air attacks, one of the
highest death tolls of the war. Witnesses and medical officials said a series of
airstrikes late Friday slammed into residential compounds for workers at an
electricity plant in the coastal city of Mokha, killing the civilians.

The Saudis had refused to abide by a previous cease-fire two weeks ago that was
brokered by the United Nations and would have halted the fighting during the
holy month of Ramadan. Saudi officials said at the time that they had received
no formal request to stop fighting from Yemen's exiled president, Abdu Rabbu
Mansour Hadi.

Their change of heart on Saturday appeared to reflect the Saudis' rapidly
improving fortunes in the war. Last week, local militiamen and other fighters
backed by the Saudis drove the Houthis from most of the southern Yemeni city of
Aden, giving the coalition its first significant victory as well as a beachhead
that could be used to broaden the offensive.

More than 1,700 civilians have been killed in Yemen since the war began four
months ago, including hundreds by coalition bombs.

The compounds that were bombed on Friday housed more than 1,300 people,
according to Abdullah Al-Fadhli, a local council member in Mokha. At least eight
airstrikes hit the buildings -- with some of the bombs killing rescue workers
who responded to the first strikes, he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/middleeast/saudi-forces-agree-to-halt-in
-yemen-war.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%);
PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POWER PLANTS
(71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%);
RAMADAN (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Resignation Letter, Less Is More

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE
WORKOLOGIST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 952 words



Send your workplace conundrums to workologist@nytimes.com, including your name
and contact information (even if you want it withheld for publication). The
Workologist is a guy with well-intentioned opinions, not a professional career
adviser. Letters may be edited.

I have, unfortunately, decided to resign from my job, and I will not be leaving
on good terms. I have been subject to harassment and other unfair treatment, and
have been fearful of being terminated. Rather than pursue the legal route, I
would rather extract myself, at some urgency, and retain what integrity I can.

While it is my direct manager who I feel is mistreating me, it is likely that I
will see this person on a regular basis at meetings and conferences in our very
small field. I do not wish to add to any negativity that she has already
created.

Any tips on what to include, and what not to include, in a resignation letter?
ANONYMOUS

When the circumstances of one's departure are unpleasant, it can be tempting to
use the resignation letter as a forum for getting the last word. That's a
mistake. As a general rule, it's better to keep a resignation letter as minimal
as the circumstances allow.

In some cases -- and, I suspect, in this one -- that can be very minimal. State
that you're resigning, and give adequate notice. Your dissatisfaction will be
clear enough from the fact of the resignation itself, so there's no need to
reiterate it. Limit any explanation to the boilerplate basics, whether you're
''accepting a new opportunity'' or have concluded this job is ''not an ideal
fit.''

If you want to send a no-hard-feelings signal for the sake of future
conference-circuit encounters, put in some vaguely positive statement: You've
enjoyed ''aspects of the job'' or ''learned a lot.'' (The latter phrase is handy
because it sounds nice but could mean almost anything.)

If you want to go beyond that, examine your motives carefully: It's easy to
rationalize mere venting as helpful advice.

As I've said in the past (in the context of exit interviews), I don't think
offering useful tips to your soon-to-be-former employer needs to be a priority;
you're better off focusing on your own future. And if your advice amounts to
''So-and-so is a horrible manager,'' you run the risk of your well-intentioned
critique being interpreted as sour grapes -- not helpful in a field where you
may interact with past colleagues regularly.

Besides, if you think a frank discussion of your manager's behavior with the
higher-ups might make a difference, it would be far more helpful to you and your
bosses to have it before you quit. So what you might do is write two resignation
letters. In the first one, hold nothing back: Vent with ruthless honesty and
achieve full catharsis.

Now set that aside (where no one else will stumble upon it) and start over. This
time, keep it concise. Then, if you think there's a chance of fixing the
situation, have that honest conversation about your issues. If you're not
satisfied with the results, hand over Version 2 -- and don't look back.

Peer Review: Flexible Scheduling

I'm writing to object to your characterization of workplace scheduling that
includes flexible hours as being a recipe for chaos. When I arrived almost five
years ago to be director of social services at a hospital, the department was
held in very low esteem by other departments. Staff members did not seem to be
able to find a social worker when they needed one. And when they did track one
down, the response time was too long and not necessarily helpful.

Most of the social workers felt overworked, underpaid and unappreciated. Staff
morale was in the tank.

One of the critical components to turning this around was my introduction of
self-scheduling. Every social worker now works the hours he or she chooses.
Chaos? To the contrary. I now have a happy, smoothly operating team with high
morale. LOS ANGELES

It's a fair point: Flexible scheduling systems can certainly work, and I did not
mean to imply otherwise. It's useful to remember that freeing workers from
overscheduling can definitely have benefits -- on morale and effectiveness.

But it's all in the details, and even the most open scheduling system still has
to function as a system, with parameters and clear communication. If I can
actually decide on the fly to leave early without warning anybody (the situation
that the earlier reader described), friction seems inevitable. And if everyone
in your department takes Friday off, it's hard for me to see how any colleague
who needs a social worker that day will be satisfied.

So the trick would be determining a staffing (or even task-specific) baseline
and then giving everyone as much freedom as possible. Even the much discussed
''bossless'' notion currently embraced by the online retailer Zappos, and
intended to let workers manage themselves, has a lot of rules.

Still, it's certainly true that sometimes managers fail to recognize how
significant it can be to give employees a sense of control over their work
lives. Easing up on needlessly restrictive schedule demands can do just that.

Reminder: Overcoming Age Bias

In my last column, I turned the tables and asked for readers' advice on handling
age bias in the job market and workplace: As a practical matter, what can
workers and managers do about it?

Thoughtful suggestions have been piling up in the Workologist's inbox, but there
is still time to chime in; I'll be sharing highlights when I observe this
column's second anniversary next month. In particular, if you're a younger
manager with thoughts on seeing beyond age differences, I'd love to hear more
from that perspective.

Send your advice to workologist@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/jobs/when-youre-writing-a-resignation-letter-l
ess-is-more.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

End of a Long Line

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL.

Alex Witchel is a former reporter for The Times. Her latest book is ''All Gone:
A Memoir of My Mother's Dementia. With Refreshments.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1077 words


THE HIRSCHFELD CENTURYPortrait of an Artist and His Age By Al HirschfeldEdited
and with text by David LeopoldIllustrated. 320 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $40.  When I
finished reading ''The Hirschfeld Century: Portrait of an Artist and His Age,''
I cried.

I cried because it had been too long since a joyous Al Hirschfeld drawing
heralded the opening of a Broadway show on the cover of The New York Times's
Arts & Leisure section. I cried because it had been too long since I'd seen Al
Hirschfeld at the theater, pen in hand, waiting like a kid for the show to
begin. I cried because when I told my 44-year-old brother that I was Â­writing
about Al Hirschfeld, he looked blank before saying, ''The guy with the
Â­'Ninas'?''

I first met the guy with the ''Ninas'' in 1995 when he was 92, in the 75th year
of his career. Al was the youngest old man on the planet. When something pleased
him -- a book, a play, a joke -- he would proclaim it ''MAAAH-velous!'' He had
recently driven through Italy, and he gave me a lift home from the theater one
night, blithely unaware that he never turned on his headlights. In 2000, when I
gave a party at Frankie & Johnnie's, the steakhouse on West 45th Street, I
forgot about its two flights of stairs and invited Al, then 97. He came. He had
been going there since the 1930s, when it was a speakeasy. The last time I saw
him, in the fall of 2002, three months before he died, he was 99. He and his
third wife, Louise, joined a group of friends at Barbetta, a theater district
restaurant Al had frequented for 70 years, initially with the illustrator Miguel
Covarrubias, who would be his greatest influence. Al began dinner with his
usual, a Jack Daniel's on the rocks. By the time dessert arrived and Louise
reached for whatever pills he was meant to take, she looked at him laughing and
talking, put them back in her bag and let it rip.

With material like Al Hirschfeld, it is obviously hard to go wrong. David
LeoÂ­pold wrote ''The Hirschfeld Century'' and selected its drawings (he also
curated the current Hirschfeld exhibit of the same name at the New-York
Historical Society). Even to aficionados, many of his choices will feel fresh, a
paean to the talent and discipline of the artist, including early paintings and
movie posters, most of them in color. As for the text, Leopold visited
Hirschfeld weekly for 13 years, and when his subject speaks, his verbal wit
equals that of his visuals, every time.

For the uninitiated -- my brother included -- Albert Hirschfeld was born in St.
Louis in 1903, the youngest of three sons. He started drawing as a child, and at
the urging of a local artist, the family relocated to New York City when the boy
was 12. There, he studied at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students
League. He considered becoming a sculptor, before concluding that sculpture was
''just a drawing you could trip over in the dark.''

He began his career by illustrating movie posters and at 21 was the art director
at Selznick Pictures. When it went bankrupt, he found work at other studios and
also at newspapers; his first theatrical drawing, of the French actor and
director Sacha Guitry, appeared in The New York Herald Tribune in 1926. ''The
posters are where he really became Hirschfeld,'' Leopold writes. ''The image had
to be transmitted immediately as one passed the theater, and therefore had to be
rendered as simply as possible.''

For his painting, Hirschfeld traveled to Paris, Moscow, Tahiti and finally, at
Covarrubias's urging, to Bali in 1932. ''The Â­Balinese sun seemed to bleach out
all color, leaving everything in pure line,'' he wrote. ''It was in Bali that my
attraction to drawing blossomed into an enduring love affair with line.'' By the
1980s, he reflected: ''I've found no formulas.
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. All I know is to keep paring it down,
eliminating, until it's pure line that communicates.''

Hirschfeld married the German actress Dolly Haas in 1943, and their daughter,
Nina, was born in 1945. In celebration, Hirschfeld slipped her name into some
drawings, thinking only friends would notice. Besides becoming a beloved parlor
game, searching for ''Nina'' transcended show business: The Pentagon used
Hirschfeld's drawings to train pilots to pinpoint targets, and a University of
Pennsylvania medical researcher used them to train doctors to read certain
X-rays more carefully.

Though Hirschfeld continued drawing movie posters through the 1940s, demand
declined after the war. As Leopold notes, editors and art directors thought
readers preferred photographs to drawings, ''and the satiric snap of much of
caricature had little place in homogenized postwar America. Al not only survived
but prospered Â­because he wasn't really a caricaturist. He saw himself as a
'characterist.' The satire of his art was more a slap on the back than a spit in
the eye.'' Theater became his primary beat.

To the casual observer, the sly humor and economy of Hirschfeld's work could
make it look too easy. In the 1950s, Collier's magazine assigned him a cover of
Liberace, who loved the portrait, with its heart-shaped face. His
representatives contacted the artist, who quoted his price. They sent back a
''furiously worded letter apprising me of Mr. Liberace's great collection of
paintings,'' Hirschfeld recalled. ''Portraits of the master done by great
artists, and up to now, no one had ever asked for money. I responded
immediately, apologizing for the misunderstanding and my seeming ingratitude at
being selected for inclusion in this remarkable collection. I promised to
faithfully dispatch, without further ado, the original painting to Mr. Liberace
posthaste without payment of any kind, to hang in his living room
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. on one condition -- that they send me Mr.
Liberace to hang in mine.''

The last new Hirschfeld drawing to appear in The Times was of Tommy Tune, in
December 2002. The following month, while working on a commission of the Marx
Brothers, Hirschfeld felt ill and went to bed. He died the next day, Jan. 20,
2003. In his final hours, as he drifted in and out of consciousness, he raised
his arm and started drawing in the air. Louise asked what he was doing, and he
replied, ''I'm practicing my perspective.''

No need for that, actually. No need at all.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/the-hirschfeld-century-portrait-o
f-an-artist-and-his-age.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: One of six posters Hirschfeld created for the 1937 comedy.
(DRAWING FROM ''THE HIRSCHFELD CENTURY'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); FILM (78%);
HISTORY (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); THEATER (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bookworm at the Stove

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; WHAT I LOVE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1125 words


There's a brand-new white Whirlpool refrigerator in Cara Nicoletti's apartment
in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Ms. Nicoletti, a butcher, a baker and the creator of
the literary food blog Yummy Books, is grateful to her landlord for the
appliance. Its predecessor ''was gross and old and didn't have any shelf space,
and I'd been asking for a really long time,'' said Ms. Nicoletti, 29. But she is
reserving judgment on the Frigidaire stove, part of the same delivery of kitchen
jewelry.

''It's O.K.,'' she said cautiously. ''But it's shiny and modern, and I'm not
used to it. I was really attached to my old one,'' a Mark Royal from the 1970s.

''It was teeny tiny -- you couldn't get sheet pans to fit it -- and the broiler
door had fallen off,'' continued Ms. Nicoletti, who, until early this summer,
was hacking carcasses and cutting up tenderloins a few blocks away at the
butcher shop the Meat Hook. ''But somehow everything that came out of it came
out perfectly. That's O.K. We move on. We grow up.''

Those sentimental feelings make sense. The Mark Royal was there, dependable and
indispensable, as Ms. Nicoletti tested and retested the 50 recipes in her
memoir, ''Voracious'' (Little, Brown, Aug. 18).

Part essay collection, part cookbook, it was inspired by classic and
contemporary literature (and a bit of nonfiction), and by Ms. Nicoletti's
passion for great reading and great eating. Those appetites would seem to be
genetic: Ms. Nicoletti's father was an English teacher for years; her maternal
grandfather and great-grandfather were butchers.

In ''Voracious,'' an appreciation of Jane Austen's ''Emma'' is followed by
instructions for preparing the perfect soft-boiled egg, the preferred food of
the heroine's valetudinarian father, Mr. Woodhouse. A recipe for brown butter
chocolate chip cookies accompanies Ms. Nicoletti's thoughts on ''If You Give a
Mouse a Cookie,'' while the ins and outs of whipping up a batch of crostini with
fava beans and chicken liver mousse wraps up, yes, a tribute to ''The Silence of
the Lambs.''

Ms. Nicoletti, who grew up near Boston, has lived in her sunny two-bedroom
railroad apartment for eight years, since graduating from New York University,
first with her older sister, Ande, a pastry chef, then with her boyfriend. ''We
just broke up,'' she said. ''I'm excited to have the place to myself.''

When she began looking for an apartment in the city after four years of dorm
life, her must-have list was short and to the point: small rent, large kitchen.
She would be cooking, and Ande would be decorating cakes; they needed room to
maneuver.

''We looked at a lot of different apartments, and this one had tons of cabinet
space,'' Ms. Nicoletti said. ''It's not the most convenient kitchen, because
there's not a lot of counter space. But it's roomy and gets good light, so
that's sort of why we fell in love with it.''

Fortunately, Ms. Nicoletti was more than willing to be charmed by the
apartment's eccentricities: the electrical outlet positioned at the edge of the
ceiling; the rectangular cutouts in the interior walls, which were later
outfitted with clear Plexiglas. ''We needed a little privacy and a little
separation from each other, my sister and I,'' Ms. Nicoletti said.

She wishes the landlord would let her ditch the industrial gray carpeting that
covers the floors of the living room and bedroom, and the tiles that obscure the
beautiful pressed-tin ceiling in the kitchen. So far, the answer has been
''no.''

Never mind. She has made the apartment her own. When Ande decamped to get
married -- she kindly left the aqua Mixmaster behind -- Ms. Nicoletti claimed
her big sister's bedroom, converted her own former bedroom into a living room
and turned what had been the den into an office. There she wrote a large chunk
of ''Voracious.''

''Having an office is major for me, especially having a space where I can close
the doors, even if I'm alone,'' she said.

Unsurprisingly, much of the art is about food. There are framed images from
''Voracious'' by the book's illustrator, Marion Bolognesi; a charming
illustration of authors' favorite snacks; a ''You don't have to be Jewish to
love Levy's Real Jewish Rye'' poster featuring a sad-eyed Buster Keaton; and
movie posters from campy horror films like ''The Female Butcher'' and
''Bloodthirsty Butchers.'' What greater tribute could there be to the lady of
the house ?

To create work surfaces in the kitchen, Ms. Nicoletti bought a junk-shop table
layered with peeling paint and a free-standing cabinet that she topped with a
slice of wood salvaged from a bowling alley. The room could easily be an
illustration from a favorite childhood book.

A bright-red Dutch oven keeps company on the stove with a yellow teapot. A
pale-green pegboard holds the pots and pans that Ms. Nicoletti reaches for most
often, and a trio of mugs dangle from hooks above the stove. Treasures, among
them a vintage Pyrex pan with a starburst pattern and a flea-market mortar and
pestle, are stowed on open shelves.

Ms. Nicoletti's collection of antique and everyday knives -- Lamson, Victorinox
and Forschner are all represented -- hang on a wall alongside her grandfather's
wood-handled sharpening steel. ''It's not the most useful anymore, but it's
beautiful,'' she said.

The front door of the apartment opens directly into the kitchen. That layout
might not suit everyone, but it's just fine with Ms. Nicoletti. The kitchen is
where visitors congregate ''even though it's the hottest room in the house,''
Ms. Nicoletti said.

Perhaps it's because they can count on a good meal, or three. ''If I'm testing
something for the blog, the serving size is four to eight people, so it's nice
to have friends who will eat my food,'' said Ms. Nicoletti, who often borrows
tables and chairs from the coffee shop across the street. It's that kind of
neighborhood.

She contemplated moving when she parted company with her boyfriend a few months
ago. ''But I've built a community over the past eight years,'' she said. ''A lot
of my friends work around here, so I can go and eat something they've cooked or
have a drink that they've made. The thought of leaving that community was sort
of devastating.''

And the idea of vacating her apartment was similarly disheartening.  ''It has
its quirks. It really does,'' Ms. Nicoletti said. ''But I'm close to the
landlord and his mom. I make him sausages, and when he's sick, I make him
chicken soup.''

She added: ''I miss my own family a lot. And though they're just in Boston, it
feels far away sometimes. The apartment really does feel like a home with my New
York 'family' surrounding it.''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/cara-nicolettibutcher-baker-and-aut
hor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cara Nicoletti, the granddaughter and great-granddaughter of
butchers, lives among the tools of her trade. She is the author of a memoir
about reading and eating, ''Voracious,'' to be published next month.
 Ms. Nicoletti rolls out pastry dough on a marble slab that her mother used as a
paint palette. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE MARKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); MEAT STORES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Higher Wages, Great! But How to Enforce?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA.

Jennifer Medina is a national correspondent for The New York Times based in Los
Angeles.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1106 words


LOS ANGELES -- THERE'S a certain euphoria among minimum-wage workers these days,
as local and state governments across the country, most recently in New York,
approve plans to substantially raise their pay.

But even as they celebrate their political wins, there's a persistent whisper of
worry among those pushing for higher wages: Will the promise of better pay
actually become a reality?

Sensing the possibility of a hollow victory, labor advocates have begun to make
wage enforcement a central part of their campaign: no longer just ''raise the
wage'' but ''raise and enforce the wage.''

The question of enforcement is particularly important given that the increases
are coming primarily at the local level, which means that a business could be
required to pay substantially more than its counterpart a few blocks away. The
issue is particularly vexing in Los Angeles, where the minimum wage will reach
$15 in 2020, amounting to a raise for more than 40 percent of the city's work
force. In a sprawling metropolitan area with dozens of cities bordering one
another, there could easily be a patchwork of wage laws that would make it
difficult to know who should be paid what.

With a vast underground economy where workers are routinely paid in cash,
Southern California has long been considered an epicenter of wage theft. Many of
the low-wage workers are immigrants, documented and not, who speak little to no
English. Without a forceful push to tell the city's seamstresses, dishwashers,
car washers and health aides what the minimum wage is, advocates say, many will
not even know what they deserve, making it easy for employers to pay less.

Already, underpayment is an issue. More than one-quarter of all low-wage workers
in Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City had been paid less than the legal
minimum wage in the week before they were surveyed for a 2009 study by
researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, and University of
Illinois, Chicago. For decades, enforcement has relied on complaints from
employees, either in the form of a lawsuit or a formal complaint to state and
federal authorities.

In California, there is a claim about wage theft filed every four minutes,
according to Julie Su, the state's labor commissioner. In 2012, the state's
Department of Industrial Relations, which is charged with enforcing the state's
$9-an-hour minimum wage, assessed more than $3 million in unpaid minimum wage
earnings, a record high. But the state can hardly keep up with the task. There
are just a handful of investigators in Los Angeles. And even when the state
rules that an employer violated minimum wage laws, employees often don't receive
the money: A report from the National Employment Law Project found that only 17
percent of workers who prevailed in wage-claim violations actually collected any
back pay.

''There's no reason to think that an increase means that all of the sudden there
is going to be more employer compliance,'' said Janice Fine, a professor at
Rutgers University who has studied the low-wage work force and local enforcement
programs across the country.

Though the federal Labor Department is in what Ms. Fine calls a ''kind of
renaissance and rejuvenation'' in its more aggressive approach to employers --
in 2012, the department recovered $280 million in back pay for 308,000 workers
-- it has merely 1,100 investigators to monitor roughly seven million employers.
Calling the task Sisyphean would be an understatement.

''It's just true that we will never have enough inspectors to be everywhere,''
Ms. Fine said. ''To make any of these policies more than aspirational, we have
to be thinking about new enforcement strategies.''

And cities' enforcement plans vary as widely as the wages. In Portland, Me.,
where the minimum wage will rise to $10.10 an hour next year, there are so far
no clear guidelines for the city's role in enforcement. When the first phase of
Seattle's wage increase began in April, labor union officials and other
activists blanketed the city with fliers telling workers to expect a raise.

Indeed, Ms. Fine said, cities will have to rely on a network of local agencies
and community groups to make sure workers get what they deserve. Like other
labor advocates and researchers, Ms. Fine sees the most promise in the approach
planned in San Francisco, where the wage will increase to $15 by 2018. More than
two dozen investigators will work with community organizations that routinely
serve low-wage workers.

Researchers from the University of California, Berkeley, who helped persuade the
Los Angeles City Council to pass a wage increase also suggested that the city
would need to hire 25 investigators for its Wage Enforcement Division to match
San Francisco's efforts.

So far, city officials in Los Angeles have appeared reluctant to create a large
new agency, instead relying on a handful of investigators and a large web of
community-based organizations. In a memo to the council, city staff members
recommended that the local enforcement agency eventually grow to more than three
dozen positions with a budget of more than $2 million. Then, the city would be
able to not only rely on complaints from employees, but also target audits at
''industry sectors or employers with high rates of noncompliance.''

''We've had an existing wage theft crisis for a while, and if we don't address
that the increase is just an empty promise and unfulfilled dream,'' said Victor
Narro, the project director of the U.C.L.A. Labor Center. ''We have been
pressing for this for years and we are starting to get somewhere, but this is
only the beginning.''

Earlier this month, the California State Senate passed legislation that will
give state officials more power to collect back pay, in part by forcing
employers to put up a bond to pay the employee the wages he's owed.

Employers tend to comply with ordinances either because they believe it is the
right thing to do or because they fear getting caught doing wrong. But for many
employers, particularly in cities with large pools of low-wage workers, Ms. Fine
said, there is a more complicated equation; if other businesses are cheating,
employers believe that they cannot keep up if they pay the legal wage, and
employees believe that they will not find a better job. And both groups may be
right.

The question of whether the minimum wage should be left to local governments
seems to have already been answered. Now the question becomes: Having raised the
expectations, can they fulfill them?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sunday-review/higher-wages-great-but-how-to-en
force.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fast-food workers and supporters protesting outside a Los
Angeles Burger King in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON/BLOOMBERG NEWS,
VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%);
LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%);
WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%);
URBANIZATION (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%);
LITIGATION (60%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (51%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA
(79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Makes a Shooter Do It?

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE.

An investigative reporter for The New York Times.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1082 words


I RETURNED to my office in Hartford late one afternoon to find a future mass
murderer sitting in my chair.

The visitor, Matthew Beck, was not yet a killer. He was a mentally ill
accountant from the Connecticut Lottery telling tales of corruption at his
office. He had pulled up a seat -- mine -- at the newspaper where I worked for
an interview with one of my colleagues, who expressed relief afterward that the
intense Mr. Beck did not have a gun.

Mr. Beck, however, did have guns. And a few months later, he brought one to work
and fatally shot four top lottery officials before killing himself. The mass
shooting, in March 1998, was the second worst in Connecticut until three years
ago, when Adam Lanza killed 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown, where my wife had once applied for a job.

I thought of both of these incidents in recent weeks as horrific shootings
shattered communities in Charleston, S.C., and Chattanooga, Tenn. On Thursday,
there was yet another shooting, this one in a Lafayette, La., movie theater by a
gunman with a history of mental instability who left a trail of angry Internet
postings. A familiar, achingly unsatisfying search was underway for answers to
an old question: What causes someone to take innocent lives? The usual suspects
were lined up: mental illness, twisted ideologies, substance abuse, a culture
awash in guns.

This vexing issue was what my fellow Times journalist Michael Luo and I spent a
year examining following the Sandy Hook massacre. After reviewing more than
1,000 court cases and forensic reports, conducting countless interviews and
producing seven stories, we were certain of one thing: It was far too easy for
firearms to fall into the wrong hands.

But the motivations behind the actions of those hands often remain maddeningly
opaque. How did Dylann Roof, a 21-year-old high school dropout who drank and did
drugs, come to immerse himself in white supremacism and end up accused of
gunning down nine African-Americans at a Charleston church? In Chattanooga, why
did Mohammod Abdulazeez, 24, a college graduate struggling with depression and
drug abuse, gravitate to radical Islam and fatally shoot five servicemen?

Mark Potok, who has spent decades researching hate groups and their followers
for the Southern Poverty Law Center, said many shooters turned out to be
''people who are looking for something larger than their own small lives, to be
seen as a hero standing up for a cause.'' Suspects like Mr. Roof go on the
Internet and discover groups that validate their feelings and offer a sense of
belonging, he said.

''It was once viewed as very unlikely that a person could be radicalized solely
through a computer screen, but something has changed,'' Mr. Potok said. ''Today,
the Internet really is the language of young people like Dylann Roof.''

As for Mr. Abdulazeez, he appears to have researched Islamic martyrdom on the
web, although it was not clear he ever directly communicated with anyone
espousing terrorism. The specter of self-radicalized ''lone wolf'' killers in
the age of the Internet has added a frightening dimension to the 21st century
variant of the mass shooter.

The widespread availability and glorification of firearms also cannot be
overlooked as an important ingredient in this toxic mix, said Brad Bushman, a
psychology professor at Ohio State University who served on a White House task
force on gun violence after the Sandy Hook shooting. Numerous studies have shown
that the mere presence of a weapon can make people more aggressive.

''I think guns are great equalizers, especially for people with limited voice,
people on the fringes of society who may be rejected by peers or are trying to
make themselves feel more accepted,'' Mr. Bushman said. ''Guns make people feel
more powerful.''

For all their differences in motives and targets, mass shooters fall along a
continuum of violence that is unnerving in its steady forward march. An F.B.I
study found that between 2007 and 2013, there were an average of 16.4 such
shootings a year, compared with 6.4 from 2000 to 2006. It is hard not to feel a
growing sense of foreboding and futility, that we cannot escape their
recurrence. Each new case delivers not just a blow to our collective conscience,
but a there-but-for-the-grace-of-God moment.

One result of the Connecticut Lottery killings was a state law enabling the
police to more easily seize firearms from people deemed to be a threat. The
court records of these cases form a catalog of near misses and hint at the
pervasiveness of firearms among all social strata.

There was the 24-year-old man found sitting in his car outside an
ex-girlfriend's place, crying and holding a gun on his lap. After disarming the
man and getting him to a hospital, police officers entered his home and
discovered seven high-powered rifles, a gas mask, knives and a backpack filled
with 1,000 rounds of ammunition and survival gear.

A 27-year-old insurance company employee with bipolar disorder was found walking
around with a gun in his pocket and six more stashed in his house, after a
concerned relative reported that he was behaving strangely. Then there was the
paranoid schizophrenic, 55, who had 18 guns taken away after he threatened to
kill his mother and a nurse. When I interviewed him at his trailer near some
railroad tracks in 2013, he told me how important his firearms were to him,
showed me his empty gun safe and said he intended to refill it.

Indeed, one is struck by the nexus of mental instability, substance abuse and
easy access to firearms. A regulatory loophole and bureaucratic bungling allowed
Mr. Roof to buy a handgun despite a drug arrest that should have prevented it.
Mr. Lanza, a deeply disturbed loner fascinated by mass killings, lived with his
mother, who legally owned a small arsenal. And Mr. Beck was able to keep a
pistol permit, even though he had been hospitalized twice for depression.

But, of course, most people with mental health problems are not violent, let
alone prone to mass murder. What makes someone seek solace in a spasm of
bloodshed is perhaps unknowable. That sense of mystery was captured in a letter
released publicly by Mr. Beck's parents after his killing rampage. In it, Donald
and Priscilla Beck lamented that despite ''the love and help from friends and
family and the treatment, counseling and medications from his doctors, he chose
the wrong path.''

''We love you Matt,'' they wrote. ''But why?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/what-makes-a-shooter-do-it.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXIS BEAUCLAIR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
SHOOTINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); FORENSICS (78%); 2015 CHARLESTON CHURCH
SHOOTING (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); WRITERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FIREARMS
(75%); CHILDREN (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ADULTS (73%);
SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); LOTTERIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH
(71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%);
RELIGION (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%)

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA
(90%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%);
LOUISIANA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Viewfinder: Summer Stills

BYLINE: By BETSY HORAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 313 words


If any single location can perfectly epitomize the nostalgic lazy, hazy days of
summer -- complete with the Mr. Softee jingle in the background -- it might just
be the Wildwoods, the three kitschy southern New Jersey shore towns that are
home to the largest concentration of mid-century motels in the nation. In the
Wildwoods' 1950s and '60s heyday, over 300 ''Doo Wop motels'' were built there
in that unmistakable style: flashy neon lights, kidney-shaped pools,
asymmetrical design elements and a plethora of plastic palm trees (now
designated the official tree of Wildwood). ''The hotels were the backdrop of my
summer,'' recalls Mark Havens, a Philadelphia-based photographer and assistant
professor of industrial design at Philadelphia University. ''We would always
pile in the car and drive around and look at all the hotels in the same way
families drive around and look at Christmas lights at holiday season,'' Havens
says of his family's yearly sojourn to Wildwood, which the artist has visited
without fail for 44 years running. ''Once they started to disappear, I realized
just how much I took them for granted.''

While in graduate school, Havens set out to document the motels. Initially, he
hired a professional photographer; when he was dissatisfied with the results, he
set out to teach himself photography and take on the assignment himself. ''It
became the catalyst for me embarking as an artist,'' he says. After 10 years of
shooting the Wildwoods, he has amassed over 13,000 images in an archive that, as
he says, ''brings out the interplay of an idealized past and its inexorable
disappearance.'' Shot at the outset and closing of summer, his series ''Out of
Season'' documents the eerie emptiness of the motels before the tourists arrive
-- and after they've departed.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/07/23/mark-havens-photos-new-jersey-mote
ls/

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HAVENS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY
SERVICES (74%); CHRISTMAS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); HOLIDAYS
& OBSERVANCES (67%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Smart Money Can't Stop a Housing Bubble

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER.

Robert J. Shiller is Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale. Follow him on
Twitter at @RobertJShiller.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1157 words


Home prices have been climbing. They have risen 27 percent nationally since
2012, even more in places like San Francisco. But why worry? If you accept the
efficient markets theory -- and believe that real estate is an efficient market
-- then these prices are based on ''new information,'' even if you don't know
what that information is.

The problem with this kind of thinking is that the efficient markets theory is
at best a half-truth, as a voluminous literature on market anomalies shows.
What's more, even that half-truth is grounded mainly in the stock market, which
attracts professional investors who sometimes do make the market behave
efficiently.

The housing market is another matter. It is far less rational than even the
often irrational stock market, for a couple of important reasons. First, most
investors find it difficult to understand how housing supply responds to changes
in demand. Only a small minority of people think carefully about such things.
Second, it is very hard for the minority of smart-money investors who do
understand such matters to bet against bubble-level prices in real estate
markets. In housing, the smart money has relatively little voice.

For the first point, in ''A Nation of Gamblers: Real Estate Speculation and
American History,'' a presentation at the 2013 American Economic Association
convention, Edward L. Glaeser of Harvard University reviewed real estate booms
and busts. He showed how real estate investors have repeatedly made the mistake
of neglecting the supply response to rising prices. In the Alabama cotton
farmland boom of 1815 to 1819, for example, high cotton prices seemed to justify
high prices for cotton land. What most investors failed to see at the time was
that these cotton prices would induce new farmers around the world to begin to
grow cotton. That same failure to anticipate how supply can respond to demand
applies to many forms of real estate today. Developers and builders will, one
way or another, exploit overpricing, increasing effective supply, in that way
bringing real estate prices down.

For the second point, in 1977 Edward M. Miller pointed out in The Journal of
Finance something that should have been obvious: Efficient markets require the
possibility of selling short. In the stock market, for example, with
short-selling, people who think the market is overpriced and headed for a fall
can borrow shares and sell the borrowed shares at the current high price. If
share prices do indeed fall, they can buy the shares back at a lower price and
repay the loan, with a profit.

Short-selling helps prevent bubbles from forming, but such negative bets cannot
easily occur in the housing market. You can't routinely borrow a house and sell
it, promising to buy back the same house later to repay the loan.

Markets without the possibility of making these negative bets will be
inefficient. That's because if it is not possible to short, the smart money can
do no more than avoid holding an overpriced asset. Canny traders are forced to
sit on the sidelines, and watch in futility as prices decline as they expected.
Without short-sellers, there is nothing to stop a group of ignorant investors --
who get some ill-conceived idea that a certain investment is just terrific --
from bidding up prices to extravagant levels. In the housing market, that poses
an enormous problem.

Suppose that you are convinced housing prices are too high. How can you profit
from this insight? You might consider shorting the residential real estate
investment trusts (REITs) that invest in residential properties and are
themselves traded on stock exchanges. However, REIT prices do not have a
consistent correlation with housing prices, and tend to resemble stock prices
instead. For example, the housing market declined in the two years after the
March 2009 bottom of the stock market. The S & P/Case-Shiller National Home
Price Index fell 6 percent over this period. But, over that same time interval,
the S & P 500 Residential REIT index tripled in value. Clearly, shorting this
index would have been a bad move, even though a bet that housing prices would
decline was spot on.

During the financial crisis, some professional investors did manage to profit by
correctly forecasting home price declines. They used mortgage derivatives such
as collateralized debt obligations to place their bets. John Paulson of Paulson
& Company is well known for very successfully profiting from his prediction of
trouble in the housing market. But mortgages are not homes, and he and others
like him did not beat down the emerging housing bubble before it grew out of
proportion.

In 2006, in collaboration with several colleagues and me, the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange set up a futures market for single-family homes in 10 United States
cities. This market is still going today, but it is not very active and it can
be used to place only a small bet that home prices will fall.

There is a way for smart money to profit from an understanding of high prices.
It is to build new houses and sell them before prices fall. This is a
time-consuming process but it is what we are starting to see now, as housing
starts and permits data show.

Still, despite rising prices, at present, exuberant investors do not dominate
the domestic housing market over all. The Pulsenomics survey of household heads
in January showed that national home price expectations are modest: on average
increases of only 3.7 percent a year are expected for the next 10 years.

Extravagant expectations do lurk in parts of the market. In the 2015 Yale School
of Management survey of recent home buyers that Karl Case of Wellesley College,
Anne Thompson of Dodge Data and Analytics and I direct, our preliminary results
confirmed the overall Pulsenomics conclusion yet found that some people have
strikingly unrealistic expectations.

In San Francisco, for example, we found that while the median expectation for
annual home price increases over the next 10 years was only 5 percent, a quarter
of the respondents said they thought prices would increase each year by 10
percent or more. That would mean a net 150 percent increase in a decade. These
people are apparently not thinking about the supply response that so big a price
increase would generate. People like this could bid prices in some places so
high that eventually the local market will collapse. Yet the smart money can't
find a profitable way to correct such errors today.

The bottom line is that there is no reason to assume that the real estate market
is even close to efficient. You may want to buy a house if you love it and can
afford it. But remember that you cannot safely rely on ''comparable sales'' to
judge that the price is fair. The market isn't efficient enough for that.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our weekly
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/upshot/the-housing-market-still-isnt-rational.
html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM COOK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE
BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICES (90%);
COTTON MARKETS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%);
COTTON FARMING (86%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE
CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); HISTORY (65%); FARMERS & RANCHERS
(51%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Las Vegas Strip Cloaked in Smoke From Hotel Fire

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 321 words


A fire broke out at a luxury hotel on the Las Vegas Strip on Saturday, injuring
one person and covering the Strip with thick plumes of black smoke, fire
officials and witnesses said.

The Clark County Fire Department said on Twitter that it was fighting a
two-alarm fire at 3708 South Las Vegas Blvd., the address of the Cosmopolitan of
Las Vegas. The gleaming luxury hotel overlooks the main part of the Strip and
attracts megawatt celebrities like Beyoncé and Jay Z, who stay in its posh
three-story suites and come and go through its secret entrances and passageways.

The fire department said that one person, who was not immediately identified,
had been taken to the hospital. There was no immediate information on how
seriously the person was injured.

Amy Rossetti, a vice president of public relations for the hotel, said the fire
broke out around 12:15 p.m. local time at the Bamboo Pool in the West End tower
and was later contained and put out. The hotel was evacuated, and there were no
serious injuries, she said in an email.

The cause of the fire was still under investigation, Ms. Rossetti said.

Firefighters appeared to make quick work the blaze. Less than 15 minutes after
posting a picture on Twitter of the flames and smoke rising from the hotel,
Courtney Cyr, a guest at the nearby Aria Resort and Casino, posted another image
of the charred remains it left behind.

Firefighters have taken control of the fire!! Thankfully!!!!
pic.twitter.com/dDMdjnJfvW -- Courtney Cyr (@ccyr17) July 25, 2015

Sandra Baker, a county spokeswoman, told The Las Vegas Sun that firefighters had
extinguished the flames and were working to clear the smoke and check the
adjoining tower to be sure the fire had not spread. Crews from Las Vegas Fire
and Medical also responded to the fire.

The five-star hotel opened in 2010 and has nearly 3,000 rooms.This year, it was
on Condé Nast's Gold List of the best hotels in the world.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/fire-at-cosmopolitan-las-vegas-hotel.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); FIRES (93%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
EYEWITNESSES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING
(89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (55%); JAY-Z (55%)

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (98%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (98%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

United States' Gold Cup Performance Culminates With a Whimper

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; PANAMA 1 (3), UNITED STATES 1 (2);
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 891 words


CHESTER, Pa. --  The United States national soccer team did not want to be here
Saturday afternoon, playing a Gold Cup consolation match in a small soccer arena
instead of the championship game at a large football stadium.

And it showed for long, somnolent stretches in the American attack as a 1-1
match fizzled to a conclusion with the United States losing, 3-2, in a penalty
shootout to Panama before an announced crowd of 12,598 at PPL Park.

Panama's backup goalkeeper, Luis Mejía, who started for the suspended Jaime
Penedo, went to his knees and raised his arms to the sky after saving penalty
shots by Michael Bradley and DaMarcus Beasley.

Fabian Johnson sailed his spot kick over the crossbar.

The decisive penalty kick was delivered by Panama's Harold Cummings, whose
assertive shot beat Brad Guzan inside the left post.

Panama had taken a 1-0 lead in the 54th minute when Roberto Nurse cut inside
John Brooks, who struggled through this tournament.

Nurse slotted a left-footed shot inside the far post.

The United States tied the match, 1-1, in the 69th minute as DeAndre Yedlin,
with his back to the goal, slid a pass to Clint Dempsey, who scored his seventh
goal of the Gold Cup on a shot from about 15 yards.

But that was it for the Americans, who put only two shots on goal compared with
13 for Panama on a desultory afternoon.

After recent exhibition victories over Germany and the Netherlands, the
Americans ended the Gold Cup with consecutive defeats in a tournament that the
their stated goal was to win.

That will increase scrutiny of Coach Jurgen Klinsmann as the United States
prepares for home friendlies against Peru and Brazil in September and an
important playoff match against the Gold Cup winner in October.

Mexico and Jamaica will play the Gold Cup final Sunday night at Lincoln
Financial Field in nearby Philadelphia. On Oct. 9, the winner will face the
United States, the 2013 Gold Cup champion, for the right to represent Concacaf
at the 2017 Confederations Cup, an important tuneup for the 2018 World Cup in
Russia.

A playoff victory would erase the Gold Cup frustration for the Americans, but it
is not likely to come easily, especially if the United States has to face Mexico
at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., where the fans would support Mexico in
large numbers.

The best that can be said about Saturday for the Americans is that they finished
without a suspension or major injury for the playoff.

The bronze medal for Panama brought relief and smiles to a team that lost a
heartbreaking qualifying match to the United States that kept the Panamanians
out of the 2014 World Cup. And, on Wednesday, Panama went down in a disputed
loss to Mexico in a Gold Cup semifinal.

''It's a third place that's very honorable for us,'' said Hernán Darío Gómez,
Panama's coach.

On Friday, Pedro Chaluja, the president of Panama's soccer federation,
criticized the refereeing of the American Mark Geiger in the semifinal match and
said that it had been fixed.

On Saturday, Alfredo Hawit, the president of Concacaf, said in a statement that
Geiger had acknowledged that ''officiating errors had been made during
Wednesday's match and that these impacted the outcome of the game.''

But Hawit added, ''We at Concacaf regret these circumstances but accept that
such human errors are part of the game.''

That did not assuage Panama's players, who arrived for Saturday's match wearing
T-shirts that said in Spanish, ''Dignity isn't bought.''

The team was depleted without Penedo, who pushed an assistant referee after the
semifinals, and without forward Luis Tejada, who was given a red card and
ejected against Mexico. Still, Panama did not appear dispirited and might have
won in regulation if not for a late save by Guzan and shots cleared off the line
by Tim Ream and Johnson.

Afterward, Klinsmann repeated what he had said Friday: that his primary goal is
to build toward the 2018 World Cup and that he expected ''some situations where
you take a step back and you hopefully make two forward.''

Coach Bob Bradley was fired after the United States lost the 2011 Gold Cup final
to Mexico. But Sunil Gulati, president of the United States Soccer Federation,
said the situations were not parallel. He called this Gold Cup ''a
disappointment'' but added, ''I wouldn't call it a step back.''

Asked if he would assess Klinsmann's status differently if the United States
lost the Concacaf playoff, Gulati said: ''No. Let's get past today. I'm not
going to speculate on stuff that's three or four months away.''

Extra time served as a testimonial for Beasley, 33, the only American man to
play in four World Cups. Klinsmann said he had told Beasley: ''I don't know if
you can walk out like that. We might have to get you back in. The guys were
clapping.''

Next week, Klinsmann said he would speak with goalkeeper Tim Howard, who was
superb at the 2014 World Cup and who has said that he is ready to end his
yearlong sabbatical from the national team.

Klinsmann said he would also speak with Guzan to ''see how we want to move
forward. But Brad kept us in the game with a couple of tremendous saves.

''We allowed, defensively, too many chances,'' Klinsmann added. ''This game was
under a kind of weird feeling for both sides. We wanted just to make sure
nothing bad really happens, and let's get it done.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/soccer/concacaf-official-blames-human-e
rror-for-referees-decisions-in-panamas-loss.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Panama goalkeeper Luis Mejía making a save on a penalty kick by
the United States during the Gold Cup third-place match. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
PEREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%);
SPORTS AWARDS (89%); FIFA WORLD CUP (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%);
ATHLETES (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%);
NETHERLANDS (79%); PERU (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tunisia Passes Antiterror Law After 2 Deadly Attacks

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 442 words


TUNIS --  Tunisia's Parliament voted overwhelmingly late Friday to pass an
antiterrorism law after a pair of devastating attacks against tourists, but
critics fear that the new legislation may endanger the country's hard-won
freedoms.

Alone among the countries that were swept up in the 2011 uprisings of the Arab
Spring, Tunisia emerged with a democracy, but amid a rise in attacks by Islamist
radicals, the new government is increasingly feeling pressure to choose
stability and security over personal liberty.

''There are many holes in the law that could open the way to human rights
violations,'' said a statement by coalition of 10 Tunisian civil society groups,
including the bar association, the journalists' union and several human rights
groups.

The law, which had languished in Parliament for years, was fast-tracked after
gunmen attacked the national museum in Tunis in March, killing 21 foreign
tourists. Three months later, another gunman attacked a resort in Sousse,
killing 38 tourists.

Since then, the government has mobilized additional military and police units,
including 3,000 more guards for hotels and tourist sites.

The new law, which replaces one from 2003, is meant to aid this battle while
still respecting human rights, said Abada Kefi of the Parliament's legislation
committee.

While 176 deputies voted for it, 10 abstained and none were opposed, some
lawmakers have expressed reservations.

''The political wrangling will affect religious rights and freedom of
expression,'' said Sahbi Atig, a member of the moderate Islamist Ennahda Party.

Death is the maximum penalty for acts of terrorism, including disseminating
information that results in the loss of life in terrorist attacks. Terrorism can
also be defined as damaging property during a demonstration. The law increases
the time the police can hold a suspect without charges and without contact with
a lawyer to 15 days from 6.

Outrage over the attacks, which crippled Tunisia's vital tourism industry, swept
aside reservations over the measure.

A study by the International Crisis Group, a nonprofit organization that works
to prevent conflict worldwide, contended that overhauling the security services
would be more effective than harsher penalties in combating terrorism.

The report said Tunisia's police suffered from corruption, brutality and poor
organization.

Without changes to improve the training and conduct of the police, ''Tunisia
will continue to stumble from crisis to crisis as its regional environment
deteriorates and political and social tensions increase, at the risk of sinking
into chaos or a return to dictatorship,'' the report said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/world/africa/tunisia-passes-antiterror-law-aft
er-2-deadly-attacks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tunisian lawmakers on Friday debated the law, which had
languished in Parliament for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FETHI BELAID/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%);
HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM
(89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%);
SHOOTINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TOURISM (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF
RELIGION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); FREEDOM
OF EXPRESSION (72%); DICTATORSHIPS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); RELIGION
(50%)

CITY: TUNIS, TUNISIA (93%)

COUNTRY: TUNISIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tours: Namibia by Bike and Train

BYLINE: By CHARU SURI

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words


A safari from BikeTours.com will offer travelers an opportunity to see Namibia's
wildlife from two perches: the saddle of a bicycle and a chartered train.

The 13-day, 12-night journey, which debuts next summer, departs fromWindhoek and
includes the Fish River Canyon in the south as well as Etosha National Park in
the north. Adventurers will pedal through the Namib Desert, where ''dunes can
reach as high as several hundred feet,'' said Jim Johnson, the founder of
BikeToursDirect. A popular stop is Dune 45, a 525-foot-tall formation from
five-million-year-old sand blown from the Kalahari Desert.

The biking component will vary between 19 and 25 miles each day, after which
participants will board the Desert Express for overnighters or stay in lodges
along the way. The train journey covers 90 percent of Namibia's available rail
route and will feature local game as well as cuisine that reflects the country's
German colonial and Dutch heritage, such as ''braaivleis'' or barbecue-style
cooking. Travelers will also get to talk with one of the country's major
conservation leaders, John Kasaona.

The safari, Aug. 8 to 20 in 2016, is $5,118 a person, excluding airfare.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/namibia-by-bike-and-train.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BIKETOURS.COM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%);
CONSERVATION (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TRAINS (78%); DESERTS (76%); AIR FARES
(50%)

STATE: KALAHARI DESERT (79%)

COUNTRY: NAMIBIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Luxe Hotel to Another

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG TICKET; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 596 words


A full-floor aerie on the 29th floor of the Pierre hotel, steps from Central
Park and offering white-glove perks like concierge and twice-daily maid services
to its co-op residents, sold to the widow of one of the founders of Liberty
Travel for $22,900,000 and was the most expensive sale of the week, according to
city records.

The 4,890-square-foot apartment, No. 2901, in a historic district at 795 Fifth
Avenue and 61st Street, sold for $3 million below its most recent asking price;
it has a monthly maintenance of $21,009, according to StreetEasy.com.

The residence, with generously sized windows, has picturesque park and cityscape
views. There are four bedrooms and four and a half baths, along with a formal
dining room, a library and an enormous gallery among its 12 sprawling rooms. The
vast master bedroom suite includes two bathrooms, two walk-in closets, dressing
and sitting rooms and an 18-by-8-foot home gym.

And like all the other apartments at the Pierre, which was built in 1930 and
underwent a $100 million renovation that was completed around six years ago, the
unit has access to myriad amenities, which, besides the maid and concierge
services, include a fitness center, valet parking and even a round-the-clock
on-call physician.

Charlene Haroche, the widow of Gilbert Haroche, a founder of Liberty Travel who
died in late April at age 87, purchased the residence just three months after
the couple's co-op apartment two blocks away at the Sherry-Netherland, at 781
Fifth Avenue near 59th Street, sold for $67.5 million in early April. Their
fully renovated apartment, with seven bedrooms and eight bathrooms, encompassed
the entire 18th floor and included two sweeping terraces that provided
spectacular Central Park and city views; it entered the market almost three
years ago for $95 million.

The seller of the Pierre co-op was identified in city records as Alfred B.
Engelberg, a philanthropist who made his fortune as a lawyer challenging
pharmaceutical company patents, and his wife, Gail May Engelberg. They were
represented by Serena Boardman of Sotheby's International Realty.

The Engelbergs relocated to the Hampshire House, at 150 Central Park South,
where they purchased a three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath apartment for $12
million, according to city records.

The week's runners-up were close in price and both at Extell Development
properties.

At $21,641,062.50, according to city records, was a 3,582-square-foot sponsor
apartment, with a storage unit and a 1,100-square-foot wraparound terrace, at
the Carlton House, a former hotel at 21 East 61st Street. The monthly
maintenance for the three-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath co-op unit, No. 16B,
which also includes a library, is $12,293. The buyer's identity was shielded by
the limited liability company Lash 61.

And city records also showed a $21,386,750 sale of a four-bedroom
four-and-a-half-bath apartment on the 56th floor of One57, the glassy blue
condominium skyscraper at 157 West 57th Street, where the most expensive single
residence in New York Citysold earlier this year for nearly $100.5 million. The
monthly carrying charges for No. 56C, a 3,466-square-foot unit, are $5,608.

The buyer of the sponsor unit was brought by Sanaa Bahachame of Gulf Selective
Properties Brokers of the United Arab Emirates, and identified through the
limited liability company Central Park Immobilier.

Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/a-floor-at-the-pierre-hotel-for-22-
9-million.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pierre hotel, steps from Central Park, underwent a $100
million renovation that was completed in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%);
RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION
(76%); CITY LIFE (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HOME PRICES
(76%); AUCTIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); RELOCATIONS (71%);
PHYSICAL FITNESS (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); LAWYERS (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATION MFG (50%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (63%)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Screen

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 144 words


Madonna's ''Vogue'' video, above, directed by David Fincher, put an
international spotlight on vogueing. Today, Madonna continues to showcase the
form in its modern guise: Her recent performances have included the female
Japanese voguers Aya Sato and Bambi. Some in the scene have mixed feelings about
Madonna's video, which they feel borrows vogueing's attitude and visual appeal
while erasing the struggles of the mostly poor, black and Latino gay men who
created the dance. ''Our community has been used for other people's profit,''
the voguer Julian De La Blanca said. And some, including those teaching, worry
that YouTube videos and studio classes will distill the dance to its flashy
moves. ''With the appropriation there's also the loss of histories,'' said the
voguer Kia Labeija, referring to the decades of social stigma within which the
scene developed.

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Club

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 140 words


On Monday nights at Escuelita, above, a subterranean club on 39th Street, about
200 people crowd around a small dance floor for weekly vogue battles. (Doors
open at 11 p.m., but the competition doesn't begin until around 1 a.m.) Cash
prizes are awarded for Virgin Vogue (first-timers), Women's Vogue, Hand
Performance and O.T.A. (''open to all''). The vogueing here, and at balls, has
become increasing acrobatic, to the chagrin of some. The new vogue is ''about
the things that give you an immediate 'Wow,' '' said Mr. Burnett, a veteran
dancer. ''Back in the earlier days, it was more about the intensity of what
you're doing and the belief of what you're doing.'' Javier Madrid, who teaches
vogueing around the world, agreed: ''It's lost its essence. It used to be about
performance. Give them a story, with a beginning, middle and end.''

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (88%); DANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Class

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 106 words


Dance studios across the city have added vogueing to their schedules in response
to student demand. Javier Madrid, above, teaches a class at the Broadway Dance
Center, which is frequently filled with women. ''There have always been women in
the scene, but not a surplus of women as it is now,'' said Kia Labeija, who won
in the popular and competitive women's vogueing category at last year's Latex
Ball.

Mr. Burnett, who teaches at Peridance Capezio Center, said studio employment
would help a generation of dancers. ''They're making a living, paying bills,
teaching the culture,'' he said. ''That never could have happened in my time.''



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE EDUCATION (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCERS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Ball

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 141 words


''It's a big community health fair, ball, family affair and reunion,'' Mr. Khan
said of the Latex Ball, above in 2011, which he has helped organize for the past
eight years. ''We celebrate each other.'' But it is also a battleground. The
ball features the city's premier vogueing competition, and of the roughly 2,500
attendees, around 100 will do combat on the dance floor. Their weapons: slashing
arms, sudden drops to the floor and ferocious stares. A panel of judges --
veterans of the scene -- will crown a winner based on musicality, originality
and attitude. They'll also be looking for key elements: catwalks (traipsing on
an imaginary runway); duckwalks (bouncing on toes in a squatting position);
hands (in circles, waves, lines and taps); dips (like the punishing, and
popular, death drop); and floor work (rolls, crawls and splayed legs).

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA SMEYNE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Theater; Was Blind, but Now I See

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 136 words


''If I can get such pleasure from mere touch, how much more beauty must be
revealed by sight.'' So wrote Helen Keller in an essay in The Atlantic Monthly
in 1933, in which she imagined what she might choose to look upon were she given
the use of her eyes for 72 hours. Now the Transport Group is trying to achieve
the reverse effect, by imagining itself into the mind of Keller in a play that
shares its title with that of the Atlantic article, ''Three Days to See.''

Conceived and directed by Jack Cummings III, this work, which opens Sunday at
Theater 79 in the East Village, is inspired by Keller's writings and asks a cast
of seven to plumb the senses to approximate the ways in which she apprehended
the world. It seems safe to assume that the results will be nothing like ''The
Miracle Worker.'' (Through Aug. 16.)



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/theater/transport-groups-three-days-to-see-ins
pired-by-helen-keller.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The cast of ''Three Days to See,'' a show inspired by Helen
Keller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Sheriff Says Jail Staff Will Be Held Accountable

BYLINE: By DAVID MONTGOMERY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 944 words


HEMPSTEAD, Tex. --  The Texas sheriff whose policies have come under intense
criticism in the aftermath of the jail-cell hanging death of Sandra Bland says
he is seriously considering disciplinary action against jail staff members for
not fulfilling state requirements for mental health training.

In a nearly 45-minute interview in his office on Friday, Sheriff R. Glenn Smith
of Waller County said he was continuing to review the chain of events that ended
with the discovery of Ms. Bland's body in her jail cell on July 13. Looking
back, Sheriff Smith said, he regrets that Ms. Bland -- who officials say told
them after she arrived at the jail that she had once tried to kill herself --
was not placed on a suicide watch.

''It's very obvious to me now, with what happened,'' he said, adding, ''I
absolutely wish'' she had been watched.

Ms. Bland, 28, was booked into the county jail on July 10 after being arrested
in a confrontational traffic stop by a state trooper who said she had changed
lanes without signaling. Three days later, she was found  dead in her cell,
hanging from a stanchion, a plastic bag taken from a 32-gallon trash container
around her neck. Sheriff Smith said the plastic trash liners were recommended by
the Texas Commission on Jail Standards, but he called their use a mistake in
light of what happened. All plastic liners have now been removed from the cells,
he said.

''I don't think there's a direct cause that was created by this jail,'' the
sheriff said. But he said if changes and improvement in jail procedures could
help ''prevent another one, then we're going to do it.''

A Waller County prosecutor said last week that an autopsy of Ms. Bland had
concluded that her injuries were consistent with suicide, not homicide.

''The death of Sandra Bland is not going to go out of our minds,'' the sheriff
said. ''It won't go out of mine the rest of my life.''

Sheriff Smith said Ms. Bland, who was being held on $5,000 bond on a
third-degree felony charge of assault on a public servant, had been waiting to
be bailed out, possibly by a friend.

The jail standards commission, in a review after Ms. Bland's death, faulted the
jail for not complying with state policy requiring a minimum of two hours of
mental health training and for not looking in on Ms. Bland every hour.

Sheriff Smith acknowledged the violations and said he was moving toward
disciplinary action that ''could range from suspensions to transfers to
terminations.''

''I can assure you that the staff is going to be held accountable,'' he said.
''There will be some action taken in the near future. Right now, that's the way
I'll leave it.''

Sheriff Smith has also asked a local lawyer to form an outside commission to
review his office's policy and procedures. He said he also planned to ''double
and triple the training we have on mental health.''

Ms. Bland, a Chicago-area resident who was moving to Texas to take a job at
Prairie View A&M University, her alma mater, was arrested after a confrontation
with Trooper Brian T. Encinia of the Texas Department of Public Safety.

The trooper's behavior, which included threatening to use a stun gun on Ms.
Bland if she did not get out of her car, has come under sharp criticism from
state lawmakers, the local district attorney, and Ms. Bland's family and
supporters.

State Senator John Whitmire, a Democrat from Houston who is chairman of the
Criminal Justice Committee, has questioned procedures inside the jail and is
calling for a statewide review of county jails.

Ms. Bland's funeral was held Saturday in Lisle, Ill., and was attended by
hundreds of mourners.

Senator Richard J. Durbin and Representative Bill Foster, both Democrats of
Illinois, attended the service and said that they had asked the Justice
Department to investigate Ms. Bland's death. A jail screening form, dated July
10 at 5:32 p.m., shortly after Ms. Bland's arrival at the Waller County Jail,
showed that she had answered ''yes'' to questions about whether she had ever
been ''very depressed,'' if she felt that way now and if she had ever considered
killing herself. But a suicide assessment conducted about three hours later
showed she answered ''no'' to the questions about depression.

The documents reported that Ms. Bland had told officials that she had attempted
suicide with pills after losing a baby. Ms. Bland's relatives have said they
were unaware of any suicide attempts by her.

Sheriff Smith said that Ms. Bland had changed her answers on the form and that
she might have been in a ''different frame of mind'' in the second interview. He
said it was ''not uncommon'' for inmates to change their answers.

The results of an autopsy, released on Friday, showed that Ms. Bland had used
marijuana. The sheriff said jail officials had conducted a thorough inspection
of the jail and found ''no evidence of any kind'' that she had done so inside
the jail. He said he had even brought in a plumber to see if marijuana had been
flushed down the toilet.

Ms. Bland's death, he said, has had a ''devastating'' emotional impact on the
jail staff. Jail employees have been getting counseling. Sheriff Smith, who was
elected in 2008, said he took full responsibility for what happened. But he also
said he had no intention of resigning in the face of sweeping criticism over the
death.

''I don't run backwards from that,'' he said. ''I'm going to stand here and take
it. I'm going to stand here and fix it, what I can fix, and show the citizens
and everybody that that's my job and that's what I'm going to do. And then they
obviously in the future will have the opportunity to decide whether they want me
to stay or not.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/sandra-bland-death-may-lead-to-disciplinary
-action-sheriff-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%);
DEATHS (78%); FELONIES (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); SUICIDE (74%); AUTOPSIES
(73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CORRECTION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 39 words


An article last week about the North Loop neighborhood of Minneapolis gave
outdated information about the Spoon and Stable restaurant. It was named a James
Beard finalist for Best New Restaurant 2015; it was not simply a semifinalist.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The I.R.S. Gives Up on 'Dark Money'

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 469 words


The federal government has all but surrendered to the powerful, rich donors
whose anonymous contributions threaten to undermine the 2016 elections. The
commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, John Koskinen, signaled as much on
Thursday when he told a House committee that there would be no change in the tax
code in 2016 to end its growing abuse by political operatives using nonprofit
''social welfare'' institutions to disguise the identities of affluent campaign
contributors.

''I don't want people thinking we are trying to get these regs done so we can
influence the election,'' Mr. Koskinen declared later to reporters. The
statement was remarkable for blessing further procrastination at the I.R.S.,
whose clear obligation is to enforce existing law in a way that would end the
current flood of ''dark money'' financing politics. The commissioner said the
earliest that tighter rules could take effect would be 2017. The I.R.S. has been
increasingly timorous on this issue ever since House Republicans opened partisan
hearings into complaints that I.R.S. officials have been biased against
conservative political groups that claim tax exemptions as nonprofit social
welfare groups.

The fact is, the I.R.S. should be dedicated to enforcing the law against phony
social welfare claims by all political schemers, from the right or the left.
This abuse of the tax law mushroomed after the Supreme Court's reckless Citizens
United decision in 2010 that ended limits on campaign spending by corporations
and unions. Since 2006, when only $5.2 million was spent by exempt organizations
that do not disclose donors, spending increased 60-fold, to more than $300
million in the 2012 presidential cycle, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. An even bigger infusion is expected in 2016 from big-money donors
shielded by the social welfare fiction.

Earlier this year, Mr. Koskinen declared that nonprofit social welfare groups
could spend up to 49 percent of revenues on political activity and still keep
their tax exemption. This ill-advised statement did not encourage optimism about
a tightening of the code. It also contradicts existing law, upheld in court
decisions, that these groups must be ''operated exclusively to promote social
welfare.''

Current regulations allow for some political activity provided it is not a
group's ''primary'' mission, but the notion that a group can use the social
welfare shield to devote 49 percent of its revenues to electioneering is
outrageous.

It is a gross insult to taxpayers to make them underwrite the brazen evasions of
campaign operatives bundling dark money. The abuse is compounded by the latest
I.R.S. retreat from its responsibility.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/the-irs-gives-up-on-dark-money.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); ELECTIONS
(90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS
(89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%);
POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%);
CONSERVATISM (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Patients Talk About Death

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 504 words


Medicare announced plans this month to reimburse doctors for talking with
patients about what treatments they want -- and don't want -- toward the end of
life. This sensible, long-overdue proposal is likely to have a very wide impact.
About 80 percent of people who die in the United States each year are covered by
Medicare, and Medicare policies are often followed by private insurers, some of
which already pay for these advance-planning conversations.

The need for such talks was made even clearer by disturbing new evidence in a
study in the July 9 issue of JAMA Oncology, a journal of the American Medical
Association, that many cancer patients, who often face difficult choices over
whether to have chemotherapy or radiation, don't receive the care they want at
the end of life.

Researchers at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore used a national
survey containing exit interviews with the next of kin of nearly 2,000 cancer
patients who died between 2000 and 2012. Patients who had end-of-life
discussions with doctors and those who created living wills, which describe the
kind of care a person should receive, were most able to avoid having treatments
that they did not want imposed on them. Patients who relied solely on designated
health care proxies to make decisions if they were incapacitated were often
subjected to aggressive last-minute care.

The lesson seems clear. End-of-life discussions involving all parties --
doctors, patients and surrogates -- are crucial to ensure that people's
preferences are specified and understood by everybody.

Medicare's proposal, which is part of the agency's physician fee schedules for
2016, was welcomed by major medical organizations but faces opposition from
right-to-life and disability rights groups that say advance-care planning
persuades people to reject lifesaving treatment. The talks, however, are
voluntary, and many patients and families are eager to have them.

The payment rates for doctors and other health professionals who meet with
patients about end-of-life care will be decided by Nov. 1, when the plan is
expected to become final. Virtually all experts agree that medical professionals
will need additional training. Many doctors are uncomfortable talking to
patients about planning for death.

The proposal would end further delays on an important issue. In 2009, a similar
plan was floated to pay for end-of-life discussions under the Affordable Care
Act only to be derailed by Sarah Palin's bogus cry about ''death panels'' that
would cut off care for helpless patients. In 2010, Medicare tried to pay for
voluntary advance care planning as part of annual wellness visits only to have
its efforts overturned by similar political pressure. This year the opposition
seems more muted, and more patients may finally be able to talk to their doctors
and gain more control over the care they receive in their final days.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/helping-patients-and-doctors-ta
lk-about-death.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW HOLDER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: END OF LIFE DECISIONS (91%); DEATH & DYING (90%); LIVING WILLS (90%);
CANCER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE
(79%); ONCOLOGY (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS
(78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(75%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
(74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INSURANCE (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (50%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Less Credible Euro

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 789 words


When they introduced the euro in 1999, European leaders said the common currency
would be irreversible and would lead to greater economic and political
integration among their countries. That pledge of permanence, long doubted by
euro-skeptics, seems ever less credible.

While the eurozone may have temporarily avoided a Greek exit, it is hard to see
how a deal that requires more spending cuts, higher taxes and only vague
promises of debt relief can restore the crippled economy enough to keep Greece
in the currency union. On Thursday, the Greek Parliament passed a second set of
reforms required by the country's creditors. Other changes, like higher taxes on
farmers, are expected later in the year.

The combative finance minister of Germany, Wolfgang Schäuble, has further
undermined confidence in the euro's cohesion by saying that Greece would be
better off leaving the common currency for a five-year ''timeout.'' As a
practical matter, an exit from the currency union would almost certainly be
permanent, since readmission involves a grueling process. The eurozone requires
new members to keep inflation below 2 percent and to have a maximum fiscal
deficit of 3 percent of gross domestic product and a public debt that is no more
than 60 percent of G.D.P. The plight of the Greeks has made countries that do
not use the euro, like Poland and Hungary, far less eager  to join the currency
union, which has come to mean a loss of sovereignty and a commitment to
austerity, regardless of economic reality.

Of course, the euro was never entirely about economics. European leaders
believed the single currency was a big step toward creating an irrevocable
alliance among countries on the continent. But many experts warned that it could
make its members less stable unless it was followed by a tighter political and
budgetary union. Since that did not happen, the currency union was left fully
vulnerable to economic crises and to the will of Europe's more powerful
economies.

All those fears have played out in Greece, even as the threat of exits from the
euro hangs over other weakened countries, like Italy, Portugal and Spain. Senior
leaders in Germany, Finland and Slovakia who have publicly suggested a Greek
exit seem to think it would scare weaker economies into accepting more
austerity. That may not be necessary; some radical parties in those countries
are already openly talking about leaving the euro.

The question now is what is the cost of leaving? Can a modern economy withstand
the immediate damage of an abrupt currency change if the benefits of devaluation
and regaining full control over fiscal and monetary policies could be limited
and could take years to realize?

For example, returning to the drachma, which would trade at a deep discount to
the euro, could help the Greek economy by making its island resorts, olive oil
and feta cheese cheaper for tourists and foreign buyers. The country would also
be able to control its own monetary policy, by pumping more money into the
economy to stimulate lending rather than relying on the European Central Bank,
which until recently has done too little.

But leaving the euro would mean few foreign institutions and investors would be
willing to lend to the government, possibly for many years after exit. That
could make it harder for the Greek government to buy essential imports like
medicines, oil and gas. The financial system would most likely collapse under
the strain of bank runs. Many Greeks fear that a return to the drachma could
also lead to runaway inflation if  the country's central bank prints too many
drachmas to prop up the economy. And that doesn't even account for logistical
challenges like redenominating contracts and printing new paper currency.

As bad as an exit could be on the debtors, the creditor countries like Germany
could also be damaged. They would lose most of the money they lent to the
troubled nations in the last few years. The government of Greece owes more than
300 billion euros ($326 billion), most of it to other European governments, the
International Monetary Fund and the E.C.B. It is also possible that a Greek exit
could strengthen the euro, which would hurt exporters in other eurozone
countries by making their goods more expensive on the world market.

Given all the immediate losers in the Grexit scenario, the creditors would be
foolish to make it inevitable -- as the latest bailout terms appear to do. What
they should be doing is changing the economic policies that have turned the
currency union into a debilitating trap that countries cannot escape without
suffering even more pain.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/how-the-euro-turned-into-a-trap
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (93%); CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE
(90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GROSS
DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC
CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY
(78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC
FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE
AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); RESORTS (61%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (53%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (93%); GERMANY
(92%); PORTUGAL (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%);
FINLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Oasis for Buy-and-Hold Investors

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 915 words


There has been no shortage of market-moving business and economic news this
year. But for the overall American stock market, none of it has really seemed to
matter.

Crises have come and gone, yet the American market has remained astonishingly
calm.

The headlines have been filled with international developments like the Greek
debt drama, China's shaky stock market and a possible sanction-ending nuclear
deal with Iran. On the domestic front, the latest pronouncements of the Federal
Reserve on interest rates and often disappointing announcements by American
corporations on earnings and revenue had the potential to stir the stock market.

For example, Apple, the largest stock in the universe by market capitalization,
announced after the market close on Tuesday that its earnings for its fiscal
third quarter rose 38 percent, a spectacular increase for most companies. Yet it
evidently disappointed many short-term traders, who drove Apple stock down more
than 4 percent on Wednesday.

That was a big move, and because Apple is so important, it drove the main market
indexes down for the day. But if you focus on the ripples caused by Apple, you
may miss a bigger, quieter picture. While individual stocks and sectors gyrate,
the overall indexes have been bound in an unusually tight trading range. For the
most part, the stock market has been an oasis of relative calm.

In fact, the overall American market has been setting records -- even if they
are not the kind that usually attract attention. It has barely budged this year.

So far in 2015, for example, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has moved
less than it has ever moved before, according to at least one measurement by the
mavens at the Bespoke Investment Group. So far in 2015 the index has not closed
more than 3.5 percent above or below its starting point. That has never happened
before, Paul Hickey, a co-founder of Bespoke, said in an interview. The S.&P.
500 on Friday closed at 2,079.65, up a mere 1 percent for the year.

The Dow Jones industrial average has been setting its own dubious records. It
has been going nowhere at all since the end of last year, crossing above or
below its December 2014 closing level 21 times so far this year. That degree of
fruitless up-and-down movement in a single calendar year is already an
unsurpassed, if uninspiring achievement for the Dow since 1900, according to
Bespoke. Volatility in the American large-capitalization stock market has been
quite low, too.

What's startling about the immobility in the Dow and the S.&P. is that other
indexes and individual market sectors have been far more active -- for better
and for worse. The Nasdaq composite index, which is dominated by technology
shares, is up 7.4 percent for the year and has been setting records of a more
conventional kind, rising to new highs, most recently on Monday. The Nasdaq
biotechnology index has risen even more this year -- a sizzling 24.5 percent
advance. Energy stocks, meanwhile, have fallen sharply. The S.&P. 500 energy
sector has dropped 13 percent this year. And commodity markets have made
wrenching moves -- mainly downward lately -- while the currency markets have
been shaken by news about the euro.

But in aggregate, the major American stock market indexes have held steady.

''It could be mainly that people are waiting for the Federal Reserve to raise
interest rates -- which the market expects to happen fairly soon -- yet the
problems around the world may be inducing the Fed to delay, and that's bullish
for stocks, and it's all balancing out,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''We don't really
know why. But it's startling that the main stock market has been so steady when
so many other areas haven't been.''

For buy-and-hold investors in the major American stock market indexes, ignoring
the news has been a worthwhile strategy.

While it's difficult to make a short-term killing in a market like this,
somnambulistic prices aren't necessarily a bad thing for long-term investors who
have already benefited from the extraordinary run-up of the bull market since
2009. The market hasn't had a substantial drop for several years. By remaining
immobile, stocks may be experiencing a different kind of correction: If prices
don't rise, valuations become more reasonable as corporate earnings increase.

That is important because the price-to-earnings ratio of the stock market -- a
widely followed measure -- has risen appreciably since the start of the bull
market. Bloomberg data for the S.&P. 500 shows that it has gone all the way from
14.31 percent on March 31, 2009, to 18.22 today.

While investors wait for market action, they can collect handsome dividends. For
the Dow, for example, the average current dividend yield is 2.39 percent, more
than the current yield on a 10-year Treasury bond. The historically low yields
on bonds are an important reason for the high valuations in the stock market: By
comparison with bonds, stocks are relatively appealing.

Markets that have sleepwalked like this one in the first half of the year have
generally done well in the second half, Bespoke data shows. Of the nine other
years with the least market action through June, all of them rose in the second
half, on average, by 6 percent. That figure doesn't include dividends.

In short, if you want action, you won't have much of it in the big stock market
averages. But for buy-and-hold investors, there is still a reasonable chance
that this could turn out to be a profitable year.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/your-money/us-markets-are-an-oasis-for-buy-and
-hold-investors.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BOYEON CHOI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES
(89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%);
FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (61%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Red Bull an All-Star

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SOCCER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 94 words


M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber chose Red Bulls midfielder Dax McCarty as the
All-Star Game replacement for the injured New York City F.C. midfielder Frank
Lampard. It will be the first All-Star Game for McCarty.

â-  Wayne Rooney raised both arms in delight after his early goal, and
Manchester United had many more moments to celebrate in an impressive 3-1
victory over the Champions League winner Barcelona in Santa Clara, Calif. (AP)

â-  Philippe MexÃ¨s scored the game's only goal an hour in as A.C. Milan beat
Inter Milan in an exhibition game in Shenzhen, China.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/soccer/red-bull-is-named-an-all-star.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (89%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (57%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%)

CITY: SHENZHEN, GUANGDONG, CHINA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%);
NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SOUTH
CHINA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Seeking a First Title

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | TENNIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 127 words


Lesia Tsurenko of Ukraine beat Kirsten Flipkens, 6-4, 6-2, and Urszula Radwanska
of Poland beat Magdalena Rybarikova, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, to set up the Istanbul Cup
final. Each player will be seeking her first WTA singles title.

â-  Second-seeded Samantha Stosur beat Anna Karolina Schmiedlova, 6-1, 7-5, at
the Gastein Ladies tournament in Austria. Rain washed out the second semifinal,
between top-seeded Sara Errani and Karin Knapp. (AP)

â-  JoÃ£o Sousa beat second-seeded Roberto Bautista Agut, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3, to
reach the Croatia Open final in Umag.

â-  BenoÃ®t Paire, seeking his first ATP singles title, beat the defending
champion, Pablo Cuevas, 6-4, 6-3 in the Swedish Open semifinals and will next
meet Tommy Robredo, who defeated Alexander Zverev, 6-3, 6-4.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/tennis/istanbul-cup-final-to-end-with-a
-first-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (88%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); AUSTRIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cardinals Rookie Is Shot

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO FOOTBALL; Pg.
8

LENGTH: 67 words


The Arizona Cardinals rookie receiver Damond Powell Jr., who signed as an
undrafted free agent out of the University of Iowa, was wounded by gunfire
outside his home in Ohio and was hospitalized, team officials said Saturday. The
Toledo police said that Powell, 22, was wounded in his driveway by shots fired
from a car on Friday evening. The police said Powell's injuries did not appear
life-threatening.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/football/cardinals-rookie-damond-powell
-jr-is-shot.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); SPORTS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA CARDINALS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%)

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (70%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canadian Leads in Ontario

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 103 words


David Hearn moved into position to become the first Canadian to win the Canadian
Open in 61 years, taking a two-stroke lead over Bubba Watson and Jason Day in
Oakville, Ontario. Hearn, from Brantford, Ontario, shot a four-under-par 68 to
finish the third round at 201, 15 under par.

â-  Colin Montgomerie shared the clubhouse lead with Marco Dawson at 10 under
par, with nine holes of the third round left in the Senior British Open in
Sunningdale, England. Play was suspended because of poor light.

â-  Lizette Salas shot a seven-under 64 to take a four-stroke lead in the Meijer
L.P.G.A. Classic in Belmont, Mich.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/golf/david-hearn-leads-on-home-turf.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (91%); ENGLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Wins 5K

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SWIMMING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 73 words


Fighting off windy and choppy conditions, Haley Anderson of the United States
defended her title in the five-kilometer open-water race to claim the first
medal of the FINA world swimming championships in Kazan, Russia. She surged to
the lead in the closing meters, hitting the touch pad in 58 minutes 48.4
seconds. In the men's race, Chad Ho of South Africa defeated Rob Muffels of
Germany in a photo finish; the winning time was 55:17.6.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/american-wins-5k-at-worlds.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); SWIMMING (87%); SPORTS (87%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gilbert Smith, Charles Gulas

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 173 words


Gilbert Mathew Smith and Charles John Gulas are to be married Sunday at the
Randall Gallery, an events space in St. Louis. Marlene Sundheimer, a friend of
the couple who was ordained by the Universal Life Church for the occasion, will
officiate.

Mr. Smith (left), 57, is a technology project manager in Wildwood, Mo.; for
example, he helps nursing homes with data management as well as hardware and
software issues. He received an associate degree in culinary arts from St. Louis
Community College.

He is a son of Charles F. Smith of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and the late Charlotte
Hollowell Smith, who lived with the groom's father in Arlington, Va.

Dr. Gulas, 61, is the dean of the Walker College of Health Professions at
Maryville University in St. Louis, and a professor of physical therapy at the
university. He graduated from Ohio State and received a doctoral degree in
higher education administration from St. Louis University.

He is a son of the late Anna Nagy Gulas and the late George W. Gulas, who lived
in Garfield Heights, Ohio.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/gilbert-smith-charles-gulas.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COMMUNITY
COLLEGES (87%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (86%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%);
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (70%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (69%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); PHYSICAL
THERAPY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS UNIVERSITY (94%)

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (69%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SOUTH
CAROLINA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gary Shteyngart

BYLINE: By GARY SHTEYNGART.

Gary Shteyngart is the author of three novels and, most recently, the memoir
''Little Failure.''

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 324 words


When I was a young buck and just starting out in the literary biz, I did my
readings in Brooklyn like normal people, and I didn't go on no fancy book tours.
Then the paperback of my first novel, ''The Russian Debutante's Hamster,'' or
whatever it was called, came out, and my publisher sent me on a 20-city tour.

The first stop was Lexington, Ky., and I thought Holy Tilapia! If I can sell
books in a small Southern market like Lexington, ''The Russian Debutante's
Kielbasa'' is gonna blow up. I even did local media before the event over the
phone, talked to some radio stations including a Christian one. I remember a
line from one of the hosts went something like, ''Now I admire Jewish people,
because y'all stick together no matter what.'' When I got to the venue, a mall
if I recall correctly, I found a two-story photo of my punim hanging off a
balcony onto a kind of amphitheater stacked with hundreds of chairs.

You can see where this is headed. No one showed up. Not a single soul of any
denomination (so much for sticking together). The organizers took it in stride
and offered to ship me the ginormous photo of my smiling face so that I could
forever remember that no one liked me in Kentucky. I soldiered on. The next
reading in Cincinnati, two people showed up. Four in Cleveland (two of them my
former professors at Oberlin). And by the time I barreled into St. Louis, six
eager people were waiting for me, and ''The Russian Debutante's Hand Lotion''
would go on to sell over 500 copies in the United States alone.

The lesson I immediately learned was that if you're crazy enough to still write
literary fiction, you have to worship your readers, not the other way around.
Today I see each of my readers as a gilded unicorn with a cronut hanging off her
horn. I sign my books, take a selfie with the unicorn, and go back to my hotel
room teary-eyed, because I know that someone in this universe still has time for
what I do.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIGITTE LACOMBE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); SELFIES (67%); HOTELS
& MOTELS (60%)

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (53%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Summer Fiction

BYLINE: By ELIZA KENNEDY.

Eliza Kennedy is the author of ''I Take You,'' a novel.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; THE SHORTLIST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1059 words


HOW TO BE A GROWN-UPBy Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus240 pp. Atria, $25.

McLaughlin and Kraus's latest novel propels us headlong into the world of Rory
McGovern, a 40-something mother of two children and wife of a third -- Blake
Turner, a struggling actor who has decided to take a break from adulthood. When
he moves out, Rory finds herself juggling solo parenthood, a demanding job
working for a pair of millennial spoiled brats and heartbreak over the prospect
of losing Blake forever.

What's good about this book: It's intelligent, well made and hugely
entertaining. From Rory's children to her employers to her romantic prospects,
there are no flat characters, no clichés. The territory is familiar -- a
boho-glam New York of art openings and elite primary schools, Village
brownstones and glossy start-ups -- but the authors render it fresh with crisp
and witty writing.

What's great about this book: Rory. She's a familiar type -- the overburdened
woman urged to lean in when all she wants to do is lie down. Usually, such a
woman stumbles and flails, full of fear and self-doubt until she discovers her
true worth and overcomes her weak­nesses, et cetera, et cetera, snore.
McLaughlin and Kraus have done something much more interesting by making Rory
funny, self-aware and supremely competent: a fully realized human being. The joy
of this book is not wondering whether she will succeed, but watching her do it.
Rory is a modern damsel in distress who doesn't wait for a prince to rescue her,
but pulls on her boots and strides out to slay the dragon herself.

LOCAL GIRLSBy Caroline Zancan279 pp. Riverhead, $25.95.

A man walks into a bar. Three women, longtime friends, glance up from their
drinks, straighten their spines and start scheming to take him home. Do we want
another novel about girlfriends competing for the attention of an alluring man?
If that novel is this poised debut, the answer is yes. Maggie, Nina and Lindsey
are drifting, celebrity-obsessed teenagers, ''burnouts in a burnout town.'' Sam
Decker is the film god who materializes one night in their favorite Orlando
dive. The girls inveigle him to their table, and the ensuing conversation --
meandering, argumentative, punctuated by flashes of humor and hostility --
reveals their simmering grievances and shifting allegiances.

Zancan endows her seemingly ordinary threesome with brains, guts and distinct
opinions, bringing them vividly to life. Although the novel suffers from
occasional awkward descriptions and poorly conceived metaphors, overall the
prose is thoughtful and well executed. Ultimately, Zancan's ambitions extend
beyond the story of three bored girls on a boozy August night. She nails the
overheated weirdness of Central Florida and the grind of barely scraping by. She
writes convincingly about the illusions that the famous and non-­famous maintain
about each other. Above all, she illuminates the joys and peculiar intimacies of
female friendship by showing us one close to its end.

ALLY HUGHES HAS SEX SOMETIMESBy Jules Moulin288 pp. Dutton, $26.95.

Ally Hughes: harried academic, struggling single mom. Jake Bean: handsome
student, possessor of a perfect penis. In a fit of rebellion and lust, Ally
takes Jake to bed one weekend. A satisfying but brief fling ensues. Ten years
later, Jake reappears on Ally's doorstep, now a movie star and, even more
surprisingly, her daughter's date for dinner.

You might expect such a rom-­commy setup to give way to scheming and
catfighting, but Moulin is too smart for that. Instead, her novel, which will be
published next month, uses alternating chapters to tell two stories. The first
is about that long-ago weekend, and the sweet and unexpected bond that grew
between teacher and student. The second is about Ally's current life and its
multitude of challenges. She's grieving over her mother's death, fending off a
shady suitor, desperately trying to prevent her daughter from getting a nose job
to further her acting career. And debating what to do about Jake, who's intent
on picking up where that lost weekend left off. Everybody wants something from
Ally -- but what does Ally want? That's the question this delightful debut
answers, while posing serious ones along the way: about parental guilt, female
bodies and male expectations. The pacing is effortless, the dialogue witty and
slyly sexy. A few characters, like her best friend, are thinly drawn, and Ally's
mother becomes vivid only near the end of the book. But these are quibbles. From
first to last, this book will charm you.

KILLING MONICABy Candace Bushnell311 pp. Grand Central, $27.

Pandy Wallis, the heroine of Bushnell's eighth novel, is a writer bedeviled by
the success of her famous fictional creation, the Monica of the title. The book
follows Pandy on a breakneck odyssey through Manhattan, Hollywood and the
Caribbean as she copes with a divorce, grieves over a lost friendship and
attempts to win the critical respect that has eluded her.

Bushnell is an indefatigable generator of breezy, entertaining books about
flawed but fabulous women. ''Killing Monica'' isn't one of them. The prose is
both hyperbolic and repetitive -- characters never speak when they can screech,
shriek or scream. Those characters are one-dimensional and tedious, despite
bizarre names like SondraBeth Schnowzer and Pandemonia James Wallis. The
chronology is choppy, and the plot is filled with novelistic cheats like
surprise storms and a highly implausible case of mistaken identity. Most
disappointingly, Monica, the literary creation around whom everything turns,
never comes to life on the page, creating a gaping hole in the narrative that no
amount of frantic action can conceal.

The novel barrels toward its climax with increasing incoherence: By the time
P.J. and SondraBeth don disguises to escape an enraged crowd of Monica fans and
the Mafia dangles P.J.'s husband from a billboard, you're no longer reading a
Candace Bushnell novel -- you're waist-deep in a Dadaist prose poem of
unsurpassed brilliance. The entire thing is capped by a cheap revelation that's
supposed to make readers think, but only made this reader cringe.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/summer-fiction.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN GALL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FICTION LITERATURE
(90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS
(72%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holly Shaw, Seth Karpinski

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 125 words


Holly Kay Shaw and Seth Peter Karpinski were married Saturday at the Roman
Catholic Church of Our Lady of Mercy in Port Chester, N.Y. The Rev. Timothy
Wiggins performed the ceremony.

Dr. Shaw, 30, who is keeping her name, is a dentist at the Callen-Lorde
Community Health Center in New York. She graduated cum laude from George
Washington University and received her dental degree from Nova Southeastern
University in Davie, Fla.

She is a daughter of Margot A. Shaw and John D. Shaw of Rye, N.Y.

The groom, 33, is a physics teacher at the Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y. He
graduated cum laude from Bates College and received a master's degree in
education from Columbia.

He is a son of Sharon B. Karpinski and Paul P. Karpinski of New Durham, N.H.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/holly-shaw-seth-karpinski.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Reboot by Any Other Name

BYLINE: By ADAM W. KEPLER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words


To Hollywood, ''reboot'' is a four-letter word.

Or, at least, it appears that way when filmmakers and stars alike bend over
backward to describe their projects as anything other than a ''reboot.''
Instead, they use words like ''revisit'' and ''reimagining.'' The movie site
Indiewire even argued for ''rebirth.''

An exception that proves this rule is the team behind the new ''Vacation''
movie: The writer-directors John Francis Daley and Jonathan M. Goldstein view
reboot as a fairly innocent term; ''remake'' was the label they feared.

''That was definitely a word that we have tried to be very clear that we are
not,'' Mr. Goldstein said in a phone interview. ''This is not trying to
replicate or do over what Chevy Chase did in 1983.''

Mr. Daley added, ''As long as it's really funny, people aren't going to be quite
as concerned with the technical aspects of whether or not it's a reboot, remake
or sequel.''

In the film, due July 29, Ed Helms plays a grown-up Rusty Griswold, who, like
his father before him, attempts a wholesome family road trip to the Walley World
theme park, but shenanigans confound his good intentions at every turn.

The ''Vacation'' franchise is particularly well-suited for a reboot given its
own wink-and-nod casting history for the Griswold children. The heads of the
family were always played by Mr. Chase and Beverly D'Angelo, a thread that
continues with the new film. But the role of Rusty has been played by a
different actor with each entry: Anthony Michael Hall in ''National Lampoon's
Vacation'' (1983), Jason Lively in ''European Vacation'' (1985), Johnny Galecki
in ''Christmas Vacation'' (1989) and Ethan Embry in ''Vegas Vacation'' (1997).

This turnover provided some creative leeway for Mr. Daley and Mr. Goldstein. No
fan could cry foul at continuing the Griswold story while also recasting the
characters, because it's already been done. Their film is essentially both a
sequel and a reboot.

Still, Mr. Daley and Mr. Goldstein pre-emptively addressed any audience
skepticism:

''We made sure to include a slightly meta-conversation that Rusty has with the
Griswolds where he assures them that this is going to be different from the
original 'Vacation,' '' Mr. Daley said.

Mr. Goldstein thought of it as a conversation with the audience. ''We know what
you're thinking, but give us a chance.''

Reboot, remake, revisit. In the end, is there a difference? Perhaps this handy
guide will help you parse the jargon (or just increase the debate).

THE SEQUEL

Definition: If the last film was a financial success, don't rock the boat. Add a
number/letter/subtitle on the end of the original title to suggest this one is
bigger and better.

Examples: ''Avengers: Age of Ultron,'' ''Magic Mike XXL,'' ''Pitch Perfect 2''
and, due July 31, ''Mission: Impossible -- Rogue Nation.''

THE REMAKE

Definition: Telling the exact same story as the original, with modern gadgets.

Example: ''Poltergeist.''

THE REBOOT

Definition: Trying to recapture the glory of a dormant franchise.

Example: ''Vacation.''

THE REVISIT

Definition: It's really the same thing as a reboot.

Example(s): ''Mad Max: Fury Road.'' While promoting the film earlier this year,
the director George Miller and the star Tom Hardy insisted it be called a
revisit.

THE REIMAGINING

Definition: Acknowledges only the cherished entries in the franchise and ignores
the others.

Examples: According to David Ellison, the producer of the recent ''Terminator:
Genisys,'' it ''is not a remake, it's not a reboot, it's not a sequel -- it's
really a reimagining based on the Cameron source material.'' Best that we all
forget ''Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines'' (2003) and ''Terminator
Salvation'' (2009).

''Jurassic World'' also falls in this category. Even as early as the fall of
2013, the director Colin Trevorrow hesitated to use the word ''reboot'' while
also saying goodbye to continuity from ''The Lost World'' (1997) and ''Jurassic
Park III (2001).''

THE RESET

Definition: New cast, same origin story. Needed when the previous entry is
perceived to have failed creatively or financially. Skating by on brand
recognition.

Examples: ''Fantastic Four'' (due in August) and ''The Transporter Refueled''
(set for September).

THE REVISE

Definition: Altering the continuity order of a franchise, to the edge of all
logical sense.

Examples: The ''Fast and the Furious'' films. ''Fast & Furious'' (2009), ''Fast
Five'' (2011) and ''Fast & Furious 6'' (2013) all take place before the events
in ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift'' (which came out in 2006 and was the
third film in the series). But ''Furious 7,'' which came out in April, takes
places afterward. Not confusing at all.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/movies/in-hollywood-its-a-reboot-by-any-other-
name.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, from left, Christina Applegate, Steele Stebbins, Skyler
Gisondo and Ed Helms in ''Vacation.'' Above left, Arnold Schwarzenegger in
''Terminator: Genisys.'' Right, Kennedi Clements in ''Poltergeist.''
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
 20TH CENTURY FOX)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%);
INTERVIEWS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS
(78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (75%); WRITERS (70%); AMUSEMENT &
THEME PARKS (65%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seoul's Ceaseless Transformation

BYLINE: By ELISABETH EAVES.

Elisabeth Eaves is the author of ''Wanderlust: A Love Affair With Five
Continents.''

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2633 words


The Korean filmmaker Bong Joon-ho turned from the street into a passageway
barely wide enough for two people. ''Look at these dirty stairs,'' he said
rhapsodically, pausing to peer through a doorway at tiles of perhaps '70s-era
vintage. The passageway descended farther and took a hairpin turn into a
pedestrian alley of uneven brick walls, overhead knots of electrical wire and
drying laundry. ''Maybe a detective could chase a criminal here,'' he said,
presumably imagining actors careening down the alley. ''I have to shoot
something here before something destroys it.''

Mr. Bong, the critically acclaimed director of the dystopian thriller
''Snowpiercer'' as well as ''The Host,'' which is set in Seoul and stars a
man-eating river monster, is not your average tour guide. And that was exactly
the idea. I had visited the South Korean capital once before, during a rainy
autumn, and while dazzled by the neon lights and spectacularly effective subway
system, had barely scratched the city's surface.

Seoul is the heart of an urban area of more than 25 million people -- among the
largest in the world -- and like any 21st-century megalopolis, it is impossible
to grasp as a single entity. From N Seoul Tower, a 777-foot-spire atop an
800-foot hill, the densely packed city rolls away into the hazy distance,
stopping only where it comes up against the encircling mountains. If you look
down from the top, there could be hundreds of Seouls, and I didn't know which to
choose.

I knew, though, that I wanted to see contemporary culture beyond the best-known
exports -- the television shows that are staples across Asia and the perfectly
choreographed K-pop videos. And so I sought out native informants, each a
creative force unto his or herself: Shin Kyung-sook, a best-selling novelist;
the fashion designer Juyoung Lee; Kim Sehwang, a musician; and Mr. Bong. I
invited each to show me a part of Seoul that inspired them or held special
meaning. One invited me to a museum, one to her place of work, and the other two
to favorite neighborhoods. They decided which versions of Seoul I would see.

''Snowpiercer'' was based on a French graphic novel and shot in the Czech
Republic with actors from at least seven nations. In it, people of all classes,
humanity's last survivors, are jammed together on a hurtling train. I should not
have been surprised, then, that Mr. Bong, 45, chose to share a global Seoul. To
get to our rendezvous, I climbed the sloping streets of the Itaewon
neighborhood, past a cluster of gay and transgender bars, and, farther on, an
increasing quotient of Middle Eastern restaurants.

In Itaewon, you can take a date or business associate out for a suitably
impressive dinner on Itaewon-ro No. 27, or get a cellphone hooked up after hours
in Nigerian Alley, side streets that respectively draw full-freight expats and
the scrappier remittance class. I passed these places on my way to meet Mr. Bong
at the Seoul Central Mosque, set on a hilltop where Itaewon meets the
neighborhood of Hannam, its dome and twin minarets a beacon to Korea's tiny
minority of Muslims.

While Friday congregants milled behind us in the late afternoon sun, we sat on a
bench that looked out over the city. ''This part of Seoul is amazing,'' he said.
''It symbolizes the incoherence of a city that doesn't have strong continuity.''
He held his hands up and made a rectangle with his fingers, framing an imaginary
shot. ''Look at the layers,'' he said.

In the foreground were old houses, then a church steeple in the middle distance,
a common sight in a country that is nearly a third Christian. Beyond lay the Han
River and too many high-rises to count. ''In five or 10 years these old houses
will be gone,'' he said. ''This is a city of destruction and reconstruction.''

As the call to prayer sounded, Mr. Bong led me away from the mosque and onto a
narrow street, Usadan-ro No. 10. The businesses we passed fell roughly into
three categories. There were specialty shops -- haberdashery, hardware -- where
it appeared neither staff nor signage had changed in 50 years. There were
restaurants of more recent origin serving kosher Korean food or Turkish kebabs.
And then there were the newest arrivals: a three-month-old wine bar, a juice
bar, a tattoo-studio-slash-art-gallery called Soul Ink, a clothing shop in which
every item was either black or white. One cafe sported a name that, as near as I
could figure out, roughly translates as ''maybe we're open today''; two
invitingly fluffy white Samoyeds named Cloud and Storm ''work part time,''
according to the barista. The neighborhood hovered in that sweet spot just
before people start complaining about gentrification. ''Here it all mixes very
naturally,'' Mr. Bong said.

We walked farther down the street to a bar called Aoi Sora with a triangular
sign. It specializes in daytime drinking, Mr. Bong said; from Monday to
Thursday, it closes at 7 p.m. Inside, by the light of a single large square
window at the back, he ordered clams in their shells and a bottle of clear
alcohol with a ginseng root winding through it, which was not on the menu but
was created by the bartender, who in his off hours teaches a class in
traditional booze-making. We sipped from small ceramic cups, and Mr. Bong talked
more about his changing city. ''Every alley has its own story,'' he said.

Over eight days in Seoul, destruction and transformation were regular themes.
Ms. Shin, the novelist, explained her city this way: ''In Paris or New York,
when you have an appointment with a friend, you can meet her in the same place
that you did a year ago. In Seoul, you can't, because there will be something
new there.'' New Yorkers may quibble, but her point stands; in Seoul the change
is especially fast and comprehensive. But, Ms. Shin said, those same qualities
are part of the city's dynamism and energy.

They are also ones essential to her work. Ms. Shin, 52, is the author of
''Please Look After Mom,'' which sold more than a million copies in Korea and
was published in English in 2011. In it, an old woman from the countryside comes
to visit her grown children in Seoul. She makes it as far as the central train
station and then disappears, lost in the matrix of the shape-shifting city.
''Seoul is an important backdrop because I wanted to represent the clash between
generations,'' Ms. Shin said.

The city is not all frenetic evolution. There are serene oases in its parks and
greenways, on the grounds of its centuries-old palaces and in its museums. Ms.
Shin asked me to meet her at the Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art. It displays
Korean art through the centuries, as well as contemporary works by both Korean
artists -- like the video-art pioneer Nam June Paik -- and international stars
like Andreas Gursky and Louise Bourgeois. When we arrived just before opening,
an air of tranquillity prevailed.

A small group of us -- Ms. Shin, a poet friend of hers, an interpreter and I --
followed an English-speaking guide through the Mario Botta-designed wing that
houses mostly traditional art. (Other parts of the museum complex were designed
by Jean Nouvel and Rem Koolhaas.)

The first piece we saw was an ethereal celadon ewer from the 13th century,
decorated in a raised-relief lotus pattern. Beneath a soft spotlight in the
darkened room, it looked almost translucent. Under the Goryeo dynasty, which
lasted from the 10th to the 14th century, Korean artists adopted the Chinese
method of making the glazed, pale-green pottery, then refined the craft to the
point that many art historians consider Korean celadon among the finest ever
made.

Though a well of knowledge herself, our human guide had also handed us digital
ones. Museum audio guides tend to be clunky and overly insistent, but these
lightweight, touch-screen paddles invited play. My sleek little machine sensed
which object I was looking at and silently presented its image with
white-on-black text. Some of the objects could be enlarged and spun around on
the screen, allowing me to study curves and texture in minute detail -- the next
best thing to being able to pick up the items. In front of a 15th-century
blue-and-white porcelain jar, I became so absorbed in the digital display that I
fell behind the group.

But one specific item was our true destination. It was a foot-and-a-half-tall,
white, rotund, 18th-century porcelain vessel called a moon jar. Lit from above,
it appeared to float like a heavenly body over its pedestal. A jagged,
tea-colored stain cut across the surface like an abstract painter's flourish,
the result of oil once held in the vessel seeping out. Ms. Shin said the jar
reminded her variously of a mountain, a pregnant woman or a woman in a hanbok --
a voluminous traditional dress -- on a windy day.

She visits the jar regularly, she said, and it offers her peace when she is
stressed. If Seoul's manic side pulses through her settings, the jar shapes her
work in a different way. ''I want to write sentences as beautiful as the moon
jar,'' she said. ''I haven't done it yet.'' She is particularly in love with the
oil stain. ''The line of the stain shows the flow of time. Humans didn't make
it; only history and nature could.''

Ms. Lee, the fashion designer, invited me to visit her at her showroom in
Gangnam, the district made internationally famous after being cheerfully
ridiculed by the pop singer Psy. Gangnam has had an exceedingly short modern
history -- two locals, only half-jokingly, told me that it began in 1988, when
the country's first McDonald's opened there and became a popular meeting place.

By reputation a land of bling, it is where the luxury brands that line ritzy
avenues around the world have established their Korean beachheads. It is also
the seat of Korea's own fashion industry, home to labels like Jinteok and
Bakangchi, both stars of Seoul Fashion Week. They and other Korean designers
share the stretch of Samseong-ro between Hakdong-ro and Dosan-daero with Ms.
Lee's brand, Resurrection.

Ms. Lee, 44, is a traditional Korean woman in some respects: She went into the
same business as her mother, who works in the same building, still a designer,
and helps care for Ms. Lee's two sons. But she is also known for her sumptuous
neo-Gothic creations, which have clothed, among other foreign celebrities,
Marilyn Manson. When he played in Seoul about 10 years ago, Ms. Lee seized fate
and delivered some of her clothes to the concierge at his hotel. Ten minutes
later, she said, Mr. Manson called her and asked for more. ''He has a strange
beauty, a grotesque beauty,'' she said, calling him one of her biggest
influences.

So it was perhaps not a surprise that I found her in the Resurrection showroom,
which is open to the public, sitting on a carved black-lacquered chair
upholstered in velvet. Her hair was streaked magenta. Dozens of red candles set
in front of an enormous mirror suggested an altar, and wrought-iron chairs
contrasted with a red wall that displayed an eclectic set of crosses. I would
not have been surprised to find a well-appointed dungeon nearby. All this was
backdrop to clothes made of sheer fabrics, leathers and synthetic furs, visible
heirs to the designs of Alexander McQueen.

Ms. Lee is unusual in the world of high-end fashion as a woman who designs
mainly for men. Or, at least, she sends mostly men down the runway, often
looking like futuristic vampires, but women buy her designs, too. Her men's
wear, in turn, sometimes incorporates feminine details. She showed me a men's
sleeve garter inspired by women's garter belts.

Men, women, East, West -- Ms. Lee mixes it up. Her love of black and leather
reflects her Western side, she said (she studied at Parsons School of Design in
New York). Lately, though, she has been reaching into the Korean past.

She walked to a rack of clothing and brought out a gold, red and black brocade
jacket. This kind of silk was once used to make hanbok, she said, and she
learned how to work with it from her mother. She showed me another piece, a
men's jacket for her 2015 collection, in a traditional embroidered swan pattern.
''That's my homework,'' she said. ''To combine Korean traditional fabrics with
the modern.''

All the artists I met seemed to observe more than lament Seoul's ceaseless
transformation. All of them, though, without making an explicit point of it,
showed me how history ran through their city and their work. Kim Sehwang, a
nationally renowned guitarist, suggested we meet in the neighborhood of
Samcheong, and invited along a longtime friend, the movie producer Jimi Nam.

We sat down to lunch upstairs at a busy restaurant called Nunnamujip, near a
window overlooking the street, where the stairway is lined with celebrity
signatures. They ordered a spread of traditional items that included succulent
marinated beef ribs (dok kalbi), tofu with kimchi and North Korean dumplings,
which are bigger and rounder than the usual South Korean kind. Spicy rice cake
sticks (dok boki), a dish that Mr. Kim said he misses when he goes abroad,
rounded out the feast.

Mr. Kim and Mr. Nam, both in their 40s, had similar takes on Samcheong,
remembering it as an old, rundown but romantic neighborhood that somehow, around
a decade ago, became fashionable. Having escaped the kind of wholesale overhaul
that has affected other areas, it has undergone a different, more gracious kind
of modernization. It is still home to many hanok, traditional houses with wood
frames and curving tiled roofs. Most are no longer the homes they once were, but
have been restored in keeping with their original design and repurposed as
shops, teahouses and restaurants. The buildings' arched eaves line the
stair-step passageways that lead up from the main road, Samcheong-ro.

Mr. Kim's mother would bring him to a noodle soup restaurant in the neighborhood
when he was a boy, and when he was dating his now-wife, they would come to its
cafes or the restaurant where we had lunch. The soup restaurant he and his
mother would visit, Sujebi -- also the name of the soup itself -- is still
there, and when we walked by, more than a dozen people waited outside. Groups of
friends strolled the sidewalks, some couples embracing the curious local custom
of dressing to match each other, stripe for stripe and toque for toque.

Mr. Nam said he first came to the renewed Samcheong in 2004, when Park
Chan-wook, director of the revenge movie ''Oldboy,'' invited him to meet at a
French restaurant. ''I was skeptical,'' Mr. Nam said, ''but he told me that the
neighborhood was starting to change.'' Now he doesn't come to Samcheong often,
but when he is publicizing a new movie, he rents out a whole cafe in the
neighborhood and invites the news media.

We finished our neighborhood tour over iced drinks in a cafe; its windows were
wide open to the sun and a light breeze ruffled our napkins. Out on the
sidewalk, Seoulites passed glass storefronts and curving tiled rooftops,
sometimes both part of a single building that stitched together old and new. Mr.
Kim looked up and down the street and said, ''I wish I could come here more
often.''

If You Go

Where to Eat

Aoi Sora, 79-1 Usadan-ro No. 10-gil, Yongsan-gu; 82-70-4217-1977.

Nunnamujip, 136-1 Samcheong-ro, Jongno-gu; 82-2-739-6742.

Sujebi, 101-1 Samcheong-ro, Jongno-gu; 82-2-735-2965.

What to See

The Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art, 60-16 Itaewon-ro No. 55-gil, Yongsan-gu;
82-2-2014-6901; leeum.samsungfoundation.org/html_eng/global/main.asp. //needs
the whole web address.//

N Seoul Tower, 105 Namsangongwon-gil, Yongsan-gu; 82-2-3455-9277;
nseoultower.co.kr/eng.

Seoul Central Mosque, 39 Usadan-ro No. 10-gil, Yongsan-gu; 82-2-793-6908;
koreaislam.org/en/mainpage.

Resurrection by Juyoung Lee, 742 Samseong-ro, 2nd floor, Gangnam-gu;
82-2-512-3384; resurrectionbyjuyoung.com.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/seouls-hundred-faces.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONTRASTS: Top, an overview. Above, from left, a neighborhood
restaurant
at the Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art
a storefront window
the Samcheong area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR1)
Aoi Sora, a bar that specializes in daytime drinking, in the Hannam neighborhood
of Seoul.
An 18th-century porcelain moon jar at the Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art.
The showroom at Resurrection, the fashion brand founded by Juyoung Lee.
In the Samcheong area, many hanok, traditional houses with wood frames and tile
roofs, are now businesses like this cafe.
THE GUIDES: The artists, from top: Bong Joon-ho, the film director
Juyoung Lee, fashion designer
Kim Sehwang, guitarist
and Shin Kyung-sook, novelist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIN KYUNG-SOOK) (TR6)
CITY SIGHTS: Left center, shopkeepers at their stores near the Seoul Central
Mosque in the Hannam neighborhood. Left, from top, Sonia, a transgender bar
worker, outside a bar in the Itaewon area
a hardware shop
an employee at a clothing store in Hannam. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES
 JEAN CHUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6-TR7) MAPS (TR7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FICTION LITERATURE
(85%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); URBAN
TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); POP & ROCK (62%); WRITERS (61%); BESTSELLERS (61%);
TRANSGENDER PERSONS (60%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Baseball Union Chief Marvin Miller Awaits His Due

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg.

LENGTH: 792 words


COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. -- At Doubleday Field here on Saturday, the Baseball Hall of
Fame honored Curt Flood for challenging the reserve clause in 1970, when he
refused to report to the Philadelphia Phillies after being traded to them by the
St. Louis Cardinals. He took that challenge against Major League Baseball to the
Supreme Court of the United States, but lost. Yet his boldness and selflessness
in asserting his rights helped inspire free agency, which became a part of the
game a few years later.

It was a short ceremony, one that was welcome for its recognition of Flood,
especially by an organization like the Hall, which is part of baseball's
establishment (five M.L.B. executives, including Commissioner Rob Manfred, serve
on its board). Still, it felt a little like an afterthought, coming after Dick
Enberg was recognized for broadcasting and Tom Gage for writing. Flood's impact
was, in truth, worth its own ceremony.

But if Flood, a center fielder, merited being honored for sacrificing his career
for the labor rights that he believed all players deserved, the next logical
question is: Why is Marvin Miller, the union chief who transformed the baseball
players' union into a fierce labor force, not a member of the Hall? Miller, who
died in 2012, has been rejected by various veterans committees an absurd six
times -- five during his lifetime and the sixth in 2013 when his candidacy was
spurned by at least 10 of the 16 voters who elected Bobby Cox, Tony La Russa and
Joe Torre.

Tony Clark, who, as executive director of the Major League Baseball Players
Association, holds Miller's old job, spoke for Flood. ''If Curt were here today,
I'd tell him he was one of the most influential athletes of the 20th century,''
he told the crowd. ''His willingness to sacrifice fundamentally changed all
sports.''

Afterward, Clark stood on the infield at the ballpark down the block from the
Hall and contemplated the exclusion of Miller and the honor for Flood. A precise
and careful speaker, he said he was pleased that the Hall had showed some
official respect for Flood. ''I was glad to see that they were willing to,'' he
said. But his voice gave away that he was hoping for a lot more.

But there is no straight line between the Hall's decision to modestly recognize
Flood and, perhaps, a future decision to posthumously elect Miller. He was so
fed up with losing out to the variously configured veterans panels that he asked
at one point to be taken off future ballots. Miller viewed the voting as a farce
and was far more interested in seeing the Hall recognize the union's
achievements, not necessarily his.

''It is disheartening that neither Mr. Miller nor Mr. Flood has a plaque here,''
Clark said, adding, ''I'd be lying if I said it wasn't heartening to know that
any time I'm in the Hall, I don't see them.''

Flood, he said, deserved inclusion, even if voters have to combine what Clark
called his ''solid'' numbers as a player -- he was a career .293 hitter over 15
seasons with seven Gold Gloves -- and his contributions to the labor movement.

''You can put him wherever you want to,'' he said -- as a player or a pioneer or
both. ''But you have to put him.''

As he was talking, the Hall of Famers were leaving the awards ceremony and
heading to a fleet of pickup trucks that would take them on an exuberant parade
down Main Street. Fans jammed the street, cheering their favorites. The newest
favorite son was Pedro Martinez, one of the four inductees who will be
celebrated on Sunday. He waved wildly as fans loudly chanted, ''Pe-dro!
Pe-dro!'' He stood out, not only for his cheerful enthusiasm, but for the red
blazer he wore with a white shirt and white pants.

It was a lovely scene -- one that has become an annual ritual here. Still, it is
clear that deserving people are missing, and not just those with great career
numbers tainted by a connection to performance-enhancing drugs. That Miller has
earned the right to be in the Hall, that he is one of the most important sports
executives ever, is indisputable. If Bowie Kuhn, the commissioner regularly
outmaneuvered by Miller, is among the so-called immortals, Miller should be as
well.

And if voters can wrap their heads around the unconventional credentials of
Flood -- good but not amazing statistics but a clear effect on baseball's labor
movement -- then he should be in.

''You can't say thank you enough times to him,'' Clark said.

It should not be a fantasy to one day hope to watch relatives of Miller and
Flood, who died in 1997, happily waving from the flatbeds of Ford pickups
rolling down Main Street, as Martinez did on Saturday, along with the rest of
the class of 2015: Craig Biggio, Randy Johnson and John Smoltz.

Wouldn't that set some things right?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/baseball-union-chief-marvin-mi
ller-awaits-his-due.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); ST LOUIS
CARDINALS (58%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (58%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

My Periodic Table

BYLINE: By OLIVER SACKS.

Oliver Sacks is a professor of neurology at the New York University School of
Medicine, and the author, most recently, of the memoir ''On the Move.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1164 words


I LOOK forward eagerly, almost greedily, to the weekly arrival of journals like
Nature and Science, and turn at once to articles on the physical sciences --
not, as perhaps I should, to articles on biology and medicine. It was the
physical sciences that provided my first enchantment as a boy.

In a recent issue of Nature, there was a thrilling article by the Nobel
Prize-winning physicist Frank Wilczek on a new way of calculating the slightly
different masses of neutrons and protons. The new calculation confirms that
neutrons are very slightly heavier than protons -- the ratio of their masses
being 939.56563 to 938.27231 -- a trivial difference, one might think, but if it
were otherwise the universe as we know it could never have developed. The
ability to calculate this, Dr. Wilczek wrote, ''encourages us to predict a
future in which nuclear physics reaches the level of precision and versatility
that atomic physics has already achieved'' -- a revolution that, alas, I will
never see.

Francis Crick was convinced that ''the hard problem'' -- understanding how the
brain gives rise to consciousness -- would be solved by 2030. ''You will see
it,'' he often said to my neuroscientist friend Ralph, ''and you may, too,
Oliver, if you live to my age.'' Crick lived to his late 80s, working and
thinking about consciousness till the last. Ralph died prematurely, at age 52,
and now I am terminally ill, at the age of 82. I have to say that I am not too
exercised by ''the hard problem'' of consciousness -- indeed, I do not see it as
a problem at all; but I am sad that I will not see the new nuclear physics that
Dr. Wilczek envisages, nor a thousand other breakthroughs in the physical and
biological sciences.

A few weeks ago, in the country, far from the lights of the city, I saw the
entire sky ''powdered with stars'' (in Milton's words); such a sky, I imagined,
could be seen only on high, dry plateaus like that of Atacama in Chile (where
some of the world's most powerful telescopes are). It was this celestial
splendor that suddenly made me realize how little time, how little life, I had
left. My sense of the heavens' beauty, of eternity, was inseparably mixed for me
with a sense of transience -- and death.

I told my friends Kate and Allen, ''I would like to see such a sky again when I
am dying.''

''We'll wheel you outside,'' they said.

I have been comforted, since I wrote in February about having metastatic cancer,
by the hundreds of letters I have received, the expressions of love and
appreciation, and the sense that (despite everything) I may have lived a good
and useful life. I remain very glad and grateful for all this -- yet none of it
hits me as did that night sky full of stars.

I have tended since early boyhood to deal with loss -- losing people dear to me
-- by turning to the nonhuman. When I was sent away to a boarding school as a
child of 6, at the outset of the Second World War, numbers became my friends;
when I returned to London at 10, the elements and the periodic table became my
companions. Times of stress throughout my life have led me to turn, or return,
to the physical sciences, a world where there is no life, but also no death.

And now, at this juncture, when death is no longer an abstract concept, but a
presence -- an all-too-close, not-to-be-denied presence -- I am again
surrounding myself, as I did when I was a boy, with metals and minerals, little
emblems of eternity. At one end of my writing table, I have element 81 in a
charming box, sent to me by element-friends in England: It says, ''Happy
Thallium Birthday,''a souvenir of my 81st birthday last July; then, a realm
devoted to lead, element 82, for my just celebrated 82nd birthday earlier this
month. Here, too, is a little lead casket, containing element 90, thorium,
crystalline thorium, as beautiful as diamonds, and, of course, radioactive --
hence the lead casket.

At the start of the year, in the weeks after I learned that I had cancer, I felt
pretty well, despite my liver being half-occupied by metastases. When the cancer
in my liver was treated in February by the injection of tiny beads into the
hepatic arteries -- a procedure called embolization -- I felt awful for a couple
of weeks but then super well, charged with physical and mental energy. (The
metastases had almost all been wiped out by the embolization.) I had been given
not a remission, but an intermission, a time to deepen friendships, to see
patients, to write, and to travel back to my homeland, England. People could
scarcely believe at this time that I had a terminal condition, and I could
easily forget it myself.

This sense of health and energy started to decline as May moved into June, but I
was able to celebrate my 82nd birthday in style. (Auden used to say that one
should always celebrate one's birthday, no matter how one felt.) But now, I have
some nausea and loss of appetite; chills in the day, sweats at night; and, above
all, a pervasive tiredness, with sudden exhaustion if I overdo things. I
continue to swim daily, but more slowly now, as I am beginning to feel a little
short of breath. I could deny it before, but I know I am ill now. A CT scan on
July 7 confirmed that the metastases had not only regrown in my liver but had
now spread beyond it as well.

I started a new sort of treatment -- immunotherapy -- last week. It is not
without its hazards, but I hope it will give me a few more good months. But
before beginning this, I wanted to have a little fun: a trip to North Carolina
to see the wonderful lemur research center at Duke University. Lemurs are close
to the ancestral stock from which all primates arose, and I am happy to think
that one of my own ancestors, 50 million years ago, was a little tree-dwelling
creature not so dissimilar to the lemurs of today. I love their leaping
vitality, their inquisitive nature.

NEXT to the circle of lead on my table is the land of bismuth: naturally
occurring bismuth from Australia; little limousine-shaped ingots of bismuth from
a mine in Bolivia; bismuth slowly cooled from a melt to form beautiful
iridescent crystals terraced like a Hopi village; and, in a nod to Euclid and
the beauty of geometry, a cylinder and a sphere made of bismuth.

Bismuth is element 83. I do not think I will see my 83rd birthday, but I feel
there is something hopeful, something encouraging, about having ''83'' around.
Moreover, I have a soft spot for bismuth, a modest gray metal, often unregarded,
ignored, even by metal lovers. My feeling as a doctor for the mistreated or
marginalized extends into the inorganic world and finds a parallel in my feeling
for bismuth.

I almost certainly will not see my polonium (84th) birthday, nor would I want
any polonium around, with its intense, murderous radioactivity. But then, at the
other end of my table -- my periodic table -- I have a beautifully machined
piece of beryllium (element 4) to remind me of my childhood, and of how long ago
my soon-to-end life began.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/my-periodic-table.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AIDAN KOCH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%);
NEUROSCIENCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); CANCER (50%)

COUNTRY: CHILE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Pursuit of Nick Saban

BYLINE: By MONTE BURKE.

Monte Burke is a staff writer at Forbes magazine and the author of the books
''4th and Goal'' and ''Sowbelly.'' This article is adapted from the book
''Saban: The Making of a Coach,'' to be published on Aug. 4 by Simon & Schuster.

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2459 words


In December 2012, as Nick Saban was preparing Alabama to face Notre Dame in
college football's national championship game, a University of Texas regent
named Wallace Hall received a phone call from a friend.

''It was out of the blue,'' Hall says. ''He is a U.T. alum, a very
well-thought-of, very successful guy who really isn't a huge fan of football.''
The man, whom Hall has refused to name, also happened to be a good friend of
Saban's agent, Jimmy Sexton. ''My friend told me, 'I don't know how to put this
any other way: Nick Saban wants to come to Texas,' '' Hall says.

Hall immediately sent the chairman of the board, Gene Powell, an email, telling
him that Sexton wanted to talk. Powell forwarded it to Steve Hicks, a private
equity mogul, prominent Texas regent and one of the board's athletic liaisons.
Nothing much came of the correspondence.

After Saban's Crimson Tide won the national title, Hall contacted Hicks
directly. This time Hicks acted on it, calling on his brother Tom, a former
owner of Major League Baseball's Texas Rangers and the National Hockey League's
Dallas Stars. ''I had been in pro sports for a long time, so I volunteered to
see if this was real or not,'' Tom Hicks says.

A few days after the national title game, Hall went to Tom Hicks's house in
Dallas for a scheduled conference call with Sexton. An intermediary had provided
Hall with a number for him to reach Sexton, a clever move, Hall believed. ''That
way, from Jimmy's perspective, he could always argue that we called him,'' he
says.

Before the call, Tom Hicks told Hall that Sexton might just be playing Texas to
squeeze more money out of Alabama. Hall replied that he doubted that was the
case; he pointed out that his friend was friends with Sexton, and he said Sexton
wouldn't want to antagonize him. ''I had called my friend,'' Hall says, ''and
asked him if he thought he was being played. He said, 'No.' ''

Hall and Tom Hicks talked to Sexton for 45 minutes. They say that Sexton told
them that Saban felt ''special pressure'' and a lack of appreciation at Alabama.
''Sexton said that the day after the championship, Alabama boosters were
pounding the table, talking about a three-peat,'' Hall says.

Sexton also told the men that Saban felt as if he was more of a turnaround
artist than a long-term C.E.O., and that it was easier and more fun to rebuild a
program than it was to keep one at the top. Saban's wife, Terry, liked warm
weather, so they wanted to stay in the South. Saban also loved lakes, something
the Austin area has in abundance. Sexton floated the idea that Saban could take
the Texas job, his last; bring the football program back to national prominence;
and then retire.

''Jimmy said that winning a national championship at three different
universities would be a real legacy,'' Tom Hicks said, referring to Saban's
title with Louisiana State. Hall believed that there was serious intent behind
Sexton's call, and that the agent was acting on behalf of an informed client.
''No agent is going to go out and do this without consent from Saban,'' he says.

Hall and Tom Hicks liked the idea of Saban's coming to Texas. ''It all
resonated,'' says Hall, who claims he's not much of a football fan but was
mainly intrigued by the potential financial implications of getting Saban.
Texas' athletics had their own cable channel, called the Longhorn Network, a
joint venture with ESPN, but it hadn't quite yet fulfilled the potential
envisioned by the university, especially when it came to getting carried by
various cable companies. ''If someone of Saban's caliber came to Texas, that
would hugely enable ESPN to bring on other affiliates,'' Hall says. Yet another
university viewed Saban as a vehicle of greater financial growth.

As excited as they were, Hicks and Hall realized they had one significant
problem: Texas already had a football coach. Mack Brown -- just two months older
than Saban -- had won a national title at Texas in 2005 and lost another one (to
Saban) in 2009, and was entering his 16th season as the Longhorns' head coach.
Hall believed that neither DeLoss Dodds, Texas' athletic director, nor Bill
Powers, the university's president, was likely to fire Brown. The only way to
get Saban to come to Texas, Hicks believed, was to get Brown's approval and even
make it look as if the entire thing was the Texas coach's idea. He agreed to
broach the topic with Brown.

Two days after the call with Sexton, Hicks had lunch with Brown. ''I was trying
to give him some personal advice,'' he says. ''I told him he should think about
retiring and going out on top and becoming a TV star like he is now. But he
didn't support the idea at all. He didn't want to retire.''

Hall believed that a golden opportunity had been squandered. ''I am completely
convinced that Saban would have come to Texas had Mack approved of the idea, or
had DeLoss fired Mack,'' he says.

The saga didn't end there, though.


Sexton's phone call with Hall and Tom Hicks became public in September 2013, but
the details had remained a secret. Not too much was made of the call, and Saban
responded to media questions about it by simply saying he was ''too damn old to
start all over someplace else.'' The Texas job, it appeared at the time, might
not even open up anyway. Mack Brown, after a tough start to the 2013 season, had
righted his own ship and was in the midst of what would become a six-game
winning streak.

The real hysteria began in early November when The Associated Press obtained an
email written by Tom Hicks about the Sexton call. One sentence in the email
stood out: ''Sexton confirmed that UT is the only job Nick would possibly
consider leaving Alabama for, and that his success there created special
pressure for him.''

At this point, Alabama fans had reason to be worried. The signs disconcertingly
echoed ones that, in the past, had led to Saban's departures: Sexton was out
sniffing around, and told the Texas folks almost exactly what he'd once told the
Alabama athletics director Mal Moore -- that the university was a place he was
interested in. (Saban once told a newspaper that without his aggressive agent,
''I don't think I'd ever make one change, the way I am.'')

Saban was again in denial mode, the inevitable precursor to all of his moves.
The unnamed man whom Sexton had contacted to get to Wallace Hall played the role
that Sean Tuohy, a business associate, had when Sexton initiated contact with
L.S.U. The ''special pressure'' that Hicks said Saban felt, and the unreasonable
expectations that Sexton had detailed in his phone call, harked back to his
later years at L.S.U. -- the ones Skip Bertman, the L.S.U. athletics director,
had warned him about -- when a two-loss season suddenly was viewed as a failure.
As Sexton had told Hall and Tom Hicks, Saban was indeed most comfortable when he
was rebuilding a program -- as he had at Toledo, Michigan State, L.S.U., the
Miami Dolphins and Alabama -- and not maintaining it.

Most significant, Saban was clearly displeased with both the fans (he'd
lambasted them in midseason for leaving home games early) and his players in the
2013 season, and he was again feeling underappreciated. Those who knew Saban had
long realized that two of the most significant aspects of his career -- his
''Process'' and his near-constant job-hopping -- were intertwined at one crucial
juncture: Both, at their essence, were about the fact that Saban found it ''more
invigorating to want than to have,'' as David Foster Wallace once wrote.


The Texas football program also seemed to fit Saban's blueprint. The university,
like L.S.U. in 2000 and Alabama in 2007, was desperate to return to national
football prominence. Texas had the resources -- it had the biggest athletic
budget in the country, at $163 million -- not only to provide Saban with the
largest contract in college football history but also to pay for whatever
facilities and other tertiary things he deemed necessary to help rebuild the
program. His recruiting base would be top-notch: The state of Texas had long
been hailed as among the best when it came to high school football talent.

In late November -- just as Brown had begun to falter down the stretch of what
was looking more and more like his last year as the Texas coach -- came the
public airing of what was the truest barometer of Saban's feelings. In an
interview with The Wall Street Journal, Terry Saban was careful to maintain that
she and her husband would indeed stay at Alabama. In a moment of candor, she
issued a warning shot: ''You come to a crossroads and the expectations get so
great, people get spoiled by success, and there starts to be a lack of
appreciation,'' she told the paper. ''We're kind of there now.''


The University of Alabama's power brokers by this time knew their coach well.
Like their predecessors at Michigan State and L.S.U., they, too, understood his
restlessness and need to feel appreciated. After the 2012 national championship,
they'd begun to feel jittery. In early 2013, they approached Saban. ''We asked
him what we could do to help him,'' one trustee says. The answer came that
spring.

The Crimson Tide Foundation is a nonprofit booster organization that is led by
Paul Bryant Jr., the intensely private son of Alabama's legendary coach, the
founder of a bank that bears his name and perhaps the university's most powerful
trustee. Bill Battle, who had replaced Moore as Alabama's athletics director, is
the nonprofit's president. Angus Cooper, now an emeritus trustee and perhaps
Saban's most trusted confidant among the Alabama power elite, is a vice
president.

In March 2013, the foundation agreed to purchase Saban's house for $3.1 million,
roughly $200,000 more than he paid for it in 2007. The Sabans, of course, would
be allowed to continue to live there. Buying a coach's house was nothing new at
Alabama: The university had owned both of Paul Bryant's homes. Various Alabama
trustees say that this purchase -- as well as its timing -- was a gesture of
goodwill. It also, they say, helped Saban out a bit when he needed it
financially, perhaps because of some real estate decisions in recent years that
reportedly hadn't quite panned out as planned.

The university didn't stop with the house. Around the same time that Terry Saban
made her comments to The Wall Street Journal, and right before the 2013 Iron
Bowl, Battle approached Nick Saban about a revised contract, one that would
provide him with a raise and an extension. As the Texas rumors burned on, Saban
told Battle that he was too focused on the rest of the season to talk about his
contract. Some months later, Battle admitted to The Tuscaloosa News that at that
point, ''I was worried about it, I'll tell you that.''

One thing Alabama had going in its favor was that the University of Texas was in
turmoil in late 2013. The university's president was under pressure to resign,
and the board of regents had become an unhealthy and unproductive hive of
infighting. The athletic director, Dodds, had announced his retirement in the
middle of the season. Though most assumed that Brown would resign or be fired at
the end of the season, no one knew his fate for sure, or how protracted the
process would be. This being the land of the independent and entrepreneurial, a
few prominent Texas boosters used the uncertainty to talk to, and lobby for,
their own preferred head coaching candidates. ''To say it was dysfunctional
would be about the highest-class way you could describe it,'' the Texas booster
Red McCombs says.

In November, Steve Patterson, the former president and general manager of the
N.B.A.'s Portland Trail Blazers, became the university's athletic director,
replacing Dodds. Patterson was tasked with cleaning up the mess at Texas,
something he would soon begin to do. Of course, he had come to Texas well after
the Sexton call with Tom Hicks and Hall. It wasn't too long after Patterson had
taken the job at Texas that Sexton called him, too.

Patterson says he believes he knew what Sexton was up to. ''I've known Jimmy for
30 years,'' he says. ''I told him if he wanted to come here and drink bourbon
and eat barbecue and talk about Saban, that'd be fine. But I told him not to
come here if he just wanted to get Saban an extension and a raise at Alabama,
which I thought was his intention all along.

''Of course, Jimmy took great affront to that, which is fine. He was just doing
his job. But that was the end of the conversation. I never talked to Saban and
we never made an offer.''

Publicly, though, the Saban-to-Texas rumors were only heating up then. In early
December, an Oklahoma City broadcaster named Dean Blevins posted a message on
Twitter that claimed Saban had been offered a 10-year deal by Texas for $100
million and a small piece of the Longhorn Network. Right around the same time,
Stefan Stevenson, a sports reporter at The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, posted a
tweet that read: ''Source close to Texas executive council of regents says Nick
Saban will be next Longhorns coach.''

Stevenson, to this day, doesn't back down from the information in that tweet.
''I had a good source, someone on the athletics staff, and I absolutely believed
the source was certain,'' he says. ''I wouldn't have tweeted it if I didn't
believe the source believed it.''

What Stevenson wasn't prepared for was the hell storm that ensued on the
Internet, which caused even those who had been dead certain that Saban would
stay at Alabama to waver a bit in their conviction, and heaped much derision on
its originator. ''I regretted tweeting it almost immediately,'' he says. ''But
not because I didn't think it was true.''

The common belief among Texas regents was that one or more ''rogue'' boosters
were talking to Sexton behind the scenes. And given the free-for-all chaos from
which the Texas leadership was just beginning to emerge, that thesis has some
merit.

Given the lack of authority that boosters had in hiring a new coach, any deal
with Saban would have been hard for any of them to pull off alone, or even as a
group. Saban denied having contact with anyone at Texas. A few weeks later,
though, a man described as a ''Longhorn lifer and big donor'' told The Austin
American-Statesman: ''The funny thing is, they had Saban this time. He was
coming. Only problem was, there was no formal offer from U.T. Patterson was the
only one who could do that.''

On Dec. 13, 2013, Alabama gave Saban a new contract, once again the largest ever
in college football, that would pay him $6.9 million a year -- with possible
performance bonuses of up to $700,000 a year -- through Jan. 31, 2022, when he
would be 70 years old.

The next afternoon, Mack Brown officially resigned as the head coach at Texas.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/ncaafootball/the-pursuit-of-nick-saban-
alabama-vs-texas.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Saban leading Alabama in October 2013, the season after he
guided the Crimson Tide to another national title. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUTCH
DILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
A sign at a Texas Longhorns home game in September 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALD
MARTINEZ/GETTY IMAGES)
 Texas Coach Mack Brown after a loss to Oregon in the Alamo Bowl in December
2013. He had announced his resignation earlier that month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALD
MARTINEZ/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BASEBALL (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SPORTS FANS
(73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (53%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); DALLAS STARS (82%); NATIONAL HOCKEY
LEAGUE (55%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%); EDMONTON OILERS
(55%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Read It Read It You Will See

BYLINE: By MARIA RUSSO.

Maria Russo is the children's books editor of the Book Review.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1886 words


WHAT PET SHOULD I GET?By Dr. Seuss 32 pp. Random House. $17.99. (Picture book;
ages 4 and up)  In December 1960, The New Yorker ran a profile of a man whose
public appearances attracted crowds that would ''cause a western television hero
to sway in the saddle with envy'': Theodor Seuss Geisel, better known as Dr.
Seuss, the author of riotous, catchy children's books like ''The Cat in the
Hat'' that had lately been flooding the nation's bookstores and libraries. In
the article, the 56-year-old Dr. Seuss himself revealed his formula -- ''logical
insanity'' -- while the president of Random House, Bennett Cerf, was said to
have called Geisel ''the only genius on his list,'' which included, The New
Yorker reminded its readers, William Faulkner.

At the time that profile appeared, the pages of a nearly finished picture book
called ''What Pet Should I Get?'' were probably sitting in Dr. Â­Seuss' files at
his home in La Jolla, Calif. It was never released in Geisel's lifetime, but
now, more than two decades after his death in 1991, ''What Pet Should I Get?''
is being published. It's happy news -- first, because the book is, if not
top-flight Seuss, a very good example of his particular genius for distilling
both the spirit of his times and the timeless mind-set of children. With its
galloping anapests, cockamamie creatures and kids off on an everyday adventure
that turns hallucinogenic, this late arrival will slip easily into the
collection that changed how Americans learn to read -- Dr. Seuss books like
''Green Eggs and Ham,'' which mowed down the teacher-Â­approved, intellectually
inert Dick-and-Jane drivel that sucked the life out of early education in the
1950s. (They may as well all have been titled ''Bunny, Bunny, Bunny,'' as Geisel
wrote in ''How Orlo Got His Book,'' a 1957 satirical piece published in the Book
Review, in which he tried to wake Americans up to the urgent need to approach
children's reading in a new way.) ''What Pet Should I Get?'' will remind us,
delightfully, that Dr. Seuss, over half a century ago, made learning to read an
adventure, a club children would actually want to belong to. And, not least, he
made reading aloud something parents, too, could reliably enjoy.

But let's also welcome this book as another piece of evidence that we're still
in shouting distance of a time, pre-Â­Twitter, pre-Google Maps Street View, when
there was some mystery around literary creation, a sense of something ultimately
unknowable about authors and their daily lives, their habits, their intentions.
Why did Geisel just about finish ''What Pet Should I Get?'' and then not publish
it? His widow, Audrey -- who was not married to him at the time -- has said that
he must have simply forgotten about it in the flurry of projects. It's true that
the window in which the book was almost certainly written, the years leading up
to 1960, was packed with activity for Geisel, both creative and, increasingly,
commercial. He and his first wife, Helen, were busy starting a new Random House
imprint for children called Beginner Books (author guidelines included a list of
preferred vocabulary and a ban on anything ''cute''), which by 1960 was earning
more than a million dollars a year. He was also working with a plastics company
to manufacture a series of snap-together animals called the Dr. Seuss Zoo. But
still: I'm not buying that he -- and Helen, who was intimately involved in all
his work -- simply forgot about it. I think there's a more interesting story
here.

First, though, the book itself: It features a round-faced brother and sister --
his close-cropped hair is bristly on top, she has a long, wispy ponytail -- who
enter a pet store excited about the prospect of taking a new animal home. ''Dad
said we could get one./ Dad said he would pay,'' the boy exclaims. Inside, they
confront a head-Â­spinning lineup of choices. Also, they don't have much time --
their mother has told them to be home by noon. A few pages into their
predicament and again toward the end, the words MAKE UP YOUR MIND charge across
the top of a two-page spread, each held aloft by a different invented Seussian
creature -- Â­floppy-limbed, scruffy-coated, oddly proportioned, jubilantly
weird. On one of those pages, the boy sums up the book's central point in a
deceptively innocent lament: ''Oh, boy! It is something to make a mind up!''

That sentiment was written many years before the psychologist Barry Schwartz's
2004 book ''The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less'' nailed the soul-exhaustion
of late-capitalist culture and its frantically proliferating menus of options.
But it will feel as fresh in 2015 as it would have in 1960, when that New Yorker
profile ran 23 pages, many of them one skinny column of text flanked by ads -- I
counted 11 for perfumes alone. Casaque, Madame Rochas, RÃ©plique, Shalimar,
Tabu. .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Mon Dieu, it is something to make a
mind up!

Our two little consumer-heroes would have been born, a quick calculation
suggests, in the early Baby Boom years of healthy parental bank accounts that
gave children access to the expanding options of American life. At the moment
the book came into being, a pet store would have offered a fertile setting for
the mild existential angst that underlies any Dr. Seuss book: What pet should
they get?

At first the children face the easy binary of dog and cat. But, not unlike some
mid-20th-century New Yorker reader alerted to the possibility that there might
be a better perfume out there, the siblings quickly realize that their pet
options are much more numerous -- worryingly so. There's not just dog and cat
but kitten and puppy, and bird and fish. There are monkeys. There's even, yes, a
bunny to consider, though Dr. Seuss (pointedly) uses the proper name of his old
nursery-book nemesis: '' 'Look over there!' / said my sister Kay./ ' We can go
home / With a rabbit today!' ''

Then the real problems start: What other amazing animals, unknown to the
children, may exist? ''I might find a new one,'' the brother imagines, ''a fast
kind of thing / who would fly round my head / in a ring on a string!''

Fun, yes, but wouldn't that also be asking for trouble? He reels himself back
in. ''Our house is so small,'' he admits. ''This thing on a string / would bump,
bump into the wall!'' Their mother -- who, along with their father, remains
offstage, as in virtually any story in which a child's imagination must take
flight -- ''would not like that at all.'' She'd probably prefer ''a tall pet
that fits in a space that is small.'' This glorious fantasy creature has
spindly, spiraling ostrich legs, big hairy paws and a supersized head plume, and
we see it both standing like a friendly tower above the grinning boy and
compactly folded under a desk, like some ingeniously designed piece of apartment
furniture.

The father, for his part, comes off as a downer too. The brother decides Dad
might enjoy a gigantic, furry creature called a Yent, but a Yent would need a
tent, and ''how do I know / he would pay for a tent?'' What about taking home
''one of each kind of pet''? Forget it -- ''Dad would be mad.''

Just when deliberations appear to be breaking down, reason drifts in like a
breeze from an open window. ''If we do not choose, / we will end up with NONE,''
the children realize. The story ends with the brother buckling down and
choosing, apparently without regret: ''I picked one out fast, and then that was
that.'' There is a wonderful final image that will inevitably get children
chattering: We see the brother and sister leaving the store with a basket, but
we can't tell what kind of creature is inside -- all we see are two eager, round
eyes.

Why, then, did Geisel leave this one in the drawer? The answer, I think, lies in
the book ''One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish,'' one of Dr. Seuss' most
popular, published in 1960 and featuring the same pair of siblings. (Fun fact:
The brother also appears in the art Geisel provided for his 1957 Book Review
piece, which suggests he began ''What Pet Should I Get?'' shortly before or
after that, using the character he had been developing.) And while Cathy
Goldsmith, who was his art director toward the end of his life, places ''What
Pet'' sometime between 1958 and 1962, I think it was finished before ''One
Fish'' was published in 1960. Reading ''What Pet'' and ''One Fish'' together, it
seems to me ''What Pet'' was a kind of warm-up for the more freewheeling and
imaginatively rich -- the slightly more classically Seussian -- book. ''One
Fish'' has no plot, just a collection of escalating riffs on a brother and
sister's life with a parade of hilarious, useful and entertaining imaginary
creatures. It's as if Geisel took the Yent and the ''tall pet that fits in a
space that is small'' in ''What Pet Should I Get?'' and ran with them. He picked
them up, grabbed the children, and ran right out of the depressingly mundane
commercial world of the pet store, far away from all the nagging worries of
Mother and Dad and making the right choice.

Finding himself, in late middle age, inundated by all the new demands of his own
success, he ran -- my theory goes -- away from the pressurized world of money
and responsibility and back into the joyfully liberated territory of ''One Fish
Two Fish.'' Hello, Gack! ''At our house / we play out back,'' the narrator
declares. ''We play a game / called Ring the Gack.'' It's a book that exists
outside of time, and you wish it would never end. When it does, we get the
massive, comforting Zeep, with its long sinuous tail and delicately pointed
hooves: ''And now / good night./ It is time to sleep./ So we will sleep / with
our pet Zeep.''

Geisel was known to be extremely self-critical, and while his books go down so
easy that they risk seeming merely tossed off, his process was laborious. Each
book went through many drafts; he once said he produced over a thousand pages in
order to end up with 64. He would regularly dispatch any work that didn't meet
his standards. But he didn't throw away ''What Pet Should I Get?'' When it was
discovered in 2013, in a box that Audrey Geisel had set aside after his death,
it was in the final stages of preparation, with words typed on small squares of
paper and taped in place on the artwork. To get that far with it, he must have
thought it was a fine piece of work. But he didn't publish it, either. He didn't
get on a plane to New York and personally march ''What Pet Should I Get?'' into
Bennett Cerf's office, as was his custom with each finished manuscript. Instead,
I think, he did something like this: He looked over the book, and he talked it
over with Helen; he thought about how much fun he had had with all its crazy
creatures, and he started playing around with another book that would let the
sister and brother off the hook -- let them forget about their pressing pet
store errand and instead hang out all day long in the commerce-free, parent-free
world of ''One Fish.'' What he chose to do then with ''What Pet'' was not to
choose. When you find yourself caught in the jaws of an overbearing consumer
culture, that's a choice, too.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/dr-seuss-what-pet-should-i-get-re
view.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%);
LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (58%); EVIDENCE (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sara Ruddock-Harris, Austin Walker

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 209 words


Sara Charace Ruddock-Harris, the daughter of Charmaine R. Ruddock of Brooklyn,
was married Saturday to Austin Guyton Walker, the son of Diane C. S. Walker and
Paul G. Walker of Houston. The Rev. Elias O'Brien performed the ceremony at St.
Thomas the Apostle Roman Catholic Church in Chicago, where he is the pastor.

The bride, 27, and the groom, 30, met in 2009 as members of the Mississippi
Teacher Corps, a program of the University of Mississippi, from which they each
received a master's in curriculum and instruction.

Ms. Ruddock-Walker is a fourth-year medical student at the Stritch School of
Medicine of Loyola University Chicago. She graduated from Amherst.

Her mother works at the Institute for Family Health in the Bronx as the project
director for a program that provides services to people in the South Bronx who
have diabetes. The bride is also the daughter of Horace A. Harris of McKinney,
Tex.

Mr. Walker is a doctoral candidate in social thought at the University of
Chicago. He graduated from the University of North Carolina.

His mother conducts educational assessments for adult education through the
Harris County Department of Education in Houston. His father is a land
consultant in the Houston offices of the Chevron Corporation.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/sara-ruddock-harris-austin-wa
lker.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TEACHING
& TEACHERS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RELIGION (76%); COUNTY
GOVERNMENT (75%); CURRICULA (75%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (70%); ACADEMIC TESTING
(70%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%); ADULTS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%);
DIABETES (52%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
(55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE
PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking a 46-Foot Museum on the Road

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUNDAY ROUTINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words


Even after the new Bronx Children's Museum opens on the Harlem River in 2017,
Natalie Collette Wood, 33, the program director, will continue to share her
peripatetic exhibits and mural-making aboard the organization's traveling bus.
''This is the way we think a 21st-century museum should run,'' she said. ''The
Bronx is extremely hard to get across from east to west. We are out in the
community building relationships.'' Sunday, then, is prime time to take the
museum on the road. But Ms. Wood also schedules time for her own artwork and to
relax with her boyfriend, Victor Vildósola, 37, a musician, with whom she lives
in the Morrisania section of the borough, along with a new puppy, a Chihuahua
mix named Oliver.

HIGH-OCTANE START I wake up around 9, and my boyfriend and I eat breakfast
together. During the week, I'm usually up at 6:30, so I try to sleep in on
Sundays. I eat scrambled eggs. I like a high-protein breakfast, and I have a lot
of coffee. I then go on the Internet to check the news and check the weather to
see what kind of weather conditions I'm up against. And I get my supplies from
my home studio -- anything from extra paint to extra brushes and glue.

FESTIVAL APPEARANCE The museum is often in two or three places on a Sunday. Most
of the time, I'll be with the bus. We got our bus in 2009, and we go to 30
parades and festivals a year. When we send the bus to a festival, we're kind of
like a clown car. We unload multiple tables, a huge tent and art supplies, and
basically we wait for the children to come. I usually lead any major art
activities. Our whole setup is 46 feet long.

CRAFT SERVICES There is button-making. We have recycled materials to make
bridges. We lead mural projects. The theme of the mural is always based on the
event. If it's Earth Day, we'll do an environment-themed mural. If it's at a
botanical garden, it's flora-based. We could have anywhere from 20 to 100
children working on the canvas throughout the day. But I don't let more than
five students paint at a time. They stay for 15 or 20 minutes. And I don't draw
out the murals and have them fill in the shapes. I'll ask, ''What do you think
this mural needs?'' I let them use their own talents and decision-making skills.
In that way, I'm more like a composer.

PUPPY LOVE After the festival, I go home. I have a puppy that I just got, and I
like to relax and play with him. Someone in my building put three puppies in a
box out on the street, and I'm a softy so I took one. I'm a big animal lover. I
have two cats and a puppy now. He's 4 months old. He's too little to take out on
walks. He only weighs three and a half pounds.

AN INDOOR GARDEN I try to take care of my house when I get home and then focus
on my own artwork. I tackle whatever cleaning that I need to do and I water my
plants. In my kitchen, there is a window garden with basil, tomatoes and
rosemary. The tomato plant is three feet tall and we're praying for cherry
tomatoes any day now. I have 12 plants in all.

NO BUS NEEDED With any energy I have left, I will go in my studio, which is in
my apartment. In my free time, I'm always working on my own art. I have a Master
of Fine Arts from Lehman College in the Bronx, which is how the children's
museum found me. My studio is empty at the moment. I recently installed a solo
show on West 30th Street at Eighth Avenue in Manhattan. It was through an arts
organization called Chashama that takes unused real estate and turns it into
exhibition spaces. The title of the show was ''Futuristic Fossil.'' I also make
murals. I have a 100-foot mural made of moss that is up now at Montefiore
Medical Center. It's basically a collage made from preserved moss that has been
dyed. I made a paste of wheat, yogurt and flour that serves as a temporary glue,
which allows the collage to stick to the wall of a balcony at the hospital. It's
called the Green Yard Project.

SIMPLE REPAST I usually make dinner. It will be something very simple like a
salad or pasta or some sort of chicken, something light. I'm wiped out from
being in the sun so I go to bed pretty early. The festivals are tiring. I'm in
bed at 10 or 10:30. Before I go to sleep, I check my email and try to prepare
for anything coming up on Monday. I also might read or watch TV. I've been
watching ''Grey's Anatomy,'' and I'm reading Patti Smith's memoir ''Just Kids.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/how-natalie-collette-wood-program-dir
ector-of-the-bronx-childrens-museum-spends-her-sundays.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGG VIGLIOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); MUSIC (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (69%); EARTH DAY (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

To the Lighthouse (and a Sri Lankan Lunch)

BYLINE: By JULIE BESONEN

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; TWO GOOD REASONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words


The romance and isolation of lighthouses, their life-or-death role for
tempest-tossed sailors, is illuminated in St. George, Staten Island, just south
of the ferry terminal. THE NATIONAL LIGHTHOUSE MUSEUM, in the works since 1998,
had a ceremonial unveiling last year and is now open, although its official
debut is Aug. 7, the anniversary of a 1789 Congressional act to commission
lighthouses, beacons, buoys and public piers. The Founding Fathers did not take
action solely for humanitarian purposes.

''Lighthouses built the economy of this world,'' said Linda Dianto, the museum's
executive director.

''If you couldn't sail safely into the harbors, you couldn't bring merchandise
or do business.''

The Pharos of Alexandria, Egypt, was the earliest known lighthouse, built in the
third century B.C. It is now underwater in the Mediterranean, but a model of it
gleams at the museum, along with more than 150 others in assorted architectural
styles, whose visual cues are called daymarks. Some towering columns wear broad
horizontal stripes while others mirror country churches or turreted manors. A
model of the Statue of Liberty reveals that the statue was originally designed
as a lighthouse, her torch guiding mariners into New York Harbor. And before
Alcatraz Island became known for a grim prison, its lighthouse was a beacon.

''Europe has castles, and we have lighthouses,'' said J. Candace Clifford, a
maritime historian and an author of ''Women Who Kept the Lights: An Illustrated
History of Female Lighthouse Keepers.'' Kate Walker and Margaret Norvell, two of
the brave light-keepers she documents, are honored on big panels at the museum
chronicling their unflagging efforts to avert catastrophes, staying up all night
drinking coffee and blasting foghorns if squalls obscured the beam.

Once vital and now mostly outmoded owing to global positioning technology,
lighthouses are being snuffed out, washed away or turned into tourism
destinations. The airy, brick-lined museum calls attention to their historic
magnitude, feats of engineering and the inventors who perfected illuminants and
optics.

The history of the property has dark passages.

In 1799, the site became the Quarantine, where wayfarers suspected of having
infectious diseases like smallpox, yellow fever, cholera and typhus were
detained in hospitals and shanties.

An untold number died, including Dr. Richard Bayley, the physician who was the
father of Elizabeth Seton, the first American to be canonized. Dr. Bayley was
prominent for treating diphtheria and successfully amputating an arm at the
shoulder joint. After inspecting a ship of Irish immigrants, he contracted
yellow fever himself.

In 1858, an angry mob of Staten Islanders set fire to the infirmaries, fearing
that hospital workers were spreading disease in their communities. The sick were
shuttled elsewhere, and the government-owned waterfront was vacant for years.

Starting in 1864, buildings rose to accommodate the U.S. Light-House
Establishment, an important depot of lighthouse technology, manufacturing and
underground vaults storing sperm-whale oil, pig lard and mineral oil used for
fuel.

A foundry built in 1912 is where the new museum is housed. Rusty foghorns and
prized Fresnel lenses show the range of basic and sophisticated tools to guide
navigation. There is no lighthouse, but nearby is a ravishing ruin with a
mansard roof, a former administration building planned to be made a hotel.

Among the dignitaries arriving for the grand opening in August is Hibbard
Casselberry, 92, who has been fixated on lighthouses since he was a boy. He has
glimpsed more than 100 of them around the world and helped to preserve
endangered ones in Florida.

''Oh, there's a lighthouse -- let's try to climb it,'' he said, explaining their
appeal. ''They make you think of murders and shipwrecks, plus there's always a
nice view.''

Outside the museum (admission $5) is a briny pier with a vista of the harbor,
made for introspection and imagination. To see something more concrete, room is
available on Aug. 9 for a boat tour of 14 local lighthouses ($60 for adults).

The influence of trade routes is felt in the spicy Sri Lankan food at the
courteous SAN RASA (19 Corson Avenue, 718-420-0027), which is within walking
distance of the museum. Browned spring rolls taste of Spanish croquetas;
lentil-based wade fritters crunch like Middle Eastern falafel. Godamba roti are
transparent, floury handkerchiefs to scoop up luxuriant curries. String hopper
kottu, or gossamer rice-flour noodles, are molded with vegetables into a
pyramid. Exploring the exotic menu is worth making the ferry trip.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/two-good-reasons-to-visit-st-george-t
he-national-lighthouse-museum-and-sri-lankan-food.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The National Lighthouse Museum, on Bay Street on Staten Island,
has its official debut on Aug. 7. Not far away, on Corson Avenue, is San Rasa,
which serves Sri Lankan dishes like Godamba roti. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (98%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INFECTIOUS
DISEASE (89%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%);
TROPICAL DISEASES (84%); FERRIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%);
ENGINEERING (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); ARSON
(71%); HOSPITALS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); SMALLPOX (60%); GLOBAL
POSITIONING SYSTEM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (94%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 41 words


''We're in uncharted territory. This campaign cycle more than any other, we've
seen more pre-announcement activity being paid for through essentially
unregulated money.''

KENNETH GROSS, an election lawyer, on spending by 2016 presidential campaigns.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day-for-sunday-ju
ly-26-2015.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia Irutira Stretching Your Dollar in Spain.

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Q&A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


Virginia Irurita wants travelers to go to Spain and enjoy a long lunch; make
that many long lunches. As the founder of Made for Spain, a custom trip planner
in Madrid, she creates itineraries that show travelers the best of her country;
savoring a lengthy midday meal as the locals do is one of her top
recommendations.

Spain is already a popular spot, but the strength of the dollar against the euro
means it is even more so now. Ms. Irurita, 52, has plenty of insight on how to
take advantage of the lower prices, what places tourists should not miss and how
to experience a getaway to her homeland like a Spaniard.

Following are edited excerpts from a conversation with Ms. Irurita.

What can travelers to Spain expect this year when it comes to prices?

They'll definitely be able to experience more than they would have last year
without spending more. They can take additional tours, do more shopping and go
to high-end restaurants they might not want to usually splurge on.

What else would you like travelers to know?

This is a country that has something for everyone, whether you're a beach lover,
culture lover or serious wine drinker. Also, we truly enjoy life and are social
animals and want people who come here to embrace that laid-back lifestyle.

How exactly does one do that?

Sit down for a long lunch and make it your biggest meal of the day. Enjoy a
glass of wine and take a short siesta after you eat. Hang out at a cafe in the
afternoon and mingle with locals. Instead of rushing around to every attraction,
walk everywhere as we love to do. You might see fewer sights, but you'll be more
immersed in the scene.

Is there a certain time of the year you recommend visiting?

The spring and fall. Winters are cold and summers are quite hot. Also, the
beaches get very busy. Traveling off-season is a luxury because you won't have
the crowds or weather working against you.

What is the next must-visit city?

Madrid. Tourists tend to linger in Barcelona and pass quickly through Madrid,
but it is booming and worth a longer stay. There are food markets like San
Miguel and Platea, museums like the Romanticism, which was just renovated, and
new hotels and boutiques like the ones in the De las Letras area. There is
always something new to discover. Just in March, the remains of Cervantes, who
wrote ''Don Quixote,'' were found, and now there are plans in the works to have
travelers visit his tomb.

Are there any unsung but worthwhile places to visit in the country?

The northern part around the Asturias region is our best kept secret and where
Spaniards vacation. Forget going to the beaches on the Mediterranean; the ones
here are long with soft, white sand and beautiful, clean water. The area also
has the Picos de Europa mountain range, spectacular scenery and amazing food,
including mountain cheeses and all sorts of beef. Throw in the great prices, and
it's unbeatable.

Is there a clichéd touristy experience you wish travelers would avoid?

People think that tapas are Spanish and want to eat them wherever they go. Of
course you can find them everywhere, but tapas are only from Madrid and
Andalusia. They are not part of the culture in Barcelona, where the locals have
an aperitivo or vermouth with some pickled vegetables, or in San Sebastián or
Bilbao, where pintxos -- thin baguette slices with different toppings like ham,
vegetables and crab meat mixed with red pepper -- are the tradition.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/money-saving-travel-tips-for-madrid-and
-spain.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ms. Irurita advises slowing down and seeing Spain like a
Spaniard. Above, the Roman aqueduct in Segovia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL CRUZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PRICES (89%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY &
TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); FULL SERVICE
RESTAURANTS (67%); EURO (56%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (51%)

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%)

STATE: ASTURIAS, SPAIN (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (96%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Back Porch Filled With Stars, as Is the Nearby Hall of Fame

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 489 words


COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. --  When baseball's Hall of Famers reconvene here each year
for the induction of new members, the spacious veranda behind the Otesaga Resort
Hotel is the equivalent of their town square.

They can be seen huddling, gossiping and schmoozing in the morning and afternoon
-- engaging in a longtime ritual for one weekend annually. And it is their
exclusive hideaway: They stay here, along with family members.

With pairs of white columns spanning its length, the veranda affords a wide view
of Otsego Lake, where, on Friday, sailboats moved on calm waters and a MetLife
blimp floated above. Hall of Famers entered and left the lobby through a screen
door, some with beers, some with cocktails, some with spouses.

Two long rows of white rocking chairs lined nearly the full length of the porch.
On Friday, Tom Seaver sat on one chair in the front row, holding court with
reporters about pitching, his vineyard and his struggles with Lyme disease.
Occasionally, his wife, Nancy, or daughter Anne beckoned him from the grassy
area below, urging him to join them. He kept talking until Anne came to fetch
him.

In another row, Whitey Ford and his wife, Joan, were joined by a gregarious Al
Kaline, dressed in a blue shirt and blue shorts.

In other seats, Phil Niekro told dirty jokes to Ozzie Smith.

Eddie Murray breezed in for a few moments. Roberto Alomar and his wife, Kim,
brought their daughter, Lourdes. And at the other end of the veranda, Randy
Johnson, one of the four players who will be inducted Sunday, dined at a table
with his friends and family.

''You get a chance to see this view once a year,'' said Niekro, who was inducted
in 1997. ''I don't think there's another view in the country like it. You can
have a beer, a drink or chocolate chip cookies. And you get to see the wives and
husbands together. For three days, it doesn't get much better.''

Seaver, a 1992 inductee, views the veranda experience as something of a
referendum on being a Hall of Famer -- and what the Hall means.

''You have to admit how special it is, walking around, seeing three players in a
pocket over there, talking -- and you're their brother,'' Seaver said. ''You
can't whisk it away like dust. You carry yourself differently here and you don't
wear that every day, but feel it here. It's a joy to be part of that.''

Last year, Gary Thorne, the Baltimore Orioles announcer who hosts the induction
ceremony and also called Mets games, was one of Seaver's veranda partners. He
looked to be in deep discussions for quite a while with Seaver, the Mets'
greatest pitcher.

''We reminisce whenever we see each other but the veranda is a place where we
can relax and talk about why pitchers never complete games anymore,'' Thorne
said Saturday. ''And while we're talking, there's Whitey or Yogi or Frank.''

Wade Boggs crystallized one of his past veranda experiences simply:

''You walk in,'' he said, ''and there's Stan Musial.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/a-back-porch-filled-with-stars
-as-is-the-nearby-hall-of-fame.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Otesaga Resort Hotel in Cooperstown, N.Y., is transformed
once a year into an exclusive weekend hideaway for Hall of Famers. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); RESORTS (78%); LYME DISEASE
(53%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Siblings Celebrate a Debut Album

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; POP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words


Sean and Sara Watkins have been known for most of their lives as two-thirds of
Nickel Creek, the expansive, pop-literate bluegrass band. But since 2002, they
have also parlayed their sibling chemistry into the Watkins Family Hour -- a
residency at the Los Angeles club Largo, anchored by Mr. Watkins on flatpicking
acoustic guitar, Ms. Watkins on fiddle, and a heavyweight supporting cast
including the singer Fiona Apple and the keyboardist Benmont Tench. To celebrate
the release of its oak-solid debut album, ''Watkins Family Hour'' (Family
Hour/Thirty Tigers), the whole crew will settle in Tuesday through Thursday at
City Winery, with guest vocalists including Tift Merritt, Michael Daves and
Ashley Monroe.

(8 p.m., 212-608-0555, citywinery.com.)



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/sean-and-sara-watkins-celebrate-a-d
ebut-album-watkins-family-hour.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sara Watkins, standing
Sean Watkins, third from right
 and other artists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMAN CHO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS
(88%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (88%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jung Mee Park, Everett Schlawin

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 234 words


Jung Mee Park and Everett Alden Schlawin were married Monday. Christopher J.
Durkin, the clerk of Essex County, N.J., officiated at the Hall of Records in
Newark. On Saturday, Carl D. Ferkinhoff, a friend of the couple, led another
ceremony at the Big Red Barn, Cornell's graduate student center, in Ithaca, N.Y.

Dr. Park, 33, will keep her name. Until June, she was a history and sociology
teacher at the Newark campus of Bard High School Early College. She graduated
magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's in
quantitative methods in the social sciences from Columbia and a doctoral degree
in sociology from Cornell.

She is a daughter of Young Hee Park and Hui Son Park of Atlanta. The bride's
parents own Park Services, a small-appliance repair business in Dunwoody, Ga.

Mr. Schlawin, 28, is a doctoral candidate in astronomy at Cornell, where he also
received a master's in the same subject. He graduated from Oberlin. In August,
he is to become a postdoctoral researcher in astronomy at the University of
Arizona.

He is a son of Ilene S. Dube and Mark F. Schlawin of Princeton Junction, N.J.
The groom's mother manages communications for the D&R Greenway Land Trust, a
preservation organization in Princeton, N.J., and she is also a freelance writer
and editor. His father teaches middle-school science and mathematics at
Princeton Charter School in Princeton.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/jung-mee-park-everett-schlawi
n.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA KOZLOWSKI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%);
SOCIOLOGY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); FREELANCE
EMPLOYMENT (65%); WRITERS (65%); APPLIANCE REPAIR (53%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paperback Row

BYLINE: By JOUMANA KHATIB

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 513 words


PERFIDIA, by James Ellroy. (Vintage, $16.95.) After a Japanese family is
murdered in 1940s Los Angeles, a police force with questionable ethics is tasked
with solving the case, blurring the lines between criminality and morality. As
our reviewer, Dennis Lehane, wrote, ''The police are not knights, they're
occupiers, and in 'Perfidia,' Ellroy comes closer than ever to making the case
that he writes alt-histories not of the Los Angeles police but of the Los
Angeles police state.''

HOW PARIS BECAME PARIS: The Invention of the Modern City, by Joan DeJean.
(Bloomsbury, $17.) DeJean nimbly traces the city's evolution into an urban icon.
Beginning in the 17th century, Paris's architectural achievements and
technological advances -- including street lights, public mail service and
public transport -- led the city out of the medieval era, and secured its status
as an emblem of modernity.

THE BONE CLOCKS, by David Mitchell. (Random House, $18.) Holly Sykes, a teenage
runaway who can communicate with parallel universes, is the heroine of the
latest novel by the ''Cloud Atlas'' author. Told from alternating perspectives
that span decades of Holly's life, the novel leaps from rarefied Cambridge
circles in 1991 to a post-apocalyptic society in the year 2043.

NEANDERTHAL MAN: In Search of Lost Genomes, by Svante Paabo. (Basic Books,
$16.99.) In 2010, Paabo, a Swedish geneticist, solved one of anthropology's most
vexing problems after sequencing the Neanderthal genome. Reflecting on decades
of his research, he describes how he uncovered new links between modern humans
and Neanderthals, and what insight can be gleaned about the history of our
ancestors.

EYRIE, by Tim Winton. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17.) Winton, an acclaimed
Australian writer, surveys the wreckage of a disillusioned environmentalist's
life in his latest novel. When Tom Keely, the protagonist, encounters a troubled
woman from his childhood, he finds an opportunity for redemption.

THE MOST DANGEROUS BOOK: The Battle for James Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' by Kevin
Birmingham. (Penguin, $18.) In a spirited account that our reviewer, Rachel
Shteir, called ''Hollywood-ready,'' Birmingham guides readers through the
hurdles Joyce crossed to publish his masterpiece. Countering critics who
considered the book lewd and provocative, Joyce -- whose efforts culminated in a
milestone obscenity trial -- challenged the moral and artistic boundaries of the
time, to lasting effect.

LAND OF LOVE AND DROWNING, by Tiphanie Yanique. (Riverhead, $16.) Yanique's
characters form a chorus of voices from the Caribbean in this debut novel. In
the early 1900s, as the Virgin Islands are passed from Danish to American
control, a ship sinks off the coast of St. Thomas, leaving the captain's three
children orphaned. As the siblings recount their lives, their stories become
intertwined with the island's history.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/paperback-row.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%);
ETHICS (89%); WRITERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); ORPHANS (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); CHILDREN
(61%); OBSCENITY (60%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, US (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Way Down

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK PANORAMA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 14 words


Runners on the pedestrian path of the Manhattan Bridge as it descends into
Chinatown.



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Unfinished Library

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; OPEN BOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 482 words


''The Greatest Books You'll Never Read'' is a new survey of books that are
''unfinished, unbegun or lost, and today exist as only suggestive fragments or
not at all.'' Despite the title, not all of these works sound particularly
great. Take, for example, Karl Marx's ''Scorpion and Felix,'' a comic novel he
wrote when he was 19 and under the influence of ''Tristram Shandy.'' According
to the Marx biographer Francis Wheen, it's ''a nonsensical torrent of whimsy and
persiflage.''

The collection includes several works, like Kafka's ''The Castle'' and Truman
Capote's ''Answered Prayers,'' that were published despite the author's final
intentions being unclear.

Ambitious writers have tried to finish some of these projects (like Jane
Austen's ''Sanditon'') over the years, and contributors to ''Greatest Books''
ponder the odds of other embryonic works being taken up. The prognosticating can
lead to incredible acts of understatement, like this take, by the editors, on
finishing Saul Bellow's barely begun novel, ''The Crab and the Butterfly'':
''Bellow would not be an easy writer to imitate.''

Michael Chabon once wrote 1,500 pages of a novel tentatively titled ''Fountain
City'' before giving up on it. He eventually published four chapters of the
manuscript in McSweeney's, heavily annotated with footnotes that described where
and why he had failed. He told The Atlantic in 2010: ''The notes are there to
serve as the literary equivalent of the label on a packet of silica gel that
says DO NOT EAT.''

Quotable

''I felt incredibly lucky .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. that he liked
talking about his new work with me. In a way it's a privilege I've never
recovered from. One craves what can never be returned to.'' -- Frank Bidart, on
his friendship with Robert Lowell, in an interview with the website Divedapper

The (Continuing) End of Science?

John Horgan's ''The End of Science'' has been a cause of contention since it was
published in 1996, partly because of its incendiary title. Horgan argues that
science's grandest discoveries (heliocentrism, evolution, relativity, etc.) are
behind us, and all that remains is to fill in some blanks, however interesting
they are. In the Book Review, Natalie Angier called it an ''intellectually
bracing, sweepingly reported, often brilliant and sometimes bullying book'' that
is ''too impressive and entertaining to ignore.''

Nearly 20 years later, Horgan has written a preface for a new edition, and is
sticking by his guns. ''In some ways, science is in even worse shape today than
I would have guessed back in the 1990s,'' he writes. And the progress that has
been made in recent years, he argues, proves his larger point. The discovery of
the Higgs boson in 2012, for instance, ''serves as the capstone of the standard
model of particle physics,'' but ''doesn't take us any closer to physics'
ultimate goal than climbing a tree takes us to the moon.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/an-unfinished-library.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATH KILLEN
 HORTENSE FRANC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%);
LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HUMOROUS
LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Beauty: Miracle Water

BYLINE: By RENATA MOSCI

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 130 words


In France, women historically trust their local pharmacies to have just the
right products for their skin -- not to mention a staff knowledgeable enough to
help choose those products. But every couple of years, a French drugstore staple
finds its way into the American market -- uprooting beauty regimens and making a
name for itself as a miracle product, ''every French woman's secret,'' and so on
and so forth. The latest, micellar water, lives up to its claim: An all-in-one
cleanser, it removes makeup, purifies the skin and tones to boot. You don't even
have to wash it off. Simply sweep the face with a soaked cotton ball, and voilà.
Here, a roundup of the best this side of the Seine.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/07/21/face-wash-micellar-water/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO METZINGER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES (88%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elisa Olivieri, Alexander Torgovitsky

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 245 words


Elisa Marie Olivieri and Alexander Torgovitsky were married Saturday at the
Rockefeller Memorial Chapel in Chicago. José A. Olivieri, the bride's father,
who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries for the occasion,
officiated.

Dr. Olivieri, 29, will keep her name. She received a doctoral degree in
economics from the University of Chicago in June, and in September is to begin
working as an associate, conducting research for lawsuits in the economics
division, in the Chicago office of Cornerstone Research, a litigation consulting
company. She graduated from Harvard and received a master's degree in economics
from the London School of Economics and Political Science.

The bride's mother, Jeanne Nikolai Olivieri, and father live in Milwaukee. Her
father is a partner in Michael Best & Friedrich, a Milwaukee law firm. Her
mother retired as a Spanish teacher in the lower school of the University School
of Milwaukee in River Hills, Wis., and is also a watercolorist who shows her
work at J. Nikolai Art, a studio gallery in Milwaukee.

Dr. Torgovitsky, 30, is an assistant professor of economics at Northwestern
University. He graduated from the University of California, Davis, and received
a doctoral degree in economics from Yale.

He is the son of Charlotte Torgovitsky and Harry Torgovitsky of Novato, Calif.
The groom's mother writes and teaches about gardening and native plants. His
father is an owner of shopping centers and apartment buildings.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/elisa-olivieri-alexander-torg
ovitsky.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MAJOR US LAW
FIRMS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%);
POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: MICHAEL BEST & FRIEDRICH LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%);
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA,
CA, USA (79%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Place in the World

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2412 words


At the Hebrew Home at Riverdale, in the Bronx, Helen Moses, 90, had news.

''There's not going to be a wedding,'' she said.

It was an afternoon in June, just one month since Ms. Moses had announced her
plans to marry Howie Zeimer, the man down the hall. She spoke, as always, with
absolute finality.

''I'd first like to live together for a while,'' she said. ''I don't want to
give up this room.''

Ms. Moses is one of six older New Yorkers who agreed to be part of a yearlong
project looking at the city's ''oldest old'': people 85 and older, one of the
fastest-growing age groups in the city. As summer arrived, their lives moved in
directions as diverse as the city itself.

On Manhattan's Upper West Side, John Sorensen, 91, was devastated: His trusted
home attendant was leaving for a new job. In Brooklyn, Frederick Jones, 88, had
parts of two toes amputated and was now in a rehabilitation center, wondering
how he would ever return to his walk-up apartment. Ping Wong, 90, made a rare
trip outside her building, accompanying her daughter for dim sum in Chinatown.

Ruth Willig, 91, said she was starting to make peace with her new assisted
living residence, but she was still angry at being displaced from her old one.
And Jonas Mekas, 92, the writer and filmmaker, returned home from the Venice
Biennale in Italy to a formidable amount of work: book manuscripts to finish, a
movie voice-over to record and a museum in Paris that wanted everything he had
on the Velvet Underground, Andy Warhol and Edie Sedgwick. ''I have nothing
promised for anybody else except this,'' he said. ''But it's a lot of work.''

In the time I've spent with them, conversations have returned frequently to
questions of home: what it means to live independently or in a residence for old
people; how to balance safety and essential care with privacy and autonomy.

Home, for some, is a score sheet of all the things they have given up with age.

For others it is something they cling to. Only 12 percent of New Yorkers 85 and
up live in group accommodations like nursing homes, according to census data
analyzed by Susan Weber-Stoger of Queens College.

Most live in their own homes or with relatives, cobbling together networks of
support: 53 percent say they have trouble living independently; 58 percent say
they have trouble walking; 31 percent say they have cognitive difficulties.

''New York is a good place to get old,'' said Ms. Wong, who lives in a
subsidized apartment and pays nothing for a home attendant who cooks, cleans and
shops. Two hip replacements and arthritis in her legs and hands limit her
mobility.

''I try my best to be independent,'' Ms. Wong said. ''And because of that, maybe
I live longer. But of course I don't want to live too long. Not a good thing to
live too long.''


FOR FREDERICK JONES, home has become an odyssey.

When we first met, near the beginning of the year, in his walk-up apartment in
Crown Heights, Brooklyn, he had recently returned home from 64 days in a
hospital and nursing home, after a dangerous plunge in his blood pressure. He
had a severely infected big toe, a product of his diabetic neuropathy.

Life was good, he said.

''Usually my day is: Go to bed late, get up late, eat breakfast around 12
o'clock, and if the weather is nice I might go out,'' he said at the time. ''I
like to window-shop. I go to Macy's or Century 21 or Bloomingdale's and I'll
spend two hours and not buy a thing.''

By spring the routine had changed. He no longer got out regularly, and the
infection had flared up in his other foot. Then he was gone; a recording said
his telephone had been disconnected at the customer's request.

When I found him, in early June, in a Brooklyn hospital and then at Phoenix
Rehabilitation and Nursing Center by Fort Greene Park, he was as cheerful as
ever.

''I don't know what I'm wearing,'' he said, smiling in an out-of-character Enyce
sweatshirt that he had been given because his own clothes were soiled. ''This
might be a dead man's outfit. I guess they save clothes. I don't know where they
get them from.''

He was also missing parts of the big toe and second toe in his right foot, which
had become gangrenous. Even before the surgery, Mr. Jones struggled climbing the
37 stairs to his apartment. By mid-July, after more than a month in rehab, those
stairs were starting to look insurmountable.

''I feel I'm wasting away here,'' he said. He was sitting at his assigned table
in the dining room, shouting over loud music on the stereo. Before the operation
he had walked with a cane; now he used a wheelchair, his leg muscles weakening
with disuse. ''I think things are getting worse instead of better,'' he said.
Signals from the doctors were noncommittal. ''They don't talk about leaving,''
he said. ''When I talk about leaving, they say that depends on your progress in
physical therapy and occupational therapy. I don't see that I'm gaining
anything.''

Like many nursing homes, Phoenix is short on staff. Despite a five-star overall
rating from Medicare, it receives only two stars (''below average'') for
staffing and registered nurse staffing. For Mr. Jones, this means frequent waits
to be taken to meals or the bathroom.

The facility's administrator, Ephie Carni, responding through a spokeswoman,
said that in surveys of residents, the center had ''not seen a staffing issue to
be a concern,'' and that the overall satisfaction rating was 8.75 out of 10.

Mr. Jones thought often of his mother and grandmother, who both died in
rehabilitation facilities, he said. The other day, someone called to tell him
that his pastor of 28 years, Dr. Clarence Norman Sr. of the First Baptist Church
of Crown Heights, had died at age 85.

His own prospects remained unclear. ''Now my roommate's saying, 'You ain't
getting out of here,' '' he said. ''August is the month my mother died in, and
man, I think about it all the time during that month. And I know it's going to
be terrible on me if I got to be in this place in August.''


AT THE HEBREW HOME at Riverdale, a part of RiverSpring Health, Helen Moses had
her own thoughts about home.

''I never thought I'd be in a nursing home,'' she said recently, a refrain she
repeated almost every time I visited. ''That's when nobody wants you. You end up
in a nursing home.''

Ms. Moses, who moved into the home at age 84 in 2009, after a fractious stay
with one of her sons, has in many ways flourished there. She started the second
love affair of her life -- with Howie Zeimer, 69, who is disabled from a severe
car accident after college. She made new friends. And her glee club just
finished recording a CD, to be distributed to other residents. Her daughter
visits weekly.

Yet there were things she does not like, she said. Being in a nursing home meant
you had to adapt to everything; nothing adapted to you: not the neighbors with
dementia, not the food, not the staff who entered her room without knocking.

''Sometimes I want to go home,'' she said. ''But I can't. There's no place I can
go.''

Lately, though, she had other concerns. She loved Mr. Zeimer, she said, but
getting married was such a lot of work -- especially since her daughter did not
approve.

By June, things were off. ''I'll tell you why,'' she said. ''Howie's in a
wheelchair and it's very difficult to do anything with him.''

A month later she was rethinking. Maybe they would get married, as long as they
did not move away from her daughter.

''He wants to live in places I don't like,'' Ms. Moses said.

Mr. Zeimer said he was willing to compromise, as long as it meant being with
her. ''I think it's proper, since we are devotedly, happily in love,'' he said.

Mr. Zeimer wanted to show her the progress he had made in physical therapy. He
stood up from his wheelchair and teetered precariously on tent-pole legs.

''Sit down, you're making me nervous,'' she said.

''No,'' Mr. Zeimer said.

''No?''

Ms. Moses backed down.

The banter is part of their routine. At night, she said, she knew Mr. Zeimer
would come to her room and lie with her on the narrow bed to watch television.
And when he returned to his own room, he would call her to say good night.

''Like last night,'' Mr. Zeimer said. ''Helen fell asleep during the game, so I
excused myself. I kissed her on both cheeks and said, 'Good night, my darling.'

''Then I called her and said, 'I've never loved anyone the way I love the hell
out of you.' ''

Ms. Moses grew uncharacteristically speechless.

And what did she say in return?

She mouthed the words silently. ''I love you, too,'' she said.


AMONG THE OLDEST OLD, gerontologists talk about the risks of social isolation --
life without daily contact, without human touch, without eyes to see if they
fall.

In his Upper West Side apartment, John Sorensen often goes days without seeing
another person. Though he has an emergency-alert pendant, he doesn't wear it if
he is not wearing a shirt, a common practice in the warm months.

Yet for him, the apartment provides a connection to his past selves, and to the
two men who shaped his adult life.

The first was his high school art teacher, who after graduation called him in
for an extraordinary talk. ''He told me what I was,'' Mr. Sorensen said. ''I
didn't know I was gay. He laid out what I should do, the school I should go to,
that I should go to New York and become a decorator. I followed everything he
said, and it's been a wonderful life.''

The second was the man who shared that life for 60 years, Walter Caron, whose
death in 2009 left a gaping hole.

''Being here, Walter's still here,'' Mr. Sorensen said. ''When I look at certain
things I think, he picked that out, he found that. He's always sort of with
me.''

Since our first meeting, Mr. Sorensen has lost some of his mobility and
short-term memory. He rarely leaves the apartment, and his glaucoma makes it
hard for him to see faces in front of him. A niece of Mr. Caron's takes care of
his finances.

But on a recent afternoon, Mr. Sorensen could tell the stories behind all his
furnishings, mostly involving Mr. Caron. If Mr. Sorensen's late life has meaning
for him, it lies in these memories and the connections they hold.

''In this kitchen I hung the wallpaper,'' he said. ''I put the new floor down,
which needs to be replaced. I painted this whole apartment. I painted stripes in
that room, all hand-painted. I was always doing something. And to sit around and
not be able to do anything is really rough.

''I have nothing more to achieve. Nothing more I can do. I always thought that
in old age I'd be able to play the piano and read more, and I can't do either,
and that's a great disappointment.''

Yet to give up the apartment would be to give up the best part of his life, he
said, and be left with only old age. ''If I have to crawl I don't want to leave
here,'' he said. ''No matter what. I couldn't stand it.''

In his Brooklyn loft, Jonas Mekas had his mind on the home he long ago left, in
Lithuania. ''My ideal,'' he said, unprompted, ''was this guy who used to visit
my family when I was a child, and he used to climb on the roof and stand on his
head on the chimney. And my father told me once he was 100 years. So that's my
ideal.''

As a farm boy in Lithuania, Mr. Mekas knew what home was. It was continuity. But
years of forced transience -- first in Nazi labor camps, then in camps for
displaced persons, then in virtual exile during the Soviet era -- shattered his
sense of permanence. Instead he lives in adaptation -- nomadic in his cultural
curiosity, quick to put down roots wherever he lands.

''I say my home is in cinema,'' he said.

In another sense, home is a 2,000-square-foot loft in the Clinton Hill section
of Brooklyn, with a twin bed off the kitchen and boxes of his work everywhere,
and a Royal typewriter opposite the stove. ''This is my bedroom, my archives, my
kitchen, my recording studio all in one,'' Mr. Mekas said. His son, Sebastian,
33, lives with him.

Home, for Mr. Mekas, is not around people his age.

''I need energy,'' he said. ''I'm maybe a little like a vampire. I feel best
when I'm with younger and active people. When I'm with people that there's no
energy, it drags me down, so I try not to be there. I disappear, or I don't go
to such situations.'' He added, ''I realize that's life, but it's not my world.
I'm somewhere else.''


RUTH WILLIG HAD to give her home up twice, neither time without some pain. The
first time was in 2009, when her children persuaded her to move from her
two-story home in New Jersey to an assisted living residence in Park Slope,
Brooklyn.

''It changed my life, moving into an institution,'' she said. Suddenly her hours
were not her own; meals were at fixed times and fixed tables, with the same
people each day. Privacy was a thing of the past. ''It was an adjustment, but I
think I made it,'' she said. ''I learned to accept life the way it is, realize
why I did it sooner than some of the people I knew that were still living alone,
on their own.''

Then in the spring of 2014, the owners announced that they were closing;
everyone had three months to leave. Her resentment flared and held steady: the
callousness of the owner, the separation from friends, the distance from her
daughter who lived in Park Slope.

Now, more than a year later, Ms. Willig said she was starting to let the anger
go. She signed up for a writing class in her new assisted-living building,
Sunrise at Sheepshead Bay. With the warm weather, she has been able to read or
walk by the water's edge.

At the writing class, a woman talked about having a degree in psychiatry, which
surprised Ms. Willig.

''I keep saying there's no one here that's interesting,'' Ms. Willig said, ''and
my daughter says, 'You really don't know them.' And she's so right. So many
people are in their 90s, and what they are today is not what they were.''

Yet even amid her growing contentment, Ms. Willig sometimes seems to drift back
toward an ambient unease. After a life spent caring for others, she said, what
she misses is not just her home but the purpose that came from her place in it.
''Maybe that's what I'm missing,'' she said.

''I really am not needed by anyone, come to think of it. I'm certainly cared
for. I know there's a lot of love from them, and I feel it,'' she said, talking
of her four children and her grandchildren. ''But outside of providing money for
them when I can, I don't have any ----.'' Her voice tailed off. ''I guess that's
a problem of living longer.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/what-home-means-to-new-yorks-oldest-o
ld.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frederick Jones, above, was moved to a rehabilitation and
nursing center in Brooklyn after surgery. ''I feel I'm wasting away here,'' he
said. Ping Wong lives in a subsidized apartment near Gramercy Park. ''I try my
best to be independent,'' she said. (MB1)
From top: Jonas Mekas in his loft
Ruth Willig at her nursing-home apartment
John Sorensen in his living room
 Helen Moses and Howie Zeimer in her room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES
(78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%);
DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (66%); NURSING HOMES (65%);
LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (65%); WRITERS (64%); CENSUS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Now You See It...

BYLINE: By DAVE TAFT

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; N.Y.C. NATURE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words


Chicory's flowers are as blue as the summer sky, their casual, untrained beauty
heightened by the meager settings in which they grow. One of the best ways to
see chicory in New York City is to simply take a drive. The plant seems happiest
growing from road medians, cracks in curbs and mangy, un-mowed fields. It grows
alongside other beautiful but outcast plants like Queen Anne's lace, dandelion
and soapwort, and it takes only a wet week or two in July to produce a burst of
color that can challenge autumn's leaves.

The brilliant color in such unlikely surroundings can turn the heads of
observant urban naturalists, including John Updike: ''Show me a piece of land
that God forgot -- /a strip between an unused sidewalk, say,/and a bulldozed
lot, rich in broken glass -- /and there, July on, will be chicory.''

Common chicory (Cichorium intybus) is a nonnative plant with a long history
serving humans. It is probably best known for the bitter drink which is brewed
from its dried and ground roots and is still enjoyed as a coffee substitute, or
additive, in many parts of the country. (If you've ever been to Café du Monde in
the French Quarter of New Orleans, you're aware of how chicory can elevate a
café au lait.) The young leaves are also prized for salads, particularly in
Europe, where the plant is not the lowly weed we pass on the parkway, but a
specialty crop.

Like any plant with a long history among humans, chicory also has an associated
folklore. According to tradition, carrying a sprig will open doors into unseen
worlds, and even help one forget past loves.

Each chicory flower opens for a single day, and is at its bluest for only a few
short morning hours, fading rapidly after the sun reaches its zenith. Drive a
highway in the morning, and the blue flowers streaking past your car window are
almost certainly chicory -- as true blue is a relatively rare color in flowers.
Drive past the same patch in the evening, when the bright flowers have passed,
and by magic or camouflage, leaves, stems and flowers all seem to vanish. The
plants are actually still in great abundance; it takes only a walk in the field
to find this Cheshire Cat of herbs, readying her buds for tomorrow.

Chicory always looks a bit unkempt, producing a long flower stem nearly three
feet tall with long internodes between the scattered flowers. The leaves grow in
a tight circle known as a basal rosette and are shaped rather like those of
dandelion leaves.

A good place to observe chicory in bloom is the Cross Island Parkway, where
fields of flowers produce a blue fog a foot or two above long grassy stretches
if you are lucky enough to be traveling at the speed limit. The Grand Central
Parkway and even the Belt Parkway produce beautiful shows in wet years, but plan
your trip before the lawn mowers descend.

For a closer look at the flowers, park at the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge and
walk the multiple-use pathway along Cross Bay Boulevard. Plants should be in
full bloom for the next two or so weeks, interspersed with the taller, flat
white flowers of Queen Anne's lace.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/chicory-is-the-cheshire-cat-of-herbs.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE GUTTMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOLKLORE (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Save the Elephant

BYLINE: By LYDIA MILLET.

The author, most recently, of the novel ''Mermaids in Paradise'' and a
contributing opinion writer.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 819 words


MORE than two million years ago, mammoths and Asian elephants took different
evolutionary paths -- and around the same time, according to DNA research, so
did their lumbering relatives in Africa. African elephants have long been
thought of as a single species, but a critical mass of genetic studies now
proves there are two.

You can tell the species -- ''forest'' elephants and ''savanna'' elephants --
are different just by looking at them carefully, but until 2010 the jury was
still out on the genetic evidence. Forest elephants are much smaller, weighing
half what savanna elephants weigh, and evolved in Central and West Africa's rain
forests; they have rounder ears than their cousins and straighter tusks. Savanna
elephants, whose ears are more triangular and whose tusks are thick and curved,
roam throughout the open, bushy terrain of other parts of the vast continent,
from East Africa down to the south, where they're most abundant. The two species
are about as distinct from each other, in genetic terms, as lions are from
tigers.

Over the past decade a strong scientific consensus on the elephants' biology has
emerged. So, in June, the Center for Biological Diversity, where I work, filed a
petition with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to reclassify African
elephants as two separate species and protect them both as ''endangered'' under
the federal Endangered Species Act.

It may seem odd that the United States gives any legal status at all to animals
in other countries, but the truth is that American protection of ''foreign''
animals or plants under the powerful Endangered Species Act can bring tangible
benefits to those species, including preventing the animals' parts from being
sold in the United States and preventing our government from sanctioning or
paying for actions that hurt the animals. It can also provide funds for research
and public education.

The question of one versus two species of African elephants isn't about settling
an arcane DNA argument; it's about life or death for these majestic,
extraordinary creatures. Without elephants, Africa's landscape would be
unrecognizable, yet these animals have fallen by the hundreds of thousands as a
result of two enormous waves of poaching in this century -- one in the 1970s and
1980s, the other, beginning around 2009, now underway. If the center's petition
is granted, it could be a lifeline.

Here's how. Right now, the two elephant species are treated as one and protected
under the Endangered Species Act only as ''threatened'' -- a less protective
status than ''endangered.'' What ''endangered'' means for elephants, or any
other animals or plants, is simple: There aren't many left, so the species is at
risk of going extinct. Acknowledging the scientific fact that these are two
different animals reveals the truly low numbers -- relative to historic
abundance -- of each one. Instead of looking at about half a million individuals
remaining in a species, we're likely looking at a maximum of 100,000 (and
possibly as few as 50,000) forest elephants surviving in the world and an
estimated 400,000 savanna elephants. It's important to understand, though, that
the actual figures could be much lower, since elephants are notoriously hard to
count.

Populations of both species are in free fall as poaching frenzies drive the
brutal killing and butchering, for their tusks, of tens of thousands of
elephants every year. The number of Central African forest elephants declined by
62 percent in less than a decade, devastated by a lethal cocktail of illegal
hunting, habitat loss and civil strife, and are the more urgently at risk of the
two. Savanna elephant populations have also significantly declined throughout
their range, with particular devastation in Tanzania, where one of the strongest
populations of elephants -- 109,000 animals -- dropped to about 43,000 in just
five years, between 2009 and 2014.

If the United States recognizes and protects the two species, the International
Union for Conservation of Nature and CITES, the treaty that regulates global
trade in endangered wildlife, may follow suit, bringing new and urgently needed
help to the highest-risk elephant populations.

An endangered listing would also tighten restrictions on the import, export and
sale of ivory products to, from and in the United States. After China, the
United States is the world's second-largest market for ivory, with the legal
trade in old ivory being used as a cover for illegal trade in new ivory. Last
month, a senior Chinese wildlife official pledged to end the ivory trade if the
United States does, too.

That means American action on reclassifying African elephants now could lead to
a transformation of the way the planet's two largest economies -- which also
happen to be its two largest ivory consumers -- are handling the crisis of the
animals' slaughter.

We should act now, before it's too late.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AN ENDANGERED HERD: About 90 percent of elephants in Chad's
remote Zakouma National Park, above, were slaughtered over a decade. Several
park rangers protecting them were murdered. By 2013, there were just 450
elephants left from a 2002 population of 4,350. A 2014 study estimated that
about 100,000 elephants were killed across Africa from 2010 to 2012.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SR4-SR5)
A recent burn of poached ivory in Kenya. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES) (SR5) CHART: A Disastrous 36 Years: How the ivory
trade is wiping out African elephants. (Sources: George Wittemyer, Colorado
State University (poaching rate)
Center for Biological Diversity
World Wildlife Fund
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
 Save the Elephants (ivory prices)) (CHART BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(SR5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); DNA (90%);
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ANIMALS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%);
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); BIODIVERSITY (78%);
WILDLIFE (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%);
CONSERVATION (76%); RAIN FORESTS (71%); PETITIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (82%); CENTER FOR BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
(82%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); CHAD (79%);
EASTERN AFRICA (79%); KENYA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Sides to Every Song

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1699 words


LOS ANGELES -- Something was not right. Wireless microphone in hand, Miguel was
circling the floor of Club Nokia here during the soundcheck for a concert to
preview his new album, ''Wildheart.'' It was one of the warm-up shows before
Miguel's first headlining tour, where he'll be playing much larger clubs like
Terminal 5 on August 2nd in New York City.

The band was charging through rocked-up versions of old and new songs, and
Miguel wanted more punch from the drums. He consulted with the sound man and
went back to singing but wasn't satisfied. Eventually an idea struck. The
drummer, RJ Kelly, was performing behind a plexiglass barrier, which provides a
cleaner sound on a small stage. Down came the barrier; the drums finally boomed.
''It sounds way better,'' Miguel said, relieved. He cursed the idea of sounding
''clean'' with a four-letter word and a smile and added: ''I don't want
perfection. It's gotta feel right.''

Miguel's decision to follow his instincts has led him to shake up both his
message and his sound. Now 29, Miguel has been a musician since he was a
teenager. He established his craftsmanship both as a songwriter matching
intelligent wordplay to sweeping tunes and as a genuinely soulful singer who
doesn't need digital assistance. ''If I ever pulled up an Auto-Tune plug-in in a
Miguel session, he'd shoot me,'' said Oakwud, one of Miguel's producers. ''He's
interested in baring his honest soul to the listener.''

Miguel has been a songwriter, and sometimes a duet partner, for Usher, Beyoncé,
Alicia Keys and Ludacris. His voice is front and center in Mariah Carey's
''#Beautiful,'' a million-selling song he wrote with Ms. Carey and others. His
own ''Adorn,'' the Marvin Gaye-tinged single from his 2012 album ''Kaleidoscope
Dream,'' was the most-played song on R&B/hip-hop stations for six months, sold
more than a million copies and won a Grammy as best R&B song. Yet on his first
two albums, in 2010 and 2012, Miguel largely presented himself as a typical R&B
figure: a loverman working a spectrum from sweet nothings to raunchy come-ons.

With ''Wildheart,'' Miguel claims his own more specific identity: as a
California native of mixed ancestry and boundless aspiration, and as a
songwriter who finds his entire complicated hometown -- Hollywood, beaches, the
suburbs, the ghettos -- both around and within himself. The music also traverses
modern Los Angeles, invoking hard rock, gangsta funk and a whiff of surf-rock
along with multiple schools of R&B.

Where modern R&B is a largely electronic domain, on ''Wildheart'' Miguel often
cranks up electric guitars. ''I've always loved to write on the guitar but never
had the confidence to play on my own records. I played more on this album -- not
that it's any good, but it's still me,'' Miguel said before the soundcheck over
lunch in the Los Angeles beachside neighborhood of Venice, just north of where
he lives in Playa del Rey. Casually but sharply dressed in a gray hoodie, a
T-shirt, assorted neck chains, black pants and studded boots, he was easygoing,
impeccably polite and brimming with energy, always holding the gaze of a
conversation partner whether it was an interviewer or the waitress who had met
him at a party somewhere along the coast.

''Wildheart'' entered the Billboard 200 album chart at No. 2 when it was
released on June 29 and has lingered in the Top 10, though it's not propelled by
a hit single. ''Coffee,'' a romantic morning-after ballad, remains in the bottom
half of the Billboard Hot 100.

''It's definitely a departure from what he's done before, and it's very
different from what you're hearing right now on radio,'' said Doc Wynter, the
senior vice president for urban programming at the iHeartRadio network and the
program director of the hip-hop/R&B station Real 92.3 (KRRL-FM) in Los Angeles,
which presented one of Miguel's preview shows here. ''He really is a musician,
and he's about whatever his experience is, as opposed to making a record for
radio, which I respect. It's definitely risky, but I think he's got a lot of
confidence.''

Indeed. ''None of my singles have ever sounded like anything else that was on
the radio, so I'm used to not getting the initial 'Oh yes!' right away,'' Miguel
said. ''My music has always been something that just grows on people and stays
around. It's kind of cool, the notion that maybe not everything is so obvious,
but there's something in there that's real and lasting.''

Miguel's full name is Miguel Jontel Pimentel. He's the son of a Mexican-American
father, who was a teacher, and an African-American mother who worked as a clerk
for an architecture firm. ''I really am Los Angeles,'' he said. ''Not only in
the sense that I'm Mexican and black, and they're the dominating ethnicities in
this city, but in the energy of Los Angeles, and how everywhere you go there's
this weird juxtaposition of hope and desperation. And that's my life, that's who
I am.

''I wanted the album to feel like twilight, like dusk, right when the sun is
going down and when the colors in the sky just seem the most vibrant and it's
the most beautiful. But also all the vice in the city starts to creep out, and
you start to see all the seedy things happening. There's a duality that I wanted
to capture, and I think that it resonates with my personality, too.''

Miguel had chunky silver rings on five fingers: a black circle, a square from
the periodic table of elements with the abbreviation for silver (AG) and some
personal symbols. A skull wearing a sombrero alluded to the Mexican Day of the
Dead. A wolf, he said, was a ''spirit animal'' that flourishes, like his
songwriting, in solitude -- a lone wolf. And a pyramid with an all-seeing eye
represented ''God, just being omnipresent,'' he said. ''Remembering you have to
be accountable, that there's a higher power.''

Heritage, art, conscience -- they all matter to Miguel. The pivotal song on
''Wildheart'' is a half-spoken ballad, ''What's Normal Anyway.'' It's clearly
autobiographical -- ''Too proper for the black kids/Too black for the Mexicans''
-- on the way to a broader outsider's plaint: ''I look around and I feel alone/I
never feel like I belong.''

Miguel said: '' 'Wildheart' is for me a discussion about where you stand in the
world after you really decide for yourself what you stand for. The moral compass
now is so skewed by all the noise and all of the programming. You have the
freedom to pick and choose, curate your life, figure out what you really think
and what you believe. And the sooner we can do that the better.''

He added: ''What is art but a gauge of culture and some kind of thermometer of
what is going on? I'm not saying the music I make is the perfect cultural
reference, but I think we should be talking about what's going on at the time.
That is a conscious thing. It's a challenge. How do we say something that means
something, and kind of sneak it in, so they notice it later? It's a second
thought: 'Oh I like this song -- what is he really saying?' ''

His songs haven't abandoned carnal desires. The album cover places a
bare-chested Miguel among rainbow-colored clouds with a nude woman crouched in
front of him in near-fetal position. Many of the songs on the album are
perspectives on lust and love -- some lofty, some unsavory, often mingling sex
with thoughts of salvation or damnation.

''Those are my extremes,'' Miguel said. ''The context of sexuality to me is
spiritual, so I feel very comfortable exploring the dynamics of my emotion, my
energy in the throes of that circumstance, in the throes of that moment. It is a
spiritual thing because it's all the senses. That's a whole other level of
connectivity.''

Although Miguel was always devoted to music, he wasn't sure where he belonged at
first. In his teens, he said, ''I had been convinced that for whatever reason I
wasn't marketable, and no one could understand the concoction that makes me who
I am, or what I was trying to say musically.'' He added, ''So my best bet as a
musician would be to just write songs.''

He was a diligent listener, studying both contemporary hip-hop and vintage soul
and idolizing Donny Hathaway, who died in 1979. ''His intonation, his
pronunciation, it was real precise, and it still came from here,'' he said,
pointing to his heart. ''I would pay attention to things like how vowels are
pronounced, the length of the vibrato, and why not having vibrato some places
had more feeling and why having vibrato in other places had more feeling.'' He
laughed. ''I'm geeking out.''

Miguel got his break from Mark Pitts, now president of urban music at RCA
Records and the chief executive of Bystorm Entertainment (the production company
that signed Miguel). Mr. Pitts was choosing songs for Usher to audition at the
time, and he became smitten with Miguel's demo for ''Sure Thing,'' which became
Miguel's first big hit.

With ''Wildheart,'' Mr. Pitts said: ''The focus is not radio. It's artistry and
who you are -- let's push the envelope. The world is changing, it's online.
You've got streaming, you have Spotify and other things going on. And you've got
his show -- he's an incredible performer. It's happening organically. Sometimes
the thing that takes the longest to become a hit stays a hit longer.''

Miguel has spent the weeks since the release of ''Wildheart'' bouncing between
coasts, giving a dozen performances for talk shows, packed clubs and webcast
events. He and his band often wear white, the color of purity and Afro-Caribbean
spirit rituals. ''There's a lot of connections on the spiritual side and on the
cultural side,'' Miguel said, but he also noted that white clothes allow video
projections to envelop the musicians. Miguel works the stage as a fully schooled
R&B showman: singing, dancing, teasing, returning shouts of ''I love you!,''
reveling in the singalongs, and taking time to preach an ardent message of
self-determination. Sometimes the word TRANSCEND flashes on a video screen
behind him.

''Consider where you stand in this world,'' he urged, over churchy keyboard
chords, when he performed for NPR Music on June 30 at Le Poisson Rouge in
Greenwich Village. ''Everyone's path is different. And that's O.K.!''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/miguel-thrives-on-dualities-in-his-
new-album-wildheart.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miguel in New York at the Bowery Hotel earlier this month. His
first headlining tour, which will bring him back to New York in August, is in
support of his new album, ''Wildheart.'' Below, performing this month at the
Hollywood and Highland Center in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MALIN FEZEHAI FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAVID McNEW/REUTERS) (AR11)
 Miguel during a recent visit to New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MALIN FEZEHAI FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%);
JAZZ & BLUES (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); RECORD RELEASES (77%); GRAMMY AWARDS
(77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); RAP MUSIC (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (57%); ALICIA KEYS (57%); MARIAH CAREY (57%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Additions Settle In, and Offense Breaks Out

BYLINE: By ROB HARMS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; METS 15, DODGERS 2; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 790 words


Juan Uribe greeted new teammates, laughed with old friends and hugged the former
shortstop Nomar Garciaparra, a broadcaster. Uribe lounged comfortably in a chair
in the Mets' clubhouse and joked in Spanish with Ruben Tejada. He wore a bright
red glove and a smile.

Uribe, it seemed, was already comfortable with his new team, not even 24 hours
after he had been traded from Atlanta to the Mets along with Kelly Johnson.

Uribe, a 36-year-old third baseman, did not start in the Mets' 15-2 win over the
Dodgers on Saturday night at Citi Field, as Kirk Nieuwenhuis and Michael
Conforto each had four hits to lead an emphatic one-game revival of the Mets'
dormant offense, which collected season highs in hits (21) and runs. But Uribe's
presence made it seem as if he were an everyday player for the Mets.

It is unlikely that his arrival had a significant effect on the Mets' offensive
resurgence. But it could not have hurt.

Because, as his teammates and coaches say, Uribe's attitude is infectious. It
can inject life into a team.

''One of the best teammates I've ever had,'' said Dodgers third baseman Justin
Turner, a former Met who was a teammate of Uribe's in Los Angeles before Uribe
was traded to the Braves earlier this year.

Johnson said: ''He makes everybody laugh. He hangs out with everyone.''

Dodgers Manager Don Mattingly added, ''People love being around Juan.''

When Turner found out Uribe had been traded to the Mets on Friday night, he told
David Wright and Daniel Murphy what they were getting: an ebullient veteran who
loves to laugh as much as he loves to win.

''A positive energy,'' Turner called Uribe's presence. ''It's contagious.''

Mets Manager Terry Collins said he hoped the Mets would catch Uribe's vitality.

''If Justin Turner recommends somebody,'' Collins said, ''Justin Turner is a
tremendous clubhouse guy. He keeps it loose, he keeps things on a fun basis. And
he said that's what Juan Uribe is going to bring.''

And he brings it from the moment he walks into the clubhouse, Turner said,
because Uribe likes to experiment with his attire.

''The outfits are ridiculous,'' Turner said. ''Just him walking in the room
instantaneously energizes and makes the room laugh. Just by what he's wearing to
the field. He doesn't even have to say anything.''

Uribe, speaking with reporters before the game, wore standard Mets gear. But
that should not mislead you.

''I can't even describe them. They're ridiculous,'' Turner said of Uribe's
pregame clothing choices. ''But they look good on Papi.''

Papi?

''Everyone calls him Papi,'' Turner said.

Papi was watching as the Mets scored four runs in the first inning, three in the
fifth and five in the sixth. Johnson was 2 for 6 with a solo home run, Lucas
Duda hit two home runs, and every starter except Kevin Plawecki had at least one
hit. Even starting pitcher Matt Harvey, who allowed six hits and two runs in
seven innings, had two hits and two R.B.I.

Before the game, Collins said he had put some players ''on notice'' about their
poor offense. ''The message has been sent: Listen, we've got to start scoring,''
Collins said. ''If you want to stay in the lineup, you've got to start
hitting.''

His players listened, apparently, and though the Mets will not score 15 runs
every game, Saturday was at least a step forward.

Collins also faces the challenge of integrating the new players into the infield
rotation. Johnson, who played five positions with the Braves, is extremely
versatile and started at second base on Saturday. He is in the middle of a
comeback season, having hit .275 with nine home runs and 34 R.B.I. in 62 games
with the Braves. In his first game with the Mets, he gave them some much-needed
left-handed power.

Uribe, a shortstop early in his career, could take over at third base, which
would allow Murphy to return to second. Wilmer Flores could then move back to
shortstop, making Tejada, who was 3 for 6 on Saturday, a reserve.

But Collins said the infield rotation would be fluid, depending on performance
and fatigue. ''Is Juan Uribe going to be the third baseman?'' Collins said.
''Not just yet.''

Uribe, who entered the game at third base in the seventh inning, singled up the
middle in the eighth and made a smooth diving stop in the ninth, said his
playing time would be determined by his production. His enthusiasm, however,
will not.

''For me, a good teammate is saying hi every day,'' Uribe said. ''These guys
right now, here, this is my family. This is my family. I try to be nice every
day, saying hi every day.''

About 30 minutes after he said this, Nieuwenhuis approached Uribe's locker and
extended his hand. ''Kirk,'' Nieuwenhuis said while introducing himself.

Uribe returned the greeting, and smiled.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/mets-trade-for-braves-juan-uri
be-and-kelly-johnson.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kelly Johnson hit a solo homer in the fifth inning against the
Dodgers in his first game as a Met. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE STOBE/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (85%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: DANIEL J MURPHY (58%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 418 words


In last Sunday's Metropolitan section, Lisa W. Foderaro wrote about a row of
beachfront houses on Fire Island designated for demolition to make way for a
12.5-mile dune to protect the barrier island from storm surges. Readers
responded on nytimes.com. Comments have been edited for length and clarity.

It's absolutely unfair to lose something you own and value so much, even when
it's for the ''greater good.'' Nobody would want to be in that position, even if
they are paid the market value of the homes. On the other hand, on the scale of
things to feel bad about, it's difficult to muster sympathy for someone losing
their beachfront weekend house. Adam, New York

I read ''Waves and Beaches'' by Willard Bascom as a young man, and still
remember most of what he wrote. Beaches, being the free-surface interface
between land and water, are always dynamic and are constantly being reshaped by
wind and waves. They are never stable.

Attempts to turn beaches into marketable real estate are doomed to eventual
failure. Any ''improvements'' erected in a surf zone will only be temporary, the
sea and the surf will eventually foreclose on them. Public money spent on
''beach reclamation'' will only be wasted, and is always a very temporary
palliative, which can only mollify the nominal property owners for a season or
two, until the next serious storm.

Then, there will be no protection from a fully arisen surf. Michael B, New
Orleans

Fire Island protects more than just millionaire shorefront properties on the
mainland. If the barrier island hadn't been there when Hurricane Sandy hit,
flooding would have hit hospitals, schools, businesses, shops and middle- and
working-class homes even farther inland.

However, I think it's time to stop zoning barrier islands for anything but
temporary habitation. Resist the easy local tax revenues and campaign donations.
Refuse permits to rebuild or relocate.

Start the process of returning these islands to their natural state. They will
be far less expensive to maintain, and when the next storm sweeps over the
dunes, it won't be dragging thousands of tons of toxic and hazardous debris
along with it into the Great South Bay. SG, Islip, NY

I do feel sorry for the personal stories. The woman who lost her husband last
year, for instance. She spent a lifetime making memories there with him.

I do not feel sorry for people who buy or build homes there today, or in recent
years.

Fire Island is gone as a place of residence. Catherine, New York, N.Y.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ZONING (78%);
HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); WEATHER (77%); HURRICANE SANDY
(77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Saying Goodbye to Isolde, With Passion

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1412 words


MUNICH -- Near the end of Peter Konwitschny's production of Wagner's ''Tristan
und Isolde,'' the title characters walk toward each other, closing a red stage
curtain. They have fled the world in death and, dressed identically, are alone
together at last. Tristan reclines in front of the curtain, looking up at
Isolde.

As he did so on July 12 at the Bavarian State Opera here, the audience in the
National Theater seemed to take a collective breath, to sit a little taller as
the air crackled in anticipation.

Waltraud Meier was about to sing the ''Liebestod,'' in the great scene that
closes the opera, for the final time.

Over the past 20 years, for many listeners Ms. Meier has been Isolde, and Isolde
has been Ms. Meier. Her last incarnation of this career-defining role was
formidable, charting with unique acuity a voyage from desolation through anger
and hope to radiance. She was supported by muscular conducting from Philippe
Jordan and the uncommonly strong performances of a cast that also included
Robert Dean Smith and René Pape.

''I am very happy that it came out like that,'' she said over espresso the
morning after the performance. ''I couldn't forgive myself if I ended a role
like that and people said, 'You should remember her from five years ago.' ''

Singers retire roles for many reasons -- and in many ways. The soprano Elisabeth
Schwarzkopf went to see Maria Callas in ''La Traviata'' in Verona, Italy, in
1952 and then told Callas backstage, ''There is no point in my singing this role
again.'' (''And I didn't,'' she added in her memoir.) Anna Netrebko also retired
Violetta in ''Traviata,'' saying that she didn't want to compete with her own
performance, captured on DVD. Plácido Domingo, phasing out a signature but
highly strenuous role, battled illness to assume his final Otello at Teatro alla
Scala in Milan in 2001.

For Ms. Meier, it was about walking away while she was still on top. And she
did: In Munich, as ever, her Isolde was characterized by physical beauty, a rare
stage presence and the acting ability to cut to the essence of the drama. Always
possessing an inner steel, her portrayal aged well, becoming ever more
vulnerable and immediate after she worked with the director Patrice Chéreau on
his devastating production at La Scala in 2007.

Yet her Isolde was far from inevitable. Ms. Meier, now 59, began her career as a
mezzo-soprano, not the dramatic soprano more usually heard in the role. She
could never rely on the imperious vocal force and secure top of Isoldes like
Kirsten Flagstad, Birgit Nilsson and, today, Nina Stemme. The conductor Daniel
Barenboim, Ms. Meier's friend and collaborator, faced a challenge persuading her
to take on Isolde's punishing demands.

Mr. Barenboim first imagined her Isolde while conducting her at the Bayreuth
Festival in the 1980s as Isolde's maid, Brangäne, and as Kundry in ''Parsifal.''

''She had a very individual way of looking at Wagner's music, a perfect balance
between stomach and brain,'' he recalled in a telephone interview. ''It was not
only analytical; it was also of the temperament.''

So when he was casting a new ''Tristan'' at Bayreuth, scheduled for 1993, he
suggested her to Wolfgang Wagner. ''Not many people agreed,'' Mr. Barenboim said
-- least of all Ms. Meier.

''I thought he was crazy,'' Ms. Meier said. ''I thought he was out of his
mind.''

Though it was ''a big leap,'' Mr. Barenboim said, ''she managed beautifully.''
And in the 22 years that they performed ''Tristan'' together, she retained the
ability, he said, ''to turn 180 degrees within half a bar,'' to change ''the
mood, the color of the voice, the intensity of the phrasing.''

[Video: (HD) Wagner- Tristan und Isolde Act 3 "Liebestod" Watch on YouTube.]

Ms. Meier herself doubts whether there was true consistency among her Isoldes.
''Maybe there was a constant approach, at least a kernel that was always the
Waltraud-Isolde connection,'' she said. ''But of course it was influenced by all
those productions, directors, conductors.'' (Three of her performances,
including Mr. Konwitschny's and Mr. Chéreau's, are available on film, giving a
clearer sense of her unique aura than her early, superb recording of the role.)

Ms. Meier had long planned for her final Isolde to take place in Berlin in 2014.
But she agreed to sing two more performances during the Munich Opera Festival
this month, to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the work's premiere at the
National Theater there. Not that she particularly wanted to bid farewell with
Mr. Konwitschny's production, which, with its bright colors and whimsical ideas,
she finds ''banal, and psychologically wrong.''

The opera, Ms. Meier insisted, ''is not a fairy tale -- it's existential.'' For
her, ''Tristan'' is less a philosophical drama than a psychological one, about
''the voyage from passion to love; to a deep, real love; to accepting another
person, despite the pain.'' Its lovers are not heroes, as often thought, she
said: ''Isolde is human. Heroine? No. We make people too big, and I don't know
what we want when we make them grand. She is a woman.''

While she has never been tempted to direct, Ms. Meier invested her Isolde with
authorial understanding. She made reference to Buddhism, Schopenhauer and
Nietzsche in conversation, quoting Wagner's drama -- and not just her own lines
-- with academic precision. She attributed much of that comprehension to Mr.
Chéreau, whose rehearsals resembled those of plays, often involving little
singing at all.

''Once you worked on a role with him,'' she said of Mr. Chéreau, who died in
2013 and with whom she first worked on Berg's ''Wozzeck'' in 1992, ''you always
knew that that was the truth.''

Their special partnership was born of a shared method. Just as Mr. Chéreau
rooted his productions in the minutiae of texts, so Ms. Meier has always paid
overwhelming attention to words, more so as her voice has aged and lightened. In
her final performance, for instance, the word ''Tod'' (''death'') took on a more
ethereal air as Isolde reconciled herself with fate. When she told Tristan's
corpse that she had arrived to die with him, ''sterben'' (''to die'') radiated
with promise.

''Wagner's words are music,'' Ms. Meier said. ''He uses consonants in a musical
way. He uses vowels in a musical way. I don't know of any other composer who
does that on that level.'' So a singer ''must phrase it very consciously.''

''If you just pronounce a word clearly, it doesn't say anything. It doesn't have
any musical meaning.''

She happily admits that her Isolde was not to everyone's taste. ''It's
legitimate that some people just want a wonderful sound,'' she said. ''O.K.,
that's fine. That's not me. For me, a pure voice sound is boring.'' But her
approach meant she feared her Isolde could become lost in translation: ''When I
sing in the United States, where it's another language, it's more difficult to
be so direct with the public. But I don't care.''

Clashing philosophies of singing may explain why Ms. Meier sang Isolde just once
at the Metropolitan Opera (where larger voices are preferred), in December 2008.
It took calls from the company's general manager, Peter Gelb, and more
consequentially from Mr. Barenboim, who was conducting, to persuade her to fly
across the Atlantic as a late replacement for Katarina Dalayman. She sang the
day after arriving, with no rehearsal at all. Despite the performance's success,
she was never invited back to sing Isolde. ''They didn't want me,'' she
recalled, feigning petulance.

Still, her revered intellect has enlivened many other parts at the Met since her
1987 debut as Fricka in ''Das Rheingold.'' She returns to New York in April, as
Klytämnestra -- which she sang for the first time in 1995 but returned to only
in 2010 -- in Mr. Chéreau's desolate production of Strauss's ''Elektra.'' By
then she will also have sung her last Kundry, in Berlin.

In coming years she plans to sing more lieder and hopes to tour the United
States in the song repertory. ''Maybe I will give more master classes,'' she
added. ''But not in the normal sense, where you correct the expression, blah,
blah, blah.'' Singers, she insisted, ''should first know what to sing, and what
to say, and then decide how. A lot of singers forget the 'what.' ''

And how will she manage life without Isolde, her companion these past decades?

''There will be phases of grief,'' Ms. Meier said, with a tender smile. ''For
the moment, I am fulfilled.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/after-her-last-isolde-waltraud-meie
r-looks-back.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Waltraud Meier at the final
performance of ''Tristan und Isolde'' in Munich on July 12
Ms. Meier in a 2007 production at La Scala
curtain call in Munich
playing Isolde in New York in 2008
and with Christian Franz as her Tristan in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILFRIED HÖSI
MARCO BRESCIA/TEATRO ALLA SCALA, VIA REUTERS
MARTY SOHL/METROPOLITAN OPERA
 MONIKA RITTERSHAUS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); PROFILES
& BIOGRAPHIES (62%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (74%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (89%); UNITED STATES (77%); ITALY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When It's Time for an Old Friend to Go

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 217 words


What does it mean for a singer to say goodbye to a role? Is it routine? A
relief? Or like a funeral? Three singers spoke about giving up a beloved part.

PETRA LANG, mezzo-soprano

Brangäne in Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde''

Last performance January

''This is just a singer's life. Roles are companions for a while, and you have
to leave them alone or say goodbye forever once they are done.''

SUSAN GRAHAM, mezzo-soprano

Octavian in Strauss's ''Der Rosenkavalier''

Last performance 2010

''I miss him. I remember every place I sang Octavian, virtually every cast,
every conductor, every experience -- how my life changed and therefore how his
life changed. I was just about to turn 50, and I figured that was a good time to
say goodbye to a 17 ½-year-old boy. You're playing this rash and brash young
man, who has to jump on the furniture and swordfight with equal aplomb. It just
becomes too much.''

ADRIANNE PIECZONKA, soprano

Arabella in Strauss's ''Arabella''

Last performance 2010

''It wasn't like I had to say, 'I'm not singing Arabella anymore.' I'm just not
asked now. Today we want singers more youthful, beautiful and slim. There's more
pressure on appearances with HD broadcasts. You have to be honest and say: 'I'm
in my early 50s and my voice is still great. But -- tick-tock.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/what-singers-feel-when-leaving-belo
ved-roles.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renée Fleming, above left, and Susan Graham in ''Der
Rosenkavalier.'' Adrianne Pieczonka, near right, in ''Arabella.'' Petra Lang,
far right, and Deborah Voigt in ''Tristan und Isolde.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA
KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
LILLI STRAUSS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEPHAN TRIERENBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Residential Sales Around the Region

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1477 words


MANHATTAN

Upper West Side $357,000

244 Riverside Drive (97th St.)

1

1

0

25 weeks

450-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; dining area, kitchen window, dishwasher, high
ceilings, arched windows, h/w floors; elevator, laundry room and live-in
superintendent; maintenance $997, 41% tax deductible; listed at $375,000.
Broker: Citi Habitats.

Lincoln Center Area $469,000

205 West End Avenue (70th St.)

0

1

0

8 weeks

570-sq.-ft. postwar alcove studio; 24-hr. doormen, dining area, updated kitchen,
h/w floors; elevator, laundry room, playroom and gym in building; maintenance
$948, 52% tax deductible; listed at $469,000. Brokers: Douglas Elliman; Klara
Madlin.

East Midtown $760,000

400 East 56th Street, Plaza 400

1

1

1

22 weeks

915-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, Chrysler Building and
river views, dining area, 8.5-ft. ceilings, h/w floors; elevator, laundry room,
gym and roof deck; maintenance $2,093, 51% tax deductible; listed at $875,000.
Broker: Kathy Matson.

SoHo $3 million

55 Prince Street (Lafayette St.)

3

1

0

7 weeks

1,800-sq.-ft. prewar loft co-op; pine paneling, exposed brick, tin ceilings,
c/a, wall of oversize windows, oak floors, laundry area, c/a, roof rights;
maintenance $1,984, 50% tax deductible; listed at $3 million. Brokers: Corcoran
Group; Town Residential.

FOUR BOROUGHS

Throgs Neck $379,000

4208 East Tremont Avenue, Bronx

3

1

1

17 weeks

60-year-old semidetached townhouse; eat-in kitchen, sunken living room, basement
w/front entry, refinished h/w floors, 1-car garage, 0.05-acre lot; taxes $3,885;
listed at $379,000. Brokers: Better Homes and Gardens Rand; Pantiga Group.

Grimes Hill $510,000

37 Marion Avenue, Staten Island

4

1

0

13 weeks

94-year-old wood Arts and Crafts; front porch, foyer, renovated kitchen w/2
pantries, 3rd-floor bedroom w/cathedral ceiling, oak floors, family room,
50-by-100-ft. lot; taxes $2,917; listed $500,000 (multiple bids). Broker:
Gateway Arms.

Boerum Hill $705,000

99 Bergen Street, Brooklyn

1

1

0

3 weeks

600-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; dining area, stainless-steel counters, upgraded
appliances, fireplace, oak floors, whirlpool tub, north exposure; maintenance
$630, 30% tax deductible; listed at $650,000 (multiple bids). Brokers: Corcoran
Group; Town Residential.

Forest Hills Gardens $2.025 million

44 Tennis Place, Queens

4

3

2

4 weeks

85-year-old center-hall brick colonial; renovated kitchen, fireplace, sunroom,
h/w floors, full unfinished basement, c/a, attached 2-car garage, 60-by-90-ft.
lot; taxes $12,012; listed at $2.099 million. Brokers: Metro Garden; Terrace
Sotheby's.

LONG ISLAND

Port Washington $380,000

5 Bank Street

4

1

0

17 weeks

148-year-old 2-story; vinyl siding, front porch, dining room, galley kitchen,
skylight, family room, fireplace, office, h/w floors, walk-out partial basement,
private drive, 66-by-75-ft. lot; taxes $14,375; listed at $390,000. Broker:
Douglas Elliman.

Huntington $625,000

9 Great Neck Court

4

2

1

25 weeks

40-year-old brick and wood colonial; foyer, wet bar in living room, family room,
fireplace, c/a, new windows, updated baths, wraparound porch, attached 2-car
garage, 0.5-acre lot; taxes $14,475; listed at $649,000. Broker: Coldwell Banker
Residential.

East Northport $875,000

100 Gail Court

5

4

0

27 weeks

13-year-old wood Victorian; front porch, commercial-grade appliances, family
room, 2 fireplaces, h/w floors, basement, deck, saltwater pool, 2-car garage,
0.62-acre lot; taxes $14,930; listed at $910,000. Brokers: Daniel Gale
Sotheby's; Donnelly Group East.

Muttontown $1.7 million

26 Farm Court

4

3

1

1 week

38-year-old colonial; vinyl siding; family room, 3 fireplaces, office, master
bedroom suite w/walk-in closet; media room, playroom and office in basement;
pool, garage, 1-acre lot; taxes $32,882; listed at $1.799 million. Broker: Shawn
Elliott Luxury Homes.

WESTCHESTER

Somers $360,000

9 Carina Drive

3

1

1

52 weeks

42-year-old wood colonial; upgraded appliances, family room w/skylights and
sliding glass doors to deck, h/w floors, walk-in closet, basement, 2-car garage,
1-acre lot; taxes $10,893; listed at $389,000. Brokers: William Raveis; Keller
Williams Hudson Valley.

Ossining $460,000

109 Somerstown Road

3

2

0

83 weeks

245-year-old brick and wood farmhouse; front porch, fireplace, family room,
900-sq.-ft. professional office, 2-car garage, barn studio, 1.27-acre lot; taxes
$18,537; listed at $489,000. Brokers: North Country Sotheby's; Better Homes and
Gardens Rand.

New Rochelle $745,000

16 Linwood Road

3

1

1

5 weeks

91-year-old wood colonial; front porch, granite counters, commercial-grade
appliances, fireplace, family room w/vaulted ceiling, h/w floors, finished
basement, attached 1-car garage, 0.21-acre lot; taxes $18,180; listed at
$749,000. Broker: Houlihan Lawrence.

Briarcliff Manor $1.475 million

43 Shadowbrook Lane

4

4

2

3 weeks

14-year-old wood colonial; marble entry w/sweeping mahogany staircase, library,
office suite, 4 fireplaces, marble master bath, screened porch, terrace,
balcony, c/a, 3-car garage; taxes $51,057; listed at $1.495 million. Broker:
Houlihan Lawrence.

HUDSON VALLEY

Highland $210,500

8 Roxanne Boulevard, Ulster

3

2

1

17 weeks

51-year-old split-level; stone and vinyl siding, screened porch, h/w floors,
master bedroom suite w/walk-in closet, basement, newly paved drive, 0.56-acre
lot; taxes $7,505; listed at $229,000. Brokers: Houlihan Lawrence; Century 21
Alliance Realty Group.

Middletown $465,000

8 Baldwin Hill Road, Orange

4

2

1

14 weeks

13-year-old colonial; vinyl siding, upgraded appliances, cathedral ceiling and
wall of windows in living room, wood stove, radiant heat in master bath,
basement, patio, pool, c/a, 2-car garage, 2.1-acre lot; taxes $16,150; listed at
$479,000. Broker: Weichert.

Pleasant Valley $740,000

25 Jeffrey Drive, Dutchess

4

3

1

18 weeks

New colonial; stone and vinyl siding, foyer, quartz counters, commercial-grade
appliances, master bedroom suite w/sitting room, h/w floors, basement, 3-car
garage, 2.84-acre lot; taxes $20,760; listed at $775,000. Broker: Houlihan
Lawrence.

Montebello $999,000

8 Senator Levy Drive, Rockland

6

5

1

24 weeks

14-year-old stucco colonial; 2-story entry, vaulted ceilings, 2 fireplaces,
family room and office in basement, 3-car garage; taxes $32,616; listed at $1.1
million. Brokers: Coldwell Banker Residential; Better Homes and Gardens Rand.

NEW JERSEY

Wayne $362,000

35 Stirling Lane

3

1

1

36 weeks

52-year-old brick and wood split-level; foyer w/double closets, dining and
family rooms, eat-in kitchen, h/w floors, c/a, patio, attached 1-car garage,
0.34-acre lot; taxes $11,377; listed at $379,900. Broker: Coldwell Banker
Residential.

Verona $620,000

99 Hillside Avenue

4

2

1

11 weeks

95-year-old brick and stucco Tudor renovated in 2013; kitchen island, breakfast
area, fireplace, sunroom, bonus room, deck, 2-car garage, 60-by-130-ft. lot;
taxes $11,968; listed at $629,000. Broker: Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices New
Jersey Properties.

Manalapan $700,000

5 Ivy Lane

5

4

0

3 weeks

23-year-old wood colonial; granite counters, stainless-steel appliances,
breakfast and family rooms, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, roof replaced, pool,
3-car garage, 1.04-acre lot; taxes $13,862; listed at $729,000. Brokers:
Weichert; Keller Williams.

Wyckoff $1.375 million

507 Old Post Road

5

4

1

19 weeks

19-year-old brick and wood center-hall colonial; foyer, commercial-grade
appliances, family and bonus rooms, 2 fireplaces, office, basement, 2-car
garage, 0.55-acre lot; taxes $26,110; listed at $1.499 million. Broker: Coldwell
Banker Residential.

CONNECTICUT

Stratford $280,000

150 Forest Road

3

2

1

29 weeks

59-year-old wood ranch; sunroom, 2 fireplaces, h/w floors, family room in
basement, 2-car garage, 1.69-acre lot; taxes $7,764; listed at $299,000.
Brokers: Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices New England Properties; William Raveis.

Washington $550,000

40 Shearer Road

3

2

1

69 weeks

10-year-old wood Cape Cod; breakfast island, fireplace, family room, master
bedroom suite w/vaulted ceiling, h/w floors, attached 3-car garage, 3-acre lot;
taxes $5,887; listed at $599,000. Broker: William Pitt Sotheby's.

Easton $882,500

275 Rock House Road

4

4

1

6 weeks

115-year-old Cape Cod; stainless-steel appliances, vaulted ceilings, 2
fireplaces, wide-plank h/w floors, sunroom w/stone floor, den, pool, detached
2-car garage, 5.79-acre lot; taxes $17,072; listed at $950,000. Broker: Coldwell
Banker Residential.

Norwalk $1.489 million

10 Yarmouth Road

3

3

0

9 weeks

95-year-old cedar colonial renovated in 2010; breakfast bar, commercial-grade
appliances, family room w/wet bar, attached 1-car garage, 0.05-acre lot; taxes
$15,383; listed at $1.499 million. Brokers: Realty Seven; Halstead Property.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES
(78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elizabeth Marren, Sean Barry

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 168 words


Elizabeth Mary Marren, a daughter of Joan M. Marren and Joseph H. Marren of
Harrison, N.Y., was married Saturday to Sean Patrick Barry, the son of Patricia
E. Barry of Missoula, Mont., and the late James J. Barry, who lived in
Ellenville, N.Y. The Rev. Daniel O'Reilly performed the ceremony at the Roman
Catholic Church of the Resurrection in Rye, N.Y.

The couple received law degrees from Fordham University, where they met.

Mrs. Barry, 27, works in New York as a compliance officer in the investment
banking unit of UBS, the Swiss bank. She graduated from Notre Dame. Her father
is the president of KStone Partners, an asset management company in Briarcliff
Manor, N.Y.

Mr. Barry, 30, is an associate in the New York office of the law firm Holland &
Knight. He was in the Marine Corps from 2003 to 2011, serving two tours in Iraq
and leaving the service as a sergeant. He graduated from the State University at
Albany. His mother retired as an assistant at his father's former law practice
in Ellenville.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/elizabeth-marren-sean-barry.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE
(87%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(83%); RELIGION (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%)

COMPANY: HOLLAND & KNIGHT LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

CITY: MISSOULA, MT, USA (72%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA
PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 152 words


Fiske Terrace 10-Bedroom

$2,990,000

BROOKLYN 735 East 17th Street

A 10-bedroom 1904 house now divided between a seven-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath
owner's unit and a three-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath rental unit, with a garage,
a driveway and a side yard. Alexandra Reddish, Mary Kay Gallagher Real Estate
(917) 324-8016; marykayg.com

TAXES $9,342 a year

PROS The house has a center staircase, light-filled, generously proportioned
rooms and many vintage elements, including a basement wine cellar, a dumbwaiter,
a butler's pantry, crystal chandeliers, floors of marble, tile and herringbone
hardwood, and an attached carriage house with a hayloft. The rental apartment,
which has its own entrance, is large and exceptionally well designed.

CONS The house has no central air-conditioning. Though it has been carefully
restored over the last four years, more work remains, including updating the
main kitchen.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA JAQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); HVAC SYSTEMS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA
PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 67 words


Kips Bay Condop

$1,995,000

MANHATTAN 242 East 25th Street, #1A

A two-bedroom two-bath with a washer/dryer and a patio in an elevator building.
Court Hassinger, Corcoran Group (917) 841-9284; corcoran.com

MAINTENANCE $3,214 a month

PROS A solarium opens to a spacious outdoor area with a hot tub, irrigated
planters, a storage shed and room for entertaining.

CONS Maintenance is on the high side.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDA JAQUEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA
PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 77 words


Manhasset Townhouse

$1,079,000

NASSAU 226 Ibis Court, Estates I

A three-bedroom three-bath with a deck in a gated community with a pool, tennis,
a gym and a clubhouse; Mark Leventhal, Douglas Elliman Real Estate (516)
330-8001; elliman.com

TAXES $20,304 a year; maintenance: $851 a month

PROS This house has an updated kitchen and a two-story living/dining room with a
floor-to-ceiling brick fireplace.

CONS The carpeting in the living/dining room is dated.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (85%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Market

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS, MARCELLE SUSSMAN FISCHLER, SUZANNE HAMLIN and LISA
PREVOST

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 83 words


Weston Four-Bedroom

$699,000

FAIRFIELD 67 Blue Spruce Circle

A four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath contemporary with central air-conditioning
and a two-car garage on two and a quarter acres. Doris Ghitelman, William Raveis
Real Estate (203) 856-8022; raveis.com

TAXES $10,254 a year

PROS The two-level master suite is in a private wing. The back patio has a
built-in pizza oven and gas and charcoal grills.

CONS The glossy black floors throughout much of the house may be impractical for
some.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Tell a Joke

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TIP; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 381 words


''People should not be able to telegraph where a joke's going,'' says Hari
Konda­bolu, a stand-up comic from Queens. The only way to guarantee surprise is
to create original material. Street jokes -- the kind you read in a book or hear
at summer camp and tell with the preface ''Want to hear a joke?'' -- are almost
never funny, Kondabolu says. They also often involve animals, inexplicably. (If
you must go that route, ducks make for the funniest animal jokes, according to a
global survey done by scientists at the University of Hertfordshire.) His
routines playfully take on more serious topics like race and gender.

Being a professional funny man is hard, so treat every joke as ''a work in
progress,'' says Kondabolu, who has a master's degree from the London School of
Economics and used to be a correspondent for ''Totally Biased With W. Kamau
Bell,'' the TV comedy produced by Chris Rock. Tell the same wisecrack over and
over for weeks, tweaking it slightly as you go in order to figure out the right
timing and phrasing. Even though a new joke might be a result of reams of notes
on potentially funny things and months of reciting punch lines alone in front of
the mirror, the delivery should feel spontaneous. ''You want to make it sound
like this is stuff you just made up on the spot,'' Konda­bolu says. Slow down.
Don't get nervous and start talking faster just because people haven't laughed
for a minute or two. ''Silence is the hardest part -- try not to be afraid of
it.''

Some jokes are not salvageable and die along the way, while others emerge,
finally, to laughter. Whether you're performing for a few friends over drinks or
in front of hundreds of strangers at a packed comedy club, when your punch line
lands, Kondabolu says, your audience should simultaneously be laughing and
asking themselves, ''How did he do that?''

You can be funny in virtual forums -- say, on Twitter -- and quantify a joke's
value in favorites, likes or retweets. But the only real metric that matters to
a joke-teller ought to be laughter in his or her presence. ''If people aren't
laughing, then it's slam poetry,'' Kondabolu says, ''and that's not what you're
trying to do.''

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/how-to-tell-a-joke.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RADIO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%); BUSINESS
EDUCATION (69%); POETRY (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%)

PERSON: CHRIS ROCK (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The 7.12.15 Issue

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE THREAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 731 words


RE: BOGOTÁ TWINS

Susan Dominus's article -- all 11,000 words of it -- about two sets of identical
twins who were accidentally separated soon after birth, raised as two sets of
fraternal twins, then reunited when they were in their 20s, intrigued readers.
(In his rounds on morning news programs, the magazine's editor in chief, Jake
Silverstein, used visual aids -- two lemons and two limes -- to explain the
story.)

Ethics dictates that we can't do the kind of experiments on humans that we can
on flies and cows: separating individuals at birth and seeing how much
difference in behavior and appearance can be created by rearing siblings
(identical or fraternal) in different environments. Data so far show that a
surprisingly large amount of variation in human behavior rests on variation in
genes, but these studies aren't perfect. Still, they should give pause to those
who believe (often based on political ideology) that genes don't play much of a
role in the diversity of behavior among individuals in the human population.
Jerry A. Coyne, in a post on his blog, Why Evolution Is True

Beautifully written account of an arduous topic with a clash between human
interest and scientific research at its best. I would, however, like to add a
couple of observations as a Colombian who personally met all four twins, for the
benefit of the readers who are feeling that William was wronged by being brought
up in the rural countryside.

I wish I had the upbringing and the life lessons that William and Wilber
experienced. I could then possibly have acquired values like humility, pride,
honesty, solidarity and acceptance of the things that are really worthwhile in
life. I would trade all my New York City prestige and my acute technical skills
for an ounce of human values these fellows demonstrate. William and Wilber (and
their family) have invited Jorge and Carlos to partake of the true essence of
family, and likewise they have impacted the lives of everyone who has had the
good fortune of meeting them! Guys, use your fame to show the world what a true
Colombian is made of. Alberto Orjuela, Bogotá, Colombia

I probably wasn't the only one who postulated that Hollywood would be champing
at the bit to turn the captivating story of ''The Mixed-­Up Brothers of Bogotá''
into a blockbuster movie about the fantastical tale of two sets of twins
unknowingly ripped apart and raised in thoroughly diametrical environments. The
yarn would be overflowing with zany mishaps, unexpected twists, utter confusion
and a decisive climatic reunion.

Then I remembered that such a movie has already been made. ''Big Business''
starred the comedic geniuses known as Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin, both playing
two sets of identical twins. ''Big Business'' was released in 1988 -- the same
year William, Jorge, Wilber and Carlos were conceived and born. Mind blown.
Twofold. Qraig de Groot, Jersey City

This moving story, with many implications for the brothers featured in the
article, as well as for their families, has rightly made it onto the most
emailed list. Nevertheless, more credit should have been given to the original
narrative, ''Vidas Cruzadas,'' that ran on Oct. 26, 2014, on the Colombian TV
program ''Séptimo Día.'' María-Inés Lagos, Charlottesville, Va., posted on
nytimes.com

What's not often considered in studies of identical twins reared apart is
whether identical twins reared together actually grow up to have more
differences from each other than they might have had if they had been reared
apart but in very similar circumstances or as an only child. Twins raised
together need to find some interests or achievements that are unique to them and
that distinguish them from their twin. Twins raised apart or alone would have
much less motivation to be different from ''themselves'' in order to be noticed
and praised, and thus they would be less driven to pick interests or modes of
expression that differ from their twin's and perhaps from their own genetically
driven inclinations. You could speculate that epigenetic effects may also
influence or even develop from these differing behaviors and the natural desire
of an identical twin to be somewhat less than completely identical in the eyes
of the rest of the world. raflei00, posted on nytimes.com

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/the-7-12-15-issue.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN RUIZ) DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY BY TOM GAULD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (75%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH
(70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS
(66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); FILM (64%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (58%)

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (90%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

H1gh(e)r + P°wer

BYLINE: By GARETH COOK.

Gareth Cook is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist. He last wrote for the
magazine about the neuroscientist Sebastian Seung.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FEATURE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 4378 words


This April, as undergraduates strolled along the street outside his modest
office on the campus of the University of California, Los Angeles, the
mathematician Terence Tao mused about the possibility that water could
spontaneously explode. A widely used set of equations describes the behavior of
fluids like water, but there seems to be nothing in those equations, he told me,
that prevents a wayward eddy from suddenly turning in on itself, tightening into
an angry gyre, until the density of the energy at its core becomes infinite: a
catastrophic ''singularity.'' Someone tossing a penny into the fountain by the
faculty center or skipping a stone at the Santa Monica beach could apparently
set off a chain reaction that would take out Southern California.

This doesn't tend to happen. And yet, Tao explained, nobody can say precisely
why. It's a decades-­old conundrum, and Tao has recently been working on an
approach to a solution -- one part fanciful, one part outright absurd, like some
lost passage from ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.''

Imagine, he said, that someone awfully clever could construct a machine out of
pure water. It would be built not of rods and gears but from a pattern of
interacting currents. As he talked, Tao carved shapes in the air with his hands,
like a magician. Now imagine, he went on, that this machine were able to make a
smaller, faster copy of itself, which could then make another, and so on, until
one ''has infinite speed in a tiny space and blows up.'' Tao was not proposing
constructing such a machine -- ''I don't know how!'' he said, laughing. It was
merely a thought experiment, of the sort that Einstein used to develop the
theory of special relativity. But, Tao explained, if he can show mathematically
that there is nothing, in principle, preventing such a fiendish contraption from
operating, then it would mean that water can, in fact, explode. And in the
process, he will have also solved the Navier-­Stokes global regularity problem,
which has become, since it emerged more than a century ago, one of the most
important in all of mathematics.

Tao, who is 40, sat at a desk by the window, papers lying in drifts at the
margins. Thin and unassuming, he was dressed in Birkenstocks, a rumpled
blue-gray polo shirt and jeans with the cuffs turned up. Behind him, a small
almond couch faced a glyph-­covered blackboard running the length of the room.
The couch had been pulled away from the wall to accommodate the beat-up Trek
bike he rides to work. At the room's other end stood a fiberboard bookcase
haphazardly piled with books, including ''Compactness and Contradiction'' and
''Poincaré's Legacies, Part I,'' two of the 16 volumes Tao has written since he
was a teenager.

Fame came early for Tao, who was born in South Australia. An old headline in his
hometown paper, The Advertiser, reads: ''TINY TERENCE, 7, IS HIGH-SCHOOL WHIZ.''
The clipping includes a photo of a diminutive Tao in 11th-grade math class,
wearing a V-neck sweater over a white turtleneck, kneeling on his chair so he
can reach a desk he is sharing with a girl more than twice his age. His teacher
told the reporter that he hardly taught Tao anything, because Tao was always
working two lessons ahead of the others. (Tao taught himself to read at age 2.)

A few months later, halfway through the school year, Tao was moved up to
12th-grade math. Three years later, at age 10, Tao became the youngest person in
history to win a medal in the International Mathematical Olympiad. He has since
won many other prizes, including a MacArthur ''genius'' grant and the Fields
Medal, considered the Nobel Prize for mathematicians. Today, many regard Tao as
the finest mathematician of his generation.

That spring day in his office, reflecting on his career so far, Tao told me that
his view of mathematics has utterly changed since childhood. ''When I was
growing up, I knew I wanted to be a mathematician, but I had no idea what that
entailed,'' he said in a lilting Australian accent. ''I sort of imagined a
committee would hand me problems to solve or something.'' But it turned out that
the work of real mathematicians bears little resemblance to the manipulations
and memorization of the math student. Even those who experience great success
through their college years may turn out not to have what it takes. The ancient
art of mathematics, Tao has discovered, does not reward speed so much as
patience, cunning and, perhaps most surprising of all, the sort of gift for
collaboration and improvisation that characterizes the best jazz musicians. Tao
now believes that his younger self, the prodigy who wowed the math world, wasn't
truly doing math at all. ''It's as if your only experience with music were
practicing scales or learning music theory,'' he said, looking into light
pouring from his window. ''I didn't learn the deeper meaning of the subject
until much later.''

Possibly the greatest mathematician since antiquity was Carl Friedrich Gauss, a
dour German born in the late 18th century. He did not get along with his own
children and kept important results to himself, seeing them as unsuitable for
public view. They were discovered among his papers after his death. Before and
since, the annals of the field have teemed with variations on this misfit theme,
from Isaac Newton, the loner with a savage temper; to John Nash, the ''beautiful
mind'' whose work shaped economics and even political science, but who was
racked by paranoid delusions; to, more recently, ­Grigory Perelman, the Russian
who conquered the Poincaré conjecture alone, then refused the Fields Medal, and
who also allowed his fingernails to grow until they curled.

Tao, by contrast, is, as one colleague put it, ''super-normal.'' He has a
gentle, self-­deprecating manner. He eschews job offers from prestigious East
Coast institutions in favor of a relaxed, no-drama department in a place where
he can enjoy the weather. In class, he conveys a sense that mathematics is fun.
One of his students told me that he had recently joked with another about the
many ways Tao defies all the Hollywood mad-­genius tropes. ''They will never
make a movie about him,'' he said. ''He doesn't have a troubled life. He has a
family, and they seem happy, and he's usually smiling.''

This can be traced to his own childhood, which he experienced as super-normal,
even if, to outside eyes, it was anything but. Tao's family spent most of his
early years living in the foothills south of Adelaide, in a brick split-­level
with views of Gulf St. Vincent. The home was designed by his father, Billy, a
pediatrician who immigrated with Tao's mother, Grace, from Hong Kong in 1972,
three years before Tao, the eldest of three, was born in 1975. The three boys --
Nigel, Trevor and ''Terry,'' as everyone calls him -- often played together, and
a favorite pastime was inventing board games. They typically appropriated a
Scrabble board for a basic grid, then brought in Scrabble tiles, chess pieces,
Chinese checkers, mah-jongg tiles and Dungeons & Dragons dice, according to
Nigel, who now works for Google. For story lines, they frequently drew from
video games coming out at the time, like Super Mario Bros., then added layers of
complex, whimsical rules. (Trevor, a junior chess champion, was too good to
beat, so the boys created a variation on that game as well: Each turn began with
a die roll to determine which piece could be moved.) Tao was a voracious
consumer of fantasy books like Terry Pratchett's Discworld series. When a class
was boring, he doodled intricate maps of imaginary lands.

By the spring of 1985, with a 9-year-old Tao splitting time between high school
and nearby Flinders University, Billy and Grace took him on a three-week
American tour to seek advice from top mathematicians and education experts. On
the Baltimore campus of Johns Hopkins, they met with Julian Stanley, a
Georgia-­born psychologist who founded the Center for Talented Youth there. Tao
was one of the most talented math students Stanley ever tested -- at 8 years
old, Tao scored a 760 on the math portion of the SAT -- but Stanley urged the
couple to keep taking things slow and give their son's emotional and social
skills time to develop.

Even at a relatively deliberate pace, by age 17, Tao had finished a master's
thesis (''Convolution Operators Generated by Right-­Monogenic and Harmonic
Kernels'') and moved to Princeton University to start on his Ph.D. Tao's
application to the university included a letter from Paul Erdos, the revered
Hungarian mathematician. ''I am sure he will develop into a first-rate
mathematician and perhaps into a really great one,'' read Erdos's brief,
typewritten note. ''I recommend him in the highest possible terms.'' Yet on
arrival, it was Tao, the teenage prodigy, who was intimidated. During Tao's
first year, Andrew Wiles, then a Princeton professor, announced that he proved
Fermat's Last Theorem, a legendary problem that had gone unsolved for more than
three centuries. Tao's fellow graduate students spoke eloquently about
mathematical fields of which he had barely heard.

Tao became notorious for his nights haunting the graduate computer room to play
the historical-­simulation game Civilization. (He now avoids computer games, he
told me, because of what he calls a ''completist streak'' that makes it hard to
stop playing.) At a local comic-book store, Tao met a circle of friends who
played ''Magic: The Gathering,'' the intricate fantasy card game. This was Tao's
first real experience hanging out with people his age, but there was also an
element, he admitted, of escaping the pressures of Princeton. Gifted children
often avoid challenges at which they might not excel. Before Tao went to
Princeton, his grades had flagged at Flinders. In a course on quantum physics,
the instructor told the class that the final would include an essay on the
history of the field. Tao, then 12, blew off studying, and when he sat down for
the exam, he was stunned to discover that the essay would count for half the
grade. ''I remember crying,'' Tao said, ''and the proctor had to escort me
out.'' He failed.

At Princeton, crisis came in the form of the ''generals,'' a wide-­ranging,
arduous oral examination administered by three professors. While other students
spent months working through problem sets and giving one another mock exams, Tao
settled on his usual test-prep strategy: last-­minute cramming. ''I went in and
very quickly got out of my depth,'' he said. ''They were asking questions which
I had no ability to answer.'' Immediately after, Tao sat with his adviser, Elias
Stein, and felt that he had let him down. Tao wasn't really trying, and the
hardest part was yet to come.

The true work of the mathematician is not experienced until the later parts of
graduate school, when the student is challenged to create knowledge in the form
of a novel proof. It is common to fill page after page with an attempt, the
seasons turning, only to arrive precisely where you began, empty-handed -- or to
realize that a subtle flaw of logic doomed the whole enterprise from its outset.
The steady state of mathematical research is to be completely stuck. It is a
process that Charles Fefferman of Princeton, himself a onetime math prodigy
turned Fields medalist, likens to ''playing chess with the devil.'' The rules of
the devil's game are special, though: The devil is vastly superior at chess,
but, Fefferman explained, you may take back as many moves as you like, and the
devil may not. You play a first game, and, of course, ''he crushes you.'' So you
take back moves and try something different, and he crushes you again, ''in much
the same way.'' If you are sufficiently wily, you will eventually discover a
move that forces the devil to shift strategy; you still lose, but -- aha! -- you
have your first clue.

As a group, the people drawn to mathematics tend to value certainty and logic
and a neatness of outcome, so this game becomes a special kind of torture. And
yet this is what any ­would-be mathematician must summon the courage to face
down: weeks, months, years on a problem that may or may not even be possible to
unlock. You find yourself sitting in a room without doors or windows, and you
can shout and carry on all you want, but no one is listening.

Within his field, Tao is best known for a proof about a remarkable set of
numbers known as the primes. The primes are the whole numbers larger than 1 that
can be divided evenly by only themselves and 1. Thus, the first few primes are
2, 3, 5, 7 and 11. The number 4 is not a prime because it divides evenly by 2;
the number 9 fails because it can be divided by 3. Prime numbers are fundamental
building blocks in mathematics. Like the chemical elements, they combine to form
a universe. To a chemist, water is two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen.
Similarly, in mathematics, the number 12 is composed of two ''atoms'' of 2 and
one ''atom'' of 3 (12 = 2 x 2 x 3).

The primes are elementary and, at the same time, mysterious. They are a result
of simple logic, yet they seem to appear at random on the number line; you never
know when the next one will occur. They are at once orderly and disorderly. They
have been incorporated into mysticism and religious ritual and have inspired
works of music and even an Italian novel, ''The Solitude of Prime Numbers.'' It
is easy to see why mathematicians consider the primes to be one of the
universe's foundations. From counting, you can develop the concept of number,
and then, quite naturally, the basic operations of arithmetic: addition,
subtraction, multiplication and division. That is all you need to spot the
primes -- though, eerily, scientists have uncovered deep connections between
primes and quantum mechanics that remain unexplained. Imagine that there is an
advanced civilization of aliens around some distant star: They surely do not
speak English, they may or may not have developed television, but we can be
almost certain that their mathematicians have discovered the primes and puzzled
over them.

Tao's work is related to the twin-prime conjecture, which the French
mathematician Alphonse de Polignac suggested in 1849. Go up the number line,
circling the primes, and you may notice that sometimes a pair of primes is
separated by just 2: 5 and 7, 11 and 13, 17 and 19. These are the ''twin
primes,'' and as the journey along the number line continues, they occur less
frequently: 2,237 and 2,239 are followed by 2,267 and 2,269; after 31,391 and
31,393, there isn't another pair until you reach 31,511 and 31,513. Euclid
devised a simple, beautiful proof showing that there is an infinite number of
primes. But what of the twin primes? As far as you go on the number line, will
there always be another set of twins? The conjecture has roundly defeated all
attempts at proving it.

When mathematicians face a question they cannot answer, they sometimes devise a
less stringent question, in the hope that solving it will provide insights. This
is the path that Tao took in 2004, in collaboration with Ben Green of Oxford.
Twins are two primes that are separated by exactly 2, but Green and Tao
considered a looser definition, strings of primes separated by a constant, be it
2 or any other number. (For example, the primes 3, 7 and 11 are separated by the
constant 4.) They sought to prove that no matter how long a string someone
found, there would always be another longer string with a constant gap between
its primes. That February, after some initial conversations, Green came to visit
Tao at U.C.L.A., and in just two exhilarating months, they completed what is now
known as the Green-Tao theorem. It could be a way point on the path to the
twin-prime conjecture, and it forged deep connections between disparate areas of
math, helping establish an interdisciplinary area called additive combinatorics.
''It opened a lot of new directions in research,'' says Izabella Laba, a
University of British Columbia mathematician who has worked with Tao. ''It gave
a lot of people a lot of things to do.''

This sort of collaboration has been a hallmark of Tao's career. Most
mathematicians tend to specialize, but Tao ranges widely, learning from others
and then working with them to make discoveries. Markus Keel, a longtime
collaborator and close friend, reaches to science fiction to explain Tao's
ability to rapidly digest and employ mathematical ideas: Seeing Tao in action,
Keel told me, reminds him of the scene in ''The Matrix'' when Neo has martial
arts downloaded into his brain and then, opening his eyes, declares, ''I know
kung fu.'' The citation for Tao's Fields Medal, awarded in 2006, is a litany of
boundary hopping and notes particularly ''beautiful work'' on Horn's conjecture,
which Tao completed with a friend he had played foosball with in graduate
school. It was a new area of mathematics for Tao, at a great remove from his
known stamping grounds. ''This is akin,'' the citation read, ''to a leading
English-­language novelist suddenly producing the definitive Russian novel.''

The Green-Tao theorem on primes was a similar collaboration. Green is a
specialist in an area called number theory, and Tao originally trained in an
area called harmonic analysis. Yet, as they told me, the proof depended on the
insights of many other mathematicians. In the game of devil's chess, players
have no real hope if they haven't studied the winning games of the masters. A
proof establishes facts that can be used in subsequent proofs, but it also
offers a set of moves and strategies that forced the devil to submit -- a
devious way to pin one of his pieces or shut down a counterattack, or an endgame
move that sacrifices a bishop to gain a winning position. Just as a chess player
might examine variations of the Ruy Lopez and King's Indian Defense, a
mathematician might study particularly clever applications of the Chinese
remainder theorem or the sieve of Eratosthenes. The wise player has a vast
repertoire to draw on, and the crafty player intuits the move that suits the
moment.

For their work, Tao and Green salvaged a crucial bit from an earlier proof done
by others, which had been discarded as incorrect, and aimed at a different goal.
Other maneuvers came from masterful proofs by Timothy Gowers of England and
Endre Szemeredi of Hungary. Their work, in turn, relied on contributions from
Erdos, Klaus Roth and Frank Ramsey, an Englishman who died at age 26 in 1930,
and on and on, into history. Ask mathematicians about their experience of the
craft, and most will talk about an intense feeling of intellectual camaraderie.
''A very central part of any mathematician's life is this sense of connection to
other minds, alive today and going back to Pythagoras,'' said Steven Strogatz, a
professor of mathematics at Cornell University. ''We are having this
conversation with each other going over the millennia.''

The Green-Tao theorem caught the mathematical community by surprise, because
that problem was thought to be many years from succumbing to proof. On the day I
visited Tao, we ate lunch on the outdoor patio of the midcentury-­modern faculty
center. Working on a modest plate of sushi, Tao told me that he and Green have
continued to work around the margins of the twin-prime conjecture, as have
others, with a lot of success recently. It is his sense, he said, that a proof
is close at hand, more than a century and half after it was first articulated.
''Maybe 10 years,'' he said.

It was dinnertime when I headed to Tao's home, a white-and-tan five-­bedroom on
the western edge of campus. Tao was originally going to take his 12-year-old
son, William, to a piano lesson, but William had received a callback for a
Go-Gurt commercial. (He has already been in a Honda ad, in which he played the
role of ''boy who sleeps contentedly in the back seat.'') While Tao's wife,
Laura, ferried William home, their daughter, Maddy, 4, finished her meal at an
island in their spacious kitchen. She took a bite of her dessert -- a cronut --
and then clambered down her stool and began running from room to room, arms
raised, squealing with delight.

Tao has emerged as one of the field's great bridge-­builders. At the time of his
Fields Medal, he had already made discoveries with more than 30 different
collaborators. Since then, he has also become a prolific math blogger with a
decidedly non-­Gaussian ebullience: He celebrates the work of others, shares
favorite tricks, documents his progress and delights at any corrections that
follow in the comments. He has organized cooperative online efforts to work on
problems. ''Terry is what a great 21st-­century mathematician looks like,''
Jordan Ellenberg, a mathematician at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who
has collaborated with Tao, told me. He is ''part of a network, always
communicating, always connecting what he is doing with what other people are
doing.''

In my visit with Tao, I noticed only one way in which he conforms to the
math-­professor stereotype: an absent-mindedness that dates to his childhood.
When he was a boy, he constantly lost books, even his book bag; he put clothes
on backward or inside out, or he neglected to put on both socks. (This is why he
wears Birkenstocks now. ''One less step,'' he explained.) As he showed me around
the house, his gait was a bit awkward, as if, at some level, he was just not
that interested in walking. I asked to see his office, and he pointed out an
unremarkable chamber off a back hallway. He doesn't get as much done there as he
used to, he said; recently, he has been most productive on flights, when he has
a block of hours away from email and all the people who hope for an audience
with him.

After William arrived home, with Laura trailing behind, we sat down for dinner:
pork chops in tomato sauce, a recipe taken from a handwritten collection, its
notebook cover emblazoned with a teddy bear, that Laura received as a gift from
Tao's mother. William was gregarious. The Go-Gurt callback went well. (He
eventually got the part.) William has some of his father's natural facility for
mathematics -- as a sixth grader, he took an online course in precalculus -- but
his real passions at the moment are writing, particularly fantasy, and acting,
particularly improv. He was also heavy into Minecraft, though he was annoyed
because he was having trouble updating his hacks. Once, he said, he and a friend
tried to hack math itself by proving that 1 equals 0, but then realized that it
is forbidden to divide by 0. Tao rolled his eyes.

An effort to prove that 1 equals 0 is not likely to yield much fruit, it's true,
but the hacker's mind-set can be extremely useful when doing math. Long ago,
mathematicians invented a number that when multiplied by itself equals negative
1, an idea that seemed to break the basic rules of multiplication. It was so far
outside what mathematicians were doing at the time that they called it
''imaginary.'' Yet imaginary numbers proved a powerful invention, and modern
physics and engineering could not function without them.

Early encounters with math can be misleading. The subject seems to be about
learning rules -- how and when to apply ancient tricks to arrive at an answer.
Four cookies remain in the cookie jar; the ball moves at 12.5 feet per second.
Really, though, to be a mathematician is to experiment. Mathematical research is
a fundamentally creative act. Lore has it that when David Hilbert, arguably the
most influential mathematician of fin de siècle Europe, heard that a colleague
had left to pursue fiction, he quipped: ''He did not have enough imagination for
mathematics.''

Math traffics in abstractions -- the idea, for example, that two apples and two
oranges have something in common -- but much of Tao's work has a tangible
aspect. He is drawn to waves of fluid or light, or things that can be counted,
or geometries that you might hold in your mind. When a question does not
initially appear in such a way, he strives to transform it. Early in his career,
he struggled with a problem that involved waves rotating on top of one another.
He wanted to come up with a moving coordinate system that would make things
easier to see, something like a virtual Steadi­cam. So he lay down on the floor
and rolled back and forth, trying to see it in his mind's eye. ''My aunt caught
me doing this,'' Tao told me, laughing, ''and I couldn't explain what I was
doing.''

Tao's most recent work in exploding water began when a professor from Kazakhstan
claimed to have completed a Navier-­Stokes proof. After looking at it, Tao felt
sure that the proof was incorrect, but he decided to take this intuition a step
further and show that any proof using the professor's approach was sure to fail.
While he was wading through the proof, asking colleagues for help in translating
the explanatory text from the original Russian, he struck upon the notion of his
imaginary, self-­replicating water contraption -- drawing on ideas from
engineering to make progress on a question in pure mathematics.

The feat is as much psychological as mathematical. Many people think that
substantial progress on Navier-­Stokes may be impossible, and years ago, Tao
told me, he wrote a blog post concurring with this view. Now he has some small
bit of hope. The twin-prime conjecture had the same feel, a sense of breaking
through the wall of intimidation that has scared off many aspirants. Outside the
world of mathematics, both Navier-­Stokes and the twin-prime conjecture are
described as problems. But for Tao and others in the field, they are more like
opponents. Tao's opponent has been known to taunt him, convincing him that he is
overlooking the obvious, or to fight back, making quick escapes when none should
be possible. Now the opponent appears to have revealed a weakness. But Tao said
he has been here before, thinking he has found a way through the defenses, when
in fact he was being led into an ambush. ''You learn to get suspicious,'' Tao
said. ''You learn to be on the lookout.''

This is the thrill of it, and the dread. There is a shifting beneath the ground.
The game is afoot.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/the-singular-mind-of-terry-tao.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAEME MITCHELL) (MM44-MM45)
 Terry Tao, age 7, in an 11th-grade math class. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE ADVERTISER,
FROM THE TAO FAMILY) (MM47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boomerang

BYLINE: By TOM SLEIGH.

Natasha Trethewey served as the poet laureate of the United States from 2012 to
2014. She is a professor at Emory University. Tom Sleigh has written numerous
collections of poetry, including, most recently, ''Station Zed,'' published by
Graywolf this year.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; POEM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 77 words


This poem, the first section in a longer sequence titled ''Songs for the Cold
War,'' recalls the fears and delights of childhood -- how often they are mixed.
We do not need to have experienced these moments exactly for the images to evoke
vivid recollections of time spent with the beloved adults of our childhoods.

Poem selected by Natasha Trethewey.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/boomerang.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: The sidelong whiplash of his arm sent the boomerang soaring,
pushing the sky to the horizon until the blade just hung there, a black slash on
the sun so far away it seemed not to move at all before it came whirling back
larger and larger: would it hit him, would he die -- and you ducked down,
terrifi ed, clinging to his thigh, its deathspin slowing as it coptered softly
down and he snatched it from the air. How you loved that rush of fear, both
wanting and not wanting him to feel how hard you clung, just the same as when
he'd fl oat you weightless across the pond while waves slapped and shushed and
bickered, his breath loud in your ear . . . and after he dried you off , he'd
lift you onto his shoulders and help you shove your head through a hole in the
sky. (DRAWING BY R. O. BLECHMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Unquiet Sky

BYLINE: By TEJU COLE.

Teju Cole is a photographer, an essayist and the author of two works of fiction,
''Open City'' and ''Every Day Is for the Thief.'' He is the magazine's
photography critic and teaches at Bard College.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON PHOTOGRAPHY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1372 words


Musing over a fireplace in Avignon in 1782, the inventor Joseph-Michel
Montgolfier had a brain wave. What if the force lifting the embers from the fire
could somehow be controlled and used to carry heavier things, even people? It
could be a way for Spanish troops to finally take the hitherto impregnable
fortress of Gibraltar. Joseph and his brother Étienne immediately set to
experimenting with hot air, which they believed had a special property called
''levity,'' and by late 1783, Étienne was able to ascend in the Montgolfier
balloon.

Joseph's idea for airborne assaults proved impractical. The weight and limited
efficacy of munitions in the late 18th century, not to mention the ease with
which balloons could be downed, delayed that form of combat. But his instinct
was correct: Human-controlled flight is inseparable from warfare. The Wright
brothers flew their fragile, shaky and miraculous biplane at Kitty Hawk in 1903.
By 1911, an Italian plane was dropping bombs on a Turkish camp in Ain-Zara,
Libya. War from the air: until the enemy can retaliate, it is an insuperable
advantage.

If aviation and militarism had a natural kinship at the beginning of the 20th
century, they entered an uncanny union at the start of the 21st. Until 2004,
unmanned aerial vehicles (U.A.V.s), or drones, as they're popularly known, were
eyes in the sky; like fantastic periscopes, they ushered in new forms of
farsightedness. Then, in June of that year, an American U.A.V. fired a missile
in South Waziristan. Two children were killed, as were several adults, one of
them a mujahid called Nek Muhammad. More strikes followed the next year, and by
2008 the strikes were frequent and the death toll high, in the thousands. The
results of the strikes followed the pattern established from the first one: Many
of the people killed were innocent of wrongdoing.

In the public mind, drones had rightly come to be seen as ominous machines
tracking their hapless victims, harbingers of sudden death. But drones are
gaining other, no less accurate meanings. They can be any size, and they can
resemble planes or helicopters, or both, or neither. Someday they could deliver
our packages or even come to play a role in commuter transportation. But the key
expansion in the public understanding of drones is in the realm of popular
photography.

A view from a great height is irresistible. It is twinned with the ancient dream
of flight. For millenniums, we have imaginatively soared above our material
circumstances and dramatized this desire in tales from Icarus to Superman.
Things look different from way up there. What was invisible before becomes
visible: how one part of the landscape relates to another, how nature and
infrastructure unfold. But with the acquisition of this panoptic view comes the
loss of much that could be seen at close range. The face of the beloved is but
one invisible detail among many.

When the French photographer Nadar leaned out of a hot-air balloon in 1858 and
made a series of images of Paris, it was the beginning of a new age. Our eyes
were carried aloft. Cities began to appear in photographic portraits that echoed
maps, but with all the latest and truest information included. In 1860, James
Wallace Black and Samuel Archer King made ''Boston, as the Eagle and Wild Goose
See It.'' And in 1906, George R. Lawrence, deploying a complicated rig of kites,
created enormous photographic panoramas of San Francisco right after the
earthquake. Lawrence's photographs gave the traumatized city a measure of its
catastrophe. Three years later, Wilbur Wright piloted the plane from which the
first moving picture was shot. In the century that followed, aerial photography
was used in archaeology, advertising, surveillance and mapping. This precipitous
rate of innovation also resulted in the technology that allows drones to fix
their stares on those we deem enemies. And, higher up, satellites and
geolocating devices have transformed our sense of the world itself.

My parents live in Lagos, Nigeria. Sometimes, when I miss them or miss home, I
go to Google Maps and trace the highway that leads from Lagos Island to our
family's house in the northern part of the city. I find our street amid the
complicated jumble of brown lines just east of the bus terminal. I can make out
the shape of the house, the tree in front of it, the surrounding fence. I hover
there, ''visiting'' home.

The slippage between the domestic and the threatening aspects of aerial
surveillance is something the photographer Tomas van Houtryve has explored in
his powerful project ''Blue Sky Days.'' The title comes from the testimony of a
13-year-old Pakistani boy whose grandmother was killed in a drone strike. ''I no
longer love blue skies,'' the boy said, speaking before Congress. ''In fact, I
now prefer gray skies. The drones do not fly when the skies are gray.'' Houtryve
attached a camera to a small drone and traveled around the United States, making
aerial photographs of the sorts of events that have been associated with
intentional or erroneous drone strikes: funerals, weddings, groups of people at
play, in prayer or during exercise. His images show Americans in the course of
their daily lives, photographed from a great height, in bright sun that throws
their distorted shadows far ahead of them, presenting them as unindividuated,
vulnerable and human. Houtryve makes it clear that the people in Yemen,
Pakistan, Somalia or Afghanistan who are killed by American drones are also just
like this. With simple, vivid means, Houtryve brings the war home.

Houtryve's work has been published in magazines and, meticulously printed in
large format, displayed in galleries. But there are other photographs made by or
about drones that you encounter almost solely online. Two of these projects,
very different from each other in effect and intent, happen to have settled on
an identical name: Dronestagram. One, hosted at the website www.dronestagr.am,
invites submissions from aerial-photography enthusiasts who are using small,
commercially available or homemade drones to take photos or make videos. The
site runs a photography contest, sponsored in part by National Geographic, and
the winning images tend to be pretty, brightly colored landscapes of the kind
that might end up on calendars or tourist brochures. Photoshopped, wide-angled
and hectically spectacular, the photos are popular, garnering thousands of
likes. But mostly they lack the element of formal provocation or conceptual
rupture on which memorable images depend.

The other project that shares the name Dronestagram was created a little
earlier, in 2012, by the computer artist James Bridle. He scours the news media
for information about drone strikes and presents those events in capsule written
form, accompanying them with a Google satellite image of the location or
vicinity of the strike. In Bridle's project, which he presents on Twitter,
Tumblr and Instagram, we see a landscape directly from above, with buildings
visible in plan form, set in brown or green surroundings. These are places where
people died, whether they were suspected terrorists or bystanders. The images --
sober, descriptive, clinical -- are undramatic and sufficient. They make
explicit the continuity between reconnaissance and attack and also embed the
grim promise that it's not over. There are more strikes to come.

The two Dronestagrams, the sanguine and the melancholic, add to our ever
increasing archive of possible landscapes. Imagine all those pictures stitched
together into a single image. In this ideal aerial view, neither the pervasive
violence nor the sometimes cloying prettiness would be visible. Conquest and
sentimentality would both be irrelevant. In other words, the image might be like
the ''blue marble'' photograph of Earth, taken from the Apollo 17 spacecraft in
1972. It is our world, serene and self-contained, seen in one glance. It is not
a view that excites us into plans for bombing our enemies, for it includes us as
well. It is a view that reminds us of how mighty we are, how fragile, how
delicately connected and how beautiful.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/the-unquiet-sky.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An image from ''Blue Sky Days'' of students in a schoolyard in
El Dorado County, California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS VAN HOUTRYVE/VII) (MM14)
 A bird's-eye view of San Francisco after the earthquake of 1906, over Folsom
between Fifth and Sixth Streets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE R. LAWRENCE/LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS) (MM16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES (88%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); UNMANNED
AIRCRAFT (75%); CHILDREN (69%); HELICOPTERS (68%); COMMUTING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%); GIBRALTAR (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Balance 990s

BYLINE: By NATHAN DEUEL.

Nathan Deuel teaches writing at the University of California, Los Angeles, and
is author of ''Friday Was the Bomb: Five Years in the Middle East.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 884 words


The first time I even considered buying a pair of New Balances, I was 27,
bronzed and lean, standing in a frigid sporting-goods store in Biloxi, Miss.,
having walked there from New York. The year was 2007. Four months earlier, I had
experienced that spiritual crisis stereotypical of young people -- the one in
which you can't seem to square the scope of your ambitions with the limits of
your daily life, which in my case was spent in a Midtown Manhattan cubicle. So I
packed a bag and said goodbye to everyone I loved, including my wife, who was
ecstatic to see me go.

My plan was simple, even if its motivations remain hard to articulate. I would
walk 30 miles a day, every day, until I made it to New Orleans. One day, halfway
down the Jersey Shore, I tried walking as far as I could, until the sky turned
black and one of my toenails did, too. Another night, I made camp on an
abandoned floating dock I found washed up on a small island. Later, as the surf
heaved beneath me, I realized, much too late, that the dock was adrift. When the
tide took me back in, I admired the sunrise, laced up my cheap shoes and walked
the final miles to Cape May. From there, I boarded a ferry to Delaware. A few
miles into Virginia, I felt the first of many blisters.

I suppose looks prevented me from buying New Balances before my walk. There's
something aggressively earnest about them. New Balance initially made only arch
supports, and slowly moved into manufacturing entire shoes. In 1982, the company
debuted a new model that would go on to become one of its most popular: the 990.
An early advertisement featured a picture of a clunky gray sneaker alongside
copy that declared, semimodestly, ''On a scale of 1,000, this shoe is a 990.''

It was the United States market's first hundred-dollar athletic shoe and,
perhaps owing to the company's inside-out approach to shoemaking, was designed
in a style you might call medical grade. Both the price and aesthetic seemed to
say: ''I find L.L. Bean very fashionable and have no need to rent out the beach
house when I am not using it.'' They became, arguably, the least memorable part
of Steve Jobs's uniform.

As a young urbanite, I rarely had any reason to think about shoes in utilitarian
terms. But then, all of a sudden, I was a guy walking to Louisiana. That first
inexpensive pair of running shoes gave out somewhere in the Carolinas. I bought
a second pair, and with these I limped across the Florida panhandle. By that
time I had pounded my feet so profoundly that my shoe size had actually
increased. Weeks later, I found myself in that shopping mall in coastal
Mississippi, ready for something better.

It had required a long walk -- not to mention losing 40 pounds and testing my
marriage to its breaking point -- to get me there, contemplating those shoes,
those simple, dull tools surrounded on all sides by showier models with their
zany colorways and whimsical laces. When the clerk brought me a pair, I laced
them up and took my first steps around the store. I knew I'd never buy another
kind of running shoe again.

The thing about 990s is this: Not only are they comfortable to wear, their whole
history speaks to the value of comfort -- comfort with yourself, comfort with
your surroundings. Nothing about the 990 has ever really changed: not the high
price (they're now $179.99), not the design, not the fact that they're made in
America. Plenty has happened since 1982, but nothing that has managed to make
the 990 budge. (Well, maybe a little. The most recent pair I bought was black.)
To me 990s symbolize the simple fact that it's O.K. to just make up your mind
about something and never look back.

Through Gulfport and Pass Christian and Pearlington, wearing these new shoes, I
walked with an odd new feeling -- a mix of contentment, resignation and maybe
something like comfort. Made of genuine pigskin, the sneakers felt like silk
compared with what I had been wearing. The heel cushioning was intense, and
springy; walking with them was like wearing flippers in the water. Even the
thick, supple laces were made with a care and quality well in excess of any I'd
ever encountered.

Back in New York, I realized, the problem facing me was the tyranny of choice:
wanting this job or that, to go to this restaurant or that, to live in this
neighborhood or that (or maybe on a boat off City Island?). It never stopped. I
had too many options, and yet I never gave myself time to enjoy one success or
another before I started racing around looking for more. Trying to sate all this
hunger, I had become a kind of monster.

When I finally reached New Orleans, I stopped at a French Quarter bar called
Molly's at the Market. At that point, I had walked 1,500 miles, all the way from
the Lower East Side. I ordered a beer, and then I ordered a shot, and then I
picked up the phone. I thought maybe I had earned the right to call my wife.
Maybe I could try being an adult once more.

Today, I'm still married to the same woman, and I am still wearing the same
shoes. Could I have made the final miles with lesser ones? Sure. Do I still go
on long walks? Yes, and when I do I put on my 990s -- and try my best to make it
back home.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-new-balance-
990s.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: No-nonsense, drab and blessedly comfortable, the 990 running
shoe by New Balance has changed little since its introduction in 1982.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNAH WHITAKER
 PROP STYLIST: EMILY MULLIN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); RETAILERS
(78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); BEACHES (73%)

COMPANY: NEW BALANCE ATHLETIC SHOE INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S,
& INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (92%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC
(92%)

CITY: BILOXI, MS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (76%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (87%);
FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charmed

BYLINE: By LAILA LALAMI.

Laila Lalami, 47, is the author of ''The Moor's Account,'' a finalist for the
Pulitzer Prize in fiction, which will be published in paperback next month.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 796 words


One afternoon last April, I stood in the doorway of my daughter's room, watching
her prepare for a big recital. She was going to perform with her middle-school
orchestra in Santa Monica. She packed her violin, rosined her bow, put on a
black dress and tamed her wild hair into a bun. ''There,'' she said. ''I'm
ready.'' How lovely she looked, how determined. Had I been half as confident as
this when I was 11?

''Wait,'' I said. From my pocket I pulled out a brown suede pouch bearing the
name of a little jeweler in Rabat, the kind of place you send your friends to
and say, tell him I sent you. In the pouch was a necklace with a silver khamsa
-- a charm in the shape of an open palm.

Her eyes widened at the unexpected gift. ''Thank you,'' she said. ''It's so
pretty.''

''It's to protect you,'' I said.

When I was a child in Morocco, khamsas cast their protective shadows on
everything. They were embroidered on tablecloths, hammered into brass trays,
painted on the bumpers of big trucks. They served as door knockers or kept vigil
on the outer walls of homes. As jewelry, they were wrought from pewter, silver
or gold and inlaid with enamel or precious stones.

Why? Because the evil eye is serious business. If your husband went from adoring
you to neglecting you, it was the evil eye that caused it. If your healthy child
suddenly landed in the hospital, it was the evil eye. If you wore a white linen
dress and ended up with an ugly green stain before lunch, it was the evil eye.

Of course it doesn't make sense. But then again, how much about personal
disaster makes any sense at all? In the face of unexpected calamity, we tend to
say, it started out as just an ordinary day! Well, yes, it started out as just
an ordinary day, until an envious neighbor evil-eyed you.

That, at least, is what my grandmother believed. She wore a khamsa all the time.
Years ago, when I was about to sit for my ninth-grade examinations, she insisted
that I wear one, too. These exams were important: They would determine not only
whether I would graduate from middle school but also whether I would study
science or literature in high school, and even whether I could apply to certain
colleges later. When my grandmother handed me the necklace, I smiled, barely
suppressing my condescension. I was 14; I knew everything. ''It's a silly
superstition,'' I said.

She fixed her milky eyes upon me. Her chin was marked with tattoos, and her
hands were perpetually hennaed. She didn't know how to read or write, but she
knew which leaves to brew if I caught a cold, which seeds could restore my
appetite, which concoction could clear my skin. It was knowledge passed on to
her by her foremothers, women who had little to rely on in the world but
themselves. ''Laila,'' she said. ''Put it on.''

No one worried more about me than she did. So I put the khamsa on to make her
happy. I passed my exams and went on to high school and college and graduate
school. Over the years, my head filled with other kinds of knowledge, handed
down to me in the form of books, a wealth of logic and reason and certainties.
They provided me with explanations for many things, though not for the mysteries
of luck.

Once, rushing for an elevator, I called for the man inside to hold it. He did.
Now he is my husband. Good luck, you might say. Some years ago, my younger
brother was admitted to a hospital, complaining of back pain. Kidney failure.
Bad luck.

I could not see a reason that fortune and misfortune struck with such
randomness. Eventually, the distance between my grandmother's world and mine, a
distance I had thought unbridgeable, began to shrink. What once seemed a foolish
superstition became something else: the expression of a human desire to somehow
tilt the odds in your favor. I took to wearing a khamsa. The silver amulet rests
close to my heart, as if my grandmother's hand were reaching back across time to
touch me.

My daughter uncoiled the necklace I had placed in her palm and held it aloft.
''Protect me from what?'' she asked.

''The evil eye.''

''I don't believe in that stuff.''

''Well, it looks great on you.''

Then the moment I have dreaded since I gave birth to her arrived: She rolled her
eyes. ''O.K. Whatever.''

We went to the school recital. I sat in the second row and watched as my
daughter filed onto the stage with her classmates. The conductor came in, and
the audience settled into a reverent silence. The first notes of Zach Wallmark's
''Rue de Royal'' filled the auditorium. Then it was the first four movements of
Grieg's ''Peer Gynt,'' and for a finale a selection from ''Phantom of the
Opera.'' Not a single misstep. A phenomenal success. See?

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/charmed.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MELINDA JOSIE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); HIGH
SCHOOLS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (72%)

CITY: RABAT, MOROCCO (56%)

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should I Ask My Secretary to Fix Her Teeth?

BYLINE: By KWAME ANTHONY APPIAH, AMY BLOOM and KENJI YOSHINO.

Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His most recent book is
''Lines of Descent: W.E.B. Du Bois and the Emergence of Identity.'' Amy Bloom is
a novelist and had a psychotherapy practice for 25 years. Her most recent book
is ''Lucky Us.'' Kenji Yoshino teaches law at N.Y.U. and is the author, most
recently, of ''Speak Now: Marriage Equality on Trial.''

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICISTS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 795 words


I have a small law practice with several employees. My secretary, who is the
face of the firm to every client or prospective client who walks through the
door, fell last December and knocked out eight front teeth. Since then she has
not had them replaced or had dentures made. She comes to work with no front
teeth, which is not the face I want put forward. She has health and dental
insurance through my office, but she says she's too nervous about surgery and
hates going to the dentist, so she's not going to do anything. Can I require her
to fix her teeth or get dentures as a condition of continued employment? NAME
WITHHELD, NEW YORK

Kwame Anthony Appiah: One possibility is that when she says she's nervous about
surgery, what she means is she has a pathological fear, not just that she
doesn't want to do it. Or she might be thinking: There are deductibles on these
things, they're quite expensive, I don't have the money right now. Medical and
dental insurance doesn't mean that she's not going to have to pay anything. So
the right way into this is to have a conversation with her in which you discuss
fully what all the issues are. But in the end her job is, as you say, to be the
face of your firm, and if you think after discussing it with her that she can't
do that job properly, that she's going to either turn people away or lead people
to have less respect for your legal capacity and so on, then this is something
that you can reasonably ask her to do. But only after you've had these fuller
discussions. It's one thing to say that she's the face of your business and it's
not the face you want to put forward; it's another thing to say that she's
actually damaging your business.

Amy Bloom: We so often come to this point -- start with a full and frank
conversation with the other person. Find out what the circumstances are. A $500
deductible might still be very hard to afford. You should really think about how
much surprise and discomfort she is causing your clients. Maybe you're assuming
she is, and maybe she isn't. I will also say eight is a lot of missing teeth,
and I don't find it hard to imagine that that would make her more difficult to
understand. If she refuses to do anything about it and there is no other
position for her in the office, I don't think it's unreasonable to say this
isn't going to work out.

Kenji Yoshino: Legally, the letter writer could terminate the employee because
this situation as described doesn't touch on any protected classification, like
disability. But we're talking about ethics rather than the law. Would either of
you say that it's ethical to make it a condition of her employment that she lose
weight? She's not deprived of her capacity to interact with the public simply
because she lacks front teeth.

Bloom: I disagree. If your job is to greet and speak to people, missing eight
teeth does hamper your ability to be the face and also the voice. It's harder to
understand people. Being very overweight doesn't affect the ability to greet
people when they come in the door, to ask them what they're there for and to
engage them in conversation.

Yoshino: So both of you are saying this would hamper her in doing her job
effectively. I'm not sure that I see it. The presumption in the general culture
is that the employer gets to say whatever it wants in controlling its business,
but it may be that employers need to change their values rather than have
employees change theirs.

Appiah: These issues are complicated because there are considerations that have
to do with the employers' attitudes and then there are clients' or customers'
attitudes. We rightly think that if the customers' attitudes are racist or
sexist, they should not be taken into account by the employer, and the law also
supports that view. The issue is going to be what customer tastes strike us as
reasonable and what don't. It seems to me that it's part of our current social
understanding that if people have lost all their teeth and are in that way
unattractive and maybe not able to speak and there's something they can do about
it, then we're not being merely fussy when we ask for that. I'm just saying
that's what I think the social understanding is. Your point is, it may change.

Bloom: And maybe it should change.

Yoshino: Exactly right. My thought is that maybe we need to push against that
social understanding. To take a real-life example, it used to be that airlines
could say that flight attendants had to be below a certain weight because that's
what customer preferences dictated, but we've changed the culture in such a way
that now it would seem preposterous or really offensive to require that.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/should-i-ask-my-secretary-to-fix-her-
teeth.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LA TIGRE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (77%);
EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (73%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sweetness of Mexico

BYLINE: By FRANCIS LAM

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; EAT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1281 words


I don't know that I've ever seen an Italian restaurant with an Aztec name, so I
looked twice at Xochil Pizzeria, the O sporting a floppy chef's hat, to make
sure I'd read the sign correctly. I chuckled, turning to say something about it
to Fany Gerson, but then realized that ''Fany Gerson'' might not be the most
probable name for a Mexican woman, either.

Gerson, who grew up in Mexico City, a great-granddaughter of immigrants from
Russia, was leading me down Fifth Avenue in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, which has the
second-largest pocket of Mexican immigrants in New York. In 90-degree heat, we
stepped syrupy-slow past some of her favorite tortas and the ruches of a
quinceañera dress store. We were looking for paletas, Mexican fruit-ice pops.
Gerson owns La Newyorkina, a tiny company that makes fantastic ones -- gently
sweet, with intense flavors and a biteable texture -- and we were trawling the
neighborhood to inspire a new flavor we could make together. We were distracted
for a moment by two women on the street selling gorditas, fried masa cakes split
and stuffed with cheese, but turned up little paleta action aside from a few
frostbitten specimens buried in bodega freezers, colored in ways that were never
nature's plan.

''Is it weird that we're not having any luck?'' I asked her. I'd always heard
that Mexicans loved their paletas. (Do a search for ''Tocumbo paleta monument,''
and you'll see what I mean.)

She replied, ''Well, in Mexico City, you'd find a paleteria in pretty much any
popular neighborhood.'' She described them -- the rows and rows of pops, their
mango and chile and blackberry hues lighting up the stores in a patchwork
rainbow, still mostly made with real, vibrantly flavored fruit. But here, I
guess, paletas get a little lost in the shuffle of hardworking immigrant culture
-- the tough math of what counts as a necessity.

Although necessity was, in a sense, why Gerson opened her own paleta business.
Seven years ago, while she was in Mexico researching a cookbook of the country's
pastry, Gerson opened her email to find a message from her husband: He wanted a
divorce. She put her hands in flour and sugar and tried to work the pain out,
avoiding the quiet hours of night. When she returned to New York City, where she
has lived for 15 years, opening a business carried a sense of vital purpose. ''I
know it sounds cheesy,'' she said, ''But I needed to keep sharing the sweetness
of Mexico.'' And that meant sharing that part of the culture in every sense --
not just paletas, but the friendliness, the sight of a shop with its
multicolored awning and the high promise of sweet and cold on a hot day.

For now, that shop is still a bit of a dream; she mostly sells through street
carts. So when I asked her if she could imagine her shop in this neighborhood,
brightening the block, I expected her to light up.

''Ideally, yes,'' she said, but then paused thoughtfully. ''I speak Spanish 80
percent of my day. I have so many Mexican and Spanish-speaking friends I've made
here. Being away from home brings you closer to it.'' But she worries about how
it would look for her to sell $4 paletas in a neighborhood where tacos cost half
that. ''I know the ingredients I buy, and why it's worth the price, but I don't
know if people here would accept it.''

And the pricing gets at something deeper, more complicated. That torta shop we
passed earlier? The staff there didn't believe Gerson was, in fact, Mexican. ''I
am light-skinned and I grew up with privilege; I know that,'' she said. ''Even
when I was working in kitchens alongside other Mexicans, sometimes I would lie
about the neighborhood I'm from, so they wouldn't make assumptions. I want
people to judge me based on who I am, not what they think I am.'' Gerson is
careful to say she wants to share Mexican culture, not to be an ambassador for
it, but it's tricky when your own people don't or can't value your story the
same way as you do. ''My father feels like he's been treated as a foreigner in
his own country his whole life. But maybe that's also why I want to be, like,
super-Mexican.''

We had arrived at a grocery store. ''What flavor of paleta do you want to
make?'' Gerson asked. I remembered the street gordita ladies, and my thoughts
turned to Mexican street corn, esquites: kernels served with mayonnaise, cheese,
lime and chile. ''When I started my company, I was very resistant to making
flavors that you wouldn't find in Mexico,'' Gerson said. ''But then I also
realized that a big part of Mexican food is taking what the land gives you.'' So
her mind raced and brought milk and sour cream into the equation, forgoing the
cheese and mayo.

We simmered and blended, I took the base home to freeze and the paletas were
magnificent: summer-sweet corn, creamy with a little tang and just enough salt,
a little warmth from chile. I texted her a few days later: ''It's delicious! I
might drop the lime zest a little.''

''I guess I like my esquites with a lot of limes,'' she wrote back.

''You're so Mexican!'' I tapped into my phone.

''Ja ja, yup,'' she replied.

Recipe: Mexican Street-Corn Paleta

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Recipe: Mexican Street-Corn Paleta (Corn, Sour Cream and Lime Popsicle)

Fany Gerson makes her paletas, Mexican fruit ice-pops, the traditional way: with
real fruit for intense flavors. Although this flavor isn't traditional, it was
inspired by esquites, a favorite Mexican street food of corn dressed with sour
cream, lime and chile. To make it, infuse milk with fresh sweet corn and chile,
and then blend it into a smooth base. Fold in some lime and sautéed corn for
texture, and freeze for a rich, sweet-savory treat.

4 cups whole milk

4 cups corn kernels (from 4 medium ears of corn; reserve the cobs)

1 serrano chile, halved

Kosher salt

1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar

1 cup sour cream

1/2 lime, zested and juiced

2 teaspoons butter

Chile powder (optional)

Popsicle molds or small glasses and Popsicle sticks

1. Place the milk, 2 1/2 cups corn kernels, cobs, serrano chile, 1 teaspoon
kosher salt and sugar in a stockpot. (If your corn is very sweet, reduce the
sugar slightly.) Place over medium heat, stirring the bottom with a spatula.
Bring to a simmer, and reduce the heat to maintain it; do not boil. Cook,
stirring occasionally, until the corn is mostly tender, about 15 minutes from
when it comes to a simmer.

2. Let cool for 10 minutes, and remove the corn cobs and serrano chile and
reserve. Working in batches if necessary, blend the milk mixture in a blender
until smooth. Blend in sour cream, lime zest, lime juice and more salt or sugar
to taste. Transfer milk mixture to a bowl, add the corn cobs (and serrano, if
you like) and chill at least four hours, preferably overnight.

3. Heat butter in a large sauté pan over medium-high heat until foamy. Add the
remaining corn and a few pinches of salt. Sauté until the corn is nicely
browned, 3 to 5 minutes. If the bottom of the pan is browning, stir in some
water until it fully evaporates. Transfer to a bowl, chill and reserve.

4. Remove the cobs and serrano again and discard. Divide the sautéed corn among
your Popsicle molds (about 1 tablespoon each if using 3-ounce molds). Divide the
milk mixture into the molds. Give each a gentle stir to distribute the corn.
Freeze for 50 minutes, or until just hard enough to stand the Popsicle sticks
up, insert sticks and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours more. To unmold, dip
the molds for a moment in hot water, and remove the paletas. Sprinkle with chile
powder, if desired.

Yield: About 20 3-ounce pops

Adapted from Fany Gerson




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/magazine/the-sweetness-of-mexico.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANT CORNETT
FOOD STYLIST: MAGGIE RUGGIERO
 PROP STYLIST: THEO VAMVOUNAKIS) (MM20-MM21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FROZEN DESSERTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); NON
FICTION LITERATURE (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (55%)

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 56 words


An article on July 12 about religion and American law misidentified the academic
affiliation of Douglas NeJaime, who was an author of a paper on religion and
law. He is a professor at the School of Law at the University of California, Los
Angeles, not the University of California, Irvine, where he taught at the time
the paper was written.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WRITERS (87%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (85%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Charm of 'an Older Brooklyn'

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1309 words


Convenience to Manhattan might have been the original impetus for the growth of
Brooklyn Heights, but the neighborhood continues to attract residents for other
reasons as well, including its leafy streets, its abundant historic buildings
and the expanding Brooklyn Bridge Park.

Jacob Blickenstaff, a photographer, had rented in several Brooklyn neighborhoods
before beginning a search two years ago with his girlfriend for a more permanent
home that led to Brooklyn Heights.

''Brooklyn Heights was always the most beautiful and peaceful neighborhood that
I encountered, with an incredible mix of history and architecture that's
unique,'' Mr. Blickenstaff, 36, said. ''Once we realized that there were some
things available there in our price range, it quickly became the standard.''

Mr. Blickenstaff said he and his girlfriend were lucky to find a one-bedroom
co-op for $525,000; they are spending about $50,000 to $60,000 on renovations.

Brooklyn Heights, about 12 blocks deep and five blocks wide at its widest, has
roughly 23,000 residents; the area's median household income is among the
highest in the borough at $166,346, according to the city's Independent Budget
Office.

The neighborhood is ''a bit stuck in the past in terms of the restaurants and
services and things,'' Mr. Blickenstaff said. ''It still has a little bit of an
older Brooklyn feel.''

But the creation of Brooklyn Bridge Park over the last decade is enticing
visitors to the area. And two planned hotels, one on Montague Street and the
other in the park, should contribute to tourism once they have opened.

Swathed in historic districts limiting property development, Brooklyn Heights
has been removed from much of the real estate activity seen in other
neighborhoods in the borough. Residents, though, have been critical of a couple
of residential development projects in the works.

A group called Save the View Now plans to continue a legal crusade against
Pierhouse, the 192-room hotel and 106-unit condo complex adjacent to Pier 1 in
Brooklyn Bridge Park that obscures some views of the Brooklyn Bridge, despite
the ruling in June by a State Supreme Court judge that allowed continued
construction.

Another group, called the People for Green Space Foundation, is opposed to the
planned construction of two residential buildings at Pier 6, asserting the park
does not need the additional revenue the development would yield.

At least four other residential buildings are at different stages of planning or
construction for a total of about 222 units that could be developed in Brooklyn
Heights over the next few years, real estate agents said.

Growing numbers of families with young children are moving to the area, said
Judy Stanton, the executive director of the Brooklyn Heights Association. She
said ''children spilling out of the stoops'' drew her to her home on Garden
Place in the early '70s, when there were about 80 children on the block. ''Then
they all grew up and moved away,'' she said. ''Now suddenly new families have
moved in.

''I'm delighted to still be here and watch this new generation grow up.''

What You'll Find

Brooklyn Heights' boundaries are well defined: Atlantic Avenue to Old Fulton
Street, and Court Street and Cadman Plaza West to the East River. The
neighborhood is almost completely protected by three historic districts, the
largest being the Brooklyn Heights Historic District, which was the first
historic district to be designated in the city in 1965.

While brownstone townhouses predominate in Brooklyn Heights, what sets it apart
from other Brooklyn brownstone neighborhoods is the diversity of architecture,
from wood-frame houses to Federal brick homes to carriage houses, said Lindsay
Barton Barrett, an agent with Compass.

Townhouses, often five stories, tend to be bigger than those in other Brooklyn
neighborhoods, Ms. Barrett said. Brooklyn Heights also has some prewar
residential hotels that have been converted to co-op buildings, she said.

What You'll Pay

Townhouses tend to sell for $6 million to $8 million, on average, though one
mansion is listed for $40 million, said Sam Pollach, an agent with the Upton
Realty Group.

Depending on their size and the number of bathrooms they have, studio co-ops go
for around $350,000 to $400,000; one-bedrooms for $450,000 to $750,000;
two-bedrooms for $950,000 to $1.35 million; and three-bedrooms for $2.3 million
to $3.2 million, Mr. Pollach said.

While co-ops typically range from around $1,200 to $1,400 a square foot,
condominiums, such as those at Pierhouse, are closer to $2,500 a square foot, he
said.

Gregory Williamson, an agent for Douglas Elliman Real Estate who works in
Brooklyn Heights regularly, said that home prices had risen 15 percent to 20
percent in the last year and a half to two years.

Rentals range from $2,000 to $4,000 a month for one-bedroom apartments; $2,500
to $6,500 for two-bedrooms; and $5,000 to $10,000 for three-bedrooms, Ms.
Barrett said.

The Commute

The Court Street station, with the N and R subway trains, is one stop from Lower
Manhattan, as are the Clark Street station, with the 2 and 3, and the High
Street station, with the A and C. Their convenience has made the neighborhood a
popular choice for people working in the financial district. The 4 and 5 trains,
as well as the 2 and 3, stop at nearby Borough Hall, and the A, C and F trains
stop at nearby Jay Street-Metro Tech. The trip to Midtown takes about 20
minutes.

What to Do

Brooklyn Bridge Park includes six piers along with Fulton Ferry Landing,
offering kayaking and fishing, basketball, bocce ball, beach volleyball, roller
skating, playgrounds, soccer and a dog run. There are also waterfront
restaurants and snack shops, like Ample Hills Creamery.

Before the park's creation, the Brooklyn Heights Promenade, a walkway about five
blocks long that has overlooked New York Harbor since 1950, was the area's main
attraction and continues to offer stunning views of Manhattan's skyline.

Montague Street provides shopping with some national chains, such as Sleepy's
and Banana Republic, and restaurants like Subway and Le Pain Quotidien. Atlantic
Avenue has pizzerias and Middle Eastern restaurants, while Court Street offers
businesses like Starbucks and Dunkin' Donuts.

Brooklyn Heights has a small restaurant row on Henry Street, with Sociale, an
Italian restaurant, being one of the newer spots, having opened about two years
ago.

A microneighborhood called Willowtown, in the southwestern corner of Brooklyn
Heights, is home to the Iris Cafe, which also has a nearby shop selling
specialty groceries and prepared foods.

The Schools

The growing number of children in Brooklyn Heights is being felt at the only
public elementary school in the neighborhood, Public School 8 Robert Fulton,
which now has a waiting list for kindergarten, Ms. Stanton said.

The school serves about 870 students from kindergarten to Grade 8. According to
its 2013-14 School Quality Snapshot, 57 percent of students met standards in
English, versus 28 percent citywide, and 60 percent met math standards, versus
34 percent citywide.

Brooklyn Heights is also known for its highly regarded private schools,
including Saint Ann's School and the Packer Collegiate Institute. A new private
school, AltSchool Brooklyn Heights, for prekindergarten through Grade 3, will
open in the fall.

The History

As early as the 17th century, ferries were running across the East River to
serve farms in what is now Brooklyn Heights. By the late 18th century, the area
had a few major landowners -- with familiar names like Middagh and Hicks -- but
it wasn't until Robert Fulton's steam ferry service had its first run in 1814
that development took off as modern commuting began.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/the-historic-charm-of-brooklyn-heig
hts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Brooklyn Heights Promenade is a main attraction in the
neighborhood, offering stunning Manhattan skyline and harbor views. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY EDWIN J. TORRES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%);
CONSTRUCTION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
(78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL
CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%);
CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); LAND
USE PLANNING (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Westchester

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 4460 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in the Hudson Valley. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to westweek@nytimes.com

Comedy

PEEKSKILL Paramount Hudson Valley ''As Seen on TV,'' Rob Falcone, Kevin Meaney
and Tom McTiernan. July 31 at 8 p.m. $25. Paramount Hudson Valley, 1008 Brown
Street. paramounthudsonvalley.com; 914-739-0039.

WEST NYACK Levity Live Joseph Anthony. July 29 at 7:30 p.m. $15. Kareem Green.
July 30 at 7:30 p.m. $15. Craig Shoemaker. July 31 through Aug. 2. $22. Levity
Live, 4210 Palisades Center Drive. 845-353-5400; levitylive.com.

YONKERS Hudson River Museum National Comedy Theater, improvisation. Aug. 1 at 8
p.m. Free. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. 914-963-4550; hrm.org.

Film

HUDSON Time & Space Limited ''The Tribe,'' directed by Myroslav Slaboshpytskiy.
July 26 at 4:30 p.m. ''A Master Builder,'' directed by Jonathan Demme. July 26
at 7 p.m. $6 and $8. Time and Space Limited, 434 Columbia Street. 518-822-8448;
timeandspace.org.

PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Royal Opera House: 'Guillaume Tell,' ''
screening of the opera with Damiano Michieletto. July 28 at 2 p.m. $20 and $25.
''Deconstructing Sgt. Pepper,'' documentary by Scott Freiman. July 29 at 5 p.m.
''Say the Word: Deconstructing the Beatles' Rubber Soul,'' documentary by Scott
Freiman. July 29 at 8 p.m. $15 and $20. ''R.E.M. by MTV,'' documentary by Alex
Young. July 30 at 7:30 p.m. $7 and $12. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville
Road. burnsfilmcenter.org; 914-747-5555. ROSENDALE Rosendale Theater ''National
Theater Live: 'Man and Superman,' '' screening of the play by George Bernard
Shaw. July 26 at 3 p.m. $10 and $12. ''Lambert and Stamp,'' documentary by James
D. Cooper. July 28 through Aug. 1. $5 and $7. Rosendale Theater, 408 Main
Street. rosendaletheatre.org; 845-658-8989.

For Children

BRONX Wave Hill Stories in the Garden: Flutterby Butterfly. July 29 at 2 p.m.
Free with admission to the grounds. $2 to $8; members and children under 6,
free. Wave Hill, 675 West 252nd Street. 718-549-3200; wavehill.org.

GARRISON The Philipstown Depot Theater ''The Music Man, Jr.,'' musical. Through
July 26. $10. ''City of Angels,'' Teen Players. July 30 through Aug. 2. $12. The
Philipstown Depot Theater, 10 Garrison Landing. philipstowndepottheatre.org;
845-424-3900.

KATONAH Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts ''Dancing at Dusk: Greek
Dancing,'' the Band Ethos, with Kostas Psarros. July 29 at 5 p.m. $5 and $10.
Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. 914-232-1252;
caramoor.org.

PEEKSKILL The Field Library Children's Room ''Library Live Starring Domino the
Great,'' magic show. July 30 at 6:30 p.m. Free. The Field Library Children's
Room, 4 Nelson Avenue. fieldkids.wordpress.com; 914-737-0847.

ROSENDALE Rosendale Theater ''Inside Out,'' animated film. Through July 30. $5
and $7. Rosendale Theater, 408 Main Street. 845-658-8989; rosendaletheatre.org.

TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall ''Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory'' (1971),
with Gene Wilder. Aug. 2 at 1 p.m. Free. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street.
tarrytownmusichall.org; 877-840-0457.

Music and Dance

ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON The Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, at
Bard College Ethel Smyth's ''The Wreckers,'' American Symphony Orchestra. July
29 at 2 p.m., July 31 at 7:30 p.m. and Aug. 2 at 2 p.m. $24 to $95. Chris
Washburne and SYOTOS, Latin jazz. July 30 at 8 p.m. $20 and $25. Eisa Davis,
soul. July 31 at 8:30 p.m. $25 to $65. The Richard B. Fisher Center for the
Performing Arts, at Bard College. 845-758-7900; fishercenter.bard.edu.

ARMONK Hudson Stage Company, at Whippoorwill Hall, North Castle Public Library
Stephen Schwartz and Friends, show tunes. July 26 at 4 p.m. $125. Hudson Stage
Company, at Whippoorwill Hall, North Castle Public Library, 19 Whippoorwill
Road. 914-271-2811; hudsonstage.com.

BEACON Towne Crier Cafe Betty and the Baby Boomers, folk. July 26 at 7:30 p.m.
$15. The Duhks, neo-folk. July 30 at 7:30 p.m. $25. Dan and the Wildfire, folk
and rock. July 31 at 8:30 p.m. $15. Towne Crier Cafe, 379 Main Street.
845-855-1300; townecrier.com.

BETHEL Bethel Woods Center for the Arts 3 Doors Down, Seether and We Are Harlot,
rock. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $33.50 to $79. Peter Cetera With the Hudson Valley
Philharmonic. Aug. 2 at 7 p.m. $52.50 to $99.50. Bethel Woods Center for the
Arts, 200 Hurd Road. bethelwoodscenter.org; 866-781-2922.

BRONX Wave Hill Hilliard Greene and The Jazz Expressions. July 29 at 7 p.m. Free
with admission to the grounds. $2 to $8; members and children under 6, free.
Wave Hill, 675 West 252nd Street. 718-549-3200; wavehill.org.

CHATHAM PS21 Chatham Ashley Bathgate, cello, and Karl Larson, piano. July 26 at
2 p.m. $15 to $25. PS21 Chatham, 2980 Route 66. ps21chatham.org; 518-392-6121.

ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater Tribute to the King, Garry Wesley and
Danny Vernon. Aug. 1 at 6:45 p.m. $90 for dinner and show. Westchester Broadway
Theater, 1 Broadway Plaza. broadwaytheatre.com; 914-592-2222.

KATONAH Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts Eroica Trio, classical. July 26
at 4:30 p.m. $19 to $59. Hélène Grimaud, classical. July 31 at 8 p.m. $35 to
$59. Suzanne Vega, folk and pop. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $40 to $70. ''Festival
Finale,'' Orchestra of St. Luke's, Hélène Grimaud, piano, and Pablo
Heras-Casado, conductor. Aug. 2 at 4:30 p.m. $25 to $83. Caramoor Center for
Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. caramoor.org; 914-232-1252.

MARLBORO The Falcon Erik Lawrence Quartet, jazz. July 26, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Larry Moses' Latin Jazz Explosion. July 26 at 7 p.m. Rhett Tyler, acoustic rock.
July 29 at 7 p.m. Amina Figarova Group, jazz. July 30 at 7 p.m. KJ Denhert and
the New York Unit, folk and jazz. July 31 at 7 p.m. Ed Palermo Big Band, tribute
to the Beach Boys. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. Willa McCarthy Band, R&B. Aug. 2, 10 a.m. to
2 p.m. Nicki Parrott and Rossano Sportiello Duo, jazz. Aug. 2 at 7 p.m.
Donations accepted. The Falcon, 1348 Route 9W. 845-236-7970;
liveatthefalcon.com.

NEW ROCHELLE New Rochelle Library Green Zero 360, R&B. July 30 at 7 p.m. Free.
New Rochelle Library Green, Huguenot and Lawton Streets.
newrochelledowntown.com; 914-632-8254.

NYACK Edward Hopper House Art Center Richie Morales Quartet, jazz. July 30 at
7:30 p.m. Suggested donation, $5. Edward Hopper House Art Center, 82 North
Broadway. 845-358-0774; edwardhopperhouse.org.

OSSINING Louis Engel Waterfront Park Teri Lamar and New Company, R&B. July 31 at
7 p.m. Free. Louis Engel Waterfront Park, 160 Westerly Road.
villageofossining.org; 914-941-3189.

PAWLING Daryl's House Back To The Garden 1969, rock. July 26 at 7 p.m. $20 and
$25. Palmslap, soul. July 29 at 8 p.m. No cover. Bill Kirchen, rockabilly. July
30 at 8 p.m. $15 and $20. Roomful of Blues, swing and rock. July 31 at 8 p.m.
$20 and $35. Al Stewart and Marc Black, folk. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $25 and $35. Hal
Ketchum, country. Aug. 2 at 8 p.m. $25 and $35. Daryl's House, 130 Route 22.
845-289-0185; darylshouseclub.com.

PEEKSKILL 12 Grapes Music and Wine Bar Bakklash, rock and funk. July 31 at 9:30
p.m. $5 and $10. Indigo King, rock. Aug. 1 at 9:30 p.m. $5. 12 Grapes Music and
Wine Bar, 12 North Division Street. 914-737-6624; 12grapes.com.

PEEKSKILL Bean Runner Cafe Joe Nott Band, blues and rock. July 26 at 5 p.m. $10.
Donovan Michael and Under The Rasta Influence, reggae. July 31 at 8 p.m. $10.
Premik Russell Tubbs, jazz. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $10. Bianca Mancinelli and Band,
blues and jazz. Aug. 2 at 4 p.m. $10. Bean Runner Cafe, 201 South Division
Street. beanrunnercafe.com; 914-737-1701.

PHOENICIA The Phoenicia Festival of the Voice, 30 events in various locations.
July 29 through Aug. 2. $5 and $25. Multiple venues. 845-586-3588;
phoeniciavoicefest.org.

PIERMONT  The Turning Point Rez Abbasi Acoustic Quartet, jazz. July 26 at 7:30
p.m. $25. Adam Gussow and Robert Ross, blues. July 29 at 8 p.m. $20. Big Jim
Wheeler and his Band in Black, country. July 31 at 8:30 p.m. $15. Bobby DiBlasio
and Friends, folk. Aug. 1 at 8:30 p.m. $15. Jason Ricci Band, blues. Aug. 2 at
7:30 p.m. $20. The Turning Point, 468 Piermont Avenue. 845-359-1089;
turningpointcafe.com.

PORT CHESTER The Capitol Theater ''Weird Al'' Yankovic, pop and parody. July 30
at 8 p.m. $45 to $260. Duran Duran, pop. Aug. 2 at 8 p.m. $89.50 to $155. The
Capitol Theater, 149 Westchester Avenue. 914-937-4126; thecapitoltheatre.com.

RYE The South Pavilion, Rye Town Park The Derivatives Band, pop. July 28 at 7:30
p.m. Free. Parking is $4 after 5 p.m. The South Pavilion, Rye Town Park, 95
Dearborn Avenue. 914-967-0965; ryetownpark.org.

TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall Randy Newman, soft rock. July 26 at 8 p.m. $58 to
$128. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. tarrytownmusichall.org;
877-840-0457.

WOODSTOCK Bearsville Theater Left Banke, rock. July 26 at 8 p.m. $15. The
Slackers, ska and rock. July 31 at 9 p.m. $20. ''Don't Let Go: A Musical
Celebration of Jerry Garcia.'' Aug. 1. $20 and $25. Bearsville Theater, 291
Tinker Street. 845-679-4406; bearsvilletheater.com.

WOODSTOCK Maverick Concert Hall Latitude 41, classical. July 26 at 4 p.m. $25
and $40. Fred Hersch, jazz piano. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $25 and $50. Escher String
Quartet, classical. Aug. 2 at 4 p.m. $25 and $40. Maverick Concert Hall, 120
Maverick Road. maverickconcerts.org; 845-679-8217.

YONKERS Hudson River Museum Chrystal Monee Hall, gospel. July 31 at 8 p.m. Free.
Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. 914-963-4550; hrm.org.

Outdoors

BRONX Grand Concourse Boogie on the Boulevard, music, activities, local artists
and more. The center lanes of the Grand Concourse from 161 to 167 Streets will
be closed to cars. Sundays, Aug. 2 through 16, noon to 4 p.m. Free.
718-681-6000; bronxmuseum.org.

CARMEL Putnam County Veterans Memorial Park The Putnam County Fair, animals,
entertainment, food, horse show and games. Through July 26. Free. Putnam County
Veterans Memorial Park, 201 Gipsy Trail Road. putnam.cce.cornell.edu.

YONKERS Untermyer Gardens Conservancy Tours of the Persian garden and estate
restoration. Tours of the Persian garden and estate restoration. Sundays at 11
a.m., July 26 through Aug. 30. $10. Chairman's tour is $20 on Aug. 9. Untermyer
Gardens Conservancy, 945 North Broadway. 914-512-0436; untermyergardens.org.

Spoken Word

SLEEPY HOLLOW Hudson Valley Writers' Center ''Lyrics as Poetry: Jazz Vocalese
with Greg Thomas.'' July 31 at 7:30 p.m. $10. Hudson Valley Writers' Center, 300
Riverside Drive. writerscenter.org; 914-332-5953.

Theater

ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Godspell,'' rock opera by Stephen
Schwartz. Through Aug. 9. $54 to $84 for dinner and show. Westchester Broadway
Theater, 1 Broadway Plaza. broadwaytheatre.com; 914-592-2222.

GARRISON Boscobel House and Gardens The Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival:
''The Winter's Tale'' and ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' along with Lisa
Peterson and Denis O'Hare's ''An Iliad'' and Mary Zimmerman's ''The Arabian
Nights.'' Through Aug. 30. $32 to $84. Boscobel House and Gardens, 1601 Route
9D. hvshakespeare.org; 845-265-9575.

PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art ''In Bed With a Big, Bad
Wolf,'' two performances by Marcy B. Freedman. July 26, 3 to 5 p.m. $15 and $20.
Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. 914-788-0100;
hvcca.org.

POUGHKEEPSIE Powerhouse Theater ''The Light Years,'' drama by Hannah Bos and
Paul Thureen. Through Aug. 2. $40. ''Noir,'' musical by Kyle Jarrow and Duncan
Sheik. July 31 through Aug. 2. $30. Powerhouse Theater, 124 Raymond Avenue.
powerhouse.vassar.edu; 845-437-5599.

STONY POINT Penguin Rep Theater ''My Name Is Asher Lev,'' by Aaron Posner.
Through Aug. 2. $40. Penguin Rep Theater, 7 Crickettown Road. penguinrep.org;
845-786-2873.

TARRYTOWN Carriage House Theater ''The Understudy,'' comedy by Theresa Rebeck.
Through July 26. $30 and $35. Carriage House Theater, at Lyndhurst, 635 South
Broadway. lyndhurst.org; 914-631-4481.

THORNWOOD John Whearty Theater, at Westlake High School ''Guys and Dolls,''
Mount Pleasant Community Theater. July 31 through Aug. 6. $18 and $22. John
Whearty Theater, at Westlake High School, 825 Westlake Drive. 914-769-0958;
mpctshows.com.

WOODSTOCK Woodstock Playhouse ''Oklahoma,'' musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar
Hammerstein II. July 30 through Aug. 9. $32 to $40. Woodstock Playhouse, Routes
212 and 375. 845-679-6900; woodstockplayhouse.org.

WOODSTOCK Woodstock Shakespeare Festival ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' by
Shakespeare. Through Aug. 9. Donations accepted. Woodstock Shakespeare Festival,
45 Comeau Drive. birdonacliff.org; 845-247-4007.

YORKTOWN HEIGHTS Yorktown Stage ''All Shook Up!'' Jukebox musical by Joe
DiPietro. Through Aug. 1. $19 to $28. Yorktown Stage, 1974 Commerce Street.
914-962-0606; yorktownstage.org.

Museums and Galleries

BEACON Howland Public Library ''Art Works 2,'' group show. Through Aug. 2.
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays,
9:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.
Howland Public Library, 313 Main Street. 845-831-1134; beaconlibrary.org.

BEACON Matteawan Gallery ''Deconstruct,'' group show. Through Aug. 30. Saturdays
and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Matteawan Gallery, 464 Main Street. 845-440-7901;
matteawan.com.

BEACON Mount Gulian Historic Site Tours of the historic home, Dutch barn and
restored garden. Sundays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m. through
Oct. 25. $4 to $8; members, free. Mount Gulian Historic Site, 145 Sterling
Street. mountgulian.org; 845-831-8172.

BEACON RiverWinds Gallery ''The Bubble Makers,'' paintings by Dana Wigdor.
Through Aug. 2. Wednesdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m.; second Saturdays,
noon to 9 p.m. RiverWinds Gallery, 172 Main Street. 845-838-2880;
riverwindsgallery.com.

BETHEL Bethel Woods Center for the Arts ''Written in Stone,'' sculptures by
Harry Gordon. Through Oct. 12. ''Threads: Connecting '60s and Modern Rockwear,''
from the collection of Andy Hilfiger. Through Dec. 31. $6 to $15; children under
3, free. Daily, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. through Sept. 7. Bethel Woods Center for the
Arts, 200 Hurd Road. bethelwoodscenter.org; 866-781-2922.

BRONX Bronx Museum of the Arts ''Bronx Calling: The Third AIM Biennial,'' group
show. Through Sept. 20. Thursdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays,
11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse. 718-681-6000;
bronxmuseum.org.

BRONX The New York Botanical Garden ''Frida Kahlo: Art, Garden, Life,''
including paintings, works on paper and a reimagining of Kahlo's garden. Through
Nov. 1. $10 to $25; children under 2, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to
6 p.m. The New York Botanical Garden, Southern Boulevard. 718-817-8700;
nybg.org.

COLD SPRING Buster Levi Gallery Paintings and sculpture by Jennie M. Currie.
Through Aug. 2. Fridays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; also by appointment.
Buster Levi Gallery, 121 Main Street. 845-809-5810; busterlevigallery.com.

ELMSFORD Greenburgh Public Library ''The Female Muse: Reflections on Life, Love
and Loss,'' paintings by Donna Faranda. Through July 31. Mondays, Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to
9 p.m. Greenburgh Public Library, 300 Tarrytown Road. 914-721-8225;
greenburghlibrary.org.

GARRISON Manitoga/The Russel Wright Design Center House, studio and landscape
tours. Through Nov. 9. $10 to $20. Manitoga/The Russel Wright Design Center, 584
Route 9D. 845-424-3812; russelwrightcenter.org.

GREENBURGH Madeleine Gutman Gallery ''Captivation Through Visual Inspiration,''
photographs by Monica Marrow. Through Sept. 15. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Madeleine Gutman Gallery, 177 Hillside Avenue.
greenburghartsandculture.org; 914-682-1574.

HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON Upstream Gallery ''Paper Works 2015,'' group show. Through
July 26. ''Points of View from the Circle,'' Red Circle Photo Arts Collective.
Aug. 1 through 30. Thursdays through Sundays, 12:30 to 5:30 p.m. Upstream
Gallery, 8 Main Street. 914-674-8548; upstreamgallery.com.

HUDSON 510 Warren Street Gallery ''Landscape Thoughtography,'' abstract
photographs by Jonathan Pazer. Through July 26. ''Sea, Sky and Shore,''
paintings by Eleanor Lord. July 31 through Aug. 30. Fridays and Saturdays, noon
to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. 510 Warren Street Gallery, 510 Warren Street.
510warrenstgallery.com; 518-822-0510.

HUDSON BCB Art ''Big Collars,'' paintings by Barbara Friedman. Through Aug. 16.
Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; also by appointment. BCB Art, 116
Warren Street. 518-828-4539; bcbart.com.

HUDSON Carrie Haddad Gallery ''Abstraction,'' Adam Cohen, Elizabeth Coyne,
Donise English and Chris Duncan. Through Aug. 23. Mondays through Saturdays, 11
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Carrie Haddad Gallery, 622 Warren
Street. carriehaddadgallery.com; 518-828-1915.

HUDSON Jeff Bailey Gallery ''BrightAirBrilliantFire,'' Todd Knopke. ''Smooth
Jazz,'' Irena Jurek. Through Aug. 2. Fridays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.;
also by appointment. Jeff Bailey Gallery, 127 Warren Street. baileygallery.com;
518-828-6680.

HUDSON John Davis Gallery Paintings by Janice Nowinski. Through Aug. 16.
Thursdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; also by appointment. John Davis
Gallery, 362 1/2 Warren Street. 518-828-5907; johndavisgallery.com.

HYDE PARK The Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum ''The Spirit
of the Gift: Gifts of State and Affection.'' Through Dec. 31. $6 and $9;
children under 15, free. Daily, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. through Oct. 31. The Franklin
D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, 4079 Albany Post Road.
845-486-7745; fdrlibrary.marist.edu.

IRVINGTON Irvington Public Library ''Pre-Columbian Mexican Pottery,'' Sumi Ink
drawings by Jim Maciel. Aug. 2 through 29. Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Irvington Public Library, 12 South Astor Street. irvingtonlibrary.org;
914-591-7840.

KATONAH Katonah Museum of Art ''Inside the Outside: Five Self-Taught Artists
from the William Louis-Dreyfus Foundation.'' Through Oct. 11. $5 and $10;
members and children under 12, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, 134 Jay Street.
914-232-9555; katonahmuseum.org.

LARCHMONT Kenise Barnes Fine Art ''Cool and Collected '15,'' group show. Through
Sept. 10. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; also by appointment.
Kenise Barnes Fine Art, 1947 Palmer Avenue. 914-834-8077; kbfa.com.

LARCHMONT Mamaroneck Artists Guild ''Summer Scenes,'' group show. Through Aug.
1. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; also by appointment. Mamaroneck
Artists Guild, 126 Larchmont Avenue. mamaroneckartistsguild.org; 914-834-1117.

MAMARONECK Bullseye New York Gallery ''Glass: In the Nature of Things,'' group
show. Through Aug. 15. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays,
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bullseye New York Gallery, 115 Hoyt Avenue. bullseyeglass.com;
914-835-3794.

MOUNTAINVILLE Storm King Art Center ''Lynda Benglis: Water Sources,''
large-scale sculptures. Through Nov. 8. ''Outlooks: Luke Stettner,''
site-specific outdoor installation. Through Nov. 29. $8 to $12; members and
children under 5, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Storm
King Art Center, Old Pleasant Hill Road. 845-534-3115; stormkingartcenter.org.

NEW PALTZ Samuel Dorsky Museum of Art, at the State University of New York at
New Paltz ''The Stories We Tell: Hudson Valley Artists 2015,'' group show.
Through Nov. 8. Suggested donation, $5. Wednesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m. Samuel Dorsky Museum of Art, at the State University of New York at New
Paltz, 1 Hawk Drive. newpaltz.edu/museum; 845-257-3844.

NYACK Edward Hopper House Art Center ''Elinore Schnurr: Outside Looking In,''
photographs. Through Aug. 2. ''John F. Simon, Jr.: The Ever Present Sun.''
Through Aug. 16. $2 to $7; members and children under 16, free. Wednesdays
through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; also by appointment. Edward Hopper House Art
Center, 82 North Broadway. 845-358-0774; edwardhopperhouse.org.

OLANA Olana State Historic Site ''River Crossings: Contemporary Art Comes
Home,'' group show. Also on display at the Thomas Cole National Historic Site in
Catskill. Through Nov. 1. $10 and $12; children under 12, free. Children under
16 admitted free at Thomas Cole. Olana State Historic Site, 5720 State Route 9G.
rivercrossings.org.

PEEKSKILL Bean Runner Cafe ''Recent Work,'' George Dubinsky. Through Aug. 16.
Sundays through Wednesdays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Fridays and Saturdays, 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Bean Runner Cafe, 201 South Division
Street. beanrunnercafe.com; 914-737-1701.

PEEKSKILL Field Library ''Musings: Works in Clay,'' sculpture by Jo-Ann Brody.
Through July 31. Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays,
11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Field
Library, 4 Nelson Avenue. 914-737-1212; peekskill.org.

PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art ''The 7 Deadly Sins: Lust.''
Through July 26. ''Love: The First of the 7 Virtues,'' group show. Through Dec.
6. $2 to $5; members and children under 8, free. Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; also by appointment. Hudson Valley Center
for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. 914-788-0100; hvcca.org.

PELHAM Pelham Art Center Faculty and student showcase. Through Aug. 7. ''Knit
Knit Bomb Bomb,'' outdoor yarn installation. Through Aug. 31. Tuesdays through
Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pelham Art Center, 155
Fifth Avenue. 914-738-2525; pelhamartcenter.org.

PORT CHESTER Clay Art Center ''My Name Is Nobody,'' Matthew Smith. Through Aug.
24. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; also by appointment. Clay Art
Center, 40 Beech Street. 914-937-2047; clayartcenter.org.

POUGHKEEPSIE The Franklin Delano Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge ''Bridge Music,''
sound installation by Joseph Bertolozzi. Through Oct. 31. Dawn to dusk. The
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge. josephbertolozzi.com.

POUGHKEEPSIE Mid-Hudson Civic Center The Ultimate Comic and Trade Expo. July 26.
$7 to $15; children under 5, free. Mid-Hudson Civic Center, 14 Civic Center
Plaza. midhudsonciviccenter.org; 845-454-5800.

POUGHKEEPSIE Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center ''Punctuating Space:
The Prints and Multiples of Richard Artschwager.'' Through Sept. 6. Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9
p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, 124
Raymond Avenue. 845-437-5632; fllac.vassar.edu.

POUND RIDGE Pound Ridge Public Library ''The 40th Annual Ground Glass
Photographic Group Show.'' Through Aug. 22. Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8
p.m.; Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5
p.m. Pound Ridge Public Library, 271 Westchester Avenue. 914-764-5085;
poundridgelibrary.org.

PURCHASE Neuberger Museum of Art of Purchase College ''Plastic: Art in an Era of
Material Innovation.'' Through Aug. 23. ''Gold,'' group show. ''Teresa
Margolles: We Have a Common Thread.'' Through Oct. 11. $3 and $5; members and
children 12 and under, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger
Museum of Art of Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. www.neuberger.org;
914-251-6100.

RHINEBECK Betsy Jacaruso Studio and Gallery ''Essence of the Valley,'' group
show. Through July 31. Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays,
11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; also by appointment. Betsy Jacaruso Studio and Gallery, 43
East Market Street. betsyjacarusoartist.com; 845-516-4435.

RHINEBECK Montgomery Row Second Level ''Faces,'' photographs and illustrations
by John Rizzo and Carol Rizzo. Through July 31. Daily, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Montgomery Row Second Level, 6423 Montgomery Street. 845-876-0543;
montgomeryrow.com.

RIVERDALE Elisa Contemporary Art ''A Trek Across Nepal,'' Marie Danielle
Leblanc. Through July 31. Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., also by appointment.
Elisa Contemporary Art, 5622 Mosholu Avenue. elisacontemporaryart.com;
212-729-4974.

SAUGERTIES Cross Contemporary Art ''Supreme Fiction,'' paintings and prints by
Catherine Howe. Through July 26. ''Domestic Bliss,'' photographs by Susan
Copich. Aug. 1 through 23. Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m.; also by
appointment. Cross Contemporary Art, 81 Partition Street. 845-399-9751;
crosscontemporaryart.com.

TIVOLI Tivoli Artists Gallery ''Mixed Media and Collaborations,'' group show.
Through July 26. ''Tivoli: People and Place,'' group show. July 31 through Aug.
23. Fridays, 5 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 1 to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Tivoli
Artists Gallery, 60 Broadway. 845-757-2667; tivoliartistsco-op.com.

WASSAIC The Wassaic Project, Maxon Mills ''Deep End,'' group show. Through Sept.
20. Fridays, 5 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 7 p.m.; and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.
The Wassaic Project, Maxon Mills, 37 Furnace Bank Road. wassaicproject.org;
347-815-0783.

WHITE PLAINS ArtsWestchester ''Revisiting Arcadia: Contemporary Landscapes,''
group show. Through Aug. 29. Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m. ArtsWestchester, 31 Mamaroneck Avenue. 914-428-4220;
artswestchester.org.

WHITE PLAINS White Plains Public Library ''Hidden in Plain Sight: White Plains
Architecture.'' Through Aug. 2. Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.;
Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. White Plains
Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue. 914-422-1480; whiteplainslibrary.org.

WILLOW James Cox Gallery ''Wilna and Nan: Two Woodstock Originals,'' art and
photography of Wilna Hervey and Nan Mason. Through Aug. 2. Tuesdays through
Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. James Cox
Gallery, 4666 Route 212. jamescoxgallery.com; 845-679-7608.

YONKERS Blue Door Gallery ''#Off the Page,'' group show. Through Aug. 1.
Thursdays and Fridays, 3 to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Blue Door Gallery,
13 Riverdale Avenue. bluedoorartcenter.org; 914-375-5100.

YONKERS Hudson River Museum ''Envy: One Sin, Seven Stories,'' installation by
Adrien Broom. ''Carla Gannis: The Garden of Emoji Delights.'' Through Sept. 26.
$3 to $6; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Hudson River
Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. 914-963-4550; hrm.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/things-to-do-in-westchester-july-26-t
o-aug-1-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KINGSTON: ''Sunset in Palm Springs'' (2014), oil on canvas by
Caroline Larsen, is on view in the group exhibition ''Let's Go Away for Awhile''
through Aug. 8 at the One Mile Gallery, 475 Abeel Street. For further
information: 845-338-2035. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLINE LARSEN) (WE8)
ROSENDALE: The film ''Love & Mercy,'' starring Paul Dano as Brian Wilson, will
be shown July 31 through Aug. 6 at the Rosendale Theater, 408 Main Street.
Tickets are $5 and $7. For further information: 845-658-8989 or
rosendaletheatre.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS)
(WE9)
 BEACON: ''In the Round'' (2015), wood and paint by Jon Reichert, is part of
''Beacon 3D,'' an outdoor public art exhibition on view from dawn to dusk
through Oct. 15 at various locations on Main Street. For information:
917-318-2239 or beacon3d.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BOGDANFFY-KRIEGH) (WE10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); MUSIC (87%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); THEATER (54%)

COMPANY: AS SEEN ON TV INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (58%); SIC5963 DIRECT
SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2939 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events in New Jersey. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to njtowns@nytimes.com

Film

HIGHLAND PARK Highland Park Public Library ''Timbuktu,'' French-Mauritanian
drama directed by Abderrahmane Sissako. July 28 at 6:30 p.m. Free. Highland Park
Public Library, 31 North Fifth Avenue. 732-572-2750; hpplnj.org.

NEWARK The Newark Museum The Newark Black Film Festival, films reflecting the
experience of African-Americans and the African diaspora. Through July 29. Free.
The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. newarkmuseum.org; 973-596-6550.

RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Amy,'' a 2015 documentary about the
singer-songwriter Amy Winehouse, directed by Asif Kapadia. Aug. 5 at 7 p.m. $5
to $15. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. 732-842-9000;
countbasietheatre.org.

For Children

BRANCHBURG Raritan Valley Community College ''Perfect Little Planet,'' star
shows and laser concerts. Through July 28. $7. Raritan Valley Community College,
Route 28 and Lamington Road in North Branch. raritanval.edu/planetarium;
908-231-8805.

NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''How To Train Your Dragon 2,'' a 3-D,
computer-animated action-fantasy film. July 28 at 10:30 a.m. and 7 p.m. Free.
State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. 732-246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.

NEWARK Newark Public Library The Newark Black Film Festival Youth Cinema.
Through Aug. 12. Free. Newark Public Library, 5 Washington Street. 973-733-7784;
npl.org.

RAHWAY Union County Performing Arts Center Brady Rymer and the Little Band That
Could, children's music. July 31 at 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. $8. Union County
Performing Arts Center, 1601 Irving Street. ucpac.org; 732-499-8226.

Music and Dance

ASBURY PARK Tim McLoone's Supper Club ''Happy,'' cabaret show starring Felix
Truex. Through July 30. $30. Tim McLoone's Supper Club, 1200 Ocean Avenue.
877-235-8587; cabaretforlife.net.

HOLMDEL PNC Bank Arts Center Bryan Adams, singer. July 30 at 8 p.m. $29.50 to
$129.50. PNC Bank Arts Center, 116 Garden State Parkway. livenation.com;
732-203-2500.

MORRISTOWN  Mayo Performing Arts Center Boz Scaggs, singer, songwriter and
guitarist. July 29 at 8 p.m. $49 to $99. Weird Al Yankovic. Aug. 2 at 8 p.m. $39
to $79. Chris Botti. Aug. 6 at 8 p.m. $49 to $89. Mayo Performing Arts Center,
100 South Street. 973-539-8008; mayoarts.org.

NEW BRUNSWICK Mason Gross Performing Arts Center ''Di Goldene Kale (The Golden
Bride),'' concert presentation of Joseph Rumshinsky's 1923 operetta with live
orchestra, in Yiddish, with English and Russian supertitles. Aug. 5 at 7 p.m. $5
to $15, with a free preperformance lecture by the scholar Michael Ochs at 6 p.m.
Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, 85 George Street. 732-932-7511;
masongross.rutgers.edu.

NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater Happy Together Tour 2015. Aug. 2 at 7 p.m. $35 to
$95. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. 732-246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.

NEWARK  Prudential Center Yes and Toto, rock. Aug. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $49.50 to
$129.50. Prudential Center, 25 Lafayette Street. 800-653-8000; prucenter.com.

OCEAN GROVE  Ocean Grove Great Auditorium ''Grand Orchestra and the Great
Organ,'' Jason Tramm conducts the Summer Stars Festival Orchestra, with organist
Gordon Turk, performing Félix-Alexandre Guilmant's Symphony No. 1 and Camille
Saint-Saëns Symphony No. 3. July 30 at 7:30 p.m. $16. Ocean Grove Great
Auditorium, 21 Pilgrim Pathway. oceangrove.org; 800-590-4064.

RED BANK Count Basie Theater Weird Al Yankovic. July 28 at 8 p.m. $25 to $79.
Deep Purple, rock. July 29 at 8 p.m. $50 to $135. ''American Idol Live,''
featuring Jax, Clark Beckham, Nick Fradiani, Tyanna Jones and Rayvon Owen. Aug.
2 at 7:30 p.m. $33 to $63.50. The Piano Guys. Aug. 4 at 8 p.m. $35 to $145.
Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. 732-842-9000; countbasietheatre.org.

SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Richie Furay, rock. Aug. 8 at 8
p.m. $45 to $85. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. 973-313-2787;
sopacnow.org.

SUMMIT Mondo's Brownstone Theater and Artspace Eric Przedpelski Jazz Quartet,
featuring Theo Walentiny. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. Mondo's Brownstone
Theater and Artspace, 426 Springfield Avenue. 917-969-4534; mondosummit.com.

TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum ''Classical Sundays at the Puffin.'' Jessica
Xylina Osborne performs piano works by Johann Sebastian Bach and other
composers. July 26 at 4 p.m. $10. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way.
201-836-3499; puffinculturalforum.org.

WEST ORANGE Oskar Schindler Performing Arts Center Househead Summer Festival,
1980s and '90s house music, househeadsummerfest.com. Aug. 8, noon to 8 p.m.
Free. Oskar Schindler Performing Arts Center, 4 Boland Drive. 973-669-7385;
ospac.org.

Spoken Word

MONTCLAIR Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center ''Seeing Home: The Ed Lucas
Story.'' Ed Lucas will discuss and sign copies of the book ''Seeing Home,''
which he wrote with his son Christopher. July 29 at 2 p.m. Free with admission
or book purchase. Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center, 8 Yogi Berra Drive.
973-655-2378; yogiberramuseum.org.

Theater

CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse ''The Search for Signs
of Intelligent Life in the Universe,'' by Jane Wagner. July 29 through Sept. 4.
$53. Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse, 405 Lafayette Street.
capemaystage.com; 609-770-8311.

CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company, the First Presbyterian Church of Cape May
''Huckleberry Finn,'' based on the ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn''
adapted by James Rana. July 29 through Sept. 5. $15 to $30. East Lynne Theater
Company, First Presbyterian Church of Cape May, 500 Hughes Street. 609-884-5898;
eastlynnetheater.org.

ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''Elton John and Tim Rice's 'Aida.' ''
July 31 through Aug. 2. $26 to $36. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van
Brunt Street. 201-227-1030; bergenpac.org.

FREEHOLD Center Playhouse ''A Doll's House,'' drama by Henrik Ibsen, directed by
Bernice Garfield-Szita. Through Aug. 9. $20 to $25. Center Playhouse, 35 South
Street. centerplayers.org; 732-462-9093.

MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''The Guardsman,'' by
Ferenc Molnar, an adaptation presented by the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey.
Through July 26. $15 to $62. ''Misalliance,'' by George Bernard Shaw. Aug. 5
through 30. $32 to $62. F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36
Madison Avenue. shakespearenj.org; 973-408-5600.

MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Hairspray,'' musical with music by Marc
Shaiman, lyrics by Scott Wittman and Mr. Shaiman and a book by Mark O'Donnell
and Thomas Meehan. Through July 26. $20 to $36. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main
Street. algonquinarts.com; 732-528-9211.

MORRIS TOWNSHIP Greek Theater, College of St. Elizabeth ''Love's Labour's
Lost,'' by Shakespeare, directed by Brian B. Crowe and presented by the
Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. Through July 26. $15 and $35. Greek Theater,
College of St. Elizabeth, 2 Convent Road. 973-408-5600; cse.edu/about-cse/arts.

PRINCETON Hamilton Murray Theater ''The Real Inspector Hound & the Actor's
Nightmare,'' an evening of one-act comedies by Tom Stoppard and Christopher
Durang. Through Aug. 2. $22 to $27.50. Hamilton Murray Theater, Princeton
University. princetonsummertheater.org; 732-997-0205.

RAHWAY Hamilton Stage ''American Idiot,'' stage adaptation of the punk-rock band
Green Day's rock opera. Aug. 7 through 16. $20. Hamilton Stage, 360 Hamilton
Street. 732-499-8226; ucpac.org.

RIDGEFIELD PARK Overpeck County Park ''The Comedy of Errors,'' by Shakespeare;
bring blankets or lawn chairs. Through Aug. 1. Free. Overpeck County Park, 199
Challenger Road.

UNION Premiere Stages at Kean University ''By the Water,'' play by Sharyn
Rothstein. Through Aug. 2. $15 to $30. Premiere Stages at Kean University, 1000
Morris Ave. 908-737-7469; kean.edu/premierestages.

Museums and Galleries

ASBURY PARK Exhibit No. 9 ''Suprimitive,'' paintings and prints on paper and
canvas by Atle Ostrem. Aug. 1 through Sept. 20. Exhibit No. 9, 550-102 Cookman
Avenue. exhibitnumber9.com; 908-818-8970.

ASBURY PARK Palette Gallery/ArtsSpace ''Esoteric Urbanism,'' paintings and
collage by Kortez. Through July 26. Thursdays and Fridays, 4 to 8 p.m.,
Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Palette Gallery/ArtsSpace,
716 Cookman Avenue. 201-981-2395.

BLAIRSTOWN Gourmet Gallery ''Art Around Blairstown,'' works by 12 local artists.
Through Aug. 29. Mondays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Gourmet Gallery, 31 Main Street. 908-705-0196;
gourmetgallerycafe.com.

BOONTON Speakeasy Art Gallery ''The Art of the Mix Tape,'' group exhibition.
Aug. 7 through Sept. 26. Reception, Aug. 7 at 6 p.m. Thursdays through
Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., and by appointment. Speakeasy Art Gallery, 816
Main Street. 973-557-8268.

CLINTON The Hunterdon Museum of Art ''New Works on Paper,'' Lisa Macchi. Through
Sept. 30. ''The Collage Journal: The First Decade,'' Peter Jacobs. Through Sept.
6. ''To The Best of My Recollection,'' drawings. Through Sept. 6. Donation: $5.
Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Art Museum, 7 Lower Center
Street. 908-735-8415; hunterdonartmuseum.org.

COLLINGSWOOD Perkins Center for the Arts ''Assemblage: A Collective of Women
Artists,'' group show. Through Aug. 22. Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 2
p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; or by appointment. Perkins Center for the
Arts, 30 Irvin Avenue. perkinscenter.org; 856-235-6488.

EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room Works by Bryan Hunt. Aug. 7 through Sept. 6. Free.
Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m.
to 5 p.m. The Drawing Room, 66 Newtown Lane. 631-324-5016;
drawingroom-gallery.com.

GALLOWAY Stockton University Performing Art's Center ''Visual Arts Alumni
Triennial Exhibition.'' Through Nov. 3. Stockton University Performing Arts
Center, 101 Vera King Farris Drive. stockton.edu/artgallery; 609-652-4566.

HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Robert Lobe: In the Forest of Drawn Metal,''
textured and painted aluminum wall reliefs. Through Jan. 17. ''Jae Ko:
Selections.'' Through Feb. 7. $10 to $15; members and children 5 and under,
free. Tuesdays through Sundays. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road.
groundsforsculpture.org; 609-586-0616.

HOBOKEN Monroe Art Center ''Passport to Understanding,'' a mixed-media art
exhibition by Ibou Ndoye and Liz Cohen. Through Aug. 9. Monroe Art Center, 720
Monroe Street. monroecenter.com; 201-683-6252.

ISLAND HEIGHTS John F. Peto Studio Museum ''Is It Real? Contemporary Sculpture
That Tricks the Eye.'' July 26 through Sept. 6. John F. Peto Studio Museum, 102
Cedar Avenue. 732-929-4949; petomuseum.org.

JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Beyond Planet Earth: The Future of Space
Exploration.'' Through Sept. 20. $11.75 to $21.75. Daily, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. 201-200-1000; lsc.org.

JERSEY CITY Victory Hall Drawing Rooms ''Color Rules,'' the impact of color.
Through Aug. 16. Victory Hall Drawing Rooms, 180 Grand Street. 201-208-8032;
drawingrooms.org/events.html.

LAMBERTVILLE The Artists' Gallery ''Radiance,'' oil paintings by Maxine Shore
and photographs by Joseph DeFay. Through Aug. 2. Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays,
11 a.m. to 6 p.m. The Artists' Gallery, 18 Bridge Street. 609-397-4588;
lambertvillearts.com.

LAYTON Sally D. Francisco Gallery at Peters Valley School of Craft ''Making
Matters: Fresh Perspectives in Fine Craft,'' visiting artists and summer staff.
Through Aug. 2. Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sally D. Francisco
Gallery at Peters Valley School of Craft, 19 Kuhn Road. 973-948-5202;
petersvalley.org.

MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Basket Mania: Collecting Native Basketry in the
Late Victorian Era.'' Through Jan. 3. ''Illustrations and Literary Themes in
American Art: Works From the Collection.'' Through Jan. 3. $12, adults; $10,
seniors and students; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue.
973-746-5555; montclairartmuseum.org.

MONTCLAIR The Gallery at Hillside Square ''Superior Apartments,'' photographs of
the Bronx by Ira Wagner. Through Sept. 4. Mondays through Fridays, 7 a.m. to 7
p.m. The Gallery at Hillside Square, 8 Hillside Avenue. iwphotoart.com;
212-729-3399.

MONTCLAIR Yogi Berra Museum & Learning Center ''Saving Face: The Evolution of
the Catcher and Goalie Mask.'' Through Oct. 4. $6, adults; $4, children.
Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Yogi Berra Museum and Learning
Center, 8 Yogi Berra Drive. yogiberramuseum.org; 973-655-2378.

MORRISTOWN Gallery at 14 Maple ''A Sure Hand,'' group show. Through Aug. 27.
Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; and by
appointment. Gallery at 14 Maple, 14 Maple Avenue. morrisarts.org; 973-285-5115.

MORRISTOWN Macculloch Hall Historical Museum ''The Civil War Through the Eyes of
Thomas Nast.'' Through Aug. 23. $6 to $8; children ages 6 to 12, $4; and
children under 5, free. ''Canals of New Jersey,'' about New Jersey's two towpath
canals, the Morris and the Delaware and Raritan. Through Oct. 29. $6 to $8;
children ages 6 to 12, $4; and children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Thursdays and
Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Macculloch Hall Historical Museum, 45 Macculloch Avenue.
973-538-2404; maccullochhall.org.

MORRISTOWN Morris Museum ''Now You See It: The Art of Magic and Illusion.''
Through Aug. 15. $7 to $10. ''Nikon Small World,'' 20 images from the winning
submissions to the Nikon International Small World Competition. Through Aug. 15.
$7 to $10. ''Musically, Made in New Jersey,'' exploring New Jersey's history of
manufacturing musical instruments. Through Oct. 18. $7 to $10. Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8
p.m.; and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road.
morrismuseum.org; 973-971-3700.

MOUNT HOLLY ABstract EXpressions Contemporary Art Gallery Paintings and
sculptures by Charles Palminteri. Through Aug. 29. Fridays, 1 to 7 p.m., and
Saturdays, noon to 7 p.m. ABstract EXpressions Contemporary Art Gallery, 70 High
Street. 609-267-7513; abstractexpressionsgallery.com.

NEW BRUNSWICK Zimmerli Art Museum ''The Doctor Is In: Medicine in French
Prints,'' works by Honoré Daumier and others. Through July 31. ''George Segal in
Black and White'' photographs by Donald Lokuta. Through July 31. Free.
''Donkey-donkey, Petunia, and Other Pals: Drawings by Roger Duvoisin,'' original
illustrations. Through June 26. Closed in August. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10
a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Zimmerli Art Museum, 71
Hamilton Street. zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu; 848-932-7237.

NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Royals and Regalia: Inside the Palaces of Nigeria's
Monarchs,'' 40 portraits by the photographer George Osodi. Through Aug. 9.
''Hassan Hajjaj: My Rock Stars,'' video installation. Through Aug. 9. ''Rajas,
Wrestlers and Renunciants: Portraits From Asia.'' Through Feb. 28. $7 and $12;
members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49
Washington Street. newarkmuseum.org; 973-596-6550.

PATERSON Lambert Castle The Clifton Association of Artists' Summer Art Show,
various media. Through Aug. 2. $3 to $5. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 4
p.m. Lambert Castle, 3 Valley Road. 973-247-0085 ext. 201; lambertcastle.org.

PRINCETON Bernstein Gallery ''Narratives: Hearts, Minds & Mythologies,'' Samira
Abbassy. Through Aug. 13. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bernstein
Gallery, Robertson Hall, Princeton University.
wws.princeton.edu/about-wws/bernstein-gallery; 609-497-2441.

PRINCETON D & R Greenway ''Palette With Purpose: Color in Nature,'' artwork by
the Contemporary Arts Group and D & R Greenway Artists of Preservation. Through
July 31. D & R Greenway, One Preservation Place. 609-924-4646; drgreenway.org.

PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''Of the Best Materials and Good Workmanship:
19th-Century New Jersey Chairmaking.'' Through Oct. 18. $5 and $6. Wednesdays
through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven
Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. 609-924-8144; morven.org.

PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum ''Painting on Paper: American
Watercolors at Princeton,'' works by Edward Hopper and others. Through Aug. 30.
''Collecting Contemporary, 1960-2015: Selections from the Schorr Collection,''
works by Andy Warhol and others. Through Sept. 20. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5
p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton University Campus.
artmuseum.princeton.edu; 609-258-3788.

STOCKTON Prallsville Mills 21st Annual Juried Show, group show. Through Aug. 2.
Fridays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Prallsville Mills, 33 Risler Street.
609-773-0881; drms-stockton.org.

WEST ORANGE JCC MetroWest Works by the winners of the 2015 Gaelen Juried Art
Show. Through Aug. 24. JCC MetroWest, 760 Northfield Avenue. 973-530-3413;
jccmetrowest.org.

WESTFIELD Gallery U ''Fotographia: An Exhibition of Photographs.'' Through Aug.
3. ''Ellen Martin's 'a ban don ed' series,'' photographs of abandoned structures
and more. Through Aug. 3. Mondays through Saturdays 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sundays
noon to 4 p.m. Gallery U, 439 South Avenue West. 908-232-1895;
gallery-u.blogspot.com.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/things-to-do-in-new-jersey-july-26-to
-aug-1-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAPE MAY: ''The Argonaut'' (2015), oil on board, is in ''The
Naturalist,'' an exhibition of oil paintings by Victor Grasso, at the Soma
NewArt Gallery, Carpenter's Square Mall, 31 Perry Street, Aug. 1 through Sept.
7. somagallery.net
609-898-7488. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEKSEY MORYAKOV) (NJ9)
NEWARK The reggae singer Beres Hammond, above, will perform with the jazz
pianist Monty Alexander at Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1
Center Street, on July 31 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $69 to $119. For information:
888-466-5722
 njpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (NJ10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); FILM (89%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS
(89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSIC (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL
SCIENCE (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); FILM FESTIVALS (77%); SCIENCE
FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); SONG WRITING (74%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); ANIMATION (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); MUSIC GENRES
(69%); DANCE (69%)

COMPANY: 3-D COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC (55%); PNC BANK NA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS,
& FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MAURITANIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Long Island

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2989 words


A guide to cultural and recreational events on Long Island. Items for the
calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to lical@nytimes.com

Comedy

EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall An Evening With David Sedaris. July 27 at 8 p.m. $48 to
$150. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. 631-324-4050; guildhall.org.

LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club Jessica Kirson. July 31 at 8 p.m. $45 for
seating and dinner, $15 for show. Joey Kola. Aug. 1 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $52 for
seating and dinner, $22 for show. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 Division Avenue.
516-731-3358; govs.com.

Film

EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Iris'' (2015), documentary by Albert Maysles. July 26
at 11 a.m. $13 and $15. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. guildhall.org;
631-324-4050.

GARDEN CITY Adelphi University Performing Arts Center San Francisco Opera's
''Show Boat.'' Aug. 2 at 2 p.m. $20. Adelphi University Performing Arts Center,
1 South Avenue. 516-877-4000; aupac.adelphi.edu.

HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''Saving the Planet -- One Bite at a Time,'' Gary
Null presents his film. July 26 at noon. $10 and $15. ''10 Questions for the
Dalai Llama'' (2006), documentary by Rick Ray. July 28 at 7:30 p.m. $5 to $12.
Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. cinemaartscentre.org; 631-423-7611.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Edgar Degas: Of Dandies, Ballerinas,
and Women Ironing,'' 30-minute documentary offered in conjunction with two
exhibitions of modernist art. Screening Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m.,
noon, 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. and Sundays 11 a.m. and noon July 25 through Nov. 8.
Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. nassaumuseum.org; 516-484-9337.

SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center First Annual Jewish Film Festival, a
series of primarily archival films. Sundays through Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $15.
Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. 631-287-4377; scc-arts.org.

For Children

BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts Wild Kratts -- Live!, a
theatrical stage show based on the PBS television series. Aug. 2 at 1 p.m. $35
to $100. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard.
516-299-3100; tillescenter.org.

LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club Kid's Daytime Comedy Show. Through Aug. 20.
$19.78 and $24.73. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 Division Avenue. govs.com;
516-731-3358.

MELVILLE Hilton Long Island ''Bizzydoo Kids Fest,'' indoor family festival and
expo. Aug. 9, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. $5 to $10; children under 2, free. Hilton Long
Island, 598 BroadHollow Road. bizzydookidsfest.com; 800-973-1295.

PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''Jack and the Beanstalk.'' Through Aug. 7. $10.
Theater Three, 412 Main Street. 631-928-9100; theaterthree.com.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Hear It! See It! Draw It!'' Listen
to stories, explore works of art and create drawings. July 31, Aug. 7 and 14, 10
to 11 a.m. Free with museum admission, $4 to $10. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1
Museum Drive. nassaumuseum.org; 516-484-9337.

SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts ''Cinderella's Glass
Slipper.'' Through Aug. 23. $15. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2
East Main Street. 631-724-3700; smithtownpac.org.

WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Zoppe Italian Family
Circus. Through July 26. $29 and $54. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center,
76 Main Street. 631-288-1500; whbpac.org.

Music and Dance

ALBERTSON Clark Botanic Gardens Five Towns College Concert Band, Dean Karahalis,
conductor. July 28, 7 p.m. Free. Clark Botanic Gardens, 193 I. U. Willets Road.
northhempsteadny.gov; 516-869-6311.

AMAGANSETT Stephen Talkhouse Lynn Blue and the International Men of Mystery,
rock covers. July 26 at 8 p.m. $10. Fred Raimondo with the Dark Heart Tavern
Band, rock. July 28 at 8 p.m. $10. Lilly-Anne Merat, soul. July 30 at 8 p.m.
$10. The Hoodoo Loungers, jazz. July 30 at 10 p.m. $10. ''Decadia,'' '80s
tribute. July 31 at 10:30 p.m. $30. Stephen Talkhouse, 161 Main Street.
631-267-3117; stephentalkhouse.com.

BAY SHORE Y.M.C.A. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Walter Trout, blues.
July 29 at 8 p.m. $35 and $40. Bill Kirchen, guitarist. July 31 at 8 p.m. $25
and $30. Albert Lee and Cindy Cashdollar, country-rock. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $35 and
$40. Y.M.C.A. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street.
boultoncenter.org; 631-969-1101.

BOHEMIA Connetquot Public Library ''The '60s Invasion with Joseph and Friends,''
cover band playing the hits of the Rascals, the Moody Blues, the Bee Gees and
more. Aug. 5, 7 to 8:30 p.m. Free. Connetquot Public Library, 760 Ocean Avenue.
631-567-5079; connetquotlibrary.org.

EAST HAMPTON LongHouse Reserve Art Center ''Strings al Fresco,'' classical music
by Voxare String Quartet and supper in remembrance of Ingeborg ten Haeff. Aug. 7
at 6 p.m. $75 to $500. LongHouse Reserve Art Center, 133 Hands Creek Road.
longhouse.org; 631-329-3568.

GLEN COVE  North Shore High School ''Live Out Loud,'' new songs by musical
theater writers and composers, performed by the North Shore Summer Theater
Workshop under the direction of Terry Berliner. July 31 and Aug. 1. $6 to $16.
North Shore High School, 450 Glen Cove Avenue. summertheaterworkshop.org;
516-945-9910.

HUNTINGTON Chapin Rainbow Stage, Heckscher Park Canta Libre, chamber quintet.
Aug. 2 at 8:30 p.m. Free. Chapin Rainbow Stage, Heckscher Park, Prime Avenue and
Route 25A. 631-271-8423; huntingtonarts.org/programs/summer-arts-festival.

HUNTINGTON Heckscher Museum of Art A Musical Portrait of James D'Aquisto Guitars
with Peter Rogine, jazz guitar. Aug. 7 at 7 p.m. Free. Heckscher Museum of Art,
2 Prime Avenue. 631-351-3250; heckscher.org.

NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater at Northport Rodgers & Hammerstein
Celebration! July 29 at 7 p.m. $45. John W. Engeman Theater at Northport, 250
Main Street. 631-261-2900; engemantheater.com.

PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three Supreme Reflections, tribute to Diana Ross, the
Supremes and Motown. July 31 at 8 p.m. $45. Theater Three, 412 Main Street.
theaterthree.com; 631-928-9100 .

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art Joe Dubs and the Jazz Connection,
Nassau County Museum of Art's resident house band presents the first of three
Sunday jazz concerts. Aug. 2 at 3 p.m. Free with museum admission, $4 to $10.
Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. 516-484-9337; nassaumuseum.org.

SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Grey Gardens: The Musical,'' book by Doug
Wright, music by Scott Frankel, and lyrics by Michael Korie. Aug. 4 through 30.
$62.55 to $85. Bay Street Theater, 1 Bay Street. 631-725-9500; baystreet.org.

WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Marc Cohn,
singer-songwriter. Aug. 1 at 8 p.m. $45 to $75. Steve Tyrell, pop standards.
Aug. 2 at 8 p.m. $50 to $100. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main
Street. 631-288-1500; whbpac.org.

Outdoors

BRIDGEHAMPTON South Fork Natural History Museum and Nature Center Dragonfly and
Damselfly Walk and Identification. July 26 at 1 p.m. South Fork Natural History
Museum and Nature Center, 377 Bridgehampton/Sag Harbor Turnpike. 631-537-9735;
sofo.org.

OYSTER BAY Collector Car Showcase ''Century of Speed,'' an exhibition on
competition and racecars. Through July 31. $5 to $10. Collector Car Showcase, 85
Pine Hollow Road (Route 106). 516-802-5297; collectorcs.com.

Theater

CENTERPORT The Carriage House Theater at the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum
''Twelfth Night,'' by Shakespeare. Through July 26. $15. The Carriage House
Theater at the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum, 180 Little Neck Road.
631-854-5579; arenaplayers.org.

EAST ISLIP BayWay Arts Center ''The 39 Steps,'' comedy by Pat Barlow and John
Buchan. July 25 through Aug. 9. $18 and $20. BayWay Arts Center, 265 East Main
Street. 631-581-2700; broadhollow.org.

GLEN COVE  North Shore High School ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling
Bee,'' musical performed by the North Shore Summer Theater Workshop under
direction of Terry Berliner. Aug. 7 and 8. $6 to $16. North Shore High School,
450 Glen Cove Avenue. summertheaterworkshop.org; 516-945-9910 .

LINDENHURST Studio Theater ''The Boys in the Band,'' a play by Mart Crowley.
Through July 26. $25. ''The Men From the Boys,'' staged reading of the sequel to
Mart Crowley's ''The Boys in the Band.'' July 31 to Aug 2. $25. Studio Theater,
141 South Wellwood Avenue. 631-226-8400;

studiotheatreli.com.

NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater at Northport ''The Cottage,'' comedy by Sandy
Rustin. Through Sept. 6. $59 and $64. John W. Engeman Theater at Northport, 250
Main Street. engemantheater.com; 631-261-2900.

PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts ''Billy Elliot: The
Musical,'' with music and lyrics by Elton John and book by Chris D'Arienzo.
Through Aug. 8. $54 to $69. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East
Main Street. 631-207-1313; patchoguetheatre.com.

PORT WASHINGTON Landmark on Main Street Frank Loesser's ''Guys and Dolls,'' the
Port Washington Play Troupe. Through July 26. $25. Landmark on Main Street, 232
Main Street. portwashingtonplaytroupe.com; 516-384-8541 .

SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Five Presidents,'' by Rick Cleveland. Through
July 26. $53.75 to $75. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. 631-725-9500;
baystreet.org.

SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts ''West Side Story,'' music by
Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and book by Arthur Laurents.
Through Aug. 30. $35. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2 East Main
Street. 631-724-3700; smithtownpac.org.

Museums and Galleries

BELLPORT Gallery 125 ''Arthur Pinajian (1914-1999), a Survey
Exhibition.''Through Sept. 6. Fridays, 4 to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m.. Gallery 125, 125 South Country Road. Gallery125.org; 631-880-2693.

BRIDGEHAMPTON Silas Marder Gallery Anya Gallaccio, large limestone and sandstone
sculptures. Through July 26. ''Ryan McGinness: Sign Trees,'' a public
installation of abstract street signs commissioned by the New York City
Department of Transportation. Aug. 1 through 29. Reception: Aug. 1, 4 to 8 p.m.
Thursdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Silas Marder Gallery, 120 Snake
Hollow Road. 631-702-2306; silasmarder.com.

BRIDGEHAMPTON The Design Studio ''Immersion,'' group show. Through July 27.
Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
5:30 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Design Studio, 2393 Main Street.
elisacontemporaryart.com.

COLD SPRING HARBOR Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum ''Sea Ink: American Sailors
and Tattoo Art,'' antique tattoo machines, inking tools and the origins of
nautical tattoos. Through Sept. 7. $5 to $6; members and children under 5, free.
Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum, 301 Main Street.
cshwhalingmuseum.org; 631-367-3418.

CUTCHOGUE Alex Ferrone Photography Gallery ''Translucent,'' works by Karen Bell
and Ennid Berger. Through Aug. 9. Alex Ferrone Photography Gallery, 25425 Main
Road. alexferrone.com; 631-734-8545.

EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Selfies and Portraits of the East End,'' group show.
Through July 26. ''Nicole Bigar: Muses Past and Present,'' an exhibition of
paintings. Through July 26. Suggested donation: $7. Fridays and Saturdays, 11
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street.
631-324-4050; guildhall.org.

EAST HAMPTON Haute Hippie East Hampton ''Summertime Salon,'' group show. Through
Sept. 6. Sundays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to Saturdays,
10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Haute Hippie East Hampton, 20 Newtown Lane. 212-239-6825.

EAST ISLIP Islip Art Museum ''IAM Pocket Sized,'' group show. Through Sept. 13.
Suggested donation, $5. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. 631-224-5402;
islipartmuseum.org.

GLEN COVE Holocaust Memorial and Tolerance Center ''Scenes of Horror: A
Photo-History of the Armenian Genocide,'' film, text and photos. Through Sept.
30. Suggested donation, $10. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, noon to 4 p.m. Holocaust Memorial and Tolerance
Center, 100 Crescent Beach Road. 516-571-8040; holocaust-nassau.org.

GLEN COVE Long Island Academy of Fine Art ''New Works,'' Lauren Rosenblum.
Through July 31. Long Island Academy of Fine Art, 14A Glen Street. liafa.com;
516-590-4324.

HEMPSTEAD Hofstra University Museum ''Enduring Images,'' works responding to
historic events, from the museum's collection. Through Jan. 31. Daily, 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. Hofstra University Museum, Hofstra University. 516-463-5672;
hofstra.edu/museum.

HUNTINGTON Fotofoto Gallery ''Project Lives: New York Public Housing Residents
Photograph Their World,'' group show. July 31 through Aug. 29. Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays,
noon to 5 p.m. Fotofoto Gallery, 14 West Carver Street. 631-549-0448;
fotofotogallery.org.

HUNTINGTON Heckscher Museum of Art ''Poised Poses: Portraits From the August
Heckscher Collection.'' Through Aug. 2. ''Power, Politics and War: Selections
From the Permanent Collection,'' continuing. ''Before Selfies: Portraiture
Through the Ages.'' Through Aug. 9. $4 to $8; children under 10, free.
Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to
5 p.m. Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue. heckscher.org; 631-351-3250.

MANHASSET Manhasset Public Library Manhasset Art Association Juried Exhibit,
group show with a variety of media. Through July 30. Manhasset Public Library,
30 Onderdonk Avenue. manhassetlibrary.org; 516-627-2300.

MANHASSET The Art Guild at Elderfields ''Internal Affair,'' works by
instructors, studio artists and board members of the Art Guild of Port
Washington. Through Aug. 30. The Art Guild at Elderfields, 200 Port Washington
Boulevard. theartguild.org; 516-304-5797.

OYSTER BAY  Oyster Bay Historical Society ''Hats Off! An Assembly of
Extraordinary Headwear From the Society's Collection,'' 20th-century men's and
women's hats, athletic headgear and military helmets. Through Sept. 13. Tuesdays
through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to
4 p.m. Oyster Bay Historical Society, 20 Summit Street. oysterbayhistorical.org;
516-922-5032.

QUOGUE Quogue Library Art Gallery ''Laurel Sucsy: Intervals of Color,''
paintings. Through July 30. Sundays and Mondays, noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and
Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. Quogue Library Art Gallery, 90 Quogue Street. quoguelibrary.org;
631-653-4224.

REMSENBURG Remsenburg Academy ArtRemsenburg presents ''Daylight and Darkness,''
paintings by Peter Beston. Through Aug. 9. Remsenburg Academy, 130 South Country
Road. 631-325-0750;

remsenburgassociation.com.

RIVERHEAD East End Arts Gallery ''Novel Materials/New Techniques.'' Through July
31. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. East End Arts Gallery, 133
East Main Street. eastendarts.org; 631-727-0900.

RIVERHEAD Riverhead Free Library ''Abstract Expressionism Exhibition,'' works by
Caitlyn Shea. Through July 31. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.;
Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Riverhead Free Library, 330
Court Street. river.suffolk.lib.ny.us; 631-727-3228.

RIVERHEAD Suffolk County Historical Society ''From Shore to Shore Exhibit:
Boatbuilders and Boatyards of Long Island.'' Through Sept. 19. $5; free for
members. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Suffolk County
Historical Society, 300 West Main Street. 631-727-2881;
suffolkcountyhistoricalsociety.org.

ROCKVILLE CENTRE Frank and Gertrude Kaiser Art Gallery, Molloy College Works by
Ba Djibril Ngawa, photographs and paintings inspired by his childhood. Through
July 30. Daily, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Daily, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Frank and
Gertrude Kaiser Art Gallery, Molloy College, 1000 Hempstead Avenue.
516-323-3196; molloy.edu.

ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''The Moderns,'' encompassing two
exhibitions of modern art. ''Selections from the Saltzman Family Collection.''
''Long Island Collects Modern Art.'' ''Posters of the Russian Revolution:
1917-1921.'' ''Frank Olt: New Works.'' All, Through Nov. 8. $4 to $10, children
4 and under and members free. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive.
516-484-9337; nassaumuseum.org.

SAG HARBOR  Richard J. Demato Fine Arts Gallery ''Looking Forward Into The
Past,'' contemporary art. Through Aug. 25. Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to
6 p.m.; Friday and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Richard J. Demato Fine Arts
Gallery, 90 Main Street. 631-725-1161; rjdgallery.com.

SAG HARBOR Dodds & Eder Home ''Weave, Strip and Paint Collage.'' Three artists
create traditional collage artwork. Through Aug. 4. Wednesdays through Mondays,
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dodds & Eder Home, 11 Bridge
Street. 631-725-1175; doddsandederhome.com.

STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts Film Poster Show. Through July 31.
Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 4 p.m. Paul W. Zuccaire Gallery, Staller
Center for the Arts, 100 Nicolls Road, Stony Brook University. 631-632-7240;
zuccairegallery.stonybrook.edu.

SYOSSET Syosset Public Library Paper quilts by Zelda Tanenbaum. Through July 26.
Syosset Public Library, 225 South Oyster Bay Road. syossetlibrary.org;
516-921-7161.

WATER MILL Sara Nightingale Gallery ''True Confections,'' ceramics by Monica
Banks, embroideries and photographs by Christa Maiwald. Aug. 6 through Sept. 3.
Daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sara Nightingale Gallery, 688 Montauk Highway.
631-793-2256; saranightingale.com.

WATER MILL  Water Mill Museum East End Photographers Group Summer Exhibition,
''Summer Waters.'' Through Aug. 10. Thursdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5
p.m.; Sundays 1 to 5 p.m. Water Mill Museum, 41 Old Mill Road. 631-726-4625;
watermillmuseum.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/things-to-do-on-long-island-july-26-t
o-aug-1-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EAST HAMPTON: ''Agua Fria'' (1995), color aquatint with chine
collé, is in ''Editions/Variations,'' an exhibition of prints by Dan Rizzie, at
the Drawing Room, 66 Newtown Lane, through Aug. 3. For further information:
631-324-5016
drawingroom-gallery.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY MAMAY) (LI8)
SAG HARBOR: The actress and singer Christine Ebersole's cabaret show, ''Big
Noise From Winnetka,'' is at the Bay Street Theater, 1 Bay Street, on Aug. 1 at
8 p.m. Tickets are $69 to $129. For further information: 631-725-9500
baystreet.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIME) (LI8)
HEMPSTEAD: ''Untitled'' (1973), lithograph on Fabriano Rosaspina paper by
Alexander Liberman, is in ''Portfolios I: the 1970s,'' an exhibition of
portfolios of prints and images, at Hofstra University Museum, 112 Hofstra
University, through Aug. 14. hofstra.edu/museum
 516-463-5672. (LI9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL
SCIENCE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); FILM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE
INDUSTRY (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); FILM FESTIVALS (74%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (69%); DANCERS (68%); BALLET (68%); DANCE (68%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (66%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (61%); THEATER (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (84%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Celebrity Ghostwriter Flips the Script

BYLINE: By SHEILA MARIKAR

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 910 words


Los Angeles -- Even with Instagram and Twitter buttons at their fingertips, many
celebrities are still choosing to write a good old-fashioned memoir. It's the
''write'' part that can prove troublesome, and that's where people like Hilary
Liftin come in.

''There's a richness in a book that you can never communicate on social media,
and sometimes they've steered clear of subjects entirely, because how could they
explain them in 140 characters or less?'' said Ms. Liftin, 45, who has
ghostwritten books with Mackenzie Phillips, Miley Cyrus, Tatum O'Neal, Tori
Spelling and many others. She has found plenty of work because she does not
demand her name on book covers, opting instead for a credit on the title page.
And she is discreet.

''I had one client whose book was very successful, she came back from a tour and
had a million interviews and met a million fans and said: 'Your name is inside
my book. Guess how many people asked me about you? Zero,' '' Ms. Liftin said.
''That's exactly as it should be. Nobody should buy a celebrity's book because
my name is on it.''

But what about a book with her name on it that seems to draw from the lives of
some of Hollywood's most prominent stars?

Viking has just published Ms. Liftin's first novel, ''Movie Star by Lizzie
Pepper,'' whose principal plotline is familiar to anyone who has picked up US
Weekly or scrolled through TMZ over the last few years: Young television actress
gets seduced by Hollywood megastar and sucked into his religious cult, and a
couple of years into their heavily chronicled marriage, runs for her life, right
onto Broadway.

Richard Johnson of Page Six has already called Tom Cruise's lawyer for reaction
(the lawyer said he hadn't yet read the book). But Ms. Liftin insists she is
inspired only by the dish everyone else has consumed, not drawing from her
network of famous clients.

''I was looking at People magazine one day and watching another celebrity
marriage implode,'' she said, ''and I thought: 'You know what, I don't need to
wait for this. I can just write my dream celebrity.' And that's what I did: sort
of took all the most dramatic elements and wrote the celebrity memoir of my
fantasies.''

Ms. Liftin perhaps wisely does not invoke Scientology, the popular (and
litigious) church to which Mr. Cruise belongs, but rather creates One Cell, a
mind-body cult mandating yogalike exercises, regular meditation and exposure of
one's deepest, darkest secrets that traps Lizzie.

''I wanted my actress to have a conflict in her marriage that came from an
outside source,'' Ms. Liftin said. ''Something that made her feel like her
acting would improve and something that might make her thinner.''

It took her a while to engage with the inner workings of actors. Ms. Liftin, a
native of Washington, D.C., who worked in publishing in New York for 10 years
and wrote two memoirs of her own, moved to Los Angeles with her husband, a
television writer, in 2003, uninterested in the glitterati.

''I didn't even own a TV when I was in New York,'' she said. Her agent put her
up for a job ghostwriting for what Ms. Liftin described as an A-list TV star
(because of confidentiality agreements, she cannot name all of her
collaborators). There were two other candidates, both of whom had ghostwritten
best-selling books.

''She gave the three of us one weekend to write a chapter in her voice without
ever having met her,'' Ms. Liftin said. ''I said to my husband: 'I'm sure these
people have plans. They have something they have to do this weekend. I'm going
to spend my entire weekend working on this.' Just by sheer drive and having no
life, I landed that job.''

Other opportunities soon followed, including for Ms. Phillips, the actress and
rock 'n' roll scion who hired Ms. Liftin to help with her 2009 memoir, ''High on
Arrival,'' which delved into wrenching topics like drug addiction and incest.

In a phone interview, Ms. Phillips said, ''There was something about her that
just seemed so nonthreatening and so bright and so interested and just willing
to learn what she didn't know about a subject.''

Also: ''She can type really fast. It's really important.''

Ms. Phillips said she and Ms. Liftin are still friends. But that kind of bond,
formed in working together intensely over a period of months, doesn't always
last.

''We always feel very close when we're working on the books,'' Ms. Liftin said
of her clients, ''and the transformation afterwards is sort of like if you tried
to become friends with your therapist after you ended therapy. You sort of have
to find a new way of being friends other than sitting and talking about one of
you for three hours.''

Ms. Liftin has a list of stars whose voices she hopes to channel. At the top, of
course: Caitlyn Jenner. She notes that Stevie Nicks has never written a memoir.
But depending on how her novel fares, she may explore similar material in
another. She said she hopes the book's ''sincere and sympathetic'' take on
stars' tribulations earns her more fans in that community.

She is fascinated by what she calls the ''celebrity plight'': ''Everyone feels
like they know you, but you don't feel known.''

You may not want your life mined for material, either. But at least one
collaborator is encouraging her to spread her wings.

''I thought it was just compelling and entertaining and fascinating,'' Ms.
Phillips said about ''Movie Star.'' ''I really enjoyed it. And I love that it's
'By Hilary Liftin.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/style/hilary-liftin-ghostwrote-a-book-for-mile
y-cyrus-and-others-now-its-her-time.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hilary Liftin, 45, has ghostwritten books for Mackenzie
Phillips, Miley Cyrus and Tatum O'Neal. She says she is fascinated by the
''plight'' of celebrities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(76%); FICTION LITERATURE (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RELIGION
(68%); MEDITATION (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); CULTS & SECTS (63%); SCIENTOLOGISTS &
SCIENTOLOGY (63%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (69%); TOM CRUISE (58%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Likely Setback for the Right-to-Die Cause

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 688 words


SAN DIEGO --  A judge has strongly indicated that he will dismiss a lawsuit
against the state by a single mother given only months to live and other
California right-to-die advocates who want doctors to be allowed to prescribe
fatal medication for terminally ill people.

During a hearing on Friday in which two of the plaintiffs broke down in tears,
Judge Gregory W. Pollack of San Diego Superior Court said the court was not the
place to change the current law that prohibits physicians from prescribing such
drugs and that he will issue a written decision Monday.

The lawsuit was brought against the state by Christy O'Donnell, two other
terminally ill California residents and a San Diego doctor. Lawyers on both
sides agreed that dismissal was certain, and the plaintiffs vowed to appeal.

Ms. O'Donnell, 47, of Santa Clarita, Calif., has Stage 4 lung cancer, which has
spread to her brain, liver, spine and ribs. She said she was unlikely to live
through the appeals process.

''For any judge, or anyone, or any law or legislator to tell me that my daughter
has to watch me die painfully, that's wrong,'' Ms. O'Donnell said, crying after
the hearing.

Judge Pollack did not formally rule Friday, but said that he did not have the
power to declare the statute unconstitutional.

''You're asking this court to make new law,'' he said. ''If new law is made, it
should be by the Legislature or by a ballot measure.''

The judge said the parties probably could get new law from a higher court, ''but
you can't get it from a lower-level Superior Court judge like me.''

At the end of the hearing, Ms. O'Donnell and Elizabeth Wallner of Sacramento
stood up and asked to speak to the judge. Ms. Wallner told him that the slow
deaths supported by current law were equivalent to torture.

Under California law, suicide is legal. Doctors are also allowed, at a patient's
request, to sedate the person and withdraw nourishment and further medical
treatment until he or she dies. Lawyers for the plaintiffs had argued that was
the same as prescribing life-ending drugs that could be self-administered when
the suffering became unbearable.

Judge Pollack said that he disagreed and that courts had made a clear
distinction between letting someone die and causing someone to die.

The plaintiffs are backed by Compassion and Choices, an advocacy group that has
supported similar lawsuits and legislative efforts in various states.

Some advocates say they thought the nationally publicized case of Brittany
Maynard, a 29-year-old California woman with brain cancer who moved to Oregon to
legally end her life last fall, might usher in a wave of state laws allowing
doctors to prescribe life-ending medications, but that has not happened.

In California, a bill that would allow such prescriptions stalled. Similar
legislation failed in 2007 amid religious opposition.

Tim Rosales, a spokesman for Californians Against Assisted Suicide, said the
lawsuits showed that right-to-die advocates were getting desperate after
setbacks. He said people with low incomes, in particular, might turn to fatal
medication because it was the cheapest health care option and they no longer
wanted to be a burden.

''There have been a lot of red flags and concerns raised in bipartisan fashion,
not only in California but across the country, against this,'' he said.

The lawsuit asks that the court impose an injunction on the current law,
declaring it unconstitutional as applied to doctors. The plaintiffs asked for an
expedited process because of their deteriorating health.

Voters approved doctor-prescribed fatal medication for the terminally ill in
Oregon and Washington in ballot measures, while the Vermont Legislature passed a
right-to-die law.

In other states, the courts have stepped in. The Montana Supreme Court ruled in
2009 that nothing in state law prohibited physicians from giving aid in dying
and that doctors could use a patient's request for the medication as a defense
against any criminal charges.

Last year, a New Mexico judge made a similar ruling that is pending appeal.
Another right-to-die lawsuit has been filed in Tennessee.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/likely-setback-for-the-right-to-die-cause.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%);
JUDGES (78%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (77%); CANCER (77%); APPEALS
COURTS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); BALLOTS (70%); LUNG CANCER (68%); BRAIN
CANCER (67%); REFERENDUMS (65%); SUICIDE (61%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Quiet Act of Decency Soars Over Messages of Hate

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1281 words


COLUMBIA, S.C. --  What the black state trooper saw was a civilian in distress.
Yes, this was a white man, attending a white supremacist rally in front of the
South Carolina State House. And yes, he was wearing a black T-shirt emblazoned
with a swastika.

But the trooper concentrated only on this: an older civilian, spent on the
granite steps. Overcome, it appeared, by an unforgiving July sun and the recent,
permanent removal of a Confederate flag from state capitol display.

The trooper motioned for help from the Columbia fire chief, who is also black.
Then, with a firm grip, he began walking the wilted white man up the steps
toward the air-conditioned oasis of the State House. As they climbed, another
state employee snapped a photograph to post on Twitter, where it continues to be
shared around the world.

The meaning of this image -- of a black officer helping a white supremacist,
both in uniform -- depends on the beholder. You might see a refreshing coda to
the Confederate flag controversy; a typical day for a law-enforcement
professional; a simplification of racial tensions that continue. But what does
the trooper see?

His name is Leroy Smith, and he happens to be the director of the South Carolina
Department of Public Safety. He was at the rally, working crowd control, because
he likes to signal to his 1,300 subordinates that he has their backs.

Mr. Smith said he was taken aback by the worldwide attention but hoped the image
would help society move past the recent spasms of hate and violence, including
last month's massacre of nine black people in a church in Charleston. Asked why
he thinks the photo has had such resonance, he gave a simple answer: Love.

''I think that's the greatest thing in the world -- love,'' said the burly,
soft-spoken trooper, who is just shy of 50. ''And that's why so many people were
moved by it.''

Earlier this month, Mr. Smith donned a dark business suit to join Gov. Nikki R.
Haley and thousands of others in witnessing an honor guard of seven of his
troopers march stone-faced toward a flagpole on the State House grounds. There,
a few feet from a soaring Confederate monument, the white-gloved troopers
lowered the Confederate flag in 30 seconds and presented it to an official from
a state-supported museum.

Just like that, a red, blue and white battle flag -- representing Southern white
pride to some, Southern black oppression to others -- was removed from the whims
of the South Carolina breeze.

A different sort of photograph had helped to end the flag's official stature.
After images surfaced of the suspect in the Charleston shootings, a white man
named Dylann Roof, posing with the Confederate flag -- and after families of the
victims publicly forgave him -- Governor Haley said: Enough. Legislation was
swiftly drafted, a law was signed, and this flag of pride was demoted to relic.

As Mr. Smith watched the flag rolled up and history unfold, he felt chills
running along his spine. ''Very moving,'' he nearly whispered.

Now, on a hot Saturday afternoon eight days after that emotional ceremony, Mr.
Smith was back at the capitol, only this time in his gray uniform and
broad-brimmed campaign hat. A group called the Black Educators for Justice would
be rallying in the early afternoon on the north side of the State House. And on
the south side, a couple of hours later, the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux
Klan would be demonstrating.

It promised to be a busy day.

Mr. Smith watched from the north side's top granite step as black demonstrators
vented their frustrations. Then he walked through the blessed cool of the State
House to the south side, which faces the back of a statue of Strom Thurmond, the
longtime senator and segregationist.

Bike-rack barricades had been arrayed to separate the white-supremacist
demonstrators from a swelling crowd of people, some fresh from the
black-empowerment rally on the north side. ''You could kind of feel the tension
in the air,'' Mr. Smith recalled.

Soon the demonstrators, a few dozen, came marching from the west, flanked by Mr.
Smith's ''advance civil emergency response team.'' Many wore the black shirts of
the National Socialist Movement, a neo-Nazi organization that, according to its
website, believes: ''Only those of pure White blood, whatever their creed, may
be members of the nation. Noncitizens may live in America only as guests and
must be subject to laws for aliens. Accordingly, no Jew or homosexual may be a
member of the nation.''

These people entered their State House pen and waved their Confederate flags.
The public-address system they were said to have ordered never arrived, so all
they could do was exchange taunts with hecklers and issue occasional bleats of
''White power!'' and ''Wooo!''

The heat turned up a notch: a bottle thrown, some jostling at the barricades.
Mr. Smith called his commanders down to a lower level because, he said, ''we
were getting ready to work a little.''

Then a demonstrator directed his attention to an older man all but melting on a
bottom step. ''He looked fatigued, lethargic -- weak,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I knew
there was something very wrong with him.''

He called up the steps to the Columbia fire chief, Aubrey Jenkins, for
assistance. Then, with his left arm around the man's back and his right hand on
the man's right arm, he walked the swastika-adorned demonstrator up the steps,
as many as 40. Slowly, steadily, all the while giving encouragement:

We're going to make it. Just keep on going.

A female demonstrator shadowed the climb. On the back of her black shirt
appeared a familiar white-supremacist slogan (''Because the beauty of the White
Aryan woman must not perish from the earth''). She kept asking Mr. Smith whether
the man was going to be all right -- as if his safety, as well as his health,
might be in some jeopardy.

Up the steps the two men went. They didn't talk much, although the older
demonstrator allowed that he wasn't from around here. A spokesman for the
National Socialist Movement declined to identify him, other than to say he is a
senior citizen who doesn't need people knocking at his door.

Mr. Smith isn't from around here, either. Born in Haines City, Fla., the fifth
and last child of transplants from Alabama. Mom worked at home while Dad worked
in the citrus groves. Went to an all-black elementary school and then to an
integrated high school, where those with Confederate flags on their pickups
never bothered him.

Four years in the Navy. Then, after a brief spell in retail -- ''I sold cars,
and I was pretty good at it'' -- a long career with the Florida Highway Patrol,
where he rose through the ranks. After that, his appointment in 2011 as the
first African-American director of South Carolina's Department of Public Safety.

At this moment, though, Leroy Smith was a state trooper, helping a civilian
suffering from the heat of the day.

As they approached the top step, someone nudged Rob Godfrey, 34, a deputy chief
of staff to Governor Haley, who is known for his diligent chronicling of
everyday history. He snapped a shot with his iPhone, sensing a distillation of
the grace with which South Carolina has responded to these days of tragedy and
strife.

''In that moment, Leroy Smith was the embodiment of all that,'' Mr. Godfrey
said. He quickly shared the moment with the world -- to the benefit, it must be
said, of his boss, Governor Haley, as she tries to lead her state beyond its
racially troubled past.

Mr. Smith did not know about the photograph. He knew only what was before him.
He walked the man into the air-conditioned State House, led him to a
green-upholstered couch, and left him there to cool down.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/black-south-carolina-trooper-explains-why-h
e-embraced-a-white-supremacist.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leroy Smith, director of the South Carolina Department of
Public Safety, at his headquarters. At a rally on the State House grounds soon
after a Confederate flag was removed, Mr. Smith helped an ailing man who wore a
T-shirt bearing a swastika. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
This photograph of Mr. Smith aiding the protester on July 18 has been seen
around the world since it was posted on Twitter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB GODFREY, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14)
 Opposing groups rallied at the capitol in Columbia, S.C., on July 18, eight
days after a Confederate battle flag was removed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN
MOORE/GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA) (A18) MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US CONFEDERATE
FLAG CONTROVERSY (90%); 2015 CHARLESTON CHURCH SHOOTING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); SHOOTINGS (64%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (57%)

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (95%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA
(91%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreams Transcend a Cultural Divide

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2450 words


LAS VEGAS --  Tommy Smith, in his quest to remain employed as a professional
basketball player, joined dozens of other free agents in a single-file line this
month at Desert Oasis High School, a boxy structure set amid rocks, cactus and
molten heat about 10 miles south of this city's shimmering strip of casinos.

Smith, 34, had made the four-hour drive from his home in Phoenix for the start
of a four-day spectacle run by the Korean Basketball League, and he soon spotted
a familiar face: that of Smush Parker, the former Los Angeles Lakers guard whose
own odyssey had landed him here, also at age 34, in hopes of landing another
job.

''Yeah, I know Smush,'' said Smith, a 6-foot-10 power forward. ''We shot a
cellphone commercial together in Mongolia.''

The Korean Basketball League, or K.B.L., essentially relocates to Las Vegas
every July when dozens of officials -- executives, coaches and scouts from each
of the league's 10 teams -- descend en masse for an invitation-only tryout, held
this year at the high school, followed by an import draft, which this year was
held Tuesday in a grand ballroom at the Palms Casino Resort.

''The American players are a lot different from the Korean players,'' said S. J.
Kimm, the chief operating officer for the Seoul Samsung Thunders. ''Their whole
style of play is different. We're trying to supplement what we don't have.''

Teams are permitted two international players apiece, so they come to the United
States to round out their rosters. Players come because 20 contracts are up for
grabs, and the pay is excellent: $30,000 a month for first-round picks and
$20,000 a month for second-round picks, all tax free.

Still, the entire exercise felt a bit strange. No other basketball league in the
world comes to Las Vegas in July to stage a draft at a casino.

''I'm not really sure what to make of any of this,'' said Matt Bouldin, a
27-year-old guard who arrived at the high school to register on opening night.

Bouldin, a former star at Gonzaga, soon joined more than 120 other players in
the high school auditorium, where Jonathan Kim, in his first act as master of
ceremonies, took the stage and welcomed everyone to the orientation. He stepped
away from the dais as the lights dimmed and a six-minute highlight video
flickered on a large screen: forwards from Jeonju KCC Egis soaring for dunks;
guards from Busan KT Sonicboom swishing 3-pointers; fans of Wonju Dongbu Promy
going bonkers.

It was all new to Smith, who had traveled the world playing basketball but could
not name one team from the K.B.L. It was safe to assume that he was not alone.

''Maybe I should learn them,'' he said.

Next up was Montgomery Paek, a lawyer for the league who went over the
standardized player contract, page by page. He used the word ''important'' no
fewer than a dozen times. It was important that the players print their names
legibly on Page 1 and sign their names on Page 18. It was important for them to
know that the contract runs from August through February, covering the league's
54-game season. It was important for them to understand that they would undergo
drug testing.

''Even marijuana can void a contract,'' Paek said. ''Does anyone have any
questions?''

A hand shot up. It belonged to Rashad McCants, a former first-round pick of the
Minnesota Timberwolves who was most recently playing in Venezuela.

''Are the contracts negotiable?'' he asked.

The short answer was no. If nothing else, McCants was now easily identifiable to
the league officials in attendance. It was unclear whether that was a good
thing.

Kim reappeared to emphasize the tryout's strict attendance policy. The league
expected players to report for roll call the following morning at 8.

''If you're not giving 100 percent, you'll get a warning,'' Kim said. ''If
you're slacking for any reason, we're going to assume you don't want to play for
K.B.L.''

Kim reminded the players to remain in the gym throughout the day. If they could
not be located, they would be disqualified.

''Let your coach know when you have to use the bathroom,'' Kim said. ''See you
tomorrow.''

'A Very Sensitive Area'

The following morning, Kimm, the director of the Thunders, joined other league
executives in the bleachers to watch the first of two days of full-court
scrimmages. The coaches and scouts from the franchises occupied a neat row of
courtside tables, each bedecked with a team banner.

''We're the blue one,'' Kimm said.

The Thunders were engaged in an overhaul after finishing in last place. The
draft promised to be another important step for the team. Kimm said the Thunders
would need to choose wisely, though. He cited an incident from last season
involving Davon Jefferson, a Californian who was playing for the Changwon LG
Sakers. Before a playoff game, Jefferson stretched during the national anthem --
a show of disrespect. There had been others. The Sakers cut him two days later.

''Unfortunately, he made some cultural mistakes,'' Kimm said. ''That's a very
sensitive area.''

So the Thunders were searching for a team-first player. The league was also
monitoring the style of play at the tryout. Already, officials had reprimanded
Andre Smith, a burly forward, for failing to play team basketball in one of the
scrimmages. Smith seemed mystified by the episode.

It was early, but one player had grabbed Kimm's attention.

''This guy,'' Kimm said, pointing at a name on the roster. ''Joe Jackson.''

Jackson, 23, was coming off a solid season with the Bakersfield Jam of the
N.B.A. Development League after a four-year career at the University of Memphis.
A 6-foot point guard, Jackson knew he was at a disadvantage. Most teams wanted
larger guards, so Jackson tried to play big. In his first game, he scored 21
points, shot 9 of 13 and rose for a dunk that left several team officials
cheering from their chairs.

Afterward, Jackson spoke of his dream of playing in the N.B.A. But he also
needed to make money. One month's salary in Korea would nearly double what he
had made in the D-League last season, he said. He recalled a recent conversation
with Elijah Millsap, a former D-League teammate who signed with the Utah Jazz in
January.

''He was telling me, 'Don't get so caught up in the N.B.A.,' '' Jackson said.
''So I have to listen. It can mess your mind up. You get to worrying about it so
much, and you stop playing your game. Honestly, if you're good, you're going to
get noticed. You're going to get what you're worth.''

Like Jackson, Bouldin played well in his first game. But as he sat against a
wall near a baseline, Bouldin was still processing the past 24 hours -- and his
future. He and his agent were speaking with a team from Italy, and Bouldin
wanted to make sure he found the right fit. He was finally healthy after dealing
with a series of injuries. He hoped to use his next contract to advance his
career.

''I've only heard great things about the K.B.L.,'' Bouldin said. ''But I don't
know how respected it is. Is Real Madrid going to sign me because I averaged 40
in Korea?''

He was under the impression that if a team selected him in the draft, he would
still have time to weigh his options.

''They don't sign guys at the draft, do they?'' he asked.

Well, see, that was the thing. The expectation among league officials is that if
a player shows up for the draft, he intends to finalize his contract on the
spot. In fact, seconds after each team makes its pick, the player is escorted
into a private room next door -- the so-called K.B.L. legal room -- where Paek,
the lawyer for the league, hands the player a contract and a pen. Agents are
barred from attending. Bouldin tried to absorb this information.

''There's a lot of stuff I don't understand,'' he said.

A Limit on Tall Players

Not so long ago, the tryout was the sole province of big men. Because South
Korea already had its share of guards, the league typically turned to the United
States for post players. But some officials said they thought the game was
losing its speed and finesse, so a new rule was introduced this year: Each team
could draft only one player taller than 6-4.

''We want the games to be exciting and fun for Korean fans,'' said Jaemin Lee,
the league's executive director for basketball operations.

It was good news for guards like Jackson and Bouldin, who would have previously
had no shot of getting drafted, but bad news for Tommy Smith, the forward from
Phoenix. Half the jobs for players his size were suddenly gone, and he was
competing for a contract with 25 players who already had K.B.L. experience. (All
of them, it should be noted, were required to go through the tryout and re-enter
the draft.)

''It's really difficult to establish yourself if you're new,'' Smith said.
''These teams are already familiar with all the guys who played in the league
last season.''

Consider, for example, the odd experience of Ricardo Ratliffe, a K.B.L. veteran.
In his first scrimmage at the tryout, Ratliffe played a total of five minutes,
missed his only shot and was still considered the heavy favorite to be the first
player selected.

It was Monday, the second full day of scrimmages. Smith folded his long, lean
frame into a seat in the bleachers and tried to get comfortable. His team was
not scheduled to play for another six hours. He had barely touched the ball in
his first game. Guards were not exactly making entry passes their priority.

With time to kill, Smith occupied himself by identifying former teammates and
opponents. See No. 87? That was Gary Flowers. Smith played against him in the
Dominican Republic. No. 37? Bald dude with the jumper? Tim Pickett. They were in
training camp together with the Golden State Warriors. No. 7? A guard named
Anthony Roberson.

''Played with him in Qatar,'' Smith said.

For Smith, little has gone according to plan since the Chicago Bulls made him a
second-round draft pick in 2003. Cut by the Bulls before he appeared in an
N.B.A. game, Smith began a productive career overseas that was interrupted in
2009 when he was convicted of aggravated assault. He spent more than two years
in prison. He now runs a foundation aimed at teaching children life skills.

''I don't want anyone to go through what I went through,'' he said.

At the same time, Smith has managed to sustain his basketball career, most
recently with Alliance-Tech Khartsaga in Mongolia. In Las Vegas, Smith
reconnected with Parker, his co-star in the cellphone commercial. Parker said he
did not plan to return to Mongolia any time soon.

''You can quote this as Smush Parker saying, 'Yo, Mongolia was the worst
basketball experience ever,' '' Parker said. ''I would advise nobody to ever go
there.''

At the tryout, Parker wore his copper-colored braids in a bun and celebrated his
successful 3-point tries by spanking himself. Parker really wanted to go to
Korea, which, despite some recent problems -- including two separate
point-shaving scandals -- remained a desired destination.

''They know how to treat American players over there,'' said Leo Lyons, a K.B.L.
veteran who hoped to return. ''You can go through hell in Europe sometimes. And
then you go to Korea, and they're on time with the money. They treat you well.
You can just focus on basketball. It's all good.''

Draft Day

On the morning of the draft, Smith awoke in a panic because he thought he had
overslept. He texted his agent, Kevin Seo.

''Kevin, my alarm didn't go off,'' Smith wrote. ''Can I still come?''

Smith arrived in plenty of time. After making his way past rows of blackjack
tables and an army of slot machines at the Palms Casino Resort, he took an
elevator to a ballroom on the second floor. There was a stage at the front of
the room and a huge banner on the wall: ''2015 K.B.L. Tryout & Draft.''

As the players settled into their assigned seats, the draft order was determined
by a complicated process that involved a steel drum, 250 miniature Ping-Pong
balls, several brass eggs and dozens of anxious team officials.

After the Samsung Thunders won the lottery, Kim, the event's M.C., went through
roll call one final time. Ira Clark, a league veteran, appeared to be a no-show
until he burst through the doors with seconds to spare. He raised his arms
triumphantly and used some colorful language as he high-fived his fellow draft
prospects en route to his seat. Several executives looked mortified.

When the Thunders, as expected, selected Ratliffe with the top pick, Clark
jumped to his feet.

''Champion!'' Clark shouted as Ratliffe made his way to the front of the room.
''My dude! I'm going to stand up for you, bro! Champion!''

As league officials scrambled to muzzle Clark's enthusiasm, Ratliffe disappeared
to the K.B.L. legal room, where he signed his new contract. He returned minutes
later to don a team jersey and baseball cap for a photo op on the stage. The
ballroom filled with applause.

One after another, teams selected post players in the first round, including
Andre Smith, who went third to the Incheon ET-Land Elephants (so much for being
reprimanded), and Lyons, who went 10th to Ulsan Mobis Phoebus. Smith approached
his agent, Ben Pensack.

''I might have signed away my first kid back there,'' Andre Smith said.

But as teams began to turn their attention to guards in the second round, it was
clear to Tommy Smith that his prospects were dimming.

''I'll be all right,'' Smith said. ''Hopefully, I'll have some other
opportunities.''

With the 13th pick, the LG Sakers, fresh off their failed experiment with Davon
Jefferson, drafted Bouldin. As he was making his way to sign his contract, the
Goyang Orions selected Jackson at No. 14. Jackson, who grew up in a tough part
of Memphis, said it was a life-changing moment. He suddenly had a six-figure
deal.

''I don't know if you can understand where I came from,'' he said. ''I'm just
thankful right now.''

As the proceedings came to a close, most of the players, including McCants and
Parker, had gone undrafted. Parker remained seated for several minutes before he
retrieved his maroon suitcase at the back of the room. He was headed home to
Brooklyn.

Bouldin, meanwhile, wrapped his arms around team officials so he could pose for
photos. Jin Kim, the coach of the LG Sakers, said he appreciated Bouldin's
versatility and expected that he would be a good teammate.

''Because we had trouble last year, that was one of the priorities,'' the coach
said through an interpreter.

Before the tryout, Bouldin had barely heard of the league. Now that he was bound
for Korea in early August, he was warming to the once-improbable idea.

''I told my parents, and they were pretty excited,'' said Bouldin, who glanced
at his new jersey. ''Pinstripes.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/basketball/in-las-vegas-korean-basketba
ll-leagues-draft-promises-money-and-culture-shock.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: If selected in the first round by a Korean Basketball League
team, American players are paid $30,000 a month.
Andre Emmett driving for a layup at Desert Oasis High School in Las Vegas during
a K.B.L. tryout. At far left, balls that were used in determining the 10 teams'
draft order. (SP1)
Matt Bouldin, right, a former star guard at Gonzaga, was chosen by the Changwon
LG Sakers. ''I've only heard great things about the K.B.L.,'' Bouldin said.
 A room at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas, top, where deals are done with
those selected in the draft. Players are expected to sign immediately, and their
agents are barred from entering. Joe Jackson, above center, during the draft.
Jackson was selected by the Goyang Orions in the second round. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
BRANDON MAGNUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); CASINOS (78%); RESORTS (72%); DESERTS (72%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MONGOLIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Separate Ways for Two Teams New to M.L.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 732 words


For 13 years, there was a steady, archetypical quality to the career of Kaká. He
was one of those famous mononyms sprinkled throughout global soccer. He played
for some of the biggest clubs in Italy, Spain and his home country, Brazil. Each
team was steeped in tradition and imposed on players the weight of its own
history. Always, he felt a burden of immense expectation.

This summer, Kaká has wrestled with almost none of those things. The concept of
his current club, Orlando City S.C., was hatched only within the past few years,
and the team began play just four months ago. This new circumstance has been
liberating -- and challenging.

''It's very difficult when you have to build a team from nothing,'' Kaká said,
smiling, in an interview Friday afternoon. ''This is what I've learned this
year.''

Major League Soccer, still in some ways a Petri dish of a professional sports
league, has two new clubs this season. Along with Orlando, New York City F.C.
was also coaxed into existence this year, experiencing much of the same
excitement and handling many of the same obstacles in the past few months.

There was an aura of festivity when the two clubs met in March to open the
season, and in a bit of neat symmetry -- convenient for the purposes of a
midterm progress report -- the teams will meet again on Sunday for a match at
Yankee Stadium, their last before the league's All-Star break.

Through Friday, Orlando and N.Y.C.F.C. had each played 20 games. Orlando was
sixth in the Eastern Conference, with 24 points, and N.Y.C.F.C. was 3 points
behind. The league's characteristic parity -- and the fact that the postseason
will include 12 of its 20 teams -- has kept both teams in the playoff race. But
they will meet Sunday in divergent states.

While acknowledging there was considerably more room for Orlando to improve,
Kaká lauded the pace of its growth and increasing stability.

''Now I think the team has an identity,'' he said. ''We know what can we do.''

N.Y.C.F.C., on the other hand, has continued trying to change and improve its
squad, like a jet refueling in midair. The game Sunday could bring the debuts of
midfielder Andrea Pirlo, veterans who are expected to reconstitute the core of
the team. Another midfielder new to the team, Frank Lampard, was ruled out on
Saturday for a third consecutive game because of a calf injury.

Jason Kreis, the coach of N.Y.C.F.C., said at a news conference Thursday that
the current moment felt a bit like a new season within the current season.
Besides Lampard and Pirlo, the team added three other players in recent weeks,
with each expected to play a significant role on the team. Things will have to
coalesce in short order.

At least in Pirlo's case, Kreis said, it helps that he seems to be a ''perfect
fit'' for the team, given the tactics the club had been trying to install before
his arrival.

''It has been our directive, our objective, to play a very much possession-style
game, a dominant game, a game where we're looking to dictate the tempo of the
match,'' Kreis said, noting that Pirlo was known for those attributes.

Integrating the players could be hampered by physical factors. Pirlo is healthy,
but he said last week that a monthlong vacation had left him considerably short
of his optimal fitness. He said it would be a game-time decision whether he
played.

''The only thing that is left to do is to get to the right physical condition in
order to play at my best,'' Pirlo said Thursday through an interpreter.

Kaká said new players, like Lampard and Pirlo, needed to be aware that the
league was a physical one and that fitness was paramount. He has raved about the
quality of life in the United States, and he has adjusted well on the field,
scoring nine goals in 19 league games this season. But he has found the
competitiveness of the teams, from top to bottom, surprising, as he has watched
Orlando's place in the standings swing drastically during the course of a few
games.

But this has been a motivating factor, Kaká said, and he has employed lofty
rhetoric to characterize the club's ambitions. Playing for a new franchise, the
Orlando players have plenty of excuses, if they want them. But, he said, they do
not.

''This shows how competitive the league is and how hard it will be for us to be
in the playoffs,'' he said. ''But we want to be there and make history in our
first season.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/soccer/orlando-city-sc-and-new-york-cit
y-fc-take-different-paths-in-mls.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Now I think the team has an identity,'' Orlando City's Kaká
said. ''We know what can we do.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (63%)

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tayari Jones

BYLINE: By TAYARI JONES.

Tayari Jones is the author of three novels, including ''Silver Sparrow,'' and a
professor of English at Rutgers University, Newark.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 306 words


In Georgia, we have an expression that speaks to our limited human understanding
of our own actions and motivations. We say ''I call myself.'' In that tradition,
I can say that I called myself writing my first novel, ''Leaving Atlanta,'' in
order to remind the world that in the early 1980s, 30 African-American children
were killed in my hometown; two of them were students at my elementary school. I
believed myself to be banging on the door of History, demanding that my memories
be let in.

But as we also know in the South, what you call yourself doing and what you are
called to do are often two different things.

With the zeal of a novice, I hit the road, accepting every invitation to read
from my book. If my publisher paid for the trip, that was great. If they didn't,
well, that's what credit cards were for. People called me ''ambitious,'' which
is not always a compliment. I fretted about book sales, stewed about reviews and
pouted over every end-of-year list that didn't include my book.

Still on the grind over a year later, I accepted an invitation to read in
Atlanta at a two-year college, not far from where I grew up. I read in a
cafeteria at lunchtime, raising my voice to be heard over the conversation and
the clatter of dishes. Afterward, I was approached by a young woman who was
about my age. ''It really happened,'' she said, her voice breaking. ''I didn't
trust my own mind. I thought I had imagined our entire childhood.'' Her anguish
I couldn't understand, but the relief on her face was real.

She didn't have money to buy a book, so I gave her my reading copy. As I signed
it, a cool washed over me like a fever breaking. This was the end of the tour.
She was the one I had been looking for. She was the whole point. My letter to
the world was really a letter to one stranger, whose name I don't even know.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYON RICHARDS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (53%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cellar Full of Collateral, by the Bottle or the Case

BYLINE: By ROBERT FRANK.

ROBERT FRANK is CNBC wealth editor and the author of ''Richistan.''

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE WEALTH;
Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1123 words


As a restaurateur and wine collector, Nick Gangas knows the special pleasures of
pairing a fine Burgundy with a roast chicken or a leg of lamb. Yet recently, he
discovered another use for his Burgundy -- as loan collateral.

Like a growing number of collectors, Mr. Gangas has pledged some of his finest
French wines for large cash loans with generous terms. Using $300,000 worth of
his Domaine de la Romanée-Conti, Chambertin and other wines, he's about to
receive a loan of about $150,000, which he plans to use to open a new restaurant
in the Chicago suburbs.

The bottles ''would be just sitting in the cellar aging,'' said Mr. Gangas.
''Why not use them to raise capital? By the time they're ready to drink, I'll
have paid back the loan.''

For the wealthy, wine has become the ultimate liquid asset. With prices for top
vintages soaring past $10,000 a bottle, fine wine is being bought, sold and
traded at auction like a new investment class, with its own value indexes,
investment funds and speculators. And now wealthy collectors are using wine as
leverage -- raising cash to invest in more wine and create even more wealth.

A new crop of wine lenders has started offering collectors cash for up to 60
percent of the value of their collections, with relatively low interest rates. A
collector with a $1 million collection can obtain a $600,000 loan, often at an 8
percent to 10 percent interest rate -- or a fraction of the average credit card
rate. In the last two years, wine lenders have issued tens of millions of
dollars in loans with wine as the sole collateral, according to several lenders.

The top lender is WineCredit, founded by a former Wall Street credit analyst,
which has written $20 million in loans on 114,000 bottles of wine in the two
years since it was founded.

''Whether it's real estate or wine, it doesn't make sense to accumulate assets
with pure cash,'' said Patrick Stella, the chief executive and founder of
WineCredit. ''With wine, you can borrow and not put your home or some other
important asset at risk. You can finance toys with toys.''

There are catches, of course. The wine must be valued and verified by an expert,
and more expensive, collectible wines are typically preferred. The wine must be
stored in an approved, monitored wine-storage facility, so as to prevent
borrowers from drinking their collateral at a dinner party.

The rise of wine loans is the latest extreme in a tale of two credit markets,
where many Americans still can't get a mortgage but the asset-wealthy are
feeling drunk with credit. Banks are eager to extend credit for private jets,
multiple homes, art, jewelry and investments as asset values rise and the
wealthy prove to be the richest source of borrowing.

So far, default has not been a problem (lenders can't recall a single one). Yet
some worry that the rise of wine lending may signal the top of an already pricey
collectibles market. Sotheby's last year sold a 114-bottle collection of Domaine
de la Romanée-Conti for $1.6 million, or more than $14,000 a bottle.

Wine also has special financial risks: Aside from being a consumption good (it's
essentially old grape juice) and notoriously prone to fraud, it can be difficult
to sell when others are also trying to dump their collections. Adding borrowed
money to a market highly linked to stocks and wealth cycles could make the booms
and busts in wine even more extreme.

''The risk is that when you're forced to be a seller, it usually comes at a time
when everyone else is forced to be a seller,'' said Elroy Dimson, an economics
professor at the London Business School and co-writer of two studies on the wine
market. ''Prices look smooth over time but when you try to sell they can be
highly volatile.''

For now, however, wine lending is unlocking millions of dollars from the cellars
of the rich.

Mr. Stella started learning about wine while in college at Stanford. After
working in the hedge fund industry investing in junk bonds and synthetic credit
derivatives, he noticed that the wine trade was perpetually short of cash.
Collectors and restaurants often had millions of dollars of wine in storage but
banks were reluctant to lend against wine, usually because they weren't sure how
to value it.

Mr. Stella developed a methodology and systematic approach for valuing wine,
with a growing database of global prices, buyers, sellers and sales volumes. The
system allows him to offer loans with an average interest rate of 8.78 percent
and a loan-to-value ratio of up to 60 percent, meaning collectors can borrow up
to 60 percent of their wine's value. Other wine lenders, like Borro, usually
charge interest rates of more than 30 percent a year and offer loans of 40
percent to 50 percent of a collection's value.

WineCredit's largest loan has been $1.5 million. Borrowers often prefer to hand
over their highest-priced Burgundys or Bordeaux so they don't have to pledge or
ship as many bottles. Yet Mr. Stella said he happily accepts wines as low as
$100 or $200 if they can easily be sold or traded.

Since the wine must be held in an approved site during the life of the loan,
wine lending has led to an accompanying surge in wine storage. Domaine, a wine
storage and advisory firm, has five sites around the country with a total of
more than 1.4 million bottles. Customers who already have their wine at Domaine
are taking advantage of a new perk -- the chance to borrow against their wines
without any extra shipping or storage costs.

Not everyone gets approved. Marc Lazar, Domaine's chief executive and founder,
says collectors who come in with poor records, untradable wine or murky stories
don't get loans. ''I've seen several deals come across my desk that don't come
to fruition,'' he said. ''There has to be a good paper trail.''

Borrowers are mainly using the money to buy more wine, betting they can pick the
winners that will surge in value, which they can sell to pay off the loan and
make a profit -- similar to buying stocks on margin. Other wealthy borrowers are
using the money for divorces or tax payments, or to buy a boat or a car. And
many of the wealthy, especially business owners, have frequent short-term cash
squeezes.

''Rich people never have as much liquidity as we think they have,'' Mr. Stella
said. Of course, turning an age-old beverage meant for enjoyment and sharing
into a financial instrument may offend many wine purists. It could also drive up
the prices of some wines beyond the reach of everyday buyers, as the wealthy bid
more aggressively on wine with borrowed cash.

Still, Mr. Lazar said, wine lending will affect mainly a small group of trophy
wines. ''There is still a lot of darn good juice out there for $40 or $50 a
bottle,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/a-cellar-full-of-collateral-by-the-bo
ttle-or-the-case.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marc Lazar, top, chief executive of Domaine, a wine storage and
advisory firm, at the company's St. Louis facility. Above, Domaine employees
taking inventory on a client's wine collection. Some collectors are using their
trophy vintages as collateral for loans, often to buy more wine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
WHITNEY CURTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AUCTIONS (78%); PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%);
RESTAURANTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS
(60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the List

BYLINE: By GREGORY COWLES

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 524 words


Secret Agent Man: ''The English Spy,'' Daniel Silva's latest espionage thriller
to feature the art restorer and Israeli agent Gabriel Allon, drops out of the
top spot in its second week on the hardcover fiction list, falling to No. 4.
Meanwhile, a real-life spy story has climbed onto the hardcover nonfiction list:
''The Billion Dollar Spy,'' by the journalist and Pulitzer Prize-winning author
David E. Hoffman, is new at No. 13. Hoffman's book traces the Cold War exploits
of Adolf Tolkachev, a Soviet military engineer who for years passed secrets to
the C.I.A. ''He put the documents in his coat,'' Hoffman told NPR this month,
''and he walked out of that top-secret institute at the lunch hour back to his
apartment, which was a 20-minute walk, and he took out a camera and he
photographed the pages and then he went back to work and put them back in the
file. And he did this for years.'' One way the book brings its subject to life,
as Scott Shane noted in his review for The New York Times's daily Arts section,
is through the detail that Tolkachev asked his American handlers to pass along
rock 'n' roll for his teenage son, including Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd and the
Beatles. ''My son, as many of his contemporaries in school, has a passion for
Western music,'' he explained in one letter.

''I too, in spite of my age, like to listen to this music.''

Summer Nights: Catherine Coulter's 19th F.B.I. thriller, ''Nemesis,'' hits the
hardcover fiction list at No. 5. This series makes regular appearances here, and
no wonder: Its brisk chapters and no-nonsense suspense narratives are so cannily
plotted they feel less written than engineered. So it's always a hoot to drop in
on Coulter's official author website, where her newsletters reveal a far
folksier, breezier side to her personality, complete with cat pictures and
sports talk. ''Happy Summer Solstice,'' her June issue started. ''Isn't it
grand? We're all playing volleyball outside at 10 o'clock at night. I love the
summer solstice, but the very next day, I swear you can feel it in your bones
that the day is shorter. So enjoy the glorious long days before the 21st. And
don't forget your wild and unbridled pagan solstice dance. Consider not doing it
solo.''

Trout Fishing in Mongolia: On the jacket of Jimmy Carter's ''A Full Life,'' new
at No. 4 on the hardcover nonfiction list, the publisher describes Carter in
terms that would make for a charming Twitter biography: ''39th president, Nobel
Peace Prize recipient, international humanitarian, fisherman.'' It's no
surprise, then, that the book includes a fond remembrance of presidential
fishing -- Carter liked to relax by tying trout flies, and he and Rosalynn
sometimes fled Camp David by helicopter to cast at a friend's stream in
Pennsylvania. They've continued the hobby in retirement: ''Our most recent
fishing excursions have been to Mongolia,'' Carter writes, ''to fish for taimen,
the largest species of trout.''

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/inside-the-list.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE
(89%); COLD WAR (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE
(77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); POP & ROCK (65%); MUSIC (64%); VOLLEYBALL (60%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); MONGOLIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Wish to Be Closer to the Action

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 926 words


When Alexis Fishman arrived in New York around eight years ago, she sublet
briefly on the Upper West Side, moving a few times until she settled into a
rented studio in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.

Ms. Fishman is an actor who performs mostly in musicals. About a year ago, the
trek to Midtown began to wear her down. She decided to look for a place to buy
on the Upper West Side.

''My first taste of living in New York was the Upper West Side, so it felt very
much like home to me,'' Ms. Fishman said. In a city of transients, the
neighborhood seemed to her to have ''a permanence to it.''

So last year she went on the hunt for a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side
between 59th and 86th Streets. She had a budget in the mid-$600,000s and few
requirements: a large kitchen where she could ''cook turkey in an oven,'' and a
bathroom that was not en suite. Friends and relatives visit from her native
Australia, and she didn't want them traipsing through the bedroom to reach the
bathroom.

Hunting with a friend-turned-agent, Ms. Fishman, now 32, found a sunny
one-bedroom co-op on far West 72nd Street. The asking price was $525,000; the
monthly maintenance fee was $1,500. The place had a big kitchen and a bathroom
that could be entered via both bedroom and kitchen.

''I said, 'Ah, this is easy' -- the second place I walked into was the one I
signed a contract on,'' she said. But the seller did not countersign, instead
taking a higher offer. The apartment sold for $542,000.

''It all came crashing down,'' Ms. Fishman said. She realized ''this is going to
be harder than I thought.''

A few months later, she visited a ground-floor one-bedroom in the low West 80s
listed for $599,000, with a maintenance fee of just under $1,000. She spent
nearly three months dealing with the co-op board's scrutiny. ''The conditions
they were requesting were outrageous,'' she said. ''I had enough. It became so
frustrating and so difficult, I didn't feel good about the place anymore.''

After two failed deals, she needed a change. So she contacted Gea Elika, the
principal broker at Elika Real Estate, who had attended high school with her
brother in Sydney.

Mr. Elika told her that, as a foreigner without a full-time job, she'd be better
off looking for a condominium than a co-op. ''We were going to move away from
co-ops to get this done,'' he said. Their search mostly involved midsize
apartment buildings. Her price for a condominium rose to the $800,000s.

In the low West 80s, they saw a $595,000 one-bedroom, with monthly charges in
the high $700s. Ms. Fishman thought that with only 500 square feet and a view of
brick walls just a few feet away, it was overpriced.

She went to see a sponsor unit on West 72nd Street near Columbus Avenue. Around
640 handsomely renovated square feet, it had a ''hole-in-the-wall'' kitchen and
an en-suite bathroom. The place, on a low floor, faced a busy corner. Ms.
Fishman immediately thought about soundproof windows. The price was $899,000,
with monthly charges of almost $1,400.

She was willing to compromise on one or two negative features, she said,
''because you're never going to get the perfect place. But this one had three
negative things.'' She moved on.

Farther north, in the high West 80s, a 750-square-foot one-bedroom for $750,000,
with monthly charges of nearly $1,500, had an attractive sunken living room. But
the place overlooked a school and a playground. Again, she worried about noise.

She wasn't expecting much at a one-bedroom being sold by an estate in the West
70s. ''They didn't put any pictures up online,'' she said. ''That's how bad it
was.''

The one-bedroom, with just over 600 square feet, was listed at $825,000, with
monthly charges in the low $1,200s. It had not been touched in decades.

There were ''layers of dust and age,'' Mr. Elika said. ''It had furniture for a
two-bedroom apartment in a one-bedroom, and everything was oversized and on the
verge of being antique. It was very lived-in and had an orange bathroom.''

Ms. Fishman had trouble seeing the apartment for itself. ''I don't have any eye
for design,'' she said. ''Thankfully, I had Gea and my boyfriend, who said it
was a great apartment.'' They knew it could be transformed in short order.

Ms. Fishman bought the place last winter for $790,000. She replaced the floors,
added bookshelves and redid the kitchen with the requisite large oven. She kept
the orange bathroom walls.

Her living room, facing south and roomy enough for a picnic table, lets in
plenty of sun and ''a big chunk of sky,'' she said, though the view of the
street is blocked by a building.

In her big square bedroom, she keeps an electric keyboard for rehearsing and
composing. In the fall, she will be performing Off Broadway in her original
show, ''Der Gelbe Stern,'' about a Jewish cabaret singer in 1933 Berlin .

The apartment came with two amenities Ms. Fishman didn't think she cared about.
One was a doorman. ''I can't imagine renovating without a doorman,'' she said.
With so many deliveries arriving, ''I am grateful to them.''

The other was a roof deck. ''I am surprised at how much I utilize the roof
deck,'' she said. She rarely sees any of her neighbors up there.

''It is funny that I ended up buying a place I didn't want to live in
immediately,'' she said. She is glad she was encouraged to renovate. Otherwise,
she said, ''I would have walked straight out.''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.

Email: thehunt@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/permanence-on-the-upper-west-side.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: West 80s: A one-bedroom was in the target neighborhood, the
Upper West Side. But it was on the small side, with a view of brick walls.
West 70s: A larger place scored zero on two must-have items, a workable kitchen
and a handy bathroom. And it was noisy.
West 80s: An even larger one-bedroom had an appealing sunken living room. But a
nearby school spelled a potential for noise.
West 70s: The prospective buyer was not keen at first on a place in need of a
fix-up, but in the end, its good bones prevailed.
 The Buyer: Alexis Fishman renovated her one-bedroom, an estate sale.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS
(74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cheese Whizzes

BYLINE: By MATT BEARDMORE

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; ON THE HORIZON; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 146 words


Cheese Whizzes There will be more macaroni, more cheese and one more Golden
Noodle Award, above, to present at this year's Mac & Cheese Fest in Chicago. The
event takes place Oct. 24 at the University of Illinois at Chicago Forum.

The response to last year's inaugural festival was so positive -- it sold out,
with 2,500 attendees -- that its organizers, Melinda Joseph and Cece Gonzales,
have expanded the event to two sessions: lunch from noon to 3 p.m. and dinner
from 7 to 10 p.m. More than 50 restaurants will participate in each session.

Kitty O'Sheas will vie for a second Golden Noodle Award, which will go to the
restaurant in each session with the winning recipe.

Tickets are $60 per session and will be available Aug. 31 through
macandcheesechicago.com or Ticketmaster. Entry (attendees must be at least 10
years old) includes all you can eat plus five drink tickets.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILA SAMOKHINA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (88%); RESTAURANTS (86%)

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%);
NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No-Hitter for Hamels; Trade May Follow

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 480 words


CHICAGO --  Cole Hamels is probably facing a quick trip from the record book to
the trading block.

Hamels, Philadelphia's ace, became the first pitcher to throw a no-hitter
against the Cubs in 50 years, watching as the rookie center fielder Odubel
Herrera stumbled on the warning track before catching a fly ball to finish the
Phillies' 5-0 victory Saturday in Chicago.

''It's something where you just go out there and enjoy the moment,'' Hamels
said. ''What I want is to be successful at it. I enjoyed the moment, and this
happened.''

Hamels (6-7) struck out 13, tossing his first career no-hitter in what could be
his final start for the Phillies. Hamels, the most valuable player of the 2008
World Series, has been mentioned prominently in trade talks as the July 31
deadline approaches.

It was the first no-hitter versus the Cubs since Sandy Koufax pitched a perfect
game in 1965.

It also was the fourth no-hitter for catcher Carlos Ruiz, including the
playoffs, according to the statistics agency Stats. That is the most in N.L.
history and tied with Jason Varitek for the major league record.

Dexter Fowler walked twice for Chicago, but he was the only base runner for the
Cubs.

The 31-year-old Hamels was part of the Phillies' last no-hitter, too. Hamels, a
lanky left-hander, teamed with three relievers on a combined no-hitter Sept. 1
at Atlanta.

This time, Hamels saw Herrera make two tumbling grabs to preserve the no-hitter.

With one out in the eighth inning, Herrera ran a long way into the
left-center-field gap to grab David Ross's fly ball and then spilled onto the
warning track.

With two outs in the ninth, the rookie Kris Bryant launched a long fly ball.
Herrera raced back and slipped on the track in front of the ivy-covered brick
wall, but he managed to lean forward for the catch.

''I hung that pitch to Bryant with his power; fortunately, the wind was in my
favor,'' Hamels said. ''Herrera made two spectacular catches out there. That
picked the team up, and it's great to see and it's great to participate
myself.''

Hamels's teammates mobbed him after the final out. He threw 129 pitches on a
warm evening.

The Phillies have the worst record in the majors, and several contending teams
are interested in Hamels. The Phillies have until Friday to make a trade before
the deadline for nonwaiver deals.

All the trade rumors seemed to be taking a toll on Hamels, who had struggled of
late. In his previous two starts, he allowed 14 runs and 20 hits over six and a
third innings.

But Hamels was in control right from the start on a picturesque day at Wrigley
Field. He ended a nine-game streak without a victory, which matched a career
high.

''Just being able to pound the zone -- that's what I wanted to do today,''
Hamels said. ''I wasn't doing it too well the last couple of games. I was able
to get ahead and make them swing at bad pitches.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/no-hitter-for-cole-hamels-trad
e-may-follow.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%);
SPORTS (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS
AWARDS (54%); TALKS & MEETINGS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (84%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (84%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sally Gross, Minimalist Choreographer, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 907 words


Sally Gross, a leading avant-garde dancer and choreographer whose minimalist
works helped propel the postmodern dance movement, died on Monday in Sag Harbor,
N.Y. She was 81.

Her death, from ovarian cancer, was confirmed by her daughters, Sidonia and
Rachel Gross.

In the early 1960s Ms. Gross participated in the workshops and concerts
organized by the Judson Dance Theater, the Greenwich Village collective around
which the postmodern dance movement coalesced. Avoiding the theatrics, spectacle
and glamour of traditional concert dance, the postmodernists believed in the
sanctity of movement itself, emphasized simplicity and focused on form as
opposed to style.

Ms. Gross's work, built from the fundamentals of spare, precise movement and
gesture and staged with a painter's eye for figures in space, was emblematic.
Inspired, she often said, by literature and art and by details of her own
autobiography, she translated those elements into elliptical, impressionistic
tableaus.

In long-gestating pieces reliant on improvisatory rehearsals -- for soloists
(often herself), pairs and limited ensembles (she had a small company of dancers
and sometimes performed with one or both of her daughters) -- Ms. Gross deployed
simple props and sets (though she was fond of dramatic lighting), and occasional
original music and spoken narration.

But her primary tools were repeated movements, often recapitulating pedestrian
activities like walking or standing up and often rendered in continuous sequence
as a smooth, deliberate narrative in motion. As composers often say that silence
is an element of music, so stillness was also a significant contributor to her
aesthetic, though Ms. Gross was aware that a dance could only approach or
suggest absolute stillness: Breathing, she explained, is movement.

She studied Buddhism and tai chi, and in her teaching she counseled students to
focus on being concentrated, calm and collected, the ''three C's.'' The
documentary maker Albert Maysles titled his 2007 film about her work ''The
Pleasure of Stillness.''

Admired by critics and celebrated in the circumscribed world of postmodern
dancers and choreographers -- she won a Guggenheim fellowship and multiple
grants from the National Endowment for the Arts -- Ms. Gross was not a dance
celebrity or a must-see ticket. Partly this is because she plied a singular
path, working with a small number of dancers over many months of rehearsal,
emerging with a show once a year.

Her work was seen at some of New York's leading dance spaces, including the
Joyce Theater and the Dia Art Foundation in SoHo, but much of it was rehearsed
and presented to tiny audiences at her home in the West Village in Manhattan.

''Sally Gross might have been a witch or a magician in other times,'' the dance
critic Jennifer Dunning wrote in The New York Times in 1987. ''All she has to do
to weave a spell, it seems, is walk onto the stage and begin to move in that
strangely drowsy but focused way of hers. The elements are simple, with much of
the dancing performed in silence.''

Ms. Gross's dances, she added, ''have the kind of powerful eloquence that comes
with art pared down to its most lucid essentials.''

Sarah Freiberg was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Aug. 3, 1933. Her
parents were Jewish immigrants from Poland -- her father was a fruit peddler --
and as a girl she spoke Yiddish at home.

She graduated from Washington Irving High School and Brooklyn College. Her
interest in dance, she said, was piqued at summer camp when she was a teenager.
In the 1950s she studied technique, composition and improvisation with the
choreographer Alwin Nikolais at the Henry Street Settlement Playhouse.

She was married to Theodore Gross. He died in 1966. In addition to their two
daughters, she is survived by a sister, Edythe Green, and three grandchildren.

In the early 1960s, while she was dancing with the Judson group, she began
teaching a class in movement, largely for women, that met in her apartment. It
continued for more than 40 years with some of the same participants.

''I had done lots of things that I thought were really appropriate for people
who were nondancers but wanted to dance,'' Ms. Gross recalled in 2001 about the
genesis of the class. ''Wanted to move, more than dancing. I think about myself
the same way, as moving. Sitting, standing and lying down. Everybody at that
point was probably in their 30s and they could do a great deal. I was there to
push them. Many of them had had children and just needed to feel as good as
their kids felt.''

Some 40 years later, the dozen or so students were in their 50s, 60s and 70s.

''I don't think there's any end to investigating oneself, because we are
constantly changing,'' she said. ''So I'm here to change with them.''

Ms. Gross continued to dance and to produce new work into her 70s. In 2007,
writing in The Times, the critic Gia Kourlas described a solo piece by Ms.
Gross, ''Songs,'' set to two Leonard Cohen compositions. '''Songs' starts as Ms.
Gross steps onto a horizontal patch of white light,'' she wrote. ''As the lyrics
begin with 'Well, my friends are gone, and my hair is gray,' Ms. Gross slowly
arches a foot while subtly twisting her torso; with one hand on her abdomen, the
other curls to clutch the side of her head. For all its limp weightiness, the
solo, which emphasizes Ms. Gross's long bare feet and articulate fingers, is
arrestingly cool.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/dance/sally-gross-choreographer-of-minima
list-dances-dies-at-81.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The choreographer and dancer Sally Gross rehearsing in Central
Park in 1986. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHOREOGRAPHY (91%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE
COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); ENDOWMENTS (85%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); UROGENITAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); OVARIAN CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY
(71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (68%); THEATER (56%); RELIGION (50%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Empty Crib

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GILMORE.

Jennifer Gilmore is the author, most recently, of ''The Mothers.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 696 words


GOD AND JETFIREConfessions of a Birth Mother By Amy Seek336 pp. Farrar, Straus &
Giroux. $27.  In an open adoption, the child, the birth families and the
prospective adoptive parents all know one another to varying degrees, creating
an extended family tree. Amy Seek placed her infant with a family when she was
23, and in ''God and Jetfire'' she chronicles her experience as a birth mother
from pregnancy until the child, Jonathan, is 12.

I have an adopted child in an open adoption, and reading about Seek's regret,
her ache for her son, and the way she and the child's father, Jevn, chose the
adoptive parents -- often ridiculing the letters and profiles of couples wanting
children -- was not easy. Seek and Jevn test them and pick them apart, which
mirrors the way many birth mothers are themselves treated. Seek also gets at
what often remains unspoken: Adoption is a transaction and a continuous
negotiation. Seek is experiencing what adoptive parents experience as well --
the cold dynamics of a high-­demand marketplace.

As her pregnancy progresses, Seek writes excessively about her architecture
studies, her romantic relationship with Jevn that ended when her pregnancy
began, her loving Catholic family, as well as her labor (11 pages!), and the
days after the birth when she nursed her son, unsure she could go through with
her adoption plan.

Why, then, does she end up signing the papers? Yes, she's young and she wants to
become a successful architect; but she also has a community offering to help,
and her bond with her son is so intense that her reasons are never made
sufficiently clear. Eventually, she signs the baby over to the family she and
Jevn have chosen. Whoever has possession of the child has the power now, and the
dynamic between birth and adoptive parents changes. Jonathan goes to his new
home. Jevn, who has been present through Seek's pregnancy and labor, leaves
without a word. Seek is left alone with her anger and regret, no longer in
control.

For the next decade she grapples with those power shifts and her role as a
mother as she fin­ishes school, gets a job and begins to live out her dreams.
She visits Jonathan, often for days, becoming a part of the family and also an
interloper. Jonathan ­emerges as a pre-teenager, secure and happy, knowing Seek
and Jevn well, with an understanding that adoption is evidence of love rather
than its absence.

But Seek's openness begins to flag. We get pages upon pages of her visits to the
home of Jonathan's adoptive family, but when they visit her in her matchbox
Brooklyn apartment, surely a story-worthy episode, we get a succinct paragraph.
Seek rarely recounts her own agency either. When she becomes pregnant again, her
abortion is barely noted. For someone as lucid as Seek, this is a strange
omission. Her sense of victimization, from physical trauma to psychic grief,
comes to feel like a grueling lullaby, sung over an empty crib.

From the beginning, she calls Jonathan her son, but when she is in her early
30s, in a heart-­stopping turn, she decides she will ''get him back.'' On her
next visit, however, nothing happens. In fact, there is no mention of her
thoughts about taking him at all, and instead she becomes upset about where she
is seated at the dinner table and how nobody in the family passes her the
potatoes, even though she hasn't asked for them: ''I wondered if that was to
deprive me of them so that I would starve to death and then Jonathan would
become more fully theirs.''

''My son,'' she writes over and over. It is important that she is able to claim
her rightful role, but her sadness and loss is tied up with ownership. Still, I
have not read a more comprehensive book on the grieving that accompanies the
adoption process. Seek's eloquent if occasionally self-­indulgent prose makes
this important memoir resonate. As she shows, adoption does not end when a child
changes hands. It's a sad, lovely and continuing conversation that she bravely
documents.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/god-and-jetfire-by-amy-seek.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PARENTS (90%); FAMILY
(90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); ABORTION
(71%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metaphysical Rehab

BYLINE: By SARAH GERARD.

Sarah Gerard's first novel, ''Binary Star,'' was published in January.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 601 words


A CURE FOR SUICIDEBy Jesse Ball 240 pp. Pantheon Books. $24.  In Jesse Ball's
elegant, spellbinding fifth novel, ''A Cure for Suicide,'' a man known only as
the ''claimant'' sits on a chair, which he has recently learned is called
''chair.'' He listens as a woman he knows as the ''examiner'' tells him how a
story works. The examiner has not yet given the claimant a name. The claimant
must first learn how to listen to a story and tell a story in turn. ''It isn't
important that you understand what I say,'' the examiner tells him. ''It is not
very important that you are understood as long as you give the person the
happiness of being told a story.''

The claimant's story is this: He was very ill, in fact almost died, and has been
brought here to recover. In this village the houses all look the same, inside
and out, and the claimant can be moved to a new house in his sleep at any time.
The examiner is the only person the claimant ­interacts with. Steadily, the
claimant learns the mechanisms of daily living: eating, dressing, going for
walks, conversing. He is ­given a name. He learns to draw. He learns about
crying. He has no memory of his life before this, but he cries out for someone
in his sleep. His drawings are disturbing.

One day, the examiner brings the claimant to a party where he meets a woman
named Hilda, who comes to inhabit his every waking thought. At a dinner, Hilda
asks to meet him in secret, and in secret, she tells him that the village isn't
what it seems. The examiners aren't who they say they are. In fact, Hilda and
the claimant are both in danger. She shows him proof. The claimant learns about
distrust. She tells him to meet her the following night so they can escape
together. The following night comes, but the claimant doesn't meet her. He
hesitates and stays put, and Hilda is taken. He learns about regret.

With the simplicity of a fable and the drama of a psychological thriller, Ball
tells a story about starting over from nothing, reconstructing life from its
most basic elements. These acts of narrative deconstruction highlight his
strength as a deeply questioning writer at home in fact as much as abstraction.
In the ­village's cemetery, Ball deconstructs death. Noting that gravestones are
''irrational'' because they prolong suffering while failing to bring back the
dead, the claimant wonders: ''But, if life is just that, just being reasonable,
then there is nothing in it -- nothing worthwhile. So, the yearning that we have
to keep dead things living -- or to make unreasonable things reasonable. That is
why a person should live.''

There is yearning at the core of ''A Cure for Suicide,'' and in that yearning is
the reason for carrying on when doing so feels impossible. Ball asks whether,
given the chance to shed our pain and start over with the mind of a child, we
would want to do so -- to what extent pain informs identity, and what parts of
us would remain were we to shed that pain. In the hands of a less skilled
writer, these questions could be mistaken for science fiction cliché, a riff on
''Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,'' but Ball deftly explores questions
with the eye of a poet and the logic of a philosopher, revealing new facets with
perfect timing and acuity. At each unforeseeable turn, ''A Cure for Suicide'' is
a story Ball ensures we understand and, because it is subtle and breathtaking,
we are happy to be told.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/a-cure-for-suicide-by-jesse-ball.
html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUC MELANSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(89%); SUICIDE (78%); WRITERS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1 words

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 138 PIERREPONT STREET, #4F: A three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath
condo, listed at $3.21 million. (718) 878-1900
128 WILLOW STREET, #1CD: A three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath co-op in a prewar
building, listed at $2.5 million. (917) 693-7286
 2 GRACE COURT, #1W:  A one-bedroom one-bath co-op in a prewar building with a
roof deck, listed at $649,000. (917) 627-8664 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWIN J. TORRES
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

All Aboard the No-Fuss Bus

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1192 words


Tickets for the discount bus company Megabus start at $1, plus some pesky fees.
Its routes connect dozens of United States cities from Maine to California
(along with more in Canada). Many routes run overnight, meaning you can save on
lodging, if you're up for brushing your teeth at highway rest stops.

So, is Megabus the cheapest way to see America? Couldn't you ramble through more
than half the country for a month, hitting, say, 10 cities for less than $25?

After a weeklong, six-leg trial (five of the legs with Megabus), my conclusion
is: sort of. You'll rarely get that $1 fare; capturing those prizes, which are
released irregularly, requires constant social-media monitoring. The seats,
pleasant enough for a four-hour trip from New York to Washington, are extremely
difficult places to sleep. Most inconveniently, the routes often don't connect
in the way you want them to, forcing often absurdly lengthy connections.

To be fair, Megabus was not set up for meandering road trips anymore than the
Staten Island Ferry was meant as the no-frills pleasure cruise it has become for
many. Its main task is to get people from Point A to Point B, cheaply and with
no extras (except for semifunctioning Wi-Fi).

But with a few adjustments and concessions, it can work. Most important, use the
long layovers to your advantage.

My plan was to go from New York to Silver Spring, Md. (via Peter Pan, not
Megabus, which does not stop in Silver Spring), and crash my nephews' swim
practice with a takeout Vietnamese dinner. A few hours later, I'd catch the
Metro to Union Station in Washington for Megabus's overnight bus to Knoxville,
Tenn., known for its music, spending a day and evening there. Then I'd catch a
1:30 a.m. bus to Lexington, Ky., arriving at 5 a.m., to start a four-day bike
trip. The way back worked out with shorter stops and just one overnight.

Sound torturous? Perhaps. I'm not saying it was paradise on wheels. But the
total cost, including the Peter Pan leg, was just $63 (and could have been less
if I hadn't had to postpone the trip once and reschedule on short notice). By
comparison, round-trip flights from New York to Lexington when I booked were
edging toward $400.

The first leg to Silver Spring was a breeze; at $18 it was the most expensive
leg, but worth it -- dropping me off, by the way, about two minutes from the
tasty and affordable Lotus Cafe. Later that evening, after pho and spring rolls
and some horsing around in the pool, I hopped on the Metro to Union Station for
the bus to Knoxville.

No one is expecting an overnight bus ride to be pleasant, but in the last five
years of writing Frugal Traveler, I have often been surprised by almost
decadently luxurious overnight buses, with plush seats that recline fairly close
to horizontal.

But those were in countries like Brazil, Mexico and Indonesia. In the United
States, the same cost-cutting mania that removed the last traces of dignity from
coach-class air travel has shorn any semblance of comfort from our buses, as
well. (Without such cost cutting, I admit that I wouldn't be writing this
article in the first place.)

So I should not have been surprised that my upper-deck seat to Knoxville was
barely cushioned and quite tight. Still, the bus was clean, the driver upbeat
and friendly considering the task before her, and the bathroom functional. But
an unpleasant surprise was in store for anyone who came unprepared. By which I
mean me.

As we boarded, most passengers broke out pillows and heavy blankets and
comforters, as if we were going on an Arctic expedition. I scoffed at their
packing inefficiency. My sleeping pill occupied about one one-millionth the
space.

Then came an odd announcement. ''This bus is climate-controlled,'' said the
driver, suddenly sounding less hospitable, ''which means we cannot control the
AC or the heat. Send your comments to megabus.com.''

It was a pre-emptive strike against passenger mutiny, as the bus was soon
frigid. My carry-on backpack offered little help; I had packed for a bike ride
in the scorching heat. Bike shorts pulled snug over your head like a ski mask,
it turns out, do not conserve much warmth. (A Megabus spokesman confirmed that
the bus driver does not control the temperature and said that the buses are set
to the same temperature as ''most federal buildings.'') I did get one welcome
break from a sleepless, shivering night -- a 3:45 a.m. stop at Love's Travel
Stop, somewhere in western Virginia.

If you've been to Love's, you know what awaited me: every possibly temptation
for anyone with a sweet tooth or a penchant for late-night grease. (Count me in
for both.) A woman from the bus spotted me eyeing the two-for-$3 Tornados,
greasy meats and cheeses rolled up in crispy crusts (or in blueberry pancakes!),
rotating on rollers like 7-Eleven hot dogs under a heat lamp. Embarrassed I had
been spotted considering such a purchase, I slipped away.

A few minutes later, after admiring the CB radios and pocketknives and an
impressive jerky selection, I went back and grabbed the plastic tongs, sliding
one pizza Tornado and one blueberry-pancake-and-sausage Tornado into the
provided sleeves.

Three dollars for guaranteed highway malaise -- who can turn that down? ''I knew
you was going to get them,'' the woman who had been eyeing me said triumphantly.
Predictably, they were a greasy mess, the sort of thing that would qualify as
tasty if it weren't so obviously trying to kill you.

I do pretty well on minimal sleep, and spent a great day in Knoxville. The 1:30
a.m. bus from Knoxville to Lexington, though, tested even me. The route had
started in Atlanta and was nearly full when I (and a drunk 20-something blond
guy with dreads, stinking of cigarettes) boarded. I got about half a seat next
to a friendly but corpulent woman with pink hair, which is more than I can say
for that drunk guy -- no one would make space for him, and he spent the trip
passed out in the stairwell.

We arrived in Lexington, and after taking a (probably illegal) nap behind some
very pleasant shrubs on the manicured University of Kentucky campus, I went to
breakfast. (Cinnamon rolls from Sunrise Bakery, highly recommended.)

The trip back looked to be smoother, with just one overnight, and warmer
clothes. But pulling out of Lexington for the first leg, the bus kept jolting,
causing lots of rattling on the upper deck. ''This is scary,'' a small girl
said. The bus driver persevered -- more than I can say for the bus, which conked
out on I-75, near Conway. We were stuck on the side of the highway for over
three stuffy hours. But we got a refund for that leg, I made my connection in
Knoxville, and by early afternoon the next day I was back in New York.

My conclusion: Megabus as a cheap way of getting from Point A to Point B is
great, if you are doing a short route or are strapped for cash. Megabus road
trips as leisure travel? That's an off-label use prescribed for a specific type
of person: the truly flexible, comfort-be-damned, all-out budget traveler. Who
has room in his bag for a blanket and pillow. And a stomach capable of digesting
a 3 a.m. blueberry-pancake Tornado.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/the-pros-and-cons-of-budget-bus-travel-
megabus-peter-pan.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RANDY JONES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); CRUISES (74%); FERRIES
(69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (54%)

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA
(68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%);
TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Food Matters: Rising to a Baker's Honor System

BYLINE: By KAREN BRUNO

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 622 words


There could be nothing twee about a bakery whose owner learned pie-making from a
Medicine Man -- as did Julianne Vanderhoop, a member of the Wampanoag Tribe of
Gay Head in the Martha's Vineyard town of Aquinnah, and the woman behind Orange
Peel Bakery. Located in the island's hilly, windswept, Western parts and open
year-round, it is the only place within 15 miles to get sustenance after the
tourists leave in late summer and the nearby stores shut their doors until
spring. And she makes perhaps the best pastries, tarts and breads on the island
-- like wheat berry and cranberry, and rosemary and olive oil loaves, which are
sold at local supermarkets and some farmstands.

After nearly 20 years away -- some spent as a commercial pilot, others eating up
delectable old-world-style baked goods in destinations like Germany and Austria
-- Vanderhoop returned to Martha's Vineyard nine years ago, inspired and ready
to open her own bakery. On a plot near the land where her ancestors hunted and
fished thousand of years ago, she commissioned a mason to encase a wood-fired Le
Panyol oven using local field stone. These days, she moves confidently between
the outdoor oven, shielded from the elements only by a flapping blue plastic
tarp, and her shed, filled to the rafters with ingredients, which doubles as a
kitchen. She works methodically, with one assistant, sometimes two, as music
blares. ''I love what I do,'' she says. The ''peel'' of the bakery's name refers
to the long paddle on which shaped dough is transferred in and out of the
French-made oven, which reaches over 700 degrees. Inside, fire, white clay and
the sea-salted air mix in sweet alchemy to create her loaves' signature fine
crust.

While thieves have hit farmstands out on the vineyard, prompting owners to all
but abandon the pay-as-you-go honor system and even install security cameras,
Vanderhoop says she ''wants to give people the opportunity to do the right
thing.'' She lines her hearty breads, flaky tarts and iced sweet bread buns
called ''snails'' up on a gardener's shelf in the Orange Peel kitchen, from
which customers help themselves -- a nearby metal coffee can holds their
crumpled bills. Vanderhoop teaches her two children about karma and is
determined to foster a community spirit, hosting very popular twice weekly Bring
Your Own Topping pizza nights.

Below, Vanderhoop shares her recipe for raspberry bars with an almond crust, a
summer hit at Orange Peel. She demonstrates the process in the above slideshow.

Raspberry Bars with Almond Crust

Yield: Eight 8â[#x20ac]³ tarts (about 32 pieces)

2 Â½ cups slivered almonds, divided

4 cups all-purpose flour

4 cups oats

1 tablespoon and one teaspoon baking powder

2 teaspoons salt

2 cups (four sticks) cold butter

2 cups brown sugar

4 tablespoons almond extract

2 eggs

2 Â½ cups raspberry jam

1. SautÃ© Â½ cup of the almonds in a pan until golden brown and set aside.

2. In a mixing bowl combine the flour, oats, remaining almonds, baking powder
and salt. Set aside.

3. In another bowl combine the butter and brown sugar. Add the almond extract
and eggs and blend.

4. Add the dry ingredients to the creamed mixture, and mix until well blended.
Press the mixture into eight 8â[#x20ac]³ tart pans, onto the bottom and up the
sides, leaving enough room for filling.

5. Bake the tarts at 360 degrees for 25 minutes. Remove them from oven and when
cool, fill the shells with raspberry jam and top with the reserved toasted
almonds. Bake the tarts for an additional 25 to 35 minutes, until the crusts are
a rich, golden color.

6. Remove from the oven and let cool. Cut each tart into pieces and serve.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/07/23/recipe-raspberry-bars-orange-peel-
bakery/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELA HERMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (74%);
GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%)

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (78%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brando's Gone, Yet Not Silenced

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words


Marlon Brando has been dead 11 years, but he lives eerily on in ''Listen to Me
Marlon,'' which begins a two-week run on July 29 at Film Forum. The movie
creates a fitful biography of Brando using hundreds of hours of audio recordings
he made and a weird holographic head of the actor. With Brando's somewhat trippy
observations as a guide, it looks at career highlights as well as the personal
calamities that seemed to follow the man, like the suicide of his daughter
Cheyenne.

''By skipping across time and steering clear of the usual biographical tidiness
(birth, life, death), the director Stevan Riley both avoids the usual great-man
traps and makes Mr. Brando come searchingly alive,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The
New York Times when the film played at New Directors/New Films in March.

''Listen to Me Marlon'' is a teaser for a 10-movie tribute to Brando that Film
Forum has scheduled for Aug. 7-11 (filmforum.org).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/movies/listen-to-me-marlon-lets-brando-talk.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marlon Brando, 31, with his father, Marlon Sr., in 1955.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES, VIA SHOWTIME)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Gets Favorable Draw in Qualifying Tournament for World Cup in Russia

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 716 words


The first step toward the 2018 World Cup in Russia appears to be a relatively
simple one for the United States men's national team.

The Americans received a favorable grouping on Saturday, as FIFA held its draw
for the World Cup qualifying tournament during an elaborate ceremony in St.
Petersburg, Russia. The United States will face Trinidad and Tobago and the
winners of matches between St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Aruba, and Antigua
and Barbuda and Guatemala.

If the United States finishes as one of the top two teams after its group
concludes home-and-away round-robin play, it will advance to the final round of
qualifying, known as the hexagonal, which pits six teams against one another in
another home-and-away round robin. Three guaranteed spots in the World Cup are
available, with the fourth-place team entering a playoff with a team from Asia.

Group B appears to be the most difficult of the Concacaf groups drawn on
Saturday, as Panama and Costa Rica could end up being joined by Jamaica and
Haiti. Mexico and Honduras were the top two teams in Group A.

Technically, the United States is entering the qualifying tournament at the
fourth round, as Concacaf -- the regional governing body overseeing soccer in
the North and Central America and the Caribbean -- has 35 members, and 17 were
previously eliminated in the opening rounds. Nations like Montserrat and the
Bahamas have already seen their hopes of making the World Cup end before the
United States's path has even begun.

In addition to the drawing of the teams -- as well as a variety of dance
routines and other entertainment -- Saturday's event served as a significant
milestone for organizers of the World Cup in Russia.

As controversy over alleged corruption has enveloped FIFA in recent months,
questions about the fate of the Russia World Cup and the 2022 event, in Qatar,
have persisted. The awarding of hosting rights for those two tournaments has
been scrutinized for potential improprieties. While Russian organizers have
stated repeatedly they did nothing untoward in trying to win the bid, there has
been speculation that the 2018 or 2022 tournament could be moved if it is proved
that organizers acted improperly.

With the qualifying draw being held on Saturday, however, it seems all but
certain that Russia's tournament will proceed as planned, if only because
Russia's national team, as hosts, was not drawn into the qualifying tournament
for Europe.

Re-inserting a team once qualifying has begun -- if, say, the tournament were
shifted to another country -- would seem all but impossible.

Along those lines, FIFA's powerful executive committee used the spectacle of the
draw as an opportunity to reiterate its support for Russia as hosts.

Sepp Blatter, the departing president of FIFA, told Vladimir V. Putin, the
president of Russia, that soccer's governing body was fully committed to staging
the 2018 event in 11 cities across the world's largest country.

''I would like to inform you that the executive committee has recently adopted a
new resolution in which FIFA assures the Russian Federation of its full support
in carrying out the World Cup in Russia in 2018,'' Mr. Blatter said.

Mr. Blatter announced in June that he would step down as president, just days
after being elected to a fifth four-year term. Mr. Blatter has since said that
the main reason he made this decision is because of the crisis that has
surrounded FIFA amidst corruption investigations by authorities from the United
States and Switzerland. Mr. Blatter has not been charged, but as FIFA's leader,
he is under scrutiny.

It was not surprising that Mr. Blatter, who has limited his travel outside
Switzerland since the investigations were made public, chose to take part in the
event in Russia. Mr. Putin has been a supporter of Mr. Blatter and criticized
the United States's investigation into FIFA as interfering in issues outside its
purview.

On Saturday, Mr. Putin promised that Russia would deliver ''a grandiose
international sporting festival,'' while thanking Mr. Blatter and FIFA for its
support during a difficult time.

''We see what is happening around soccer,'' Mr. Putin said, ''but I know how you
regard this and we are grateful that you are concentrating your attention
primarily on sport.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/soccer/united-states-gets-favorable-dra
w-in-world-cup-qualifying.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The singer Polina Gagarina performed Saturday at the preliminary
draw in St. Petersburg for the 2018 World Cup in Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAUN
BOTTERILL/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SOCCER
TOURNAMENTS (90%); 2015 FIFA CORRUPTION SCANDAL (77%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ARUBA (92%); SAINT
VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (92%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (90%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
(90%); MONTSERRAT (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); HONDURAS (79%); PANAMA (79%);
GUATEMALA (79%); EUROPE (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); HAITI (79%); ASIA (79%);
CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); QATAR (69%); BAHAMAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Debate Became Bloodsport

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1236 words


Before partisan panels, split-screen shoutfests and brash personalities became
ubiquitous on cable news, there were two men who despised each other sitting
side by side on a drab soundstage, debating politics in prime time during the
presidential nominating conventions of 1968. There were Gore Vidal and William
F. Buckley Jr.

Literary aristocrats and ideological foes, Vidal and Buckley attracted millions
of viewers to what, at the time, was a highly irregular experiment: the
spectacle of two brilliant minds slugging it out -- once, almost literally -- on
live television. It was witty, erudite and ultimately vicious, an early
intrusion of full-contact punditry into the staid pastures of the evening news.

What transpired would alter both men's lives -- and, as a new documentary
argues, help change the course of how the American political media reports the
news. ''Best of Enemies,'' which opens July 31, makes the case that their
on-screen feuding opened the floodgates for today's opinionated, conflict-driven
coverage.

The film might have been a sober lesson in the erosion of our civic discourse,
timed to the start of yet another 24/7 presidential campaign. But its directors,
Morgan Neville and Robert Gordon, present their ideas with a wide scope,
exploring the rivalry between their subjects and evoking an era when public
intellectuals like Vidal appeared on ''Playboy After Dark'' and magazine editors
like Buckley, the founder of National Review, ran for mayor of New York. (He
lost.)

''They don't make people like Gore Vidal and William F. Buckley anymore,'' Mr.
Neville said in a recent interview. ''Their lives are the kind of American lives
that people don't have anymore. To me, just on a theatrical level, it seemed
operatic: this kind of grand battle.''

The film's trump card is the debates themselves -- first during the Republicans'
convention in Miami, then three weeks later during the Democrats' in Chicago --
resurrected in rarely seen footage that, 47 years on, remains almost giddily
entertaining: ''Crossfire'' with a script by Noël Coward.

Vidal tells Buckley that he was an inspiration for Myra Breckinridge, Vidal's
transgender literary creation: ''passionate and irrelevant.'' Buckley mocks
Vidal's failed screenplays and produces a note from Robert F. Kennedy, killed
weeks earlier, suggesting that Vidal be deported to Vietnam. (Vidal, examining
the letter, notes that the handwriting is slanted upward: ''sign of a
manic-depressive,'' he says coolly.)

Anchors like Howard K. Smith and Walter Cronkite had occasionally offered
commentaries on the news, ''but that was very civil,'' Mr. Neville said. ''What
they brought,'' he added, referring to Vidal and Buckley, ''was a whole other
level of incivility that television hadn't really seen.''

Mr. Neville, who won the feature documentary Oscar for ''20 Feet From Stardom,''
and Mr. Gordon, a longtime collaborator, first watched the debates in 2010, on a
bootleg copy from a friend. ''I immediately was taken by how contemporary it
was,'' Mr. Gordon said, noting that between zingers, Buckley and Vidal were
debating foreign wars, racial justice and states' rights.

But the directors, both former journalists, also discovered that the debates'
legacy became more about ire than ideas.

Buckley showcased provocative debate on ''Firing Line,'' his program which had
its debut in 1966; Vidal was a mischievous guest on talk shows. But the film
presents network news in 1968 as a gray affair. When ABC hired Buckley and Vidal
to hold daily debates during its convention coverage -- essentially a ratings
stunt by a network ranked last in the ratings -- it was breaking from the
gavel-to-gavel norm.

And then some. On a night of riots at the Democratic convention in Chicago,
Buckley and Vidal had their own climactic on-air clash. Vidal called Buckley a
''crypto-Nazi,'' prompting a reaction that still stuns.

''Now listen, you queer,'' Buckley replied, ''stop calling me a crypto-Nazi or
I'll sock you in the goddamn face and you'll stay plastered.'' He was nearly out
of his chair, inches from Vidal, his face, as Christopher Hitchens recalls in
the film, ''a rictus of loathing.''

Such slurs are rarely heard on television today; at the time, they were deeply
profane, and the exchange was cut from the West Coast broadcast, according to
Mr. Gordon. Vidal saw it as a triumph; Buckley almost never spoke of it again.

''Best of Enemies'' documents the aftermath: News producers, intrigued by ABC's
ratings increase, began pitting liberals against conservatives. A montage
features an old ''Point/Counterpoint'' segment from ''60 Minutes''; Jon Stewart
berating the hosts of CNN's ''Crossfire''; and shouty clips from Fox News.

The film, which debuted this year at Sundance, has resonated: The screenwriter
Aaron Sorkin recently signed on to write a feature-length dramatic adaptation.
''I'd never heard about the Vidal/Buckley debates before seeing the
documentary,'' Mr. Sorkin said by email, comparing the climactic debate to ''a
classic courtroom scene.''

Research for the documentary took years, with the directors plumbing archives
for gems like Vidal's handwritten debate notes. (Many of his supposed ad-libs
were, in fact, rehearsed.) The directors interviewed Vidal in 2010, two years
before his death, at his Hollywood home, where he initially accused them of
being Buckley partisans. ''It was like a scene from 'Sunset Boulevard,' '' Mr.
Neville recalled.

That interview does not appear in the film; Buckley died in 2008, and the
directors felt allowing only Vidal to speak would unbalance the film. Instead,
they draw on journalists, media critics and relatives, including Buckley's
brother Reid. Buckley's son, Christopher, declined to speak. ''I think it was
honoring his father's intentions to not ever speak of the V-word again,'' Mr.
Neville said.

Mr. Neville, who briefly worked as a fact-checker for Vidal after college (''One
of the most thankless jobs I've ever had''), said that audiences frequently tell
him how relevant the film seems to today's media culture. Mr. Gordon regards
that as a hopeful sign. ''People are hungry for the public intellectual,'' Mr.
Gordon said. Buckley and Vidal ''had 15 minutes a night, uninterrupted. Imagine
that today. Imagine having two witty, literate heavy thinkers having a go at
each other for 15 minutes without someone in the headset saying, 'Quick, talk
about Monica Lewinsky's underwear.' ''

Mr. Neville agreed. ''Now, you watch cable news, and you know what everybody's
going to say before they open their mouth,'' he said. Buckley and Vidal ''were
independent thinkers, and independent thinkers aren't given a lot of time on
television today.''

Few current news programs can match the lexical fireworks of the Buckley-Vidal
debates, and it is true that the words ''Latinate'' and ''hobgoblinization'' are
unlikely to be heard on CNN anytime soon.

But ''Best of Enemies'' also proves something else: that even during a more
genteel era in television news, the most pedigreed and respected intellects
could descend into name-calling and, for a moment, the threat of physical
violence.

Mr. Sorkin, who lamented the state of television news in his HBO series, ''The
Newsroom,'' was asked what today's news media might learn from these debates
nearly half a century old.

''I think they've learned it,'' Mr. Sorkin replied. ''Incivility rates.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/movies/buckley-vs-vidal-when-debate-became-blo
odsport.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above from left, William F. Buckey Jr. and Gore Vidal during
one of their 1968 debates
above right, the two men in makeup before an appearance
from left, Robert Gordon and Morgan Neville, the directors of ''Best of
Enemies,'' which revisits those debates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES
TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Gore Vidal, seated, and Paul Newman, a delegate to the 1968 Democratic National
Convention. ''Best of Enemies'' recalls Vidal's debates with William F. Buckley
Jr. during both conventions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNOLIA PICTURES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MEN (78%); CONFERENCES &
CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); US
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MAYORS
(66%); DEPORTATION (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editors' Choice | Recent Books of Particular Interest

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 315 words


THE WEATHER EXPERIMENT: The Pioneers Who Sought to See the Future, by Peter
Moore. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) Unlike many British-centric
meteorological histories, Moore's evocative account pays homage to American
contributions.

BIG SCIENCE: Ernest Lawrence and the Invention That Launched the
Military-Industrial Complex, by Michael Hiltzik. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The
origins of the trend toward today's gargantuan projects.

THE PINCH: A History, by Steve Stern. (Graywolf, $26.) There's nothing Stern
can't imagine in this manically busy fabulist novel, a long Yiddish folk tale
transplanted to the American South.

THE GODDESS POSE: The Audacious Life of Indra Devi, the Woman Who Helped Bring
Yoga to the West, by Michelle Goldberg. (Knopf, $26.95.) This elegant biography
shows the influential yogini in the thick of many crucial 20th-century events.

BARBARIAN DAYS: A Surfing Life, by William Finnegan. (Penguin Press, $27.95.)
Generous yet unsparing portraits of competitive surf friend- ships are among the
joys of Finnegan's memoir.

OUR MAN IN CHARLESTON: Britain's Secret Agent in the Civil War South, by
Christopher Dickey. (Crown, $27.) How a diplomat in South Carolina helped keep
his country out of the war.

THE WOLF BORDER, by Sarah Hall. (Harper, $25.99.) Hall's satisfying, big-themed
novel tracks a self-determined woman involved with the reintroduction of the
gray wolf into England.

LET ME EXPLAIN YOU, by Annie Liontas. (Scribner, $26.) A patriarch's ambiguous
countdown to death stakes out this novel's risky comic territory.

RISE, by Karen Campbell. (Bloomsbury, $28.) In Campbell's vivid novel, a Glasgow
prostitute flees her pimp and finds work as a nanny.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/editors-choice.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (77%);
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); FOLKLORE (71%); TRENDS (71%); YOGA (69%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%)

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (71%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%)

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Looking Away From Abortion

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 864 words


IN an essay in his 1976 collection, ''Mortal Lessons,'' the physician Richard
Selzer describes a strange suburban scene. People go outside in the morning in
his neighborhood, after the garbage trucks have passed, and find ''a foreignness
upon the pavement,'' a softness underfoot.

Looking down, Selzer first thinks he sees oversize baby birds, then rubber baby
dolls, until the realization comes that the street is littered with the tiny,
naked, all-too-human bodies of aborted fetuses.

Later, the local hospital director speaks to Selzer, trying to impose order on
the grisly scene. It was an accident, of course: The tiny corpses were
accidentally ''mixed up with the other debris'' instead of being incinerated or
interred. ''It is not an everyday occurrence. Once in a lifetime, he says.''

And Selzer tries to nod along: ''Now you see. It is orderly. It is sensible. The
world is not mad. This is still a civilized society...

''But just this once, you know it isn't. You saw, and you know.''

Resolute abortion rights supporters would dismiss that claim of knowledge. Death
and viscera are never pretty, they would say, but something can be disgusting
without being barbaric. Just because it's awful to discover fetuses underfoot
doesn't mean the unborn have a right to life.

And it's precisely this argument that's been marshaled lately in response to a
new reminder of the fleshly realities of abortion: The conversations, videotaped
covertly by pro-life activists posing as fetal organ buyers, in which officials
from Planned Parenthood cheerfully discuss the procedures for extracting those
organs intact during an abortion and the prices they command.

It may be disturbing to hear those procedures described: ''... we've been very
good at getting heart, lung, liver, because we know that, so I'm not gonna crush
that part, I'm gonna basically crush below, I'm gonna crush above, and I'm gonna
see if I can get it all intact.''


It may be unseemly to hear a Planned Parenthood official haggle over pricing for
those organs: ''Let me just figure out what others are getting, and if this is
in the ballpark, then it's fine, if it's still low, then we can bump it up. I
want a Lamborghini.''


But in the end, Planned Parenthood's defenders insist, listening to an
abortionist discuss manipulating the ''calvarium'' (that is, the dying fetus's
skull) so that it emerges research-ready from the womb is fundamentally no
different than listening to a doctor discuss heart surgery or organ transplants.
It's unsettling, yes, but just because it's gross doesn't prove it's wrong.

Which is true, but in this case not really true enough. Because real knowledge
isn't purely theoretical; it's the fruit of experience, recognition,
imagination, life itself.

And the problem these videos create for Planned Parenthood isn't just a
generalized queasiness at surgery and blood.

It's a very specific disgust, informed by reason and experience -- the reasoning
that notes that it's precisely a fetus's humanity that makes its organs
valuable, and the experience of recognizing one's own children, on the
ultrasound monitor and after, as something more than just ''products of
conception'' or tissue for the knife.

That's why Planned Parenthood's apologists have fallen back on complaints about
''deceptive editing'' (though full videos were released in both cases), or else
simply asked people to look away. And it's why many of my colleagues in the
press seem uncomfortable reporting on the actual content of the videos.

Because dwelling on that content gets you uncomfortably close to Selzer's
tipping point -- that moment when you start pondering the possibility that an
institution at the heart of respectable liberal society is dedicated to a
practice that deserves to be called barbarism.

That's a hard thing to accept. It's part of why so many people hover in the
conflicted borderlands of the pro-choice side. They don't like abortion, they
think its critics have a point ... but to actively join our side would require
passing too comprehensive a judgment on their coalition, their country, their
friends, their very selves.

This reluctance is a human universal. It's why white Southerners long preferred
Lost Cause mythology to slaveholding realities. It's why patriotic Americans
rarely want to dwell too long on My Lai or Manzanar or Nagasaki. It's why, like
many conservatives, I was loath to engage with the reality of torture in
Bush-era interrogation programs.

But the reluctance to look closely doesn't change the truth of what there is to
see. Those were dead human beings on Richard Selzer's street 40 years ago, and
these are dead human beings being discussed on video today: Human beings that
the nice, idealistic medical personnel at Planned Parenthood have spent their
careers crushing, evacuating, and carving up for parts.

The pro-life sting was sweeping; there are reportedly 10 videos to go. You can
turn away. But there will be plenty of chances to look, to see, to know.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter at twitter.com/DouthatNYT.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/ross-douthat-looking-away-from-
abortion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); HOSPITALS (73%);
SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Continental Cooking and Water Views

BYLINE: By M. H. REED

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | MAHOPAC; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 819 words


Beautiful Lake Mahopac is still there but the Terrace Club along its shore is no
more.

In its place is Il Laghetto, with a new menu that seems eager to revive the
1970s and that embraces the kind of cooking once called ''continental.'' It's
often met with a sneer these days, but whatever the label, well-crafted,
clear-flavored dishes are always in fashion and always welcome. In operation
since October 2014, Il Laghetto's kitchen is still in flux. Preparations are
uneven and inconsistent: what is unacceptable on one visit might be the
must-have dish on another.

However, at this moment, the draw here is the lake, and the pleasure crafts and
water skiers are lovely to watch while waiting for food from a slow kitchen. But
a bowl of popcorn comes to every table, although we preferred nibbling on slices
of good bread dipped in a mix of olives and oil.

Asian tempura calamari was the appetizer not to be missed. The tempura batter
was gossamer, and the rings of calamari so crisp, fresh and piping hot from the
fryer that we wanted to order another plateful. Mayonnaise and marinara dipping
sauces were mild but pleasant. Less interesting but almost as successful were a
pair of rollatini, the wafers of eggplant young and the tomato sauce sheer and
light.

But other appetizers had little to recommend them, including bland crab cakes
that were long on filling but short on crab meat; Prince Edward Island mussels
in a white wine sauce that needed the zing of garlic; and an unappetizingly dark
disaster of old flabby mushroom caps stuffed with escargots set in a pool of
what might have been beet juice.

Refreshing and green, Caesar salad delivered the usual mix of chopped romaine,
croutons, grana padano and a few white anchovies. But the Caprese salad came
built on anemic tomatoes, roasted red peppers and slices of tough, dry
mozzarella.

The kitchen is said to make its own pasta, and judging from the lobster ravioli,
pasta dishes might be worth a try. A tad thick, the pasta, enclosing a somewhat
scant lobster filling, was nonetheless gorgeously supple. But the presentation
lacked finesse, as the ravioli came under a flood of marinara sauce. A heap of
good mussels mingled with black fettuccine, but careless timing had the pasta
cooked to mush.

Similar inconsistencies appeared among the entrees that could be as good as four
large, succulent sea scallops paired with a mound of fluffy polenta or a New
York strip steak almost three inches thick. Though a bit chewy, it had fine
beefy flavor. I took most of it home, and it made excellent sandwiches for the
next few days.

Among the disappointments was an odd version of shrimp scampi, which set five
sizable, bland shrimp on a mound of unseasoned, overcooked rice; and the Amish
chicken was so tough and dry that it resisted the knife.

Vegetable garnishes -- a few stalks of asparagus or green beans -- were meager,
especially in light of farmers' markets bursting this year with bumper crops.

Desserts are made in-house and they are impressive. Under a thick, dense topping
of white chocolate cream, layers of strawberry shortcake came laced with
fragrant strawberry syrup, but too few fresh strawberries. A genuine hit,
however, was the cappuccino cheesecake. From the coffee-infused cake to the Art
Deco extravaganza of mocha buttercream paving the top, the cake was a rich treat
-- and a happy way to end an evening. Even better was stepping onto the dock and
taking a last look at glistening Lake Mahopac, just beginning to redden under
the afterglow of sunset.

il Laghetto

825 South Lake Street, Mahopac845-621-5200illaghettorestaurant.com

Fair

THE SPACE: Splendid views of water sports and Lake Mahopac from an outdoor deck
with booths and tables. Inside, a raised bar overlooks the dining room with a
sky blue ceiling, crystal chandeliers, and a partial view of the lake.
Wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Everyone in neat casual dress. The wait staff seems inexperienced,
but is alert and very willing to please from a slow kitchen. Live music on
Sundays. DJ on Thursday nights from 8 to 11 in a candlelit lounge.

THE BAR: Full bar with a modest selection of wines. Bottles from $25 to $100;
glass, $7 to $10. Cocktails, $9 to $12. Beer, $6.50.

THE BILL: Lunch and brunch entrees, $13 to $19. Dinner entrees, $19 to $33, more
for some specials. Some prices online might be a tad lower than those at the
restaurant.

WHAT WE LIKED: Asian tempura calamari, eggplant rollatini, lobster ravioli,
seared sea scallops, cappuccino cheesecake.

IF YOU GO: Lunch: Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Mondays
through Thursdays, 3 to 10 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 3 to 11 p.m.; Sundays, 3
to 9 p.m. Brunch: Sundays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Reservations are not taken for
seating on the deck. Tight parking lot adjoins the restaurant. Valet parking on
weekends.

RATINGS: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/restaurant-review-dining-at-il-laghet
to-with-a-view-of-the-sunset.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lake Mahopac is the background for diners at Il Laghetto. Far
left, the seared sea scallops with polenta, green beans and red wine syrup.
Left, cappuccino cheesecake. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA WILTSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (78%); WATER SPORTS (69%); WATERSKIING (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farm-to-Table With a Mission

BYLINE: By MARISSA ROTHKOPF BATES

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | WARWICK, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 975 words


The Grange in Warwick, N.Y., which is just over the New Jersey border, is truly
a farm-to-table restaurant.

It is not just because it uses produce from farms in the magically fertile Black
Dirt region of southern New York State, or because Jim Haurey, the owner and
head ''cook'' (he dislikes the title ''chef'' when describing himself) spends
Tuesdays and Wednesdays working on an organic farm (run by his girlfriend,
Dominique Herman), or even because 80 percent of the restaurant's ingredients
are sourced locally. It is because Mr. Haurey seems to be on a mission that goes
way beyond owning a profitable business.

''This is more than a restaurant to me,'' he said in an interview after my
visits. ''It's about community. To be able to create jobs, support local farmers
and get people to eat real food.''

The Grange is in a 112-year-old former post office, located in the hamlet of New
Milford, near Warwick's antique-shop-filled town center. A large chalkboard with
the day's specials greets guests as they walk into the cozy, low-key space. A
printed menu lists a substantial cheeseburger, as well as fish and chips
approved by my British husband.

The menu also offers a plate of large and lusty onion rings, fried in beer
batter, which are worthy of their own paragraph. In a region famous for onion
farms (Polish settlers in the region apparently found its soil to be similar to
that of their homeland, and commenced with the onion farming, along with the
Germans and the Dutch), there could be no better homage to the previous tillers
of the peat-rich soil than these.

All vegetables get treated with reverence here, even the most ordinary. On both
my visits, as we waited for our appetizers, the kitchen sent a little vegetable
gift along with homemade rolls and a dish of garlicky olive oil. One night,
there was a plate of long French radishes spread with butter and touched with
salt. Even turnips, the punch line of vegetables, enjoyed a Cinderella moment
one evening, when a plate of raw baby turnip slices appeared topped with the
first of the season's basil pesto.

On our first visit, our table of four shared a smooth chicken liver pâté and a
delicate salad of greens, farmers' cheese and fresh figs, and then squabbled
over a dish piled high with tempura garlic scapes. Another appetizer, a miso and
egg drop soup -- enriched with egg, vegetables and fried won ton skins -- was
hearty and unforgettable. I swear this soup reached out and hugged me.

Yet, on another visit, my husband patiently chewed his way through the sockeye
salmon sashimi salad I had ordered. It was a well-meaning plate, but the fish,
however fresh, was lost in a sea of salad and desperate for something salty to
bring out its rich flavor. Fumbles such as these were rare and quickly
forgotten. Indeed, after I fobbed the salad onto my husband, I hunched
protectively over a bowl of homemade capellini, served with dandelion greens in
a Parmigiano-Reggiano enriched broth. I may actually have growled at the waiter
who tried to take it from me before I could sop up the peppery broth with bread.

On another night, one of my guests tucked into a hanger steak that had spent its
earlier existence pastured in the Hudson Valley. Served atop a pile of mashed
potatoes, the steak was garnished with disks of cheery yellow summer squash and
blue cheese from a nearby dairy farm. The star of the evening, however, was a
locally sourced pork chop, where radishes and turnips once again made an
appearance, this time roasted and served atop a pile of garlicky basmati rice.

Desserts were homey with quiet, sophisticated touches. A banana split featured
brûléed bananas, the shards of which mixed with the homemade vanilla ice cream
to produce something magical. A dark chocolate pot de crème, drizzled with
local-made cherry cordial, was pudding for grown-ups.

It is my duty as a critic to point out that the skin on my otherwise delicious
seared duck breast could have been crispier; that a dish of perch was
strong-armed into bland submission by its accompanying bulgur (also: who really
goes out to eat bulgur?); and that I should not have to ask for water three
times. But in the end we all left content, happy to be out among the fireflies
on a summer evening, with bellies full, after an impressive meal.

''It's just honest-to-goodness food. It's what food is supposed to be,'' Mr.
Haurey said of his cooking style.

Like the lowly turnip, it is what you make of it.

The Grange

1 Ryerson Road, Warwick, N.Y.845-986-1170thegrangewarwick.wordpress.com

EXCELLENT

THE SPACE: Built in 1903, the brick building has a charm enhanced by a stream
rushing alongside it. At night the wood and brick interior seems to emanate its
own warm glow. If you are lucky, you may get a seat on the front porch. Seating
for 19.

THE CROWD: A mix, including farmers grabbing a pulled-pork sandwich, visitors
stopping by after shopping at nearby antique stores, couples on dates.

THE BAR: A small selection of mostly local alcoholic beverages; the most notable
we sampled were Warwick Valley Winery sangria, which was on tap, and Doc's Draft
hard ciders. For fans of cider, the pear version should not be missed.

THE BILL: Appetizers range from $7 to $11; entrees, $11 to $38. Desserts, $7.50.

WHAT WE LIKED: Tempura garlic scapes, miso and egg drop soup, Brittani's pâté,
capellini with dandelion greens and Parmigiano-Reggiano, roast pork with basmati
rice, hanger steak, onion rings and chocolate pot de crème.

IF YOU GO: Open Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays,
until 9 p.m.; Sundays, until 6 p.m. On-street parking. With just a few tables,
reservations are a good idea on weekend nights.

RATINGS: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/restaurant-review-the-grange-in-warwi
ck-true-farm-to-table.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Specials are presented on a blackboard at the Grange, located
near what is known as the Black Dirt region. Top right, flat iron steak on a
pile of mashed potatoes with blue cheese from a local dairy farm. Above,
chocolate pot de crème. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES
(89%); CHEESE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); JOB CREATION
(53%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Caribbean, Transplanted

BYLINE: By JOANNE STARKEY

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DINING | EAST HAMPTON; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 776 words


Winston's Bar & Grill in East Hampton is the opposite of the typical Hamptons
restaurant. Instead of offering a cool, airy, summery ambience, Winston's is
cozy, cluttered and rustic.

The décor is eclectic with wood-covered walls (some from old wine crates), wide
plank floors, two long leather banquettes, a large wooden barrel in the center
of the room holding pitchers of water, six chandeliers hanging from the ceiling,
and numerous shelves and rafters filled with conch shells, horseshoes and
photographs of local places and people.

The food here is also atypical. Not many East End restaurants offer jerk
chicken, curried goat or fried lobster. The Caribbean touches come from the chef
and owner, Winston Lyons, a native of Jamaica. He left Jamaica in 1993, and for
over 20 years worked in the kitchens of East Hampton restaurants like East
Hampton Point, East Hampton Grill, Bostwick's and Turtle Crossing before opening
his own place in May.

Winston's is open for breakfast, lunch and dinner seven days a week. ''I'm here
all the time,'' Mr. Lyons said in a phone interview after my visits. Members of
the staff take their cues from him. They are hard-working, friendly and
outgoing.

The best dish on the menu, and one I would make a special trip for, is the
grilled artichoke. It came in halves, crunchy with flavor. I also liked the
mussels steamed in white wine, shallots and garlic, which was served with two
slices of delicious bread from the grill perched on top. The contents of the
bread basket, filled with hard slices dry from reheating, would have benefited
from some time on the grill.

We liked the full-of-verve Manhattan clam chowder, but the fried oyster
appetizer was disappointing. It sounded great on paper: ''Crispy fried oysters
served with lemon guacamole on crostini.'' Alas, the oysters were overwhelmed by
their breading.

Salads got mixed notices: The citrus Caribbean salad with a promised pomegranate
vinaigrette had a dressing with no discernible pomegranate taste or much taste
of anything else. The mixed green house salad with a vibrant champagne
vinaigrette was a better bet.

We all loved the crispy fried lobster, which was covered in saltine cracker
crumbs and then fried. The meat inside was moist and sweet. During the meal,
bits of the savory coating would fall off and we would munch it separately,
which provided a nice contrast with the sweet lobster meat. The dish came with
matchsticks of fried plantains, which also accompanied the thick, juicy
cheeseburger.

Other hits were the penne pasta tossed in a light tomato sauce with shrimp and
small chunks of lobster; a special of crunchy soft-shell crabs atop a rough-cut
slaw of red cabbage and carrots; and a delicate offering of sautéed crab meat
served in the shell with a roasted garlic butter sauce. Jerk chicken was
appropriately spicy but dry.

For dessert, we tried a tangy Key lime pie, which was very good, but the
house-made desserts, like the warm bread pudding in a rum sauce dotted with
bananas and apples, and a moist shortcake with blueberries and strawberries,
were even better.

Mr. Lyons came out of the kitchen a few times each night and made the rounds,
welcoming first-time diners and thanking repeat customers for their patronage.
The entire staff, from the busboys to the hostess, makes Winston's one of the
warmest and friendliest restaurants around.

Winston's Bar & Grill

100 Montauk Highway, East Hampton631-267-5400winstonsds.com

Very Good

THE SPACE: Cozy, with a lot of wood. There is a dining room and another room
with a bar, with seating for 66 inside and for 24 outside. Restrooms are not
wheelchair accessible.

THE CROWD: Smiling couples and small groups, including families with children.
Friendly, attentive staff.

THE BAR: A separate room with seven bar stools and five high tables for two.
There are 24 bottles on the wine list ($21 to $45) and 10 by the glass ($8 to
$12).

THE BILL: Breakfast entrees are $8 to $17; lunch entrees are $12 to $24 and
dinner entrees are $18 to $43. Large lobsters cost more.

WHAT WE LIKED: Manhattan clam chowder, steamed mussels, grilled artichokes,
house salad, soft-shell crabs, sautéed crab meat, fried lobster, grilled
cheeseburger, penne with lobster and shrimp, Key lime pie, bread pudding, berry
shortcake.

IF YOU GO: Open for breakfast, Mondays through Saturdays, 8 to 11 a.m.; Sunday
brunch, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; lunch, Mondays through Saturdays, 11:30 a.m. to 3
p.m.; dinner, Sundays through Thursdays, 5 to 10 p.m., Fridays and Saturdays,
until 11 p.m. Reservations are recommended. Ample parking in adjacent lot.

RATINGS: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/restaurant-review-a-caribbean-ambienc
e-at-winstons-bar-grill-in-east-hampton.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Winston Lyons, right, chef and owner of Winston's Bar & Grill in
East Hampton, makes the rounds in his cozy, rustic dining room, which stands out
in an area known for its sleek and airy restaurant décors. The menu includes
crispy fried lobster, far left, and grilled artichoke. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M.
GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (66%)

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Style, Not Size, Counts

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words


With his venture Cocoon9, Christopher Burch -- the man behind the now-shuttered
clothing brand C. Wonder and the former husband of the fashion designer Tory
Burch -- hopes to prove that small, prefabricated spaces can be luxurious and
perfect for the Hamptons.

Such a space is the company's Cocoon Studio, a 480-square-foot prototype of a
prefabricated house that is now on view at the Southampton location of Mecox
Gardens, the home furnishings store.

The rectangular building, which ranges in price from $225,000 to $275,000,
features a wall of sliding floor-to-ceiling windows and white lacquered
cabinetry that conceals shelving, kitchen appliances and a Murphy bed.

''About four or five years ago, I started looking into this concept of really
cool houses that you could manufacture quickly,'' said Mr. Burch, via phone from
Nihiwatu, a resort on Sumba Island east of Bali that he bought in 2013. ''The
goal was to create a thoughtfully designed product that is simple and elegant
and can be used for many different functionalities.''

Lindsay Burn, of New Canaan, Conn., recently became Cocoon9's first client,
after spending the last two and a half years researching a design for a pool
house and home office to complement her midcentury modern home. She said the
Cocoon Studio ''far surpassed my expectations -- quality of materials and modern
details.''

Mr. Burch founded Cocoon9 with a childhood friend, Edwin Mahoney, several years
ago, with the aim of tackling the increasingly crowded field of luxury prefab
homebuilding.

Prefabricated houses, typically manufactured piecemeal as modules on an assembly
line and put together like Legos on the building site, are a growing industry.
And as their popularity has risen, they are shaking off the dowdy, uniform
styles they were once known for, and increasingly becoming a less expensive way
to execute stylish designs. Recent examples include those by the designer
Philippe Starck, who is building prefab houses near Paris, and that of Tim
Wright, who is a grandson of Frank Lloyd Wright and who lives in a prefab house
in Wisconsin. And Dwell, the home design magazine, offers its own branded prefab
houses.

Cocoon9 began when Mr. Burch asked a team of designers in Shanghai, where he has
an office, to come up with building concepts. He soon recruited Mr. Mahoney, a
third-generation homebuilder and the owner of  E. B. Mahoney Builders of Bryn
Mawr, Pa.

''Chris said, 'Look, I have this concept to create a plug-and-play home, what do
you think?' '' said Mr. Mahoney, who grew up in Bryn Mawr, near Mr. Burch's
childhood home in Wayne. ''It was so out of the norm for me, since I build
sticks and bricks, but he sent me over to China, and when I saw what he was
doing, I just had to put my toe in the water.''

The company, which has a factory in China and another in New Jersey, has so far
manufactured two prototypes: the one on display at Mecox Gardens, which will be
delivered to Ms. Burn and her husband, Spencer Grimes, a financier, after the
summer-long open house ends; and the Cocoon Cabin, the same size but with a
different floor plan, at Mr. Burch's Southampton home, where it serves as his
pool house and guest cottage.

Cocoon9 is selling three models, all built as single modules and designed so as
to be easily transportable by flatbed truck. Both the Cocoon Cabin and the
Cocoon Studio measure 12 by 40 feet and are similarly priced. The Cocoon Lite
20, at 8 by 20 feet, costs between $75,000 and $95,000. Made of steel that can
withstand winds of up to 150 miles an hour, they are insulated so as to require
minimal air-conditioning or heating. The houses also have several environmental
features, such as LED lighting and nontoxic materials.

Despite their contemporary, geometric shape, these buildings suit even the
traditional architecture of the Hamptons, ''where pitched roofs and cedar siding
are the norm,'' as a blog post on the Mecox Gardens website noted. The exterior
of the Cocoon Studio is a wood-plastic composite, while other models have
exteriors of carbon stranded bamboo siding. Cabinetry can come in several
finishes, including bamboo or a matte or glossy white lacquer, while flooring is
either cerused oak or vinyl with an oak grain. The fixtures can also be tailored
to taste, from Venetian bronze to brushed stainless steel, with bathrooms that
feature marble mosaic or glass tiles.

The houses, which take four months to manufacture, also feature distinctive
touches like 360-degree TVs that can swivel from one room to the next and
showers made of ''smart glass'' that changes from clear to opaque when in use.
Buyers must build their own foundations on which to attach the buildings, secure
the proper permits and connect the utilities themselves, the costs for which can
vary, but may add up to around $30,000, according to the company. A crane is
also needed, which can run an additional $10,000, while shipping costs can range
from $5,000 to as much as $40,000, depending on the state. Once the home
arrives, it can be hooked up in a matter of days.

For Ms. Burn, the style of the Cocoon Studio at Mecox Gardens matched her house,
designed by the architect John Black Lee, seamlessly. ''Our house has such a
clean look and we wanted to honor that architectural aesthetic,'' she said.

So far, Ms. Burn is Cocoon9's first and only client, but after the soft launch
at Mecox Gardens, interest is growing, according to the company. The hope is
that these buildings will not just adorn the backyards of expensive homes, but
that hotel developers will buy several buildings and install them along a beach
in the Caribbean, for example, to create a near-instant eco-resort.

''The idea is that it can be used a variety of ways, from a house on a quiet
beach for one person, or a combination of houses for a hotel or offices,'' Mr.
Burch said.

Greg McKenzie, the interior designer who outfitted the Mecox Gardens house,
added: ''It could even be for someone who is building a house, who can plop it
down on the property while they are building, and then turn around and use it as
a pool house. Quite frankly, even builders could use it as a construction
trailer and bring it with them from site to site. It is extremely flexible and
stylistically would work in any topography.''

Steven Chen, the company's lead architect, recently went to New Canaan to
conduct a site visit at Ms. Burn's home. ''I wanted to look at road access for
getting in the flatbed truck, and to discuss utilities and the foundation, and
how to coordinate before the unit arrives,'' Mr. Chen said.

Cocoon9 hopes to stand out from the pack with its reach and its speed. ''We
surveyed our competition, and they are very regional, usually selling within a
300- to 500-mile radius of their plants,'' Mr. Mahoney said. ''They are building
their homes in sections that they then have to assemble. By the time you walk
into the company, order it and get it built, it is a 12- to 16-month cycle.''

Cocoon9 is offering smaller houses that can be built quickly and delivered
worldwide. ''We are 'plug and play' -- if you order it tomorrow you will see it
in less than 16 weeks,'' Mr. Mahoney said. ''It's hard to beat that.''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/a-tiny-house-fit-for-the-hamptons.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new breed of prefabricated houses are growing in popularity.
The designer Christopher Burch is marketing the Cocoon Studio, above, and the
Cocoon Cabin, kitchenette at left, in a new venture. (RE1)
The prefab Cocoon Cabin by Christopher Burch's company Cocoon9 serves as a pool
house and guesthouse at his Southampton home
below and bottom, two interiors.
 The Cocoon Studio, on view at the Mecox Gardens store in Southampton, has a TV
that swivels between rooms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL GONZALEZ FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (RE12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%);
MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); FASHION
& APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%);
FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS (72%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (70%);
GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%); EAST CHINA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); CHINA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Temporary Civilization

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCHAEFER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words


The beauty of ancient sites lies partly in their decay. We call them ''ruins''
with affection; it's the pillar intact and the pillar crumbled, side by side,
that tell a compelling story. The multidisciplinary dance artist Walter
Dundervill is something of an archaeologist of self-made worlds where grace sits
at the edge of destruction. He layers historical references on top of one
another, places them in colorful, immersive environments of his own design and
populates them with splendidly clad characters. Then he starts excavating.

Mr. Dundervill's three-hour dance installation ''Arena'' had its premiere last
July at Jack, the young, experimental arts space in Brooklyn, and returns for an
encore Thursday through Saturday. The show is come and go as you please, so it
can be an appetizer to the evening (arrive early for extravagant Louis XIV
gowns) or digestif (come late to catch the climax) or, better yet, stay
throughout and experience the full arc of this wonderfully mysterious temporary
civilization. (6 to 9 p.m., jackny.org.)



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/dance/arena-builds-and-crumbles-a-tempora
ry-civilization-through-dance.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walter Dundervill's ''Arena'' is a three-hour installation at
Jack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIA BARANOVA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); DANCERS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 39 words


An obituary last Sunday about Helen F. Holt, who led the federal government's
effort to establish and standardize modern long-term care facilities for older
adults, misstated the date of her death. It was Sunday, July 12 -- not July 11.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (84%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 52 words


An article last Sunday about the planned community of Sea Ranch, two and a half
hours north of San Francisco, and its utopian architectural aspirations referred
incompletely to the team that planned the buildings. Lawrence Halprin designed
the buildings with the architecture firm MLTW; he did not design them alone.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 48 words


An article last Sunday about plans to build a dune on Fire Island that would
require the destruction of several oceanfront homes misstated the location of
two communities affected by the proposal. Davis Park and Ocean Bay Park are in
the center of Fire Island, not on the western end of it.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 57 words


An article in some editions last Sunday about a rally in Brooklyn at which
demonstrators called for federal charges in the death of Eric Garner, who was
killed by the police last year on Staten Island, misstated, in some copies, the
middle initial of the New York Citycomptroller, who spoke to the crowd. He is
Scott M. Stringer, not Scott A.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (87%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (87%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 51 words


An article last Sunday about a new National Security Agency cybersecurity
program that reaches down into the ranks of American high school and middle
school students misstated the given name of a Marymount University professor who
teaches students to defend against hackers. She is Diane Murphy, not Diana.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (88%);
CHILDREN (87%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); COLLEGE
& UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 98 words


An article last Sunday about the early travails of the New Horizons mission to
Pluto referred incorrectly to the volcanic eruption on Jupiter's moon Io that
the spacecraft observed in 2007. Erupting volcanoes on Io were seen during
earlier NASA missions; the New Horizons images were not the first. And because
of an editing error, an accompanying picture caption misstated the date and
location of a spin test of the spacecraft before its launching. The test shown
took place in 2005 at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, not in
2006 at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (91%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS
(90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER
(56%)

STATE: PLUTO (92%); JUPITER (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sloane Crosley

BYLINE: By SLOANE CROSLEY.

Sloane Crosley is the author of two essay collections. Her first novel, ''The
Clasp,'' will be published in October.

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 272 words


Who's mad at me and how mad are they? I've never made it through a reading
without being asked that question. This is the world we live in -- you write
narrative nonfiction and people assume you've exaggerated everything; you write
fiction and people assume you've swiped it from reality. So things on tour have
always gotten pretty personal.

Amid the book-related questions, I've been asked to call someone's mother for
them, when to reach out to an estranged friend, if I can hook them up with an
apartment in Manhattan, if I can get them in touch with David Sedaris, my
darkest secret, tips for overcoming depression, when malaria pills expire, how
about just David Sedaris's email then, if they paid too much for this dress, if
I want to get married, if I think they should get married. I don't mind.

Like most authors, I've read to rooms of 10 people, two of whom realized they
were at the wrong reading and left halfway through. It's good fortune to have a
crowd. I just wished people knew they were asking advice from someone who woke
up before dawn in Miami, flew to Austin for morning TV, changed in the station
bathroom, whacked her head on the corner of a tampon dispenser and bled,
quietly, in front of a local magician. Though, thanks to a book tour, I can also
say I'm someone who's handed her driver's license to a T.S.A. agent in Madison
and been told I made her laugh when she needed it.

In a few months I will go on tour again, to bleed for a novel this time. I will
miss the old questions. Perhaps some of them will make an appearance. And in the
meantime? That dress was totally worth it. It looks great on you.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAITLIN MITCHELL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (77%); FICTION LITERATURE (77%);
NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); MALARIA (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One-Bedrooms That Stretch

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words


Can't find a decent two-bedroom at a price you can afford? Try searching for a
one-bedroom big enough to turn into two.

That's what some buyers are doing as soaring prices and a scarcity of listings
in New York City make it tough to jump to the next apartment size up.

Plus-size one-bedrooms -- the kind that would allow, say, a couple expecting a
baby to put up a wall to create another bedroom -- are increasingly
sought-after, brokers say, as less expensive alternatives to existing
two-bedrooms. Large one-bedrooms with separate dining areas, known as Junior 4s,
are in especially hot demand as the dining nook can easily be converted to a
nursery or home office.

''Those attract a lot more attention,'' said Stephen Geller, an associate broker
at the Corcoran Group who has listed three Junior 4s in the past few months.
''They moved much more quickly than ''straight one-bedrooms,'' he said, and
received ''twice as much traffic,'' especially from younger couples entering the
market who don't want to have to move again in a year or two if their families
expand.

Lisa and Matt Lombardi, both in their 30s, who were married in 2012, were living
in a one-bedroom in the Bronx owned by Mr. Lombardi's father. After saving
enough for a down payment on a place of their own, and with plans to start a
family, the couple had hopes of finding a two-bedroom for around $600,000 in
brownstone Brooklyn.

''I had naïvely thought maybe we could get more bang for our buck out there,''
as opposed to Manhattan, said Ms. Lombardi, who works in development and the
commercialization of scientific discoveries at Mount Sinai Innovation Partners.
''The reality was a lot of people were more attractive purchasers,'' she said,
recalling how fierce the competition was even for tiny two-bedrooms. ''We'd go
to an open house; the line would be out the door and people were almost rolling
in bags of cash for the apartment.''

So when Jimmi Circosta, an associate broker at Citi Habitats, suggested they
consider large one-bedrooms in Manhattan, the couple were game. In 2013, they
bought a place in Yorkville, paying $500,000 for an 850-square-foot one-bedroom
-- bigger than some of the two-bedrooms they had visited in Brooklyn with higher
price tags. The apartment had a large living room and a dining nook. They spent
about a year updating the place, which, besides turning the nook into an
8-by-8-square-foot nursery with a sliding opaque glass door, included redoing
the kitchen and upgrading the bathroom. They moved in last October. Luca, their
son, arrived in March of this year.

Because his room lacks a window, the apartment can't be sold as a legal
two-bedroom. But when it comes time to sell, Ms. Lombardi said, ''I know the
reality is New Yorkers will look at it and see it as a two-bedroom.''

Out-of-towners tend to have a more difficult time with the idea of putting an
infant in the equivalent of what would be a walk-in closet in many parts of the
United States. Jamie Fedorko, a salesman at Warburg Realty, who was born and
raised in New York City, recently showed a Junior 4 to a client from Florida
with plans to start a family down the road.

''She couldn't get her mind around it,'' he said. ''I can't tell you how many
people I know who grew up in what was essentially the dining room. For us, it's
normal.'' He added, ''We all survived.''

Raising children in the dining room may not seem like the American dream of
homeownership. But in New York City's tight real estate market, the reconfigured
one-bedroom may be a way for buyers to move up, if only a half-step.

''I see it as pragmatism setting in,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of
the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, noting that the price gap between one- and
two-bedrooms in Manhattan is larger than ever. The spread between the median
sales price, which measures the middle of the market, of one-bedrooms ($750,000)
and two-bedrooms ($1,725,000) grew by 42 percent to $975,000 in the second
quarter, from $685,000 just two years ago. As that gulf widens, these
''tweener'' apartments, as Mr. Miller calls them, ''put salve on the wound of
affordability,'' he said.

Katherine Tsang has lived in small apartments most of her life. ''In a sense,
it's what I'm comfortable with,'' said Ms. Tsang, who works in marketing and
grew up in Hong Kong, where, as she puts it, ''every inch matters.''

In 2013, she and her husband upgraded from the rental studio in Midtown
Manhattan that they had shared for four years to a one-bedroom in the same
building. When their son, Massimo, arrived two years ago, he slept behind a
partition in a corner of the bedroom while the couple searched for an apartment
to buy. With a budget of about $750,000, they focused on large one-bedrooms.

''We were trying to find creative ways to parse out a room,'' Ms. Tsang said.
But conceptualizing exactly where a wall might go and how Massimo's expanding
collection of baby gear would fit inside was tricky. ''Sometimes we would have
printouts of floor plans that looked like they were convertible,'' she said,
''but we'd show up and they were not, or it was not what it seemed on paper.''

Then, Naomi J. Davis, an associate broker at Brown Harris Stevens, showed the
couple a one-bedroom on the Upper East Side with a dining area-turned-nursery.

''Because a child was already living there, I was able to see how toys and a
little activity table and a big-boy bed would fit. It gave me a great
visualization of what could be,'' Ms. Tsang said. She and her husband bought the
apartment for less than the listed price of $699,000, which left them money for
renovations.

With the nursery already in place, the couple worked with an architect to
optimize the space in the rest of the apartment. They swapped out the French
doors separating the living room and the nursery for wood doors to create more
privacy. The master bedroom now has a larger closet and an office nook with
bookshelves. In the kitchen, the renovation created a pantry, and a place was
even found for a washer/dryer.

''It was a very clever use of space,'' Ms. Davis said. ''The renovation has
given them exactly what they need.''

It's not just young families who are considering large one-bedrooms.

Mr. Circosta of Citi Habitats worked with a couple in their 60s who bought a
Junior 4 on the Upper East Side for about $700,000 after moving from a townhouse
in Queens. The couple, however, undid a conversion. ''The sellers had a wall up
for a small home office,'' Mr. Circosta said. His clients removed the wall to
create a more open space.

Investors also sometimes take the step of converting a one-bedroom to a two.

When the one-bedroom next door to the home of Arrun Kapoor, 40, and Sarah
Rasheed, 36, hit the market in February for about $1 million, the couple
scrambled to come up with a down payment. But they didn't want it for
themselves: They saw its potential as a two-bedroom to rent to somebody else.
With a two-bedroom, Mr. Kapoor said, ''We can get more per square foot.''

Mr. Kapoor, who works for a social impact venture capital fund, had been eyeing
his neighbors' apartment since he purchased his home, a two-bedroom on the edge
of Fort Greene, Brooklyn, for $569,000 five years ago. Since then, the place has
doubled in value to about $1.2 million, enabling the couple to secure most of
the down payment for the one-bedroom next door through cash-out refinancing.

The couple, who have a 2-year-old son, plan to someday use their acquisition to
enlarge their home. ''We will take the wall down as soon as we are financially
capable,'' said Ms. Rasheed, a lawyer.

''It would be a very interesting combination,'' said Shakti C'Ganti, an
associate broker with the Corcoran Group, who represented the seller.

Jen Genel and her husband were living in a one-bedroom of around 800 square feet
in Midtown East when they started talking about having children about three
years ago. ''We knew we wanted to have a family and knew the suburbs weren't for
us,'' said Ms. Genel, who grew up on Long Island. With a budget of $1.3 million,
the couple began hunting for a two-bedroom in brownstone Brooklyn. But what they
found at that price either involved a significant renovation or was snapped up
by a buyer who offered more cash.

Their search took on new urgency in February 2013, when Ms. Genel found out she
was pregnant with twins. The couple abandoned the two-bedroom idea and began
searching in terms of pure space.

''We had a gauge of how much square footage we needed to live comfortably,'' Ms.
Genel said. ''Anything over 1,200 would have been O.K. for us.''

In August, they saw a listing for a 1,216-square-foot one-bedroom for about $1.1
million at One Brooklyn Bridge Park, Brooklyn Heights, that was advertised as a
''convertible two-bedroom.'' The listing came with a couple of floor plans that
suggested where a wall could be installed to create another bedroom.

''My husband and I ran in immediately,'' said Ms. Genel, who liked the
apartment's oversize windows, high ceilings and loft-like feel. After speaking
with a contractor to be sure the work was feasible, they put in a bid for $1.085
million, which was accepted. Then they hired an architect who made a second
bedroom out of a portion of the living room, an office area and a sliver of the
master bedroom, stealing a window from the wall of glass in the living room. The
couple also added a shower to a half bath.

Even with the renovations, Ms. Genel said, they were able to remain below their
$1.3 million budget. However, timing was not on their side. The twins arrived
before the work was completed and after they had sold their place in Manhattan.
For seven months, the four squeezed into a studio on Long Island owned by Ms.
Genel's father.

Last May they moved into their reconfigured two-bedroom, two-bath. ''We love
it,'' said Ms. Genel, who has a blog about raising twins called Goingtwinsane.
''It's really a great place for this stage in our life.''

Now that the twins, Jake and Rachel, are 20 months old and beginning to toddle
around, the couple are starting to talk about their next project: turning the
foyer into a mini mudroom.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/making-more-space-in-a-one-bedroom-
apartment.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lisa and Matt Lombardi with their son, Luca, in their
one-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side. They used sliding glass doors to
turn the dining nook into a room for the baby. (RE1)
Above, another view of Lisa and Matt Lombardi's renovation, which turned a
one-bedroom into a two-bedroom. Top right, Arrun Kapoor and Sarah Rasheed at
home with Sufyan, 2, and top left, in the one-bedroom next door they bought to
convert into a two-bedroom rental. Someday, they plan to combine the two
apartments into one.
 Katherine Tsang and her husband bought an Upper East Side one-bedroom with a
dining area-turned-nursery already in place for Massimo, now 2. Subsequent
renovations improved the use of space, creating an office nook and a large
closet in the master bedroom, and a shoe-changing station in the foyer, among
other things. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICES (78%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Start by Working Beyond Your Résumé

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT.

Each week, Adam Bryant talks with top executives about the challenges of leading
and managing. Follow him on Twitter: @nytcorneroffice.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CORNER OFFICE;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 919 words


This interview with David Politis, chief executive of BetterCloud, a maker of
cloud-based software, was conducted and condensed by Adam Bryant.

Q. Were you in leadership roles as a boy?

A. My first real leadership experience was with taekwondo. I got my black belt
when I was 12 and started teaching some of the classes, with people of all ages.
I enjoyed it.

How have your parents influenced you?

My drive really comes from watching my father as I was growing up. He's an
entrepreneur and had a lot of different businesses, including real estate
development in Harlem and the South Bronx, and project finance in emerging
markets like West Africa. Because he was working so much and traveling so much,
he often would take me with him. From the age of 8, I have memories of going to
Harlem and going to building sites. He taught a real estate class at N.Y.U., and
he would take me to the class when I was 9 years old, give me a pad of paper and
say, ''Just take notes.''

When I got to high school, he was doing work in the former Soviet Union. He took
me to Lithuania and Ukraine. In college, he was blind-copying me on almost every
email he sent for work. I knew about what he was working on, and I would ask him
about his different projects.

The thing he would say most often is that you can do anything you put your mind
to. Because of some early successes, like getting my black belt at a very young
age, I found he was right. I always remind myself that if I have enough
discipline and work ethic, I will achieve what I want to achieve.

And tell me about your mother.

She's a gynecologist and worked most of her career at Planned Parenthood. She
would bring me to work, too, if I had a day off from school, and I would sit at
the front desk and check people in for appointments. She had a real connection
with her patients. With both my parents, they were the same person at work as
they were at home.

What did you do after college?

After I graduated, I started working at a small start-up with about 15 people.
It didn't do very well. And so six months into my first job out of school, every
person in the company was fired, literally, except for me. The two founders, who
had made a lot of money with an earlier company, came to me and said, ''Dave,
there's about $600,000 left in the bank. Do you want to be C.E.O.?'' And I said,
''Uh, sure. Why not?''

We pivoted the company, and over the next six years we actually built up the
business to 150 people or so before we sold it. I learned everything -- hiring,
firing, sales, marketing, customer support, financing.

Tell me about the culture of your current company, which you started four years
ago.

There are a number of things we do. In terms of transparency, I share everything
I can with the whole company. And when we discuss it during company meetings,
everyone can submit questions beforehand anonymously, and I'll answer them. We
also send monthly emails that explain what every department is working on that
month, and what they achieved the month before.

I'm also a big believer in giving people ownership of certain areas in the
business. It's amazing what happens when you do that. People want to make a
difference, and when you give them an area of the business that they can affect,
the amount of stuff that gets done, and the pride in their work is amazing.
People make mistakes, but they learn from them and they continue to improve.

How do you hire?

My job in the interview process is to really understand the person, what they're
looking to do in their career, and understand if we're going to be a good fit
for them. In many cases, I try to dissuade them from taking the job. I try to be
as honest as I can about the bad parts of the job and the high expectations.
People have decided against taking jobs after interviewing with me.

What are your best questions?

I always ask, ''What would be your dream job if you could do anything in the
world?'' My next question is, ''Why aren't you doing that?'' Those two questions
will tell you a lot about people's passions and their fears.

The other ones I ask are, ''What do you love every day when you go to work, and
what do you hate?'' Sometimes people are interviewing for a job, but they'll
never get to do what they love in that job.

What advice do you give to new college grads?

The first thing I tell people is, try to go where you can be a big fish in a
small pond. Whether it's a company or a market, go where you can actually have a
real impact on the business. That gives you an opportunity to punch above your
weight class or take on more responsibility than your résumé warrants. You may
get paid less, but the experience and probably the enjoyment are going to be
much higher.

The second thing is that when you go into a company, especially right out of
college, you have a certain energy to be in that first job. You're ready to
work. But I think a lot of people's excitement can get dulled by colleagues
who've been in those companies for a while. You get lulled into the cadence that
everybody else is in.

So I tell people to keep that energy, keep that excitement, keep that passion
that you have in the beginning. Keep the work ethic up and don't get stuck in
this regular cadence of ''This is what I need to do in order to get my job
done.'' Do more than that. Just keep pushing that envelope. People will look at
you like you're crazy and you're making them look bad. But my advice is to just
keep pushing through because that's how you will stand out.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/business/david-politis-of-bettercloud-start-by
-working-beyond-your-resume.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Politis: Chief executive of BetterCloud, a maker of
cloud-based software (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%);
PARENTING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT (75%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); PHYSICIANS &
SURGEONS (64%); ETHICS (63%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Readers Respond to Divorce

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; COMMENTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 460 words


Readers responded to ''Divorced, but Not From Life,'' an article by Penelope
Green from Sunday Styles. Below is a selection of comments from
nytimes.com/styles, edited for space.

The chances of a divorce are high as time progresses. Reality often is that
being with the same person for an extended period of time, while each changes,
is difficult for both parties. Prenuptial agreements should be mandatory, and
then sensible people should keep them updated. Of course, many feel that having
a prenup shows a lack of commitment. A sound legal agreement can save a lot of
problems. In the end, what are most important are financial issues.

Dan Green, Palm Beach, Fla.

Not everyone in need or want of a divorce lives in an expensive carriage house
and has affluent friends. In 1978 in California, I barely had enough income to
cover rent, food for four and car upkeep. I called the Legal Aid Society. They
were perceptive and well informed, were interested in my situation, gave great
advice and were encouraging. I negotiated directly with my husband, carefully
read and edited the legal papers and paid nothing to get my divorce. Hooray for
the Legal Aid Society!

Nativetex, Houston

Much time is spent lamenting divorce and recovering from the experience of
divorce, when it was the marriage that housed problems. Divorce is a solution.
Our expectations of marriage are far outside human reality. If one remains angry
and resentful of a former spouse, one may as well have stayed married and
retained the unhappy union.

People evolve, grow, change and come to own an identity, one that may no longer
be compatible. Accepting that our expectations will not always be met,
especially by others, is a good first step in moving forward. Understanding that
we change, and others change, is paramount to outgrowing childishness.

Make the divorce easier than the messy marriage. Divide the assets fairly and
allow yourself to create a future where you succeed on your own merits; be kind
to the former spouse, especially if the marriage produced children. You will
never regret this.

Faith, Ohio

Divorce is traumatic for both parties, but based on my experience, women have
generally far more support from female friends than men get from their male
friends.

When I was getting divorced 30 years ago, my wife's divorced friends gathered to
give her advice about how to take me to the cleaners and use custody of our
child to get more money and concessions out of me, whereas my friends were a lot
more about, ''Hey, man, too bad about the split. Did you see that game last
night?''

Divorce and especially custody arrangements are still wildly skewed in the
woman's favor in many if not most cases in the United States. That is simply a
fact.

DD, Los Angeles




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION
(90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY LAW (78%); CHILDREN (77%); SETTLEMENT &
COMPROMISE (76%); LEGAL AID (75%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (83%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comments

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 762 words


Our cover article last Sunday (''Storm Clouds Over the Smith,'' by Christopher
Solomon) about a trip down the Smith River in Montana, which is imperiled by a
proposed copper mine, elicited many responses from readers, nearly all concerned
about the proposal and what it would mean for the river and the region. Here is
a selection. (Comments have been edited for clarity and space.)

At Stake in Montana

The issues are fairly simple. The mine owners and operators keep saying ''trust
us,'' and year after year they break that trust. Second, regardless of what
anyone says about remediation or restoration, it is not the same. It took
millenniums for areas like the Smith to become one of the special places. Only
man is foolish enough and has the hubris to think that they could return it to
its original condition if they despoil it.

Tom, Midwest

All one needs to do is to take a trip to Anaconda or Butte if one wishes to see
what the results of mining are. While Butte was at one time considered the
richest city in the United States, it is a shadow of its former self. You can
see the remains of the Anaconda operation for miles, a black pile of waste on
which nothing grows. Better we reuse all the copper already mined.

doktorij, Eastern Tennessee

I grew up in Great Falls, Mont., and spent my summers in the Little Belt
mountains just north of the Smith River. In the late '60s, after finding toxic
amounts of arsenic, a significant byproduct of gold and copper mining, in our
water, we had to divest ourselves of our land for a fraction of what we'd paid
for it. Mining companies have been raping this pristine place for many decades;
there is no reason to believe they would behave any differently now.

mrmerrill, Portland, Ore.

How much more environmental devastation will be wrought in the name of economic
development? Is it beyond our imagination and ingenuity to find other means of
job creation? Must we destroy a pristine wilderness area to create 200 jobs? It
borders on criminal. It borders on insane.

thebigmancat, New York

My family has vacationed, winter and summer, in Montana for decades. Montana's
value lies in the fact that it is a beautiful and wild place, not in the
minerals below its surface. History shows that the value of the minerals goes to
the owners while the cost of cleaning up environmental destruction goes to the
taxpayers, both state and federal. The only way to ensure that nothing happens
to this magnificent river is to not mine copper next to it.

JP Tolins, Minneapolis

I own land in the Smith River Canyon. It is the most beautiful place I have ever
been. I cannot believe that it will be destroyed for a copper deposit with an
economic life of all of 13 years, and will directly employ 30 people in the
White Sulphur Springs/Meagher County area.

Yes, we need copper and other minerals. But there are many other places where
copper is abundant and is presently mined, and where the environment has already
been ruined. A copper mine in the Smith watershed is just an insult to one of
the world's most beautiful spots.

Bob Carl, Marietta, Ga.

As a Montana native, I've had the privilege of floating this river perhaps a
dozen times over two decades. The short-term wealth that copper might bring
shouldn't trump the long-term sanctity of this river. Montana has fallen prey to
outside promises of prosperity and security far too many times, only to see
those promises broken, the foreign interests having fled, and our waters made
toxic (see Silver Bow Creek, Blackfoot River, Belt Creek, Clark Fork River and
many, many more.) Mr. Solomon's final words say it best -- ''Nothing must happen
to this place.''

T Bulger, Montana

Can the river survive? This is the kind of question a lack of regulation and
ignorance about ecosystems and the natural world result in. Did the Hudson River
survive heavy metal and PCB contamination? Has the Gulf survived the assaults of
BP and thousands of abandoned wells? Has ''coal country'' survived strip and
mountain top removal mining? You can still find these places on a map, but they
are ghosts of what they once were.

gregory, Dutchess County, N.Y.

Has no one else read that this proposed mine is on privately owned mining claims
and ranches?

Mark, Montana

The public good always supersedes the uses allowed on private property. You may
own your city lot, free and clear, but you may not be allowed to raise pigs on
it, for example. Most of our environmental problems come from ignoring this
fundamental precept of a decent society.

Jerry Attrich, Port Townsend, Wash.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANIE OSBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB
CREATION (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (65%); WILDERNESS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(61%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%)

STATE: MONTANA, USA (95%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OREGON,
USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Rise of Climbing­

BYLINE: By DANIEL DUANE.

Daniel Duane is a contributing editor for Men's Journal.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1328 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- IN the summer of 1989, when I was 21 years old, my father and I
went rock climbing with a family friend named Peter Mayfield, a professional
mountain guide. As we walked through lush meadows and then waded barefoot in the
cold Tuolumne River, Peter talked about raising investment capital for an indoor
climbing gym.

I had never heard of such a thing -- there were only a couple of climbing gyms
in the country, none in California -- and I thought Peter was crazy. As far as I
could tell, I was the target demographic: I spent whole weeks climbing in
Yosemite, and I loved the smooth solidity of warm granite and the physical chess
match of pairing just the right handhold and foothold to unlock a vertical
pathway in the sky.

Peter built a great gym, but it confirmed my doubts: Plastic holds bolted to
44-foot faux-rock walls in a cavernous room offered such a pale simulacrum of
the real thing that indoor climbing, in my view, was guaranteed to fail.

There are now 436 of these climbing gyms in the United States and Canada,
according to the Climbing Business Journal, including multiples in most major
metropolitan areas -- seven in and around Boston, four in Chicago, five more
underway in Los Angeles. These multimillion-dollar fantasias are doing brisk
business with birthday parties and youth programs. The industry has abandoned
the pretense that pre-existing climbing communities like those in Berkeley and
Boulder are critical to success. The mostly flat Midwest, in fact, has emerged
as the area of fastest growth, with new gyms in Oklahoma, Nebraska and Ohio.

I stopped climbing for 20 years -- marriage, kids, surfing -- but then my
daughter, Hannah, who was 11 at the time, asked to join the competitive youth
team at Mission Cliffs, in San Francisco. I took her to sign up and felt a kind
of future shock among the 50-foot walls and barbell racks, the yoga studio,
spinning room and the pro shop. I hadn't seen so many slender young men
shirtless since high school swim practice, and I was particularly astonished to
find nearly equal numbers of female climbers -- lamentably scarce, in my day --
chatting in big groups while friends swung on ropes overhead. The whole scene
felt like an alcohol-free nightclub for cheerful, athletic nerds.

The truly unsettling part came a year later, when I discovered that Hannah and
most of her skinny adolescent teammates routinely spidered up climbs harder than
anything my friends and I did in our prime. These kids are fine athletes, but
something else is going on here, too. Rock climbing, thanks in large part to the
modern climbing gym, has suddenly started up the human performance curve toward
athletic maturity.

Every other fundamental human movement pattern developed long ago into a mature
sport. Competitive running dates back thousands of years, competitive swimming
got started in the early 19th century, and both now enjoy such immense
demographic reach that genetically suited outliers self-select for each and
every subspecialty. Generations of accumulated training wisdom bring Olympians
like the sprinter Usain Bolt or the distance swimmer Katie Ledecky to
performances that have long since reached the outer limits of human potential.
World records are broken by fractions of a second, and we now have an excellent
sense of just how fast the fastest human beings can swim and run. As a result, a
middle-aged father who ran a modest 4:50 mile at his last high school track meet
is quite unlikely to see his daughter's entire generation suddenly start running
3:45 miles, with a few kids clocking 3:30.

Something very like that, however, is happening to rock climbers of my
generation. Thirty years ago, the sport drew mostly on the limited gene pool of
outdoorsy families like mine, in New England, pockets of Appalachia, and the
mountain West. Most people started as adults, training was ad hoc, and the
actual climbing took place on summer weekends. In that context, I got the
mistaken impression that I was a natural. But now all these climbing-gym
birthday parties give vastly greater numbers of middle-class kids the chance to
try climbing by the age of 10. If their parents can afford it (youth programs
typically run from $100 to $200 a month), any kid with a knack can then join a
team, training many times weekly, and compete on a circuit of nearly 200 annual
climbing competitions nationwide.

As a result, every subcategory of climbing now selects girls and boys of just
the right body types and personalities, trains them hard during formative years
when the human body works like a neurological sponge, and then sets them loose
to shatter outdoor performance standards. Sasha DiGiulian, Daniel Woods, Chris
Sharma -- every one of these rock-climbing superstars developed superhuman
finger strength and body control in climbing gyms. Same for Alex Honnold, who
combines extraordinary physical gifts with truly unusual psychological
architecture: He started climbing as a child in a gym in Sacramento; found his
way to free-soloing, in which he climbs sheer cliffs alone without ropes; and is
now much better than anyone dreamed possible 10 years ago. Then there's Ashima
Shiraishi, the tiny Manhattan gym climber who, at age 14, is a serious contender
to become the greatest living climber of either sex.

I HAVE joined this revolution -- I now climb indoors -- and I'll admit that I
don't like feeling so un-special. Before I could even start at Mission Cliffs, a
young desk clerk demanded that I take a ''belay test'' to prove that I knew how
to handle ropes. My inner jerk wanted to scream that I had been thousands of
feet off the ground in Yosemite before she was even born. Nor do I love knowing
about an article published in the journal Current Microbiology last year, which
found that every single handhold tested, in multiple East Coast climbing gyms,
carried bacteria that, as the study's title claims rather poetically, ''suggest
the presence of a fecal veneer.''

An outdoor weekend with my daughter also confirmed rumors I'd heard about
crowded crags. At a 600-foot granite escarpment called Lover's Leap (sparsely
visited in the early 1990s, when I climbed there), I found hourlong lines below
every good route. Brady Robinson, executive director of the Access Fund, a
nonprofit dedicated to maintaining access to outdoor climbing areas, told me
that this is nothing compared with what the future is likely to hold. The recent
ascent of the Dawn Wall on Yosemite's El Capitan, by Tommy Caldwell and Kevin
Jorgeson -- that glorious bromance of hard work and perseverance -- got
something like 13 billion social-media impressions over several months. ''If
even a tiny fraction of those people got a spark in their mind saying, I want to
do that, we have a wave of participation coming like we haven't seen yet,'' Mr.
Robinson said.

I worry about people getting hurt. Indoor climbing is so safe, relatively
speaking, with its padded floors and sophisticated rope systems, that it can
breed complacency on outdoor cliffs, where it is still remarkably easy to kill
yourself. I also wonder if competition climbing, obsessively ranking indoor
routes according to numerical scales of difficulty, threatens to obscure the
elusive pleasures of the outdoor adventure. But my better nature tells me to
welcome all these changes, even if they mean that my daughter's daughter will
someday wonder why Grandpa made such a big deal about the climbs he did in the
old days. Rock climbing has brought me a lot of happiness, and our great
American mountain ranges are still open to the public precisely because smart
people, long ago, understood the special tonic they provide to the human spirit.
If we can thank 400 climbing gyms for flooding those mountains with still more
Americans claiming that same birthright, let's go ahead and build 400 more.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/the-rise-of-climbing.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRECHT VANDENBROUCKE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMBING (93%); ROCK CLIMBING (91%); MOUNTAINS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS &
ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS (76%); SCHOOL SPORTS (71%);
DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); YOUTH
SPORTS (64%); NIGHTCLUBS (60%); SWIMMING (60%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA
(79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%);
MIDWEST USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nods to Mozart and Don Quixote

BYLINE: By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CLASSICAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 187 words


As usual, the Mostly Mozart Festival kicks off with Louis Langrée conducting the
festival orchestra in an all-Mozart program on Tuesday. The soprano Erin Morley,
known for her chiseled coloratura, performs two insertion arias, ''Vorrei
spiegarvi, oh Dio'' and ''No, che non sei capace,'' that Mozart wrote for a Don
Quixote opera by the now long-forgotten Pasquale Anfossi. The stalwart pianist
Emanuel Ax takes on the sunny Piano Concerto No. 14 in E flat; the exuberant
Symphony No. 34 rounds out the program.

As it happens the specter of Don Quixote makes an appearance in Bryant Park the
same evening when the vivacious orchestral cooperative the Knights opens its
free outdoor concert with Ravel's ''Don Quichotte à Dulcinée.'' That piece is
the opening shot in a smartly cohesive program of Spanish-themed works by
composers as far afield as Gluck, De Falla and Paco de Lucia. The program also
features a Knights composition inspired by Pablo Neruda.

(The Mostly Mozart opening night, 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, program repeated;
mostlymozart.org. The Knights, 9 p.m., Upper Terrace, Bryant Park;
theknightsnyc.com.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/music/mostly-mozart-festival-and-the-knig
hts-feature-don-quixote.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The soprano Erin Morley is expected to perform two arias on
Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%);
KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%);
OPERA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Incense and Sensibility

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CHARACTER STUDY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 837 words


Nearly every afternoon, year round, Billy Lyles, 73, sets his spiritual table in
front of Katinka, a sliver of a shop in the East Village that carries Indian
clothes and accessories.

''There's a spiritual vibration that draws people to just stop and stand here,''
Mr. Lyles said on Tuesday as he performed his ritual of opening the shop, just
off Second Avenue.

Mr. Lyles, who owns and runs Katinka with his longtime companion, Jane Williams,
70, said a prayer, lit some incense and began washing down the sidewalk out
front.

He pushed up the clattering metal roll-down gates and hung colorful boughs of
scarves and Indian decorations outside. He opened suitcases of sandals and
scarves, and set up his table bearing incense and other items. He rigged a beach
umbrella for shade.

Within minutes, the storefront, built into the narrow alley space between two
apartment buildings, had become his stage, an incense-bathed backdrop of
festive, fluttering color. Then Mr. Lyles took up his spot and his guitar and
began playing improvised tunes for passers-by.

As the East Village's grit and rebel spirit have steadily given way to upscale
businesses, one of the mom-and-pop places that have hung on since the 1970s is
Katinka.

Mr. Lyles and Ms. Williams, who live in a railroad apartment upstairs, have kept
prices low, even as their rent has risen. The shop's spiritual harmony, they
claim, has kept them solvent.

''This store is like a magnet -- they all want to come in and get some energy,
and Billy is the gatekeeper,'' said Ms. Williams, who designs the clothing and
travels to India to have it made by hand. ''I take care of the colors and he
takes care of the music.''

''They call him the mayor of Ninth Street,'' she said in the shop as Mr. Lyles
sat out front chatting, giving advice, getting updates and offering
encouragement and his own brand of folk wisdom.

Mr. Lyles plays music -- be it on a keyboard, guitar, saxophone or flute -- in a
highly personal style that blends jazz, blues and folk.

''It's not like I give a big concert -- it's like a bird chirping,'' said Mr.
Lyles, whose likeness is included in a large mural of neighborhood icons on the
wall to his right, created by another local fixture, the street muralist Chico
Garcia.

In the mural, Mr. Lyles, with a white beard and red fez, resembles the jazz
saxophonist Pharoah Sanders, his mentor and friend.

Mr. Lyles said he was raised by his grandparents on a farm in Warfield, Va.,
until age 9, when ''things kind of fell apart.'' The rest of his youth was spent
largely in boys' homes and foster care in the Washington area, he said, with
little schooling past the fourth grade.

He joined the Army at 18 and served in Germany and then settled in Europe,
mostly in Paris, where he got a job washing dishes at Gabby & Haynes, a soul
food restaurant popular with African-American expats and celebrities, he said.

Mr. Lyles said he was inspired by the writers and intellectuals he met in
Europe, including James Baldwin and musicians such as Eric Dolphy, Dexter
Gordon, Memphis Slim and the drummer Arthur Taylor, who advised him to return to
the States and get an education.

He moved to Washington and studied with Lawrence Wheatley, an enigmatic and
erudite jazz pianist, who prescribed a regimen of self-education that included
doing rigorous reading and research and devouring dictionaries.

In 1970, after moving to New York, he met Ms. Williams, a designer from Long
Island who was selling her handmade clothing at a different location on East
Ninth Street.

''Billy walked by one day and stuck his head in the door and said he was
inspired,'' she recalled. ''He was a great guitar player and he stole my
heart.''

They opened Katinka in 1979 ''with six nails on the walls'' to hang merchandise,
Ms. Williams said, adding that the Indian theme grew out of her trips to India
for a New York wholesaler to have clothing lines produced.

She still travels often to India, she said, to have her designs fabricated and
to run sewing groups for local women and help them produce items to sell at
local markets, as part of an empowerment group.

Katinka carries traditional decorative slippers from India and hand-embroidered,
block-printed cotton dresses. The shop is as quirky as its owners, with its
official hours being Tuesday through Saturday, 4 to 7 p.m.

''We often stay open later though, and if people call, I often come down and
open up for them,'' Mr. Lyles said.

''The thing I learned in France is that less is more -- breakfast can be a
croissant and café au lait,'' he said. ''We're both bohemians -- we don't have
to have a lot.''

The Particulars

Name Billy Lyles

Age 73

Where He's From Warfield, Va.

What He Is Musician, store owner

Telling Detail  Mr. Lyles said Pharoah Sanders's music inspired his ''spiritual
quest'' to the East Village to expand his musical study. ''That man has God in
his music and it went through me like an arrow,'' Mr. Lyles said. ''I quit
everything.''

Email: character@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/the-mayor-of-ninth-street-offers-ince
nse-and-sensibility.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Billy Lyles and his longtime companion, Jane Williams, in front
of their East Village store, Katinka. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC (87%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (87%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (85%); RETAILERS (78%); RAIL CROSSINGS
(75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS
(62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

My Predator

BYLINE: By CHELSEA CAIN.

Chelsea Cain is the author of ''One Kick'' and other thrillers.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 597 words


THE HAND THAT FEEDS YOUBy A.J. Rich 273 pp. Scribner. $26.  As ''The Hand That
Feeds You'' opens, Morgan, a 30-year-old graduate student, returns home to her
68-step Williamsburg walk-up to find that her fiancé has been mauled to death by
her dogs. It's a terrifying scene, relayed with gripping frankness.

Morgan can't quite process what she's seeing: ''Bennett was lying on the bedroom
floor facedown, while his leg remained on the bed. Then I saw that the two parts
weren't connected.'' She barricades herself in the bathroom as the Great
Pyrenees she's had since puppyhood and the two rescue pit bull mixes she's been
fostering whimper and howl on the other side of the door. After the police shoot
one of the pit bulls, the other two animals are placed in crates labeled
''dangerous dog'' and carted off. Morgan is so traumatized she's put on a
psychiatric watch.

But her world has only just begun to fall apart. When she recovers enough to try
to contact her fiancé's family in Quebec, there's a problem: His parents don't
seem to exist. Turns out the guy she met on the Internet might not have been who
he said he was. (Not French Canadian. Not named Bennett. Didn't play bass with
Radiohead.)

Morgan, we learn, has a history of dating jerks (''The more controlling and
withholding a man was, the closer I felt to him''), but Bennett appears to be
less a bad boyfriend than a raging sociopath: ''Psychopaths are fearless;
sociopaths aren't. Psychopaths don't understand right from wrong; sociopaths do,
though it doesn't change their behavior.'' Or, more succinctly: ''He never liked
dogs and dogs never liked him.''

There's an academic as well as a personal angle in all this. Morgan is enrolled
at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, writing her master's thesis on
victim psychology. So she has even more reason to want to understand why Bennett
lied to her. What made him a predator? What made her a victim? ''Why did you
choose to study victim­ology?'' a therapist asks her. To which Morgan responds,
''I think it chose me.''

''The Hand That Feeds You'' is a tense, intriguing psychological mystery with an
interesting back story. A.J. Rich is a pseudonym adopted by two established
authors, Amy Hempel and Jill Ciment, for their collaboration on a book their
dying friend Katherine Russell Rich didn't have time to write. They bring a
clearheaded, character-driven style to the project and the sort of celebration
of simple moments more often seen in short stories. Even a workout with an
AquaJogger becomes something just this side of profound: ''The water slowed me,
stilled me; the sensation was like trying to catch a train in a dream.'' But
there's not much time for AquaJogging. Morgan has to save her dogs.

Don't let the ''Cujo'' aspect of the opening fool you: This book has a lot of
canine love. Who are they to us? What's our responsibility to them? Morgan's
visits to Animal Control are heartbreaking. ''Cloud had never slept anywhere but
my bed. She was pressed against the rear of the cage, her head down, her ears
flattened back in terror. I approached her and she looked up and whimpered. I
cried out her name and reached for her.''

Morgan fights for the lives of her animals not because she fully believes
they're innocent but because they inspire her humanity. Her judgment in people
may be dodgy, but she knows a good dog when she sees one.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/the-hand-that-feeds-you-by-aj-ric
h.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine Russell Rich in 1999. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GASPER TRINGALE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DOGS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); SHOOTINGS (72%);
WRITERS (65%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (70%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sarah Brasell, Brian Donohue

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 119 words


Sarah Stevenson Brasell and Brian Michael Donohue were married Saturday at Grace
Episcopal Church in White Plains by the Rev. Gawain F. de Leeuw, an Episcopal
priest.

Mrs. Donohue, 31, is a senior manager for Universal McCann, the advertising
agency in Manhattan, where she oversees the digital media campaigns for Sony
Entertainment Network. She graduated from the College of Charleston and is the
daughter of Mary Lou Brasell and Douglas F. Brasell of Conover, N.C.

Mr. Donohue, 32, is a stock trader for Trade Informatics, a financial technology
services firm in Purchase, N.Y. He graduated from Manhattan College. He is a son
of Mary E. Donohue of Kendall Park, N.J., and Terrence P. Donohue of Whitestone,
Queens.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/sarah-brasell-brian-donohue.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (87%); MARKETING &
ADVERTISING (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trial Run for Disc Brakes Stirs Riders' Concerns

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1043 words


L'ALPE D'HUEZ, France --  For all the high tech in cycling, much in the sport
would be familiar to a mechanic a century ago. The tires used by riders at the
Tour de France, for example, have their inner tubes sewn into lightweight
casings that are then glued onto the wheels.

And long after disc brakes became the method of choice for stopping almost
everything that moves quickly, including mountain bikes, riders at the Tour
still slow down by squeezing two rubber blocks against the rims of their wheels.

Largely because of a push from the bicycle industry, however, that is set to
change for professional road cycling teams -- on a trial, at least -- in August
and September. Following an agreement with a sporting goods trade group, the
International Cycling Union, or the U.C.I. as it is better known, will allow
teams to give disc brakes a tryout at two races of their choice in those months.

Moving to disc brakes is far from simple, and although there is a consensus
among teams at this year's Tour that the change to discs is inevitable, some
riders are regarding it with apprehension or concern. Changing how road bikes
brake involves engineering entirely new bicycle frames, wheels and other
components. Routine matters, such as how to help riders with flat tires, will
have to be adapted. And there are worries that the rotors of the disc brakes
will add a new hazard in crashes and even that their additional stopping power
could itself be a source of spills.

Some riders, though, particularly those with mountain biking backgrounds, have
said the change is overdue.

Brian Nygaard, a spokesman for the Orica-GreenEdge team, said he was not
surprised by the doubts.

''There's just a general divide within the riders,'' he said as mechanics handed
the team's Scott bikes to riders at the team bus. ''Some would prefer not to
ever change anything in terms of frame wheels. That divide will always be
there.''

Paul Lew, the founder of Reynolds Cycling Technology, a racing wheel maker based
in Sandy, Utah, acknowledged that many riders needed to be won over.

''I think there's some skepticism and some reluctance, but there's also some
enthusiasm,'' said Lew, who sits on a committee at the U.C.I. that is reviewing
disc brakes. ''From a consumer standpoint, however, I don't think there's much
skepticism; consumers are going along with it.''

Disc brakes long ago became standard on all but the least expensive mountain
bikes, usually as scaled-down versions of automobile brakes. Hydraulic fluid,
rather than a wire cable, transmits power from the brake lever. Small brake pads
press against a steel rotor, which is drilled and sculptured to reduce weight
and dissipate heat.

Mountain biking, however, requires sudden slowing and even complete stops. A
road race with upward of 200 cyclists demands a more nuanced approach.

''The reality is that most of the guys in the pro peloton have never ridden
discs on a road bike and never within a large group of riders,'' said Jason
Phillips, the European road sports marketing manager for SRAM, a major bike
parts maker based in Chicago. ''We want to get them trying it out in road races
to get a feel for discs.''

The industry's sales pitch is that discs provide more stopping power, allow
finer control and perform as well in wet conditions as dry ones. The
improvement, said Dustin Brady, the marketing manager at Shimano North America,
is particularly noticeable in the mountains.

''I personally believe discs improve people's descending skills,'' he said. But
he added that his company's traditional brakes also worked well, suggesting that
discs might not be necessary for everyone or under every circumstance.

''If I lived in Colorado or another mountainous states, I'd be all over
hydraulic disc brakes,'' he said. ''If I lived in Iowa, I don't know that I need
them.''

The test races appear intended to disprove potential safety concerns.

In big crashes, riders are already pierced, slashed and bruised by components
like chain rings, but the rotors could add to that. And when heated from
repeated braking, they also have the potential to sear flesh.

Phillips said, however, that SRAM's tests suggested rotors were likely to become
extremely hot only during long mountain descents, and crashes tend to involve
just a single rider rather than a large pileup.

''From what I hear, most people consider it safe enough,'' said Nygaard, of the
Orica-GreenEdge team. ''But we'll only find out on the road. Bike racing is
dangerous.''

On top of safety issues, there are also potential technical concerns. Jonathan
Geran, who has been running training tests with riders on the Cannondale-Garmin
team, acknowledged that the technology might not be fully mature.

''Is the technology for disc brakes exactly where everyone wants it today?'' he
said. ''Arguably, no. There are positives and pros and cons to each side.''

In addition, an industry that has long promoted the lightness of its products
will have to persuade cyclists to add about a pound of weight, by Lew's
estimate, to their bikes. That is somewhat academic for professionals at the
moment; their bikes have to reach a minimum weight. But Lew expects that rule
will soon be rescinded by the U.C.I.

The Tour's snappy changes of flat tires may also have to be radically revised
because of conflicting disc brake standards, which could complicate things for
the neutral race service cars that assist riders when their team cars are not
nearby.

''I think it will be very difficult for neutral support,'' said Geoff Brown, a
veteran mechanic who has been traveling around France surrounded by tools and
wheels in the back seat of a Cannondale-Garmin team car. ''Maybe they won't be
as active in the actual race itself or you'll just get a bike.''

Nor will such a major transition necessarily be easy for teams when riders have
problems on the road, Brown added.

''There's going to be a learning curve where I think you're going to see a bit
of Keystone Kops action if you know what I mean,'' Brown said.

He added: ''It's just another development in our more than 100-year-old sport.
It's coming for sure, so we can't fret about it or complain. We just have to
think about the best way to adapt to the new changes.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/cycling/move-to-disc-brakes-on-trial-ba
sis-stirs-concern-among-riders.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some riders fear that the additional stopping power of disc
brakes could be a source of spills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC WYNN/SHIMANO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (91%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (89%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); TOUR DE
FRANCE (78%); AGREEMENTS (74%); ENGINEERING (70%)

COMPANY: ORICA LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CYCLING UNION (56%)

TICKER: ORI (ASX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325920 EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS
MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2892 EXPLOSIVES (53%); SIC2821 PLASTICS
MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (53%)

STATE: UTAH, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Snow Globe

BYLINE: By MARK BOWDEN.

Mark Bowden is the author of ''Killing Pablo,'' ''The Finish'' and ''Black Hawk
Down.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1416 words


ZEROZEROZEROBy Roberto Saviano Translated by Virginia Jewiss401 pp. Penguin
Press. $29.95.  Roberto Saviano has written a kind of concordance of cruelty in
this cocaine-­trafficking epic, minus the alphabetized structure, which would
have made it easier to follow. Much of it, sadly, may be true.

How much is an open question. The second chapter begins with the story of Don
Arturo. We never learn exactly who this is, beyond the first name and the
honorific. He is like a character out of ''One Hundred Years of Solitude,'' a
rich old patriarch who in his younger days grew poppies for morphine production.
­Saviano writes of the day a general arrived at Don Arturo's Mexican estate and
set fire to his growing crop. Don Arturo watched the flames grow higher,
incinerating live animals and even some peasants who had fallen asleep in his
fields. While villagers feared the flames too much to attempt a rescue of their
burning neighbors, the story goes, a dog braved the conflagration to pull its
puppies to safety: ''He remembers because it was there he learned how to
recognize courage, and that cowardice tastes of human flesh.''

Neat sentence. Memorable passage. But did this actually happen? Is there ­really
a Don Arturo? Field of flames? Brave dog? What in this sometimes compelling,
often tedious assortment of parables, poetry, dramatic monologues, cautionary
tales and horror stories is true, and what is fantasy? The cool answer, I
suppose, is that we shouldn't care.

A word about Saviano. Because of the work he did on his acclaimed first book,
''Gomorrah,'' he lives under constant guard. His life has been threatened by
people who follow through. Some of the best passages in this book deal with
these profound restrictions on his freedom, and with his determination to
persevere.

''Maybe you also have to accept the burden of being a tiny superhero without a
shred of power,'' he writes. ''Of being, in the end, a pathetic human being who
has overestimated his strength merely because he's never run up against its
limits before.''

You can't help rooting for a man who risks his life to tell true stories. In
''Gomorrah,'' which detailed the murderous excesses of a Neapolitan crime
family, Saviano compiled his account through dogged research, working undercover
in mob-associated businesses and diligently visiting the scenes of their crimes.
That reporting lent chilling authenticity to the book, authenticity enhanced by
the death threats that followed. I suspect that ­''ZeroZeroZero'' grows out of
his forced immersion in the world of his protectors, Italian police who have
contacts in law enforcement worldwide. I suspect, I say, because Saviano gives
little help in this regard. Sourcing is left to the imagination.

The way I see it, the book appears to blend prodigious research with conjecture.
It ranges freely over decades and continents, offering a dizzying catalog of
vivid characters and horrible acts. It details the sadistic ethos of violent
cartel enforcers -- from Los Zetas, the gang formed by deserters from the
Mexican Army, to the Guatemalan gangs made up of former members of the Kaibiles,
the nation's elite counterinsurgent forces. Saviano pauses now and then to
sketch the contours of the ever-evolving international drug trade, how the
violent and feuding cartels of the Pablo Escobar era in Colombia gave way to a
new generation of ­slicker, determinedly low-profile players; how the business
shifted north; how the Italian Mafia moved in; and how clever middlemen have
made themselves unimaginably rich by smoothing the rough edges of this booming
illicit trade.

Along the way, Saviano takes the colorful details of narco lives and layers in
his own novelistic assumptions concerning motives and beliefs, turning rap
sheets into brief but surprisingly intimate portraits of people like the Italian
cocaine broker Pasquale Claudio Locatelli, who is called ''the Galileo of
cocaine'' (Saviano is fond of astronomical metaphors); the trafficker turned
informant Bruno ­Fuduli; Natalia Paris, a Colombian model who marries one of her
country's most notorious narcos, and who is widowed when he is kidnapped and
presumably killed; and Griselda Blanco, the Colombian ''Godmother'' who, pausing
at one point to force a man to perform oral sex on her with a gun to his head,
blazed a trail of sex and murder from Miami to Medellín. These are just a few of
the figures Saviano presents as if he knows them. Bottom line: The cocaine trade
is an ugly, high-stakes business that attracts extreme characters.

But it is not, as Saviano would have it, the most important of human endeavors,
even if it is a huge industry. The United Nations estimated its value at $88
billion worldwide in 2008. The soft-drink industry, by comparison, is a growing
$531 ­billion enterprise, while the mobile-phone market passed the
trillion-dollar mark in revenue six years ago.

Nevertheless, Saviano describes a purported high-level meeting of drug lords in
Acapulco in 1989 as if it were an assembly of the gods: ''The future of the
planet was silently being planned in this city in southwestern Mexico.'' As the
drug lords divvy up turf, ''the new world'' was ''created.'' Later he writes of
the drug industry's significance: ''In order to understand it you have to look
at this power, stare it in the face, look it right in the eye. It has built the
modern world, generated a new cosmos.'' The Acapulco session was, he writes,
''the Big Bang.''

If it happened, that is. ''It might be just a legend,'' Saviano writes, ''but
I've always believed that only a legend of this sort has the necessary symbolic
force to give birth to an actual foundation myth.''

There's no law against this kind of thing, of course. Writers have been blending
fiction and nonfiction since the beginnings of literature. But in the 20th
century, as journalists established more professional standards, distinctions
were drawn between factual and fantastical accounts, and only recently have such
blends been celebrated as an exciting new literary form. In part on the basis of
Saviano's work, such efforts have been labeled N.I.E. (New Italian Epic), or the
much spookier U.N.O. (Unidentified Narrative Object). The concept has prompted
impressive gusts of theory, but it boils down to the point Saviano makes about
the supposed ''Big Bang'' meeting in Acapulco. It might not have happened, but
the idea of such a meeting remains important because we seem to need a
''foundation myth.''

Some people may love this kind of storytelling, but to me such blends end up
­being something less than a novel, in which the author is free to craft every
detail to suit her overarching purpose, and something less than nonfiction,
which has the weight of truth. There is much to be said for caring about the way
the world actually works. And while journalists longing for literary acceptance
(and perhaps opting out of actual legwork) might warm to the supposed
innovation, a book like ­''ZeroZeroZero'' discards the artistic advantage of
wholesale invention while settling for the squishy significance of being almost
true.

Now and then Saviano acknowledges his limitations, as with Roberto Pannunzi, an
Italian whom Saviano calls, in typical overstatement, ''the Copernicus'' of the
cocaine business. He calls him this because Pannunzi was the architect of an
entirely new layer of the cocaine trade, a global structure that transcended the
bloody hands of Italian and Colombian and Mexican syndicates. Saviano has given
us a fairly detailed portrait of the man, a wizard of a businessman, when he
writes: ''Some day I'd like to meet Roberto Pannunzi. To look him in the eye,
but without asking him anything, because he wouldn't tell me anything other than
empty chatter fit for a journalist who writes insubstantial fluff. There's
something I'd really like to know, though: Where does he get his inner serenity?
You can see he doesn't look tormented.''

Saviano has not met Pannunzi, but he has apparently gathered a lot from his
arrest photos. Me? I doubt both the man's Copernican stature and his inner
serenity at this point, since he's locked up and serving a 12-year sentence, and
I would rather hazard his evasions in the hope of ­gaining more insight than
gaze at his photograph and speculate.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/zerozerozero-by-roberto-saviano.h
tml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMA BAR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POETRY (78%); DOGS (78%); COCAINE (78%); MEN (75%);
ARSON (74%); FARM LABOR (70%); FIRES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ORGANIZED
CRIME (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Board Game, Flavors and Spirits

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 540 words


Xbox, PlayStation and the iPhone may have relegated many board games to the
closet at the lake house, but a three-dimensional diversion that officially
debuts this week may delight retro New Yorkers.

With Lower Manhattan real estate booming, Chénier La Salle, a Canadian diplomat,
and Vincent Dutrait, a French illustrator who lives in South Korea, have
conjured New York 1901, a visually compelling and mind-bending board game from
Blue Orange Games.

''Your uncle -- God rest his soul -- has left you a small property in Lower
Manhattan,'' the rule book says invitingly (and fortuitously, since the game
retails for $49.95). ''This is your chance to start your real estate career and
to build, and build again, higher and bigger.''

But this multilayered game, recommended for players age 8 and above, is no
mindless Race to the Roof and is considerably more complicated than Monopoly.

Forget for a moment that ''developer'' is now a dirty word in New York. The game
board approximates a map of Manhattan below Liberty Street and specifies how
each player/developer can acquire land and build, demolish or rebuild on a
particular lot, depending on market conditions and other variables. Building
progresses to four generations of skyscrapers, topped by four iconic landmarks.
The outcome after 45 minutes is true to life: The player with the most points at
the end of the game -- or the highest legendary skyscraper -- wins.

Summer is a good time to start sampling Mimi Sheraton's ''1,000 Foods to Eat
Before You Die: A Food Lover's Life List'' (Workman Publishing), since many of
the foods can be sampled in your spare time or while you are on vacation.

Ms. Sheraton calls the book her autobiography, rooted in her Brooklyn childhood,
''growing up in a family where passion for the subject was always paramount, if
not obsessive.'' Her mother was an ambitious cook, her father a fruit and
produce wholesaler at the Washington Market in what is now TriBeCa.

Her voluminous guidebook is an alphabetical cornucopia of food types and sources
that covers restaurants, sidewalk vendors, mail-order merchants, recipes,
ingredients and even culinary culture, from holishkes (Jewish sweet-and-sour
stuffed cabbage) to chen-chu-jou-wan (Chinese spiky meatballs).

For many, you never even have to leave New York.

To wash it all down, ''Discovering the New York Craft Spirits Boom'' (Waldorf
Publishing), by Heather D. Dolland, is a breezy chronicle of the rebirth of
distilleries in the Empire State.

The book traces the boom to 2002, when for the first time since Prohibition
ended, state regulations made it easier for would-be distillers to get licenses.
Those rules were loosened again last year.

Regulars can still drown their sorrows in ''Elaine's: The Rise of One of New
York's Most Legendary Restaurants From Those Who Were There'' (Skyhorse
Publishing). Amy Phillips Penn details her own encounters with the Upper East
Side hostess and includes reminiscences from others, including Woody Allen --
''Everyone there was so famous that there was no celebrity ogling, no autographs
asked for and it was quite a private dinner''-- and the gossip columnist Liz
Smith, who recalled once being thrown out for arriving unescorted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/bookshelf-gilded-age-version-of-monop
oly-in-new-york.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES NIEVES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%);
PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); FAMILY (70%); MAIL
ORDER RETAILING (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (65%); RESTAURANTS (63%);
DISTILLERIES (62%); WHOLESALERS (50%)

COMPANY: WORKMAN PUBLISHING CO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mourning an 'Amazing Life' Cut Short in Texas

BYLINE: By MITCH SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1229 words


LISLE, Ill. --  Hundreds of mourners gathered Saturday at the suburban Chicago
church that Sandra Bland attended for many of her 28 years, turning out in such
numbers that even the overflow viewing room ran out of chairs. From the pulpit,
relatives and friends recounted happy memories of Ms. Bland's faith and social
activism, and restated their belief that her death in a Texas jail was no
suicide.

''That baby did not take herself out of here,'' said Geneva Reed-Veal, Ms.
Bland's mother, during the funeral here at DuPage African Methodist Episcopal
Church.

Ms. Reed-Veal spoke at length, telling mourners about a recent road trip she had
taken with her daughter. On their way to visit relatives in Tennessee, Ms.
Reed-Veal said, Ms. Bland told her she had found a calling and planned to pursue
it by returning to Texas, where she had attended college.

''Her purpose was to stop all injustice against blacks in the South,'' Ms.
Reed-Veal said at the funeral.

Many here believe that in seeking to fulfill that newfound purpose, Ms. Bland
became another victim of the injustice she wanted to end. Shortly after arriving
in Hempstead, Tex., where she had moved to take a job at Prairie View A&M
University, the historically black school that was her alma mater, she was
pulled over by a state trooper.

What started as a traffic stop escalated to an arrest and a charge of assaulting
a public servant. On July 13, three days after she was arrested and jailed, Ms.
Bland was found hanged in a cell at the Waller County Jail. A county prosecutor
in Texas said Thursday that an autopsy had concluded that Ms. Bland's injuries
were consistent with suicide. The authorities have said she used a trash can
liner to hang herself, a conclusion that many people here dispute.

Leaders at DuPage remembered Ms. Bland as a smart, outspoken woman who once sang
in the youth choir and had participated in the church's Girl Scout troop. After
graduating from college, she returned here, serving on church committees,
befriending older members of the congregation and earning a reputation as a
prolific taker of selfie photos.

The Rev. Theresa Dear, an associate minister at DuPage A.M.E. who knew Ms. Bland
since she started attending the church as a young girl, said the official
account of the death conflicted with her own memories of an ambitious, educated
Christian who was excited about the future and who had helped organize the
church's recent Women's Day event.

''This is someone who had over 50 selfies, healthy self-esteem,'' Ms. Dear said
in an interview. ''Someone who had two job offers. Someone who just talked to
her family and knew that help and rescue was on the way. This is someone who
knew the Lord and was extremely close with her church family and her sisters,
her biological family.

''None of that adds up to taking one's life or suicide.''

Saturday's funeral was mostly a celebration of Ms. Bland's life: her commitment
to her sorority, Sigma Gamma Rho; her involvement at church; her skills on the
trombone; her college degree in agricultural food sciences; and her recent
social media posts critiquing race relations in America.

''We're not funeralizing a martyr or a victim,'' said the Rev. James F. Miller,
who officiated. ''We're celebrating a hero.''

But the circumstances around her death were discussed openly and repeatedly, and
Mr. Miller had harsh words for the Texas officials handling the investigation.

''The authorities in Waller County are going to discover something that I
learned and each of us learned at our mother's knee,'' Mr. Miller said from the
pulpit. ''You can disrespect a strong black woman if you want, but you're going
to pay for that.''

Speaker after speaker encouraged mourners to continue to use social media to
seek justice. Twitter hashtags used by activists were printed in the funeral
program and displayed by a handful of people on T-shirts. Ms. Reed-Veal also
asked that supporters take cues from her and her lawyer on how the family wanted
to proceed. She said protesters should not demonstrate outside the home of Brian
T. Encinia, the trooper who arrested Ms. Bland.

''We want to do this the right way,'' Ms. Reed-Veal said.

Senator Richard J. Durbin and Representative Bill Foster, both Democrats of
Illinois, each spoke briefly at the funeral. They said they had asked the
Justice Department to investigate Ms. Bland's death.

Mr. Durbin said the circumstances started with a ''highly questionable traffic
violation.'' Trooper Encinia, of the Texas Department of Public Safety, has said
he pulled Ms. Bland over after seeing her change lanes without signaling. Mr.
Durbin noted that he had seen plenty of people change lanes without a turn
signal during his drive to the church on Saturday.

''It was an amazing life that was cut way, way too short,'' Mr. Durbin told the
congregation.

A video of Ms. Bland and Trooper Encinia, taken by the dashboard camera in the
trooper's car, shows the encounter turning into a disagreement over whether Ms.
Bland had to extinguish a cigarette, then escalating to her being threatened
with a stun gun, removed from her car and handcuffed as she lay sprawled on the
ground.

She was taken to the jail and charged with assaulting Trooper Encinia, 30, who
has been moved to a desk job for violating department policies during the stop.

Ms. Bland's death spurred skepticism and outrage on Twitter, where her name
became a trending hashtag invoked alongside tags for Michael Brown, the black
18-year-old killed last year by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo., and Freddie
Gray, the black man who died this year after being arrested by the Baltimore
police.

Members of DuPage A.M.E. held a march in Ms. Bland's honor last weekend, and
demonstrators in Texas have protested her death.

Ms. Bland herself had been active online in recent months, posting videos that
called for improvements to race relations in America and questioned how police
officers treat black people. She ''found her voice in social media and the civil
rights realm and space,'' Ms. Dear said.

In one of those videos, Ms. Bland told viewers that she had depression and
post-traumatic stress disorder, but had found solace in her faith. Cannon
Lambert, a lawyer for the Bland family, has said relatives were not aware of any
clinical diagnosis of depression or of any medication she was taking for that
condition.

Texas officials have said Ms. Bland told her jailers that she had attempted
suicide before. Sheriff R. Glenn Smith of Waller County said in an interview on
Friday at the jail that he regretted that Ms. Bland had not been placed on a
suicide watch. He said he was reviewing the chain of events that ended with the
discovery of Ms. Bland's body in her cell, adding that he was considering
disciplinary action against staff members for failing to fulfill state mental
health training requirements.

But on Saturday, even amid all the talk about Ms. Bland's death, even as white
flowers were tossed on her coffin as it was lowered into the earth, those who
knew her made an effort to keep a focus on her life. This was the woman everyone
here called Sandy, a gifted musician who grew up in the church, loved spicy
foods and was just getting settled in her new home in Texas before the arrest.

''Sandy was ours,'' Mr. Miller said at the funeral. ''We take care of our own.
We love her.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/us/sandra-bland-funeral-texas.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Bland's burial service was held Saturday at the Mount
Glenwood Memory Gardens West cemetery in Willow Springs, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARRESTS
(89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%);
JAIL SENTENCING (76%); SUICIDE (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%);
CORRECTIONS (76%); DEATHS (76%); AUTOPSIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); SELFIES
(64%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PRAIRIE VIEW A&M UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Travelers Find Fellowship Online

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1828 words


As I stood barefoot at the entrance to the Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple, a
labyrinthine Hindu shrine in the southwestern Indian state of Kerala that is
forbidden to nonworshipers, a man studied me.

Wrapped in a blue silk sari, I was an anomaly in the crowds of worshipers and
wedding guests sweeping past. My pecan-brown skin had been tanned by the sun, my
tightly coiled hair was cut in a close crop, and I spoke a foreigner's English.
There was no one like me there except my then-boyfriend, who was standing next
to me with his modest Afro as we waited for my college roommate's wedding party.

''What are you? South African?'' the man finally said. When I told him we were
American, he asked again, ''South African?''

This kind of encounter with incredulity is a recurring scene for black Americans
traveling to far-flung destinations, and their experiences led to the creation
of the Nomadness Travel Tribe, an invitation-only collective of more than 10,000
globe-trotters spread out over 36 countries.

The group began in September 2011 on Facebook as a fellowship of travelers who
rely on one another as they navigate a world that is not accustomed to black
American travelers, one that is liberating in the best cases and inhospitable in
the worst. I joined over a year ago. Though open to any invitee with at least
one passport stamp, the vast majority of Nomadness members are African-Americans
and women. About half are millennials, and most are strangers, the plus-ones of
plus-ones. We meet up like old friends in cities from Los Angeles to Seoul,
refer to each other affectionately as tenders (a shortened slang term referring
to attractive women) and JBs (short for ''jungle brothers''), and snap up
flights going just about anywhere in the world.

Nomadness is one of several virtual communities that have sprung up on social
media in recent years catering to African-Americans, who rarely find themselves
the target market of tourism and hospitality companies.

They are carrying on a long tradition of travel media created by and for black
consumers, from the ''Negro Motorist Green Book,'' which helped black
vacationers find lodging during the years of segregation, to the professional
and fraternal organizations that book large group trips, to cultural sponsors
like Essence, which draws thousands to New Orleans each year for its music
festival.

Led predominantly by black millennial women, the new virtual communities rely on
networks like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, to push travelers to venture out
more often and farther afield. These networks include two-year-old Travel Noire,
Soul Society and Black Adventuristas.

''We're here,'' said Evita Robinson, 31, the creator of Nomadness. ''We're
taking our stake, we're planting our flag and we're very unapologetic about
it.''

The images uploaded by the black travel networks run counter to the typical
profile of the international traveler. On television and in magazines, for
example, many hosts and writers are middle-aged white males, and travel media
and advertising campaigns often feature people of color only as the airport and
airline staff or locals.

Yet African-Americans are one of the fastest-growing travel markets. Black
travel spending is approaching $50 billion on domestic travel, and about one in
five black travelers take at least one international trip each year, according
to a 2011 online panel study by Mandala Research.

On social media, that growing travel base is represented. Black vacationers
zip-line through the jungles of Central and South America, hitch camel rides
across the Arabian Desert, tour the ancient temples of Asia and make pilgrimages
to Africa. We are even taking in the ancient ruins of Greece and relaxing on
beaches in Kenya, despite warnings about increasing racist attacks in Europe and
extremist violence in East Africa. Nomadness members have been to all but a
handful of countries, according to Ms. Robinson.

Like their predecessors, the groups help black travelers figure out where it is
safe to go, whether they will feel welcome once they arrive, and which
activities might interest them. In addition, the organizations provide tips on
things like caring for natural hair while traveling, responding when someone
utters a discriminatory slur, and dating interracially and interculturally
abroad. And unlike blogs and books, questions are answered in real-time by
members all over the world.

But the appeal of the movement lies mainly in the imagery, and it is no accident
that these sites have taken off amid a boom in visual social media. Since it
began in September 2013, Travel Noire has gained more than 125,000 Instagram
followers attracted to a movement that is about representation, said Zim
Ugochukwu, 27, who created Travel Noire to put to rest the notion that black
travelers do not wander the world. The community draws on contributions from
more than 100 black travelers worldwide who share their experiences and
expertise on Travel Noire's website.

''If you see somebody who looks like you in a certain destination, on a
billboard doing things you never thought you could do, then that thing becomes a
possibility,'' Ms. Ugochukwu, the Minnesota-born daughter of Nigerian
immigrants, said.

Whether traveling solo or in groups, African-American travelers are often the
only black passengers on an international flight. And once we land at our
destination, we can be the only black guests at the hotel, restaurant or
attraction. Although people the world over have heard of famous
African-Americans like President Obama and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.,
many locals, like my fellow wedding guest in India, really do not know what to
make of ordinary black travelers.

These experiences can be isolating, and they are part of what draws black
travelers to the movement emerging on social media. Ms. Robinson created
Nomadness after returning from a year spent teaching in Asia, and following a
fruitless search for a young, diverse and energetic community where she could be
vulnerable and share her experiences. One of the most common reasons people want
to join Nomadness, she said, is ''knowing that anywhere you want to go in the
world, there's someone there.''

It is a movement that exists in an economy that says it should not. The Great
Recession wiped out twice as much black wealth as it did white, and created the
widest wealth gap between blacks and whites in nearly a generation, according to
the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan think tank in Washington. Post-recession
median wealth for black households in 2014 had fallen to $11,000 from $19,200,
and was less than a tenth of the median wealth for white households. At the same
time, African-American median household income was around $35,000, compared with
$60,000 for whites, and it was down from $38,000 in 2009, the year the Great
Recession ended, according to census data.

The post-recession growth of the African-American travel market has been helped
by the proliferation of websites and mobile apps that make it easier to travel
cheaply. A 2013 joint report of African-American consumers by the Nielsen
Company and the National Newspaper Publishing Association, a black press trade
group, pointed out that African-Americans are more likely than the average
consumer to use a variety of online resources to plan travel, and they spend the
most time on discount travel websites such as Priceline and Expedia.

Affordability is a central pillar of the emerging black travel movement. Travel
Noire offers a four- to six-month fellowship program teaching novices how to
find deals. Since 2014, fellows have earned more than 500,000 frequent flier
miles, roughly the equivalent of 13 free international flights, according to Ms.
Ugochukwu.

Nomadness's members, who range from broke college students to millionaires,
share tips and tricks in group files. They use messenger services like WhatsApp
to spread the word about cheap airfares in chat rooms governed by a single rule,
''No dinging if it ain't dealing.'' Ms. Robinson also organizes several group
trips each year with an average cost of about $500, before flights, and they
sell out as quickly as tickets to a Beyoncé concert.

Curating the black travel movement has turned into a business for Ms. Robinson
and Ms. Ugochukwu, who both say the travel industry is beginning to take notice.

In the pre-dawn hours of last Christmas morning, a series of fare glitches on
Etihad Airways priced flights from the United States to Abu Dhabi, Johannesburg
and Manila for less than $250 a ticket, steals for fares that normally cost
three or four times as much. Nomadness members using the hashtag #bookdatish
purchased more than 400 tickets, Ms. Robinson said, and Ms. Ugochukwu estimated
that more than 1,000 Travel Noire followers had done the same.

That drew the attention of officials at Etihad, who reached out to Travel Noire
in an effort that resulted in discount codes aimed at Travel Noire's followers.
The codes were packaged in curated gift boxes from Quarterly, another Travel
Noire partner, that sold out and shipped in late April. Travel Noire also has
partnerships with Airbnb and the French luggage manufacturer Delsey and Co.

Nomadness began a YouTube series called the Nomadness Project in May in a
partnership with the creator of the award-winning YouTube series, ''Awkward
Black Girl.'' And in September, the group plans to host its first paid travel
conference in New York, NMDN, with a roster of partners and sponsors that
includes Black Enterprise magazine, Traveler Beer, the Brooklyn-based apparel
company Holstee and Issa Rae Productions.

Ms. Ugochukwu said that brands have been struggling to figure out how to reach
black travelers in ways that are authentic and unoffensive, and are turning to
influencers to create meaningful campaigns.

''It shows that there is traction, she said. ''This isn't a trend, it's
something that's here to stay. And brands are realizing that if they don't jump
in on that, then they will lose out.''

Travelers are perhaps the biggest beneficiaries of their presence.

After being told she had multiple sclerosis and given a year to live, Vickie
Reed-Jones, 40, a science researcher and teacher in suburban Dallas, posted in
Nomadness in November, asking members where they would go. In one day, the post
received more than 300 responses, some from members who also have terminal
illnesses, offering words of encouragement, ideas for using miles to travel free
on short getaways and healing retreats, as well as advice about planning for a
future she would not live to see.

Their responses were more than the handful that Ms. Reed-Jones had expected, and
she believes they helped to extend the time she had left.

''You could feel the love,'' she said. ''People had never seen me and never knew
anything about me, but they had accepted me.''

She added, ''It turned out to be one of the best things that I have done.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/black-travel-noire-nomadness.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a Nomadness Travel Tribe's women's trek, on a camel safari
through India's Pushkar Desert. Above, Zim Ugochukwu with a local villager in
Ubud on a trip to Bali, Indonesia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVITA ROBINSON/ NOMADNESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL
(73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%);
FESTIVALS (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MILLENNIUM (69%); CIVIC &
SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(55%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%)

STATE: SOUTH INDIA (92%); KERALA, INDIA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); INDONESIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 33 words


A brief report in the Bookshelf column on July 12 about ''Stella Brings the
Family,'' by Miriam B. Schiffer, misstated the given name of the book's
illustrator. She is Holly Clifton-Brown, not Molly.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Main Course of Nostalgia

BYLINE: By KATHRYN O'SHEA-EVANS

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; BITES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


When I tugged open the door to R&J Lounge and Supper Club, a midcentury-inspired
restaurant, I expected plumes of cigarette smoke to waft into the air. It's a
nonsmoking place, but looks like a set from my imagined sequel, ''Goodfellas
Take the Middle West'' -- red and gold flock wallpaper, burgundy Naugahyde
booths, a neon sign out front that washes its somewhat seedy location (up an
alley next to a tire dealership) in a warm fluorescent glow.

Jonathon Stranger and Russ Johnson, the owners and chefs, made a name for
themselves in 2010 when they founded Ludivine, a restaurant that celebrated
ingredients like roasted bone marrow and sea urchin. At their new venture, which
opened in September, nostalgia is the main course. ''At R&J, we just want it to
feel good,'' Mr. Stranger said.

For inspiration, the chefs combed through antique menus at the New York Public
Library and ransacked their family recipe boxes. The result is edible Americana
-- and with apologies to Betty Crocker , it's great. The chicken with buttermilk
and dill dumplings is Mr. Stranger's grandmother's recipe, spiced with Aleppo
pepper. The Spreads Plate comes with pimento cheese, cream cheese coated in
Jezebel sauce, and a ham salad made exactly the same way as one once sold at
Crescent Market, a beloved local grocer before ''the Midwest got Walmart-ized,''
as Mr. Stranger put it.

With beef stroganoff, fried catfish, and pork and beans rounding out the Hot
Plates, most menu options are a far cry from healthful. But an occasional meal
here is probably, as the old joke goes in this state, O.K.

Ditto the drinks menu. My virgin Mai Tai arrived in a ceramic tiki mug, topped
with a cocktail umbrella. I'd wanted to try the minty Grasshopper (but also
virgin) because I was driving. The throaty-voiced waitress informed me that, as
an ice cream-based drink, it was premixed and ''already bashed out,'' a line
that in itself seemed cinematic.

R&J could feel kitschy or forced, but it doesn't. The eclectic music selections,
everything from the Scissor Sisters to Buddy Holly, help. The 1980s classic
''Don't You (Forget About Me)'' was playing when we walked in. For a place
intent on resurrecting food and drink vestiges of the past, it could have been
an anthem.

R&J Lounge and Supper Club, 320 Northwest 10th Street; 405-602-5066;
rjsupperclub­.com. An average meal for two, without drinks or tip, is about $45.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/restaurant-report-rj-lounge-and-supper-
club-in-oklahoma-city.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fried catfish, one of the Hot Plates at R&J Lounge and Supper
Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS NGUYEN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SMOKING (90%); ICE CREAM (70%); TIRE DEALERS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Local Farmers' Market to Reopen, With an Emphasis on Local

BYLINE: By EMILY J. WEITZ

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; QUICK BITE | AMAGANSETT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 359 words


For those who have passed the shuttered Amagansett Farmers Market with heavy
hearts this summer, there is cause for celebration. The market, which has been
closed since late 2014, will reopen Aug. 1.

In 2008, Margaret de Cuevas bought the seven-acre site and the Peconic Land
Trust bought the development rights from her.

''I had never set out to purchase the farmers' market,'' Ms. de Cuevas said,
''but when John Halsey suggested it, it seemed like a way I could make a
difference.'' Mr. Halsey is president of the trust.

After witnessing this preservation effort, however, many local people were
disappointed to hear that the Manhattan-based businessman Eli Zabar had been
awarded the lease.

''People were angry,'' Ms. de Cuevas said, explaining that they had hoped it
would go to someone with closer ties to area farmers.

When Mr. Zabar's lease ended in 2014, the trust put out a request for proposals.
One came from the Amagansett Food Institute, which supports local farmers. Ms.
de Cuevas, whose father, John de Cuevas, is a founder of the institute, said she
did not take part in the decision-making process. But other board members saw
that the goals of the trust and the institute aligned.

''It's another nonprofit whose focus is on agriculture and education and where
our food comes from,'' said Pam Greene, vice president of the trust. ''It seemed
like the perfect fit.''

The institute consists of more than 40 member organizations including farmers,
bakers, fishers, saltmongers and chefs. These members, along with other local
producers, will contribute items to the market. There will also be a few
prepared foods lining the shelves, including items from Anke's Fit Bakery,
frozen dinners from Wyse Organics and soups and sauces from South Fork Kitchens,
which the institute started in 2014 on the campus of Stony Brook Southampton,
part of the State University of New York.

But ultimately the market will be about farm produce like tomatoes, corn and
melons. ''It will be predominantly local,'' Kathleen A. Masters, executive
director of the institute, said. ''It's not going to be a fancy food store. It's
a farmers' market.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/amagansett-farmers-market-to-reopen-w
ith-an-emphasis-on-local.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Amagansett Farmers Market, seen in 2008, is reopening.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY
(78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES
(70%); FROZEN FOODS (67%); BAKERIES (64%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Uber's Pain,Our Problem

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words


In the immediate aftermath of the stock market crash in 1929, amid the suicides,
collapsed fortunes and other pervasive miseries, the number of men looking for
jobs in New York expanded the ranks of the city's cabdrivers to 30,000. Chaos
reigned. There were too many drivers going after too few passengers -- fares
were slashed, tensions between fleets escalated, violence erupted. Some drivers
working 20-hour days could not make enough money to support themselves. As a
result, in 1937, the city devised the medallion system to limit the number of
vehicle licenses. In the late 1930s, there were just under 12,000 medallions in
circulation; more than 75 years later, in a city larger by one million people
and benefiting from far greater prosperity, there are only 13,000.

History reveals the perils of both too little and too much regulation. In the
four short years that Uber has operated in New York City, it has sent about
12,000 new for-hire cars onto city streets. Growth like that cannot continue
without examination. But of course growth like that might never have occurred if
the city's yellow-taxi system could respond to fluctuations of supply and
demand. Instead, arcane aspects of state and local law and, crucially, the power
wielded by wealthy and politically generous fleet owners -- who don't want to
see the creation of more medallions lest the value of theirs decline -- make
that virtually impossible.

Let's leave aside that Uber, like Soul Cycle or the Hampton Jitney, has become
an aspect of identity for many New Yorkers. ''Uber'' is something you do; it's a
verb; you ''Uber'' to dinner at Barbuto, whereas in 2010 you would have said --
how benighted the sound!-- that you were going to ''take a taxi.'' With Uber
there is no grammatical intimation of remove. On a recent evening when I
suggested to a friend that we hail a cab on a street known in Brooklyn Heights
to have many of them, she pulled her iPhone out of her bag and looked at me as
if I had proposed carving our own wooden alphabet blocks from the first ginkgo
tree we could find in the forest.

The de Blasio administration's feud with Uber, which went on hiatus on
Wednesday, was troubled from the start, in part because of these passions, in
part because the mayor was tainted as a recipient of fleet-owner largess and in
part because what is really required is a comprehensive rethinking of the entire
taxi system's regulatory framework. The city's proposal for a temporary cap on
Uber's growth -- which it dropped in exchange for Uber's promise to release data
that the city would use to analyze the effects of so many for-hire vehicles on
traffic patterns and the environment -- was born out of proclaimed worries about
congestion. But if we're going to worry about congestion, we might also worry
about the city's seemingly unchecked pace of construction or, perhaps, the
ubiquitous presence of film crews with their enormous trailers clogging streets.

Up till now, Mayor Bill de Blasio has not seemed overly concerned about
congestion. He voted against Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing
plan when he was a member of the City Council. Moreover, when a new
congestion-pricing proposal came forth in February, from a leading
transportation engineer, Samuel Schwartz, Mr. de Blasio said it had ''to be
taken seriously,'' but two months later, when asked about it at a news
conference, he said he hadn't taken a position.

Working as a yellow-taxi driver in New York City is a fairly miserable
existence. A cabdriver on average will make about $17 or $18 an hour over shifts
that can last 12 hours. That is little more than the $15 an hour fast-food
workers are scheduled to get, and their job entails much less risk. Late in the
Bloomberg administration, the taxi and limousine commissioner at the time, David
S. Yassky, initiated a benefits fund for taxi drivers -- 6 cents from every taxi
trip went toward disability, vision and dental coverage. The fleet owners sued,
and the courts found that the move was beyond the taxi commission's authority.
Last year, the de Blasio administration appealed to the intermediate court but
lost, and it hasn't taken the issue further.

Uber drivers, who have more control and flexibility over their schedules, may
indeed be better off, as the company argues; independent analysis will tell us.
But the company's populist claims are difficult to absorb. Uber's relentless
campaign against the city's efforts to suppress it -- around the world, the
company's reaction to regulatory efforts has hardly been gracious -- featured an
ad depicting hard-working people who would not be able to get to their night
shifts in the South Bronx and take their babies to the doctor in Jamaica,
Queens, if Uber were denied free rein. But in April, according to city data
requisitioned from the company, of the roughly 76,000 New York City pickups Uber
made on the average day, about 63,000 were in central Manhattan, from the city's
airports and in the most affluent precincts of Brooklyn. Fewer than 1,200 were
made in the Bronx; only 37 were on Staten Island. Using Uber requires having a
credit card, the lack of which, for many residents of the Bronx, one green-taxi
driver once told me, made getting fares there very hard.

The rhetoric of sharing-economy corporations conscripts us all to their mission.
It isn't enough that consumers use their services; they need to feel riled when
the companies are not getting everything they want. It's not the problem of a
multibillion-dollar global corporation. It's your problem. In April in San
Antonio, when the regulatory environment got ugly, Uber announced that it was
leaving town. Uber wants you to feel married to it. But if your parents start
making too many rules, then it just might say goodbye.

Email: bigcity@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/uber-makes-its-pain-new-yorkers-probl
em.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Uber drivers and their supporters protest in May outside the
Taxi and Limousine Commission offices in New York, one of several cities where
the company has clashed with regulators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (MB5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTPUT & DEMAND (78%); SUICIDE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); GREAT
DEPRESSION (78%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bumgarner Yields a Run but Makes Up the Difference in a Giants Victory

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 695 words


Madison Bumgarner hit a home run and pitched seven innings for his third
consecutive win, powering the host San Francisco Giants past the Oakland
Athletics, 2-1, on Saturday.

After Josh Phegley doubled off Bumgarner in the fourth to tie the game, Matt
Duffy responded with a tiebreaking single in the sixth, helping the Giants to
their 10th victory in 11 games. The A's have lost four of five.

Bumgarner -- winner of the Silver Slugger award at pitcher last season --
homered on a 3-2 pitch from Oakland starter Chris Bassitt (0-3) in the third to
put San Francisco up by 1-0. It was Bumgarner's third home run this season and
the ninth of his career, as well as the first homer by a pitcher against the A's
since 1972.

Bumgarner (11-5) also struck out seven while working past the sixth inning for
the first time in four starts. Sergio Romo pitched the eighth, and Santiago
Casilla worked the ninth for his 25th save.

Ben Zobrist had three hits for the A's. Bassitt, called up from the minors
before the game to make the start, allowed five hits in six innings.

CARDINALS 1, BRAVES 0 The pinch-hitter Stephen Piscotty got his first career
R.B.I. with a sacrifice fly in the eighth inning, and Carlos Martinez outdueled
his former teammate Shelby Miller as host St. Louis edged Atlanta.

The Cardinals won their fifth in a row despite getting just two hits.

TIGERS 5, RED SOX 1 Nick Castellanos drove in three runs with a double and a
solo homer that left Fenway Park completely, Alfredo Simon pitched six solid
innings, and Detroit bounced back in Boston after consecutive extra-inning
losses.

The former Boston left fielder Yoenis Cespedes added a solo homer and threw out
a runner at the plate for the Tigers, as the Red Sox lost for the ninth time in
10 games.

Simon (9-6) gave up one run and five hits before limping off two pitches into
the seventh. BLUE JAYS 8, MARINERS 6 Chris Colabello's two-run, bases-loaded
single in the ninth inning gave visiting Toronto a late boost and, ultimately, a
victory over Seattle.

Jose Bautista doubled into the right-field corner earlier in the ninth,
extending his streak of reaching base against the Mariners to 36 straight games.
Aaron Sanchez (6-4), just off the disabled list, worked the eighth inning to
earn the victory.

ORIOLES 5, RAYS 1 Chris Davis hit his fifth career grand slam, and Miguel
Gonzalez took a shutout into the eighth inning as visiting Baltimore ended a
four-game losing streak.

Gonzalez (9-6) allowed one run and five hits over seven and two-thirds innings
to win for the third time in his last four starts.

NATIONALS 9, PIRATES 3 The rookie center fielder Michael Taylor had a home run
and three R.B.I. for visiting Washington, and Gio Gonzalez won his fourth
straight decision.

The Nationals' Yunel Escobar had three hits after sitting out the previous two
games with a sore left wrist, while Ian Desmond homered for a third straight
game for Washington, the National League East leader.

ROYALS 2, ASTROS 1 Alcides Escobar singled home Paulo Orlando with two outs in
the 10th inning, lifting host Kansas City past Houston.

The Royals' Eric Hosmer tripled high off the left-field fence with two outs in
the ninth but was stranded when Will Harris retired Alex Rios on a grounder.

WHITE SOX 10, INDIANS 3 Chris Sale allowed two runs in seven innings, striking
out seven to regain the American League lead, and Chicago set the tone with a
five-run first inning in Cleveland.

Jose Abreu drove in three runs in support, Melky Cabrera was 3 for 5 with two
R.B.I., and Carlos Sanchez hit his first major league homer.

DIAMONDBACKS 2, BREWERS 0 Rubby De La Rosa pitched eight effective innings in
Phoenix, and Arizona earned its first shutout since June 14 against the Giants.

Paul Goldschmidt and Jake Lamb both had run-scoring hits in the first inning
against Taylor Jungmann (5-2) for the Diamondbacks, who finished with just four
hits total.

REDS 5, ROCKIES 2 Johnny Cueto shrugged off trade rumors and pitched eight
scoreless innings, Todd Frazier connected for his 100th career home run, and
Cincinnati won in Denver.

Billy Hamilton had three hits and scored twice for the Reds.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/mlb-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES
(75%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS
(82%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%)

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA
(68%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); DETROIT, MI, USA (54%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); GEORGIA, USA (55%);
MICHIGAN, USA (54%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cabrera's Likeness, if Not Yet His Power

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1446 words


The Arizona Diamondbacks had already scouted Yasmany Tomas by the time their
chief baseball officer, the Hall of Famer Tony La Russa, first saw him. But when
La Russa did, it confirmed to him that his team had spent wisely by investing
$68.5 million for six years.

''His stroke was like a young Miguel Cabrera,'' La Russa said, sitting on the
Diamondbacks' bench at Chase Field before a recent game. ''I mean, you watch
him, he might hit it down the left-field line, left-center, right-center, down,
up, in, out -- he's really got a beautiful stroke. He's hitting .300 and he's
never seen these guys, and last year he played very little. He's just on the tip
of the iceberg.''

Tomas, 24, played 68 games for his team in Cuba in the 2013-14 season and
defected last June. He was hitting .303 with six home runs and a .338 on-base
percentage entering the weekend. Tomas appreciated the comparison to Cabrera, a
two-time winner of the Most Valuable Player Award for the Detroit Tigers.

''He's my favorite player -- tremendous hitter,'' Tomas said through his
interpreter, Ariel Prieto. ''It's good for me to have a baseball player like him
as an example for me, a reference guide. I have it in my mind, the big goal, of
being a player like Miguel Cabrera is. So to be like that, you have to work a
lot and be strong.''

In Prieto, the Diamondbacks have more than a translator. Prieto, who is from
Cuba and pitched six seasons in the majors, worked for Oakland in a similar
capacity after the A's signed Yoenis Cespedes. Prieto has helped both with their
transition to the United States, and while Tomas is younger, he is married and
somewhat more independent.

''Cespedes is a tough guy; he wants to look good every time,'' Prieto said.
''This guy is the same, but he's more patient -- waiting for numbers, thinking
slow. He takes a little longer period to be thinking.''

By that, Tomas explained, he is more willing to wait for his power to develop.
He said he enjoyed proving wrong the observers who thought he would strike out
prodigiously. Tomas has 67 strikeouts in 76 games.

''A lot of people ask why I don't hit more home runs, but in my mind I try to
hit the ball hard and make contact to help my team,'' Tomas said. ''When some
people ask me, 'Would you prefer to hit 30 homers and have a .250 average or hit
.300 with less homers?,' I prefer to hit .300 with less homers to help the team.
That's more important.

''For my particular job right now, I don't think about hitting homers; I just
try to make contact and be ready every single day.''

Tomas was not ready for the majors at the end of an uneven spring training. He
was overweight, looked out of place at third base, and began the regular season
at Class AAA. After five games there, he joined the Diamondbacks as a third
baseman, but he has played almost exclusively right field since early June.

The biggest adjustment to the majors, Tomas said, is the preparation required
for the long season. In Cuba, he said, he would train three months for a 90-game
season. In the majors, position players have six weeks of training for a
162-game grind. Because of that, the Diamondbacks are trying to build in
occasional days off to help his transition.

Last Saturday, when Tomas was out of the lineup against the San Francisco
Giants, he underwent an early hitting lesson that focused on speeding up his leg
kick. Prieto said the best word to describe Tomas was coachable.

''He's a great kid; his teammates and coaches love him,'' said Mark Grace, the
Diamondbacks' assistant hitting coach. ''And he's not the hitter yet that he's
going to be. He's going to learn our game.''

Tomas said he learned right away that the average fastball in Cuba -- 85 to 87
miles per hour, he guessed -- was slower than what he usually saw here. Pitches
have better late movement in the majors, too.

All things considered, he is probably right where he should be -- hardly
Cabrera, but hardly a finished product.

''In my mind, I have to be clear of my goal,'' Tomas said, ''and my goal right
now is to be a great player all of my career.''

Success With a Sinker

When Atlanta's Shelby Miller lost to the Cubs last Sunday, it was his eighth
start this season in which he allowed no more than one earned run without
getting a victory. The bad luck is reflected in a record (5-6 entering the
weekend) that obscures his growth as a pitcher.

Miller, who made his first All-Star team, has greatly increased his use of the
sinker, a pitch he did not throw until late last season with the Cardinals. He
picked it up from Justin Masterson, who was only passing through St. Louis but
made a strong impression before leaving for Boston.

''I asked him about it because I knew, when he was with Cleveland, he was
throwing 96, 97 miles an hour with a banging sinker and a hammer slider and I
was just like, 'That's the sinker I want,' '' Miller said. ''Obviously it's not
as good as his is, but the grip just felt comfortable to me. I went up and asked
him how he threw it, and that one just kind of stuck.''

The Cardinals, aware of Miller's shaky peripheral statistics last season, traded
him to Atlanta in a November deal for outfielder Jason Heyward. But Miller has
improved both his earned run average (2.33 entering the weekend) and
fielding-independent numbers by trusting the movement of his sinker.

According to Fangraphs, Miller throws the pitch more than one-third of the time
now, more often than the harder -- but straighter -- four-seam fastball. He does
not grip the ball with his fingers along the narrow seams, using a modified
four-seam grip that works.

''For two years, I thought I could throw a fastball by everybody,'' Miller said.
''In 2013, I had success with it, but I struggled early in 2014 and wasn't
efficient -- threw a lot of fastballs, got a lot of foul balls, didn't go deep
into games. That kind of had to teach me that I needed to change something. I
needed to experience failure.

''Once I developed that, I feel like I can go deep into games and get ground
balls and be efficient and be the starting pitcher I want to be.''

Johnson and Holman

Randy Johnson, who enters the Hall of Fame on Sunday with Craig Biggio, Pedro
Martinez and John Smoltz, made 603 career starts without a shoulder operation.
One of his best friends was not so lucky.

''People say, 'Do you miss it?' '' Johnson said in Phoenix last week. ''Well,
yeah, I miss the game, but I played 22 years. I would have been more frustrated
had, say, I hurt my shoulder earlier in my career and I couldn't recover from it
and my career was cut short, like Brian Holman. I don't know what he could have
been, but based on what I saw when he was in the major leagues before he hurt
his arm, he was just scratching the surface of how good he was.''

Holman will be in Cooperstown for the induction ceremonies this weekend, at
Johnson's request. The two came up together in the Montreal Expos' farm system
and went to the Seattle Mariners in a 1989 trade for Mark Langston. They bonded
over rock music and their shared struggle to harness their talents.

''Neither one of us could throw strikes,'' Holman said in a telephone interview
last week. ''We threw hard, but we didn't know where it was going. We learned
what it was like to compete, and to fail, together.''

Holman, a first-round draft pick, made 99 career starts, going 37-45 with a 3.71
E.R.A. With Seattle in April 1990, he lost a perfect game with two outs in the
ninth inning when Oakland's Ken Phelps hit a home run.

Johnson threw a no-hitter six weeks later and authored his own perfect game in
2004. By then, Holman's career was long over, cut short by injuries to his
rotator cuff, labrum and capsule that required a total reconstruction. He
pitched his last game in the majors at age 26, in 1991.

The years since then have not been easy for Holman. He had open heart surgery in
2003, and his son David, now a pitcher in Seattle's farm system, overcame a
brain tumor as a child. A daughter of Holman's, Cassidy, died of leukemia in
2006, at age 11. Johnson and his family donated to her memorial fund, arranging
for a section of the library at her elementary school to be renovated and named
in her honor.

Holman now works as a motivational speaker and pitching coordinator for a
baseball academy in Kansas. He does not lament his misfortune and said he
cherished his friendship with Johnson.

''Unfortunately, I got hurt, but you always knew Randy was going to be something
really special, and he was going to figure it out,'' Holman said. ''I'm so
beyond proud of him, for the player he turned out to be and for the person he
is. Very grateful I got to be a part of it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/diamondbacks-player-has-miguel
-cabreras-likeness-if-not-yet-his-power.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yasmany Tomas, who was hitting .303, is ''just on the tip of
the iceberg,'' the Diamondbacks' Tony La Russa said. Brian Holman, left,
pitching for the Mariners in 1990, will be at Randy Johnson's Hall of Fame
induction ceremony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES
 MITCHELL LAYTON/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS
(71%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (94%); DETROIT TIGERS (55%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (70%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (71%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Faces of Battle

BYLINE: By ANDREW J. BACEVICH.

Andrew J. Bacevich is writing a history of United States military involvement in
the greater Middle East.

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1249 words


MEN OF WAR The American Soldier in Combat at Bunker Hill, Gettysburg, and Iwo
Jima By Alexander Rose480 pp. Random House. $30.  In 1976, John Keegan, a highly
regarded military historian, published ''The Face of Battle,'' a famous account
of what ordinary English soldiers experienced on the battlefields of Agincourt,
Waterloo and the Somme. In ''Men of War,'' Alexander Rose, the author of
''Washington's Spies,'' sets out to do something similar for the American
soldiers who fought in what he arbitrarily calls the three ''most iconic battles
in American history'' -- Bunker Hill, Gettysburg and Iwo Jima.

As an exercise in antiquarianism, the result rates as a considerable success. A
conscientious researcher, Rose has combed through a vast array of published
sources to amass an omnium gatherum of intriguing facts. Readers seeking a
minutely detailed account of how American militiamen in 1775 prepared hasty
fortifications to fend off an expected assault by Redcoats or how Marines in
1945 improvised techniques for reducing Japanese fortifications need look no
further. For buffs, ''Men of War'' is a treasure trove.

The book succeeds less well in fulfilling Rose's stated purpose of understanding
what real soldiers ''thought, felt and did'' in the course of these battles. By
way of partial compensation, he serves up various insights related to the
mechanics of war and to the physical and psychological impact of combat. Most of
these insights are familiar. Those that are not familiar are also less than
fully persuasive. As to the central question inspiring the book in the first
place, Rose himself concludes, ''I remain stumped.'' To say as he does that
''there is not one 'Face of Battle' but many'' amounts to a tacit admission of
failure.

We may liken Rose's approach to that of an earnest stonemason who takes it upon
himself to build a mighty cathedral. The workmanlike manner in which he sets
about his task commands our respect even as it illustrates the indispensability
of creative genius in producing something truly magnificent. There is no genius
at work here.

For each of his three battles, Rose takes a similar approach. After providing
the barest narrative overview, he dives deep into tactical esoterica, eventually
coming up for air a hundred or so pages later. So in providing his take on the
three-day encounter at Gettysburg -- in his view ''neither extraordinary nor
even that 'important' in the grand scheme of the Civil War'' -- Rose doesn't
trouble to explain how the events of Day 1 set the stage for Day 2 and
culminated on Day 3 in a momentous Union victory. Instead, he delves at length
into techniques common to both armies: how skirmishers deployed, how infantry
regiments attacked and defended and how artillery batteries shelled enemy
artillery in contrast to how they shelled enemy infantry.

Rose also devotes very considerable attention to the fate of those killed,
wounded and captured. Indeed, the blood-and-gore quotient in ''Men of War''
compares favorably, if that's the term, with the ­violence-saturated movies and
video games marketed to present-day male adolescents. The recurring references
to surgeons hacking away at mutilated bodies and of bloated remains left to rot
in the sun may strike some readers as gratuitous. Not that all the news on this
front is bad. Rose writes of a soldier named Smith, wounded and presumed dead at
Gettysburg, whose story had an ''agreeably happy ending'' when he turned up in a
Detroit hospital ''having lost nothing more than his eyes and limbs.''

Of course, war is hell not only for participants; it tends to be one helluva
messy enterprise, period. Too much military history, Rose complains, describes
armed conflict from the lofty and excessively tidy perspective of generals. On
that score, he is surely correct. Examining war from the bottom up, he writes,
shows that battles are decided not by ''brilliant generalship but by accident,
initiative, chance and such other intangibles as morale, background, culture,
ideology and experience.'' Again, this is surely correct. But the proposition is
hardly as ''unconventional'' as he claims. It's a truism, which wise generals
will concede and politicians contemplating war should contemplate.

When Rose does venture a radical thought, the results tend to be idiosyncratic,
where not simply off the wall. Finding ''no inkling of combat stress'' at Bunker
Hill, for example, he offers this general explanation: ''Eighteenth-century
soldiers lacked much of what we might term psychiatric self-awareness.'' In
effect, no Freud, no PTSD. Well, I'm no shrink, but neither is Rose, so mark me
down as ­skeptical.

The outcome of Civil War battles like Gettysburg, he postulates, turned on ''a
willingness to suffer, rather than inflict, high casualties.'' To suffer was to
demonstrate a ''muscularly Christian and heroically masculine will to win.''
Take this judgment at face value and the most direct path to victory would be to
march into battle while turning the other cheek. In fact, what yielded victory
in the Civil War was a decidedly un-Christlike determination to inflict huge
casualties despite sustaining painful losses. The South succumbed to final
defeat not because the Confederate Army lacked a capacity to endure suffering,
but because in the competition to kill it came up short.

Regarding Iwo Jima, Rose goes to great lengths to find United States Marines
innocent of the sin of anti-Japanese racism. He then proceeds to describe
Marines plucking gold-filled teeth from dead enemy soldiers, sending home
severed fingers and ears ''as good-luck charms'' and boiling skulls in 50-gallon
drums to use as trade-bait with souvenir-hungry sailors back aboard ship.
Commonplace in the Pacific theater of war, the despoiling of enemy remains was
considerably less in evidence in Europe. Rose shows a striking lack of curiosity
as to why United States troops tended to treat dead Japanese differently from
the way they did dead ­Germans.

In some respects, Rose has done himself a disservice in his choice of battles.
Whether or not they qualify as iconic, Bunker Hill, Gettysburg and Iwo Jima do
not invite useful comparison. Indeed, apart from involving Americans on at least
one side, they could hardly be more dissimilar, differing appreciably in just
about every imaginable respect, including duration, terrain, the size of the
contending forces and the nature of the enemy. By comparison with Gettysburg,
which occurred at the midpoint of the Civil War, Bunker Hill rates as little
more than a brief firefight at the very front end of the Revolution. And Iwo
Jima deserves to be classified not as a mere battle but as a full-fledged
campaign situated at the tail end of the Pacific war. Rather than ­entailing a
few hours or days of fighting, it dragged on for weeks.

Designing a book is the author's prerogative, of course. Yet it's a reviewer's
prerogative to speculate on what a different approach might have produced.
Imagine if instead of Bunker Hill -- does anyone outside Boston really care what
happened there? -- Rose had added Hamburger Hill or the second battle of
Fallujah to the mix. Yes, the result would have been a decidedly different book.
But it just might have been a more illuminating one as well.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/men-of-war-by-alexander-rose.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pacific campaign: Marines fighting on Iwo Jima, March 3, 1945.
(PHOTOGRAPH FROM U.S. MARINE CORPS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMED FORCES
(90%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WRITERS (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evicting a Family of Raccoons

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ASK REAL ESTATE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 999 words


Ask Real Estate is a weekly column that answers questions from across the New
York region. Submit yours to realestateqa@nytimes.com

Raccoons Sneaking Inside

Our neighbor owns an adjoining brownstone that is a multifamily rental. The
soffit on his roof, which is supposed to be sealed, has a hole in it. A raccoon
has been crawling through my neighbor's soffit to a crawl space under my roof.
She gave birth and is using the crawl space above my bed as a den. No pest
control company I have found is willing to try to remove a mother with babies.
My neighbor keeps saying he will do something, but he has not. What can I do?

Longwood, Bronx

The common house mouse scurrying across the kitchen floor can elicit panic in
many a homeowner, so your anxiety about a nest of feral raccoons must be
palpable. Raccoons carry diseases like rabies and roundworm. They are also
strong, smart and aggressive creatures that can damage ductwork, wood and
electrical wiring. Clearly, these are not welcome houseguests that you want
camping out in your home.

You need to remove the animals and keep them from returning, which will mean
motivating an unresponsive neighbor to repair his property. Your neighbor is
violating the city's administrative code, which requires property owners to keep
their premises free of vermin and other pests. If he will not immediately seal
his soffits, report him to the State Department of Environmental Conservation,
which oversees wildlife control. You could also call 311 to report the condition
to the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Department of
Housing Preservation and Development.

''It's not reasonable to allow raccoons around the house,'' said Bruce F.
Bronster, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. If reporting him gets no results, you
may need to file a private nuisance claim against your neighbor, as his actions
substantially interfere with the use and enjoyment of your property. Seek
expedited relief from the courts, like a preliminary injunction or a temporary
restraining order that would compel the owner to act swiftly.

As for the furry family upstairs, call a pest control company with a
state-licensed wildlife control operator. It should be able to remove a raccoon
with babies, according to Diego Vasquez, the owner of Dr. Pest Control NY, an
environmental services company in Flushing, Queens. ''We do it all the time,''
Mr. Vasquez said. ''If they can walk in the room, we could lure them into the
traps. It's much easier than a full adult. Babies are very curious.''


Time to Move On

I live with two roommates. Our market-rate lease recently expired. In the past
month, we have tried to reach our landlord to renew our lease, and he has not
answered the phone, our texts or our letters. We don't know if he is out of the
country, has changed numbers, or is simply ignoring us. What can we do, if
anything, to get him to let us renew the lease? What is our current legal
situation?

Prospect Heights, Brooklyn

You and your roommates are in a precarious spot with few legal options -- and
plenty of risk. When a market-rate lease expires, tenants are expected to vacate
the premises. Now, you no longer have the protection of that lease, and no
inkling of your landlord's intentions.

''Staying beyond the expiration of a free-market lease is risky business,'' said
Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan real estate lawyer and an adjunct professor at New
York Law School.

The best-case scenario: Your landlord cashes your rent check, which amounts to a
month-to-month tenancy. Come next month, you would be back in the same uncertain
position. If your landlord rejects your check, he could begin eviction
proceedings against you. If you are ultimately evicted, your landlord could
demand substantially more rent for the months you lived there after the lease
expired, and you could be responsible for his legal fees and costs. Added to
that, you could land yourself on the dreaded tenant blacklist.

Your landlord's lack of communication might seem cruel, but he is not obligated
to offer a market-rate tenant a new lease. Take his radio silence as a
passive-aggressive ''no.''

''Legally, when faced with a wall or 'cone' of silence there's little more one
can do, but leave,'' Mr. Ferrara said. ''Best to assume it means no renewal;
time to go your way.''


Renters on the Board

Is there any precedent for renters to have representation on a condominium or
co-op board? It would be really helpful for us renters to have a voice,
especially since many of us have lived here for years. The superintendent tends
to treat those of us who rent as second-class citizens. Having a voice on the
board might help.

Upper West Side, Manhattan

Good luck finding condo or co-op owners willing to vote a non-owner onto the
board -- assuming they even can. The bylaws of most buildings prohibit
non-owners from sitting on the board. But even if your building were to permit
the practice, owners (who are the only voting members) would have little
incentive to elect a rental tenant. From an owner's perspective, a renter would
not feel the pain of a special assessment or maintenance increase. So it would
not make sense for a rental tenant to vote on such matters.

''Why would you want to put economic decisions in the hands of people who don't
have the same stake in the building?'' said Ronald J. Gold, a Manhattan real
estate lawyer.

If renters are being unfairly treated by the super, they could form a tenants'
association to demand a change from the condo, as there are rules that guarantee
services and protect against harassment. But if tenants want a voice in
day-to-day operations, they could suggest that a tenant be offered a seat on a
house committee that reports to the board. Such committees frequently offer
seats to residents who are not board members. They do not delve into the
finances of the building but can influence quality-of-life issues.

Submit your question as a comment or email to realestateqa@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/evicting-a-family-of-urban-raccoons
.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL KOLOMATSKY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES
(90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EVICTION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS
(89%); WILDLIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%);
RABIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOUSING
AUTHORITIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (75%); RODENTS (75%); ANIMAL CONTROL
(73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ANIMALS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%);
ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CONSERVATION (69%);
MENTAL HEALTH (68%); NUISANCE (66%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (66%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (63%); INJUNCTIONS (61%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL
ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rare Opera Is Getting an Even Rarer Staging

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON;
Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1091 words


Leon Botstein, the Zurich-born polymath and president of Bard College, has the
bald pate and imperious bearing of an Old World movie director. And he has the
rhetorical style to match.

Little wonder, then, that he had an immediate impact this month when, addressing
52 singers midway through an early rehearsal of the Ethel Smyth opera ''The
Wreckers,'' he let the rhetoric fly, warning of an impending ''musical
disaster.''

''This thing doesn't play itself,'' Mr. Botstein, the production's musical
director, declared. ''The tempo, sound and pace need to be radically altered.''

As if to prove the point, he swept the singers into a detailed deconstruction of
the libretto, coaxing them to extract meaning from every syllable. Ultimately,
the strategy worked: Singers lent both shape and substance to their developing
characterizations, and praise supplanted scolding in Mr. Botstein's oratory.

''The Wreckers,'' which is having its first fully staged performances in the
United States in Bard's Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts through
Aug. 2, is, Mr. Botstein said, one of the least known in a line of lesser-known
operas the college has produced.

Its score has been heard only once in the United States, in a 2007 concert
version Mr. Botstein presented at Avery Fisher Hall. That kind of obscurity, he
said, put an added premium on the dynamism of the cast, a handpicked group with
experience in leading opera houses around the world.

''When someone goes to see the 'The Wreckers,' ''he said during a break in the
rehearsal, ''there's no filter of memory, of comfort, of familiarity. So the
burden on us is for people not to walk out and say, 'Now I know why we've never
heard of this piece.' ''

Mr. Botstein said the qualities that originally attracted him to the work -- its
potential for drama and its timely subject matter among them -- argued for the
full staging. The dramatic potential, in particular, also seems well suited to
the broadly theatrical personal aesthetic he brings to the project, which draws
on the legend of 18th-century Cornwall peasants who salvaged valuables from
ships they lured onto the rocks, along the way using religious faith to justify
murder.

''It's a tremendously germane story,'' he said.

Telling the story presents challenges, not least the language. The opera was
written in French and translated to German for its 1906 premiere in Leipzig. Its
English retranslation yielded what are now archaic words and phrases, among them
''barque'' (a deep-water cargo ship), which sent Mr. Botstein to the dictionary,
and ''beetling crags'' (hanging-rock formations), which did the same to the
baritone Louis Otey, who plays the fiery preacher, Pascoe.

Mr. Botstein said he and Thaddeus Strassberger, the director, had turned to
replacement words sparingly, in each instance weighing their clarity of meaning
against their rhythmic fit.

''We've done some very slight fiddling, but you have limited options,'' he said,
adding that the libretto would appear in supertitles projected over the stage.

Mr. Otey, one of six principals in the cast and a veteran of the 2007 concert,
said the libretto had occasionally come across as stilted during that concert,
detracting from the dramatic impact. But he said that placing the narrative in
the context of a full stage production allowed him to speak the words ''in a
certain way, color them to give them meaning in whatever the scene is about.''

Compared with performing the work at the concert hall, he said, ''taking it to
the stage is much easier. I'm used to living a character, with sets and costumes
and movement.''

As this month's rehearsal unfolded, Mr. Otey, whose dark image dominates the
stock poster for the opera, began to refine his character by varying his
delivery and at the behest of Mr. Botstein, making greater use of sprechstimme,
the singing technique combining elements of speech and pitch. Beyond the
language, the terrain onstage held some hazard for the players as they moved on,
over and around props that served as plundered crates. The movements were mapped
by Mr. Strassberger, who, in a single day with the chorus and several more with
the principals, had laid the groundwork for Mr. Botstein's appearance.

Mr. Strassberger and Mr. Botstein, who have worked together previously on four
operas -- ''Le Roi Malgré Lui,'' ''Les Huguenots,'' ''Der Ferne Klang'' and
Sergei Taneyev's ''Oresteia'' -- appeared to have developed a communication
shorthand, helping release Mr. Botstein from having to micromanage the process.

''Leon is a charismatic character,'' Mr. Strassberger said during a break.
''Once he knows what he wants, he can sort of lightning-rod around. There's a
sort of freedom.''

At the rehearsal, Mr. Botstein, who at age 68 is nearly 40 years older than Mr.
Strassberger, assumed the dominant role, though his younger counterpart in one
instance sought the superior vantage point by standing on a wide ledge and
surveying the cast spread across the rehearsal room.

Mr. Strassberger said he sometimes found it helpful simply to observe. ''Some of
the conductors, especially in Germany, let you run the rehearsal the entire
time,'' he said. ''But then you're always in output mode and it's difficult to
sit back and listen to what somebody else is saying.''

For Mr. Strassberger, hearing what Mr. Botstein is saying is especially critical
on ''The Wreckers'' because Mr. Botstein is that rarity in America -- a
conductor who has performance experience with the piece, albeit in the concert
hall.

Whatever the dynamics of Mr. Botstein's working relationships, the results have
shown some success in raising the profiles of the projects at hand. Notably,
Shostakovich's neglected early opera ''The Nose'' gained currency with a Bard
production in 2004, and in 2010 it was staged by the Metropolitan Opera.

Mr. Botstein was making no such prediction for ''The Wreckers.'' But he is
hoping that Smyth, a London native who remains the only woman to have composed
an opera produced at the Met and whose views on sexuality, art and politics were
unusually open for her day -- she died in 1944 -- will attract fresh interest.

''That's the point of the production,'' he said. ''In a way, Ethel Smyth's time
has come.''

''The Wreckers'' is being performed on July 26, 29 and 31 and Aug. 2, at Fisher
Center for the Performing Arts, Bard College, 60 Manor Avenue,
Annandale-on-Hudson. Tickets: $25 to $95 (discounts available). Information:
845-758-7900 or fishercenter.bard.edu.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/staging-the-wreckers-opera-at-bard-co
llege.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: a rehearsal of Ethel Smyth's opera ''The
Wreckers'' at Bard College
building the set at the Richard B. Fisher Center for Performing Arts
 Leon Botstein, who is also the president of Bard, conducting. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
FRED R. CONRAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); OPERA (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%);
FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS
(78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%);
CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); MARINE SHIPPING (64%); MARINE SALVAGE (60%); THEATER
(58%); RELIGION (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Journeys Into the Ruins of Recent History

BYLINE: By TY WENZEL

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | LONG ISLAND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1000 words


Winter had been particularly rough. The sound of sparrows singing, hidden within
the vines and bramble, provided the perfect backdrop for exploration.

Soon, the vegetation and sparrows revealed a vast clearing ahead, drenched in
sunshine and the echoes of crashing Atlantic Ocean waves. And there it was: the
Sage Radar Tower, with its 120-foot-wide, 70-ton corroded satellite dish.

Conspiracy theories about the tower and its environs abound: Time-space travel
and mind-control experiments on runaway teenagers are described in a 1992
science fiction book, ''The Montauk Project: Experiments in Time,'' by Preston
B. Nichols. The landmark, on a former military base, was decommissioned in 1981.
But it is still easy to visit -- at least up to where the fencing begins --
because it is now part of Camp Hero State Park in Montauk.

The radar tower is one of a number of decaying properties on Long Island that
draw fans of urban exploration -- often contracted to ''urbex'' or ''U.E.'' -- a
modern term to describe visiting abandoned buildings and environments and
capturing their inexorable slide into ruin. On social media, devotees often
share photographs from the sites with hashtags like #ruinporn, #urbex, #UE,
#urbxunderground and #decay. To get these shots and increase adventure levels,
many urban explorers jump fences and climb through broken windows, which is
often illegal as well as dangerous. But it can be just as fulfilling to admire
urban ruins from a safe distance.

Some popular urbex sites on Long Island have recently attracted attention from
preservationists and historians, who may take some of the thrill away from
visiting them. But not the radar tower, which is fenced in and surrounded by
''Radio Hazard'' signs. It is now used by boaters, some of whom prefer it to the
Montauk Lighthouse as a navigational landmark. But when I looked up at it, I
wondered whether young runaways had been hooked up to machines in there, crying
for their mothers while a man with a lab coat took notes on a clipboard.

Urbex can often create more questions than it answers, but it can also ignite
the imagination.

In East Hampton, there is an abandoned saltbox-style house that has been a local
favorite among the #ruinporn crowd for years. Not many people understood the
historical significance of this dilapidated cottage with the rotted out porch
until Jay H. Schneiderman, a Suffolk County legislator, took action on it in
March. He approved a resolution to transfer ownership of the house and its
1.7-acre plot to the Town of East Hampton for conservation, boarding up the
house in the process. The plan is for it to ultimately become a museum
documenting the history of the Montaukett Indians.

Surrounded by mansions and more directly by trees, vines and general
undergrowth, the humble, shingled home once belonged to the Fowlers, a
Montaukett Indian family. It is in a historical area called Freetown, which
welcomed newly freed slaves in the early 19th century. Members of the Montaukett
tribe, including the Fowlers, had been forced to relocate from Montauk to
Freetown in the late 1800s to make way for the wealthy.

On a visit to the Fowler cottage, I met up with Chief Robert Wyandance Pharaoh,
head of the Montaukett tribe, and James Divine, a descendant of the Fowlers.
''We're not looking for validity; we're looking for our rights,'' said Mr.
Divine, who spearheaded the movement to restore the home.

''The property in the back can be used as an expanded historical interpretation
of the African-American community, because this is Freetown,'' he said.

Similarly, in Shoreham sits a dilapidated building called Wardenclyffe that is
also headed toward museum status. Before the site was bought by a nonprofit
organization in 2013, many urban explorers had regularly visited the sprawling
complex, which once served as the laboratory for the inventor and engineer
Nikola Tesla.

''Wardenclyffe is the last laboratory in existence where Tesla worked,'' said
Jane Alcorn, president of the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe, the
organization that plans to convert the lab into a science museum. ''It was
intended to be his crowning achievement. Our goal of creating a science center,
a Tesla museum and accessory spaces will help people all over the globe to learn
about Tesla and his work.''

In 1901, plans began for the construction of the laboratory and a 186-foot
signal-transferring tower, designed by Stanford White. Tesla's tower, an attempt
at an early wireless transmission station, never really got up and running, and
it was demolished in 1917. The building was used to produce photography supplies
until it was shuttered in 1992.

On an outbuilding near the perimeter of the complex, a remaining bit of urbex
graffiti is visible: ''Embrace Your Enigma.''

A major destination for many Long Island explorers can be found in Nissequogue
River State Park, in Kings Park. There, a once-vibrant village with a
controversial history still stands.

The Kings Park Psychiatric Center was an asylum that operated from around 1885
until 1996, when New York State closed the facility. Towering buildings choked
by ivy are surrounded by grounds of thick bramble that hide miles of metal
fencing.

Urban travelers compelled by its tragic history of lobotomies, electroshock
therapies and abused and neglected patients -- some buried in a hard-to-find
potter's field -- continue to pay their respects. It is illegal to enter any of
the buildings; the walls are literally crumbling and the facade is extremely
brittle. Asbestos and lead toxicity levels make it bleak for redevelopment,
which in any event would be a herculean undertaking. So it sits.

It is a bittersweet sound, birds singing within the strangulation of vines along
the ominous brick exterior. And that is what urban exploration, whether running
your fingers across walls or capturing a perfectly lit, lonely photograph, is
ultimately about: connecting with all of the souls who were once there.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/urban-explorers-journey-into-the-ruin
s-of-long-island.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Popular spots for exploration on Long Island, clockwise from
far left: A former Montaukett Indian home in East Hampton
the Sage Radar Tower in Montauk
the shuttered Kings Park Psychiatric Center in Kings Park
the former laboratory of Nikola Tesla in Shoreham
and a statue of Tesla on the grounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TY WENZEL
 TREVOR TONDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%);
CONSERVATION (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); SPACE
EXPLORATION (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); STATE PARKS (71%); FICTION
LITERATURE (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); SOCIAL
MEDIA (66%); COUNTIES (60%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (55%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT
(50%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Than Cute, Furry Lemurs

BYLINE: By THERESA SULLIVAN BARGER

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS | GREENWICH; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1089 words


Madagascar is home to thousands of rare species, including a giraffe weevil, of
which the male's neck is three times as long as the female's; the sunset moth,
with bright-colored iridescent wings to ward off predators; and the Madagascar
periwinkle, a plant whose glossy leaves contain anticancer agents credited with
quadrupling the survival rate of those afflicted with childhood leukemia.

And of course, there are lemurs, Madagascar's most well-known residents and its
unofficial mascots. The cute, furry animals have become popular characters in
the animated DreamWorks movie series ''Madagascar'' and the PBS children's show
''Zoboomafoo.''

These species and others are on display in ''Madagascar: Ghosts of the Past,''
an exhibition at the Bruce Museum in Greenwich. And thanks to technological
developments like the CT scan and the 3-D printer, the exhibition includes
replicas of skulls and a model of an elephant bird inside an egg that is only a
week from hatching. (It would take 150 chicken eggs to match the size of one
elephant bird egg.)

The Bruce's new curator of science, Daniel T. Ksepka, a bird paleontologist,
chose Madagascar as the subject of his first exhibition. ''I'm fascinated by the
uniqueness of it all,'' he said. ''The giant lemurs and other unique, amazing
animals and how much we've learned in recent years from them.''

Aside from the island's fauna and flora, visitors will learn about how that
distinctive place evolved.

The exhibition highlights three stages of the island's history: its origins from
when it broke off from India 88 million years ago and started drifting, carrying
a cargo of dinosaurs and crocodiles; the more recent past, when dinosaurs had
become extinct and the world's fourth largest island had been repopulated by
animals that traveled 250 miles across the Mozambique Channel; and the present,
when species such as lemurs and the golden mantella frog risk extinction because
of habitat loss.

''Only 10 percent of the native forest land is left intact,'' Dr. Ksepka said,
adding that there is a high demand, especially in China, for rosewood, teak and
mahogany. ''There's a lot of pressure to harvest it, either by just stealing it
or through corruption or weak regulations.''

The native periwinkle plant, which resembles impatiens, is endangered.
(Scientists grow the plant in labs and extract two cancer-fighting agents,
vinblastine to use for leukemia and vincristine to use for Hodgkin's disease.)

An aerial photo at the beginning of the exhibition shows the three unique
habitats of the island, which is the size of Texas: a rain forest along the east
coast; a dry, deciduous forest on the west; and a hot, dry southern tip
dominated by spiny bush. A series of images and text explains the formation of
Madagascar from the time it was part of the one united supercontinent, Pangea,
to how it looks today.

Among the 10,000 species found nowhere else was the ''oddball dinosaur,'' the
Masiakasaurus knopfleri, a predatory species of theropod. It got its name from
the bizarre positioning of its teeth -- the front ones slanted forward instead
of straight down or up. The exhibition includes the skull of a carnivorous
theropod, the Majungasaurus crenatissimus, which ate other dinosaurs. There's
also a vegetarian Simosuchus clarki, a member of the crocodile family.

The flightless elephant bird, at 10 feet tall and 1,000 pounds, is the largest
avian species to have lived. Scientists believe it survived until about 1,000
years ago and coexisted on the island with humans for a few hundred years. The
exhibition offers many ways to comprehend the size of Madagascar's treasures,
including a display case that includes a model of an elephant bird egg, an
ostrich egg and a chicken egg. In several display cases, white silhouettes on
etched glass illustrate the size of extinct animals, whose skulls are on
display, such as the crocodile ancestor Mahajangasuchus insignis dinosaur.

All of the land mammals that live in Madagascar today arrived from Africa by
swimming or rafting on mats of vegetation. Tenrecs, lemurs, rodents and
carnivores have evolved into multiple species that have spread out to the
different habitats. At one time, there was a pygmy hippo, now extinct because of
human hunting, which was the size of a large pig. To adapt to their environment,
Dr. Ksepka said, some larger animals grew smaller and some smaller animals grew
larger.

Visitors to the exhibition will learn, aided by an audio tour available through
their cellphones, about a wide sampling of unique life on the island. Madagascar
is home to 10 carnivorous mammal species, and its largest mammal predator
averages just 15 pounds -- the catlike fossa.

With look-alikes on other continents, the tenrecs are a good example of
''convergent evolution,'' Dr. Ksepka said. They may resemble rodents, but are
more closely related to elephants. One tenrec has defensive hairs that look like
a hedgehog's spines, and it rolls itself into a ball as a protective move. An
aquatic tenrec forages in water like a small otter and another, with its long
tail, hangs from trees and scampers across the forest floor. And the striped
tenrec has no mammal peer: It rubs its quills together to create ultrasonic
sound to communicate with its family members.

Lemurs are primates and relatives of apes and humans. They diversified into
several forms -- the leaping indri, diminutive mouse lemurs, ground-dwelling
ring-tailed lemurs and nocturnal aye-aye. The crowned lemur displays sexual
dimorphism, which means males and females have different colored fur.

While the smaller lemur species have survived, most of the large lemur species
were wiped out by humans, Dr. Ksepka said. The exhibition gets its name, in
part, from a reference to the now-extinct giant lemur, which was the size of a
gorilla. Lemur means ''ghost'' in Latin.

Dozens of scientists are studying the plants, animals and insects of Madagascar.
Scientists have discovered naturally occurring compounds that have been useful
to people, and there is potential for more lifesaving discoveries, Dr. Ksepka
said. ''These plants and animals might have really important uses for us,'' he
said. ''If we don't let these species survive, we might never know it.''

''Madagascar: Ghosts of the Past'' runs through Nov. 8 at the Bruce Museum, 1
Museum Drive, Greenwich, Conn.; brucemuseum.org or 203-869-0376. As part of the
exhibit, the museum is hosting public programs. There's a Family Day, Sunday,
Aug. 16 from 1 to 4 p.m.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/nyregion/madagascar-at-the-bruce-museum-displa
ys-rare-flora-and-fauna.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The ''Madagascar: Ghosts of the Past'' exhibition, at the Bruce
Museum in Greenwich, includes casts and models of dinosaurs, like Masiakasaurus
knopfleri, top right, as well as several types of lemurs, like the crowned
lemur, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL MUTINO
 CYNTHIA EHLINGER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); PRIMATES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEUKEMIA (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (85%); CHILDREN
(78%); BIRDS (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); REPTILES &
AMPHIBIANS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CANCER
(77%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (75%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (75%); HISTORY (74%);
PALEONTOLOGY & PALEOBIOLOGY (73%); LYMPHOMA (72%); CANCER DRUGS (72%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (70%); ANIMATED FILMS (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (60%); RAIN FORESTS
(60%); 3D PRINTING (53%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: MADAGASCAR (94%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Works of a Revolution

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 174 words


''Aktion! Art and Revolution in Germany, 1918-19'' is the latest exhibition to
be drawn from the rich holdings of the Robert Gore Rifkind Center for German
Expressionist Studies at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.

Its focus is a brief, often overlooked period when German Expressionism took to
the streets: the violent civil war that erupted at the close of World War I and
ended with the foundation of what was later known as the Weimar Republic. This
show's more than 60 works capture German Expressionism at its most explosive and
political, with action-packed woodcuts and posters taking a stand against
capitalism, poverty or Bolshevism, and supporting labor or various political
parties.

It includes works by established artists like Käthe Kollwitz, Max Pechstein and
George Grosz, but also many lesser-known figures, among them Gottfried
Kirchbach, who is represented by a red-and-black lithographic poster from 1919
that exhorts, ''Women! Same Rights -- Same Responsibilities. Vote Social
Democratic!'' (Through Jan. 10; lacma.org.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/arts/design/aktion-art-and-revolution-in-germa
ny-1918-19-captures-german-expressionism.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A poster from 1919 by Gottfried Kirchbach that exhorts women's
rights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM ASSOCIATES/LACMA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); WORLD WAR I (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); POLITICS (86%); POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Victory for Bonds Is an Opportunity for Baseball

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words


Years ago, we posed a question about a question, wondering how the court of
public opinion, along with the guardians of baseball, might have dealt with
Barry Bonds had he answered affirmatively when a federal grand jury asked him in
December 2003 about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.

What if Bonds, we asked, had said that he had surrendered to steroid use because
it had practically become an institutionalized necessity, the key to unlocking
the door to statistical and lifestyle riches?

And that his involvement was influenced by nothing less sacred than a pursuit of
the American Dream, all pumped up?

In 2006, Fay Vincent, the former baseball commissioner, told us: ''We are a
terrifically forgiving country, in part because we have such a low standard of
morality. But I've thought about this question a lot, and I believe that people
would have forgiven Barry Bonds.''

The people, Vincent apparently meant, who were already cheering the admitted
steroid user Jason Giambi for launching parabolic home runs at the old Yankee
Stadium; the baseball executives in St. Louis and Los Angeles who ultimately
welcomed a belatedly contrite Mark McGwire back into the game as a hitting
coach; and the many, including a new commissioner, Rob Manfred, now making nice
with Alex Rodriguez as he powers his way to the kind of season Bonds had in 2007
-- 28 home runs, a .480 on-base percentage -- while turning 42, before the sport
lost his number and he moved on to stubbornly stare down the government.

''He could have spared himself and baseball so much by just coming clean,''
Vincent said of Bonds in 2006, adding: ''I never thought it should be about
punishment. What good would that do?''

Finally, after an expensive, decade-plus chase of Bonds, baseball's
record-holder for home runs in a career (762) and single season (73), even the
government gave up trying to pin the rap on Bonds. A one-paragraph motion by the
United States Department of Justice announced last Tuesday that Solicitor
General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. would not ask the Supreme Court to review an
appellate decision that overturned Bonds's obstruction-of-justice conviction in
2011.

Consider this latest development a metaphorical walk-off blast off the bat of
Bonds, but also a possible way forward for a sport still trying to find a road
less potholed on the subject of performance enhancement. Finally free of legal
entanglement, Bonds could, or should, become the example by which baseball can
bring greater clarity to its moral ambiguity and ever-shifting standards that
are now being applied to the multitude of high-end achievers from a tarnished
era.

That group includes the admitted users and others who were entrapped by a test,
or guilt by association, or mere suspicion. It also includes the newly
triumphant Bonds, the all-time champion of dingers and denials. Beyond his
already amicable relationship with the San Francisco Giants, his former team, he
now merits acceptance somewhere else -- in Cooperstown, courtesy of a 2016
election to the Hall of Fame.

It has long been argued that Bonds had pretty much earned a spot in the Hall as
Skinny Barry, with a decade's worth of greatness before the 1998 preponderance
of steroid benefits produced by McGwire and Sammy Sosa seemingly, and rather
infamously, went to Bonds's head.

What came after was surely a distortion of his previously immaculate statistics.
But in the context of continued revelations about baseball's culture -- foremost
among them the Mitchell report, which fingered Roger Clemens and shattered all
notions of steroids as primarily a slugger's scourge -- the achievements of the
bloated Bonds can no longer be permanently and completely discredited, viewed in
a vacuum.

''The Bonds story may be the most complicated moral question of our sporting
times,'' said Stephen Mosher, a professor of sports management and media at
Ithaca College. ''It's about an institution that wants to punish these guys, but
was also an institution that more or less encouraged them by turning a blind eye
to what they were doing to keep the cash registers ringing.''

Bonds's case, he added, ''is even more complicated because of the records he
shattered, the curmudgeonly personality he is.''

Mosher added, ''He's in limbo -- and probably will be after our lifetime, and
his.''

That would be a shame for baseball as much as it would for Bonds because the
sport needs less rigid thinking and more enlightened contemplation as it
grapples with a problem that isn't going away and is only likely to create more
confusion, along with new culprits.

Baseball's original sin wasn't that it had -- and certainly still has --
athletes surreptitiously seeking an edge. It was management's willful neglect of
the problem for the sake of profits, along with an obstructionist union
wrongfully working to shield the guilty at the expense of the innocent.

''There was a pernicious element to the era, the message to kids that if you
wanted to play at that level, you needed to take steroids,'' said Maurice
Schweitzer, a professor at the Wharton School of Business who specializes in
management psychology and is co-author of the coming book ''Friend and Foe: When
to Cooperate, When to Compete, and How to Succeed at Both.'' But the
condemnation that ensued from that era has gradually shifted and become more
nuanced, Schweitzer contended, ''A-Rod being a good example.'' That shift needs
to be reflected in the Hall of Fame voting by journalists covering the game
(reporters for The New York Times do not take part in the balloting).

''I'm glad baseball has gotten better at testing, but cheating will remain part
of the game, and baseball needs a more systematic approach as opposed to
emotionally looking at it,'' Schweitzer said.

This is not to condone the use of performance enhancers, or to rewrite the
damage done by their past infestation. But such vague or draconian Hall of Fame
standards have resulted in implicated players being judged by virtue of their
personality -- for better or worse -- or punished solely on the basis of
suspicion.

To the latter point, can there be any other explanation why Mike Piazza isn't
already in the Hall, and joining John Smoltz, Craig Biggio, Randy Johnson and
Pedro Martinez in Cooperstown to celebrate their induction this weekend?

''I do think there is a very reasonable case for Bonds to be in the Hall,''
Schweitzer said. ''After a decade-long case against him by the government, he
wasn't found guilty -- and that's a standard.''

Allowing journalists to apply personal ideologies and ethics is not an
acceptable standard. For one thing, they have for too long made the Hall out to
be something it's not, and never was -- a shrine for the morally and
behaviorally superior.

Promptly voting in Bonds, who most people believe did take performance enhancers
late in his career, would at least establish a precedent for admitting those
locked in that holding pen of grudge-holding and guesswork. It would not mean
that everyone whose numbers were artificially inflated would follow.

Would Bonds be rewarded for stonewalling, even lying under oath? That was never
proved. What we surely do know is that baseball's hierarchy failed not only its
public but its players by pretending, for years, that the concept of performance
enhancement did not exist, when other sports were long into testing. Then it
tried to play tough cop, letting players take all the heat.

For many, it would no doubt be painful to hear an induction speech from Bonds,
Clemens and the like. But wasn't the notion of A-Rod again circling the bases
after all that went down equally distasteful just months ago? Now what you hear
is that he's a great teammate who served his time, paid his dues.

So, in many ways, has Bonds, albeit with a smirk or a sneer. But how he has
acted is not the point in the grand scheme. He deserves to be in the Hall, and
baseball deserves to have him there, to deal more realistically, or honestly,
with the industry's original sin.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/sports/baseball/its-time-to-reconsider-barry-b
onds-for-the-hall-of-fame.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barry Bonds after hitting his 756th career home run in 2007. The
overturning of his conviction for obstruction of justice now stands. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MISSY MIKULECKY/POOL PHOTO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); STEROIDS (90%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DRUGS IN
SPORTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS
(75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); APPEALS (65%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (60%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Commune Under the Palms

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD.

Henry Alford is the author of five books, including, most recently, ''Would It
Kill You to Stop Doing That?''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 630 words


IMPERIUMA Fiction of the South Seas By Christian KrachtTranslated by Daniel
Bowles179 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $23.  If, while sprawled in a deck chair
or on the beach this summer, you crave a book whose tone and emotional landscape
mirror your own state of torpor and cosseted relaxation, such a book would not
be ''Imperium.'' Although this very amusing and bracingly oddball novel by the
Swiss writer Christian Kracht does feature several palm-covered islands -- not
to mention many gallons of coconut oil and copious amounts of undress -- calling
it a beach read is like calling ''Psycho'' maternal.

Based on a true story, ''Imperium,'' which was a best seller in Europe, is the
fablelike account of a scrawny, nervous vegetarian and nudist from Nuremberg
named August Engelhardt. It is the early 1900s -- in a century that ''until just
before the midpoint of its duration looked as if
.â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. Germany would take its rightful place of
honor and precedence at the table of nations'' -- and our bony, bearded idealist
has set off for the German protectorates in the South Pacific to found a colony
devoted to growing and eating only ''the vegetal likeness of God.'' By which is
meant: coconuts.

This cocovorism does not go well. As with the trajectory of that more infamous
Reich spearheaded by a deluded Â­sometime-vegetarian utopianist German, the
South Pacific commune hits bumpy patches. Engelhardt is duped and robbed by a
fellow pilgrim; the first of his very few colonists has his way with a local boy
who lives at the colony; and his business correspondence is quickly skimmed
before being repurposed as toilet paper ''in the staff privy of the accountant's
office at a copper and bauxite mine.'' Oh, and Engelhardt not only contracts
leprosy, but his overly targeted diet begets a ''furious, paralyzed, inflamed
derangement.'' At which point he severs one of his thumbs and puts it in a
salt-filled coconut shell, like Jeffrey Dahmer at a tiki bar.

By wedding a gimlet-eyed satire of historical faddism to a highly jaunty prose
style, ''Imperium'' brings to mind the early work of T. Coraghessan Boyle. That
said, a lot of Engelhardt's interactions with other humans are overly brief,
more like skirmishes than relationships, which unfortunately plays up the
random, ''one damn thing after another'' aspect of this picaresque. By the time,
more than halfway through the book, Engelhardt gets his first truly devoted
colonist -- Max LÃ¼tzow, a hypochondriacal musician from Berlin -- it's clear
that Kracht is not going to be tracing the fully satisfying and Â­nuance-filled
arc of two souls in concert. It might also have behooved Kracht to find a
vehicle -- a journal? a volleyball named Wilson? -- to pinpoint some of the
stages of his protagonist's descent into madness.

But in the end, this barbed account of failed idealism shines a bright light on
the ravages of obsession, all the while sprinkling the trail with memorably
bizarre details. I won't soon forget the way one Â­islander handles the awkward
Â­pauses that crop up in conversation with the pathologically shy Engelhardt:
''Mrs. Forsayth pointed out the casuarina trees growing adjacent to her wooden
palace, thickly festooned with fruit bats that dangled like cocoons from the
leafless boughs and occasionally flailed about with their patagia, screeching.
During high heat, she declared, fixing her gaze sternly on Engelhardt, the
animals urinated over their own wings, and the evaporative cold produced by
flapping then provided the desired cooling effect.''

Everybody chases his own utopia.

Like to be first? Get The New York Times Book Review before it appears online
every Friday.                           Sign up for the email newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/books/review/christian-krachts-imperium.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VALERIE PETRONE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BEACHES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%);
WRITERS (78%); FICTION LITERATURE (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (73%); NEUROLOGICAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (72%); BAUXITE MINING (50%);
ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%)

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 32 words


An article last Sunday about how boxing scenes were filmed in the new movie
''Southpaw'' referred incorrectly to the boxer Victor Ortiz. He is still a
professional fighter; he has not retired.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 35 words


An article last Sunday about the thriving art scene in Brussels referred
incorrectly to the artist whose photographs of chocolate making are on display
in ''Un-Scene III.'' She is Stephanie Kiwitt, not Erika Hock.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Album; Staying Garifuna

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 605 words


The Garifuna of Honduras are keenly aware of their history, being descendants of
indigenous Caribbean tribes and African slaves who settled Central America's
Caribbean coast. They honor their ancestors, their language and their
traditions, even as many of them have settled in the South Bronx in recent
decades. There, Linda Arzu found one more reminder of her past: an ankle monitor
immigration authorities had her wear after she arrived in this country without
proper papers last year.

That detail struck Elena Hermosa, a Spanish photographer who has been
documenting the city's large Garifuna community. ''They compare the ankle
monitor to the chains their ancestors wore as slaves,'' Ms. Hermosa said. ''It's
not exactly slavery, but they are controlled.''

Ms. Hermosa first became aware of the Garifuna when she went to Honduras for an
Irish nongovernmental organization to do a documentary on land disputes. She
learned from people in La Ceiba how the Garifuna faced discrimination, as well
as the escalating violence that has driven many to head to the United States.

When she came to New York last year to study photography, she chose to do a
story on the Garifuna community in the Bronx. Through a local church, she found
a group that met weekly, providing one another with support and advice as they
settled into a new country. Concentrating on the plight of immigrant women, Ms.
Hermosa learned that prejudice in Honduras and the violence that has enveloped
that Central American nation pushed many of the women to flee north.

''These women have seen people killed right under their noses,'' Ms. Hermosa
said. ''They have seen how teenagers get involved, and it becomes a vicious
circle.''

Ms. Arzu, one of the people Ms. Hermosa spent the most time with, eventually
arrived in New York after a perilous train ride to Mexico, where she was
smuggled into the United States. Pregnant with twins -- as well as having two
teenage daughters -- she was alone because the twins' father abandoned her once
she told him of her pregnancy. As she was here without proper documentation,
immigration authorities had Ms. Arzu wear the ankle bracelet to monitor her
while her case made its way through the system. Ms. Arzu and her children
settled with her mother in the Bronx. Ms. Hermosa said some estimates set the
number of Garifuna in New York at 100,000.

Ms. Hermosa's photos show the persistence of traditions, from the large wooden
mortar in which plantains are mashed for meals, to the home altars to honor the
dead. In one series of images, Garifuna play their drums in the park for a dead
friend, while in another picture they honor the memory of their countrymen who
died in the Bronx's Happy Land social club fire in 1990.

Many of them worry that their children will lose the traditions, which is why
they hold events like the Miss Garifuna contest, in which young women wear
traditional dresses and have to tell a story in the Garifuna language.

''The Garifuna culture is in danger of extinction,'' Ms. Hermosa said. ''But
they are doing all they can to preserve the traditions, to inspire the young
people.''

Indeed, their blend of cultures puts the Garifuna in an odd situation in this
country, where authorities see them as Latino because of their country of
origin.

''What do you do when you have to check a box that says you are black, Latino or
other?'' Ms. Hermosa said. ''They are something more, Garifuna.''

Follow @elenahermosas, @dgbxny and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on
Facebook and Instagram.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/07/24/garifuna-immigrants-in-new-york/

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: The Miss Garifuna 2015 contestants,
representing different areas of Honduras
a Garifuna woman showing the ankle monitor she was made to wear upon coming to
the United States
family and friends gathering in the park to honor a young Garifuna who died
Hector Zapata, a Garifuna photographer in Harlem
 a woman making ''hudutu,'' a traditional dish made with mashed plantains.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELENA HERMOSA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (84%);
DISCRIMINATION (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%);
LAND USE PLANNING (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); TWINS & MULTIPLE
BIRTHS (66%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CARIBBEAN SEA (73%)

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL
AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Act That Enabled Acceptance

BYLINE: By BEN MATTLIN.

Ben Mattlin is the author of ''Miracle Boy Grows Up: How the Disability Rights
Revolution Saved My Sanity.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1034 words



VISIT me and you'll see, prominently displayed in my living room, my wedding
portrait. My wife looks radiant in a lacy white cloud, standing beside tuxedo'd
me in my motorized wheelchair. I'm not propped on a sofa or lounger; my
wheelchair is deliberately not cropped out of the photo. It's literally part of
the picture, as it's always been for us.

We were married almost exactly one year before passage of the Americans With
Disabilities Act, the 25th anniversary of which will be celebrated July 26. I'm
a lifelong wheelchair user because of a genetic condition called spinal muscular
atrophy; my wife is what's now called ''neurotypical,'' a fancy term for
nondisabled. But on our wedding day, my disability -- and my concomitant lack of
basic civil-rights protections -- was far from our minds.

Of course, the A.D.A. had nothing to do with marriage equality. What it did do,
the government noted, was mandate equal access in employment, public
accommodations and government programs for anyone who ''has a physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities'' or''a
history or record of such an impairment'' or ''is perceived by others as having
such an impairment.'' This meant public spaces like stores, theaters and
restaurants had to install ramps or electric lifts; many doorways had to be
widened; elevators revamped with Braille buttons; and public restrooms altered.
Employers, too, had to make ''reasonable accommodations'' for disabled workers,
such as allowing flex time or providing telephone headsets or appropriate
computer software.

Before the A.D.A., only public schools and other institutions that received
federal funding faced similar requirements. A few states -- notably, California
-- had already established some accessibility standards, but nothing as
broad-based as the A.D.A.

Back then, I was only marginally aware that I could be -- or even had been --
discriminated against. I tended to minimize my disability and its impact on
others. My wife and I were probably more concerned about the fact that I was a
New York urbanite and she a suburban Californian. We met on summer break from
college, talking endlessly during long warm-evening strolls, trying to keep pace
with each other though we moved by different means. Our many differences, I
think now, were part of the attraction. To me, her West Coast free-spiritedness
was exotic; to her, my determination must have seemed like a force of nature.
Also, she told me later, seeing the no-nonsense way my family assisted me at
home helped demystify my limitations and needs. The novelty of our relationship
felt like an asset, not a liability.

Certainly, the longevity of our union also owes a great debt to honest
communication and creative problem solving. The wedding photo is a good example.
We put it up only after we grew tired of deliverymen and repairmen and
housecleaners asking if she was my sister, or my nurse. Some have even called
her a saint for staying with me. It makes us want to scream: ''No! The
disability didn't come as a tragic surprise. It was there from day one, a strand
in the very fabric of our lives together.''

The picture also comes in handy if my wife isn't home and some clueless visitor
addresses my attendant instead of me, discounting my presence. I'll try to draw
attention to the photo, as a way of saying, ''Hey, I live here, and I have a
life beyond these wheels.''

When I was in grade school, my parents fought to get me ''mainstreamed'' into
regular classrooms rather than segregated in special education. (Full inclusion,
as it's now known, didn't become law until I was in eighth grade.) When I
started college, at Harvard, it was the first year accessibility was required at
universities and similar institutions, per the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (which
took years to be fully implemented). One dean, I painfully recall, quashed my
request for roommates instead of the isolation of a separate dorm room. He said
he feared how my disability might affect them. Forget about how this
sequestration affected me.

More shocking still is how easily I accepted his judgment. Accommodating the
disabled did seem like an impossible imposition then. Indeed, when the A.D.A.
passed, one of the biggest fears was what it would cost businesses, even though
the law plainly states that accommodations can't cause ''undue hardship'' for
other patrons or employees or the employer's bottom line. (The Department of
Labor found that modifications for workers with disabilities averaged only $500
each.) Moreover, businesses that make accessibility modifications can receive
tax benefits -- a deduction of up to $15,000 a year for removing barriers, as
well as a tax credit of up to $5,000 annually for small businesses.

People with disabilities also represent a huge potential market. The United
StatesCensus counts nearly one in five Americans as disabled, and we spend $17.3
billion a year on travel alone, according to the Open Doors Organization, a
Chicago-based nonprofit.

LOOKING back, perhaps the most unexpected achievement of the A.D.A. isn't the
wheelchair lifts on buses or the sign-language interpreters at political
conventions. It's that it gave people like me a sense of entitlement, of
belonging, of pride.

The A.D.A. is about more than ramps and Braille; it's about dispelling
stereotypes, ensuring parity and fairness, creating opportunities and opening up
our society to the full spectrum of types and needs. It's about accepting, even
welcoming, a huge and often marginalized segment of the population.

Our two teenage daughters, both able-bodied, have grown up in a different world.
Recently, one came home from her high school's Diversity Day incensed by a
presentation about disabilities. ''It was all about being kind to people who
face difficulties, which is fine,'' she said, ''but there was nothing about
respect or empowerment or equality!''

Maybe I'll bring my wedding portrait to the next Diversity Day. Whether we knew
it or not at the time, our brand of mixed marriage sends a powerful message.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/an-act-that-enabled-acceptance.
html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNA BARCZYK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); US AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (77%); DISABLED ACCESS (76%);
DISCRIMINATION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); FLEXTIME (72%);
MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); GENETIC DISEASES
(69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WEST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meeting Up Was a Walk in the Park

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 644 words


Jessica VanTassel Wuerth and Marc Ralph Vigliotti were married Saturday evening
at Eolia Mansion in Harkness Memorial State Park in Waterford, Conn. The Rev.
Kent J. Siladi, a minister of the United Church of Christ, officiated.

The bride, 28, is taking her husband's name. She is a preschool teacher at the
Episcopal School in New York. She graduated from Fordham University and received
a master's in early childhood education from Hunter College.

She is the daughter of Jana Weiss Wuerth and Jonathan W. Wuerth of Guilford,
Conn. The bride's father, a restoration contractor, founded Total Concept
Restoration in Guilford. Her mother is an advanced-practice registered nurse at
the Grove School, a therapeutic boarding school for high school students in
Madison, Conn. She also has a psychotherapy practice in Guilford.

The groom, 37, is the director of national outreach at the Natural Resources
Defense Council, the environmental advocacy organization in New York. He
graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and received a
master's in creative writing from the University of Glasgow, Scotland. He is
studying for a master's in public policy at New York University.

He is a son of Diane W. Vigliotti and Ralph M. Vigliotti of Mount Kisco, N.Y.
The groom's mother retired as the director of the academic center at Fox Lane
High School in Bedford, N.Y. His father retired as the principal of Yonkers
International Baccalaureate High School in Yonkers.

The couple first crossed paths in Prospect Park in Brooklyn in September 2009.
While they both described it as a chance meeting, they each offered a different
version of how it came about.

Ms. Wuerth said that during her first week of graduate school, she went to the
park with reading materials, a highlighter and a blanket and lay down to soak up
some sun and go over lesson plans. A short while later, she said, Mr. Vigliotti
walked up to her, pointed to a group of guys playing pickup football and used it
to create a pickup line of his own.

''He pointed out that the guys playing football were using a big, round, bouncy
ball rather than a regular football,'' Ms. Wuerth recalled. ''He asked me if I
had ever seen anything like that, and that's how we started talking.''

Mr. Vigliotti remembered things differently.

''I was in the park that day, enjoying a last gasp of summer,'' he said. ''Sure,
there was a football game going on, but I walked by Jessica's blanket, and she
gave me a real big smile. She even flipped her hair a bit, so that's when I
decided to go over and say hi.''

''I was immediately attracted to her,'' he said, laughing. ''But she wasn't
exactly minding her own business.''

A conversation ensued, and they soon found out that they each lived in the Park
Slope section of Brooklyn, about eight blocks apart.

''He was attractive and confident, and we had this great give-and-take
conversation,'' Ms. Wuerth said. ''I liked him so much that I gave him my number
as soon as he asked for it, which is something I had never done before.''

He called her the next day, and they agreed to meet for a drink at a
neighborhood bar.

''He talked about his love of travel and family and how much he loves the
outdoors, which are things that mean so much to me as well,'' she said.

He was equally impressed.

''She was patient, warm and sweet and easy to talk to, the kind of person who
seemed capable of putting up with someone like me, who can be the opposite of
all of those things,'' he said, and gave another laugh.

By February 2010, they were dating steadily.

''I think it was so fitting that we met in a park because I believe that green
spaces are so important to a community,'' Mr. Vigliotti said. ''Parks are the
perfect places where people can meet and become friends. And for some lucky
people like the two of us, that friendship can last a lifetime.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/jessica-wuerth-and-marc-vigli
otti-meeting-up-was-a-walk-in-the-park.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); RELIGION (90%); STATE PARKS (90%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM
(90%); SPORTS OFFICIATING (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS
(77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHING
MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%);
PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); SCHOOL
PRINCIPALS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%);
ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES
(68%); NURSES & NURSING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correcting the Mistake of Calling Things Off

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1765 words


Stubble makes an odd accessory on any well-dressed groom. But there was Benjamin
Jacobs, debonair in his tuxedo, with enough blond fuzz on his cheeks to look as
if he had forgotten to shave.

Was the scruffy look a nod to the groom's surfer roots or to his gig as the
chief executive of Whistle Labs, a San Francisco start-up? Mr. Jacobs, 28, said
no to both, noting that the idea to stop shaving 10 days before the ceremony was
not his. ''I would naturally always shave,'' he said, ''but Gabrielle likes me
with a beard.''

Just mentioning Gabrielle Ivy Karol -- the woman he had wooed at Yale, then
walked away from after graduation and then won back -- made him brighten. In
January, she returned the confidence, trading a reporting job at Fox Business
Network in New York for one at KXTV/News10 in Sacramento and a place in Walnut
Creek, Calif., that the couple call home.

By asking the groom to try a beard with his tuxedo, was she perhaps trying to
recapture the last heady days of that college romance, when they trekked
cross-country?

Wrong again. The 22-year-old boyfriend Ms. Karol had accompanied west that
summer ''could not grow one then,'' she said. With an appreciative stroke of her
husband's bristly cheek, the bride let it be known that the stubble might be
seen as more of a reminder of what they have now, the second time around.

Annie Doud, a bridesmaid who had rallied around Ms. Karol at Yale after the
breakup, said she did not trust Mr. Jacobs's re-emergence at first but eased up
once she noticed the effect he had on Ms. Karol. ''Around him, she's just
giddy,'' Ms. Doud said.

Ms. Karol and Mr. Jacobs met in April 2008 at a concert in a Yale basement, when
he mustered the courage to ask for her number. She was a willowy freshman from
New York, two years his junior, who was forever making lists and was headed for
the English department.

He was a Californian who had brought a surfboard to New Haven and would still go
on to graduate from Yale summa cum laude with joint master's and bachelor's
degrees in East Asian studies, all in four years.

After a first date, strolling around campus in sweatshirts while they feasted on
candied peach rings from a deli, they were an instant item.

They were still going strong when Mr. Jacobs completed his studies in 2009 and
accepted a consulting job with Bain & Company back in California. Climbing into
Ms. Karol's Prius, they took what was the extremely scenic route from New Haven
to Santa Monica, Calif., where Mr. Jacobs's mother, Barbara, lives.

They sampled cheese at a North Carolina goat farm, explored the French Quarter
in New Orleans by foot and made out at the Grand Canyon. ''It was just a
constant stream of conversation,'' the bride said.

But the chill began immediately after the summer adventure ended. Ms. Karol
returned to Yale imagining that she was on the road to marriage. Mr. Jacobs,
fretful about the demands of his new job and the sheer distance between them,
called a week later and wanted out.

Heartbroken, she threw herself into her course work, a student dance company and
the 2010 Miss Fairfield County pageant, which she won. Mr. Jacobs called from
time to time, but she wanted little to do with him, and had other suitors.

Over time, Mr. Jacobs came to regret pushing aside his girlfriend. Eric
Markowitz, a magazine reporter who was crashing on Mr. Jacobs's couch in
September 2012, heard his host's lament and urged him to give Ms. Karol a call.
''What woman does not want to hear that she's still the one?'' Mr. Markowitz
said.

What followed, Mr. Jacobs recalled, was ''a 30-minute monologue,'' in which he
let her know that he thought about her all the time and still loved her.
Shocked, she barely spoke, asking how he could say such things to someone who
was now practically a stranger?

He did himself no favor, he realizes, by failing to follow up and by
volunteering in the call that he ''might not even have time for a girlfriend''
given that he and his partners had just ''started this Whistle thing.''

If anything, the company may have helped bring them closer. Eager to spread the
word about Whistle's exercise monitors and location trackers for pets, the
company's publicists contacted Ms. Karol, by then a tech reporter at Fox
Business, in May 2013 and dangled the chance to meet one of Whistle's founders
when he came to town.

Once Ms. Karol recognized the name to be that of her former beau, she knew she
had no business pursuing the story. Agreeing to meet more out of curiosity, she
told herself she would alert a colleague if the topic proved newsworthy.

Mr. Jacobs, meanwhile, was amused to see information about Ms. Karol, such as
her time at Yale, her pet history and her head shot, included in his briefing
book.

Meeting over coffee, Ms. Karol grilled him about the company -- ''just to give
him a hard time,'' she said. Mostly, they caught up.

They returned to their corners, and Ms. Karol continued seeing her boyfriend of
the time even as she said she knew ''that something was missing.'' She mulled
advice that her mother, Laurie Karol, gave her just before her 25th birthday in
March 2014, urging her to ask herself before marrying: ''Does my heart skip a
beat when my partner enters the room?''

At a brunch the next month with Kate Rogers, a fellow reporter and confidante
from Fox Business, Ms. Karol seemed stuck about what to do.

''I was just sort of talking about Ben, and I looked at my phone and there was
an email from him,'' Ms. Karol said. He wanted her to know that visiting Seattle
had kept stirring up memories of their cross-country jaunt.

As a newer friend, Ms. Rogers had fewer reasons to hold back than did chums from
Yale who had observed the 2009 blowup. She urged Ms. Karol to reach out to Mr.
Jacobs and find out his intentions.

Ms. Karol tracked him down by phone before making it home in the cab. As
thrilled as he was to hear from her, he said he made no promises out of respect
for her other relationship. He did share that his feelings had not changed since
his soul-baring call 19 months earlier.

Within a day, she had disentangled herself from her boyfriend and told Mr.
Jacobs she was single. ''They picked up where they had left off,'' Ms. Karol's
mother said, noting that her daughter was back talking and texting nonstop with
her old flame, happier than ever.

That's about all they could do, as long as they remained on opposite coasts. It
took a month before an opportunity to meet in person coalesced around a business
meeting Mr. Jacobs had in Norwalk, Conn.

Friends of the groom said he was so eager to propose that he did not even want
to wait. Mr. Jacobs confirmed that the couple had said ''I love you'' to each
other before reuniting in person and that he was prepared to buy a ring even
though it had been five years since they had kissed.

Mr. Jacobs did slow down once he understood that for them to succeed he had to
help everyone else ''catch up'' to the couple's renewed connection. He started
by taking Ms. Karol's parents, Louis and Laurie Karol, aside one night to tell
them that ''five years of not being with your daughter is the clearest way for
me to know that I want to be with her for the rest of my life.''

Barbara Jacobs, the businesswoman who was divorced from Ben's father, Michael,
16 years ago, said she was in the minority for not seeing the breakup as a
''mistake.''

''I see it as growth,'' Ms. Jacobs said. ''They were a cute young couple'' in
college, but ''he wasn't ready, and she wasn't the same girl she is today. She's
much more confident than the young lady who spent time in my house years ago.''

Hoping to propose over the 2014 Fourth of July weekend at a Beyoncé concert in
Philadelphia, Mr. Jacobs spent the flight into town sketching out just how he
would do so. But he could not wait and pulled the ring out in some
''passion-filled desperation'' almost from the moment Ms. Karol appeared,
according to Steven Eidelman, a former roommate of the groom and a
co-conspirator.

By July 11 of this year, the big day, Mr. Jacobs was the picture of control.

He had written thank-you notes to his groomsmen and a warm letter to the bride's
parents. And in a grand gesture for a Silicon Valley chieftain, he announced
that he would be turning off his phone for the nine days from the rehearsal
dinner until the couple returned from their Moroccan honeymoon.

Given the dismal way their romance had ended six years earlier, the wedding
arrived like a welcome apparition to many of the 200 guests who gathered at
Tappan Hill in Tarrytown, N.Y., to celebrate.

Standing beneath a wedding canopy festooned with flowers, against a halcyon view
of the Hudson River, Mr. Jacobs misted up, as the bride's childhood rabbi, Lee
M. Friedlander of the Reconstructionist Synagogue of the North Shore, recapped
the couple's journey to find each other again.

Mr. Jacobs had one last surprise for the reception: He had flown in Evan Koga,
the lead singer of Chief, the band that had performed at Yale the night the
couple met. Now, for their first dance as ''Mr. and Mrs. Ben Jacobs,'' the groom
was asking Mr. Koga to play ''Your Direction,'' the song that Mr. Jacobs had
''first heard when I saw her across the room.''

''We practiced a bunch of fancy Arthur Murray dance moves for a song that we're
not going to do tonight,'' he added puckishly. ''You'll just have to bear with
us.''

They swayed almost imperceptibly to the music.

There were no grand gestures in their pas de deux, just the small exquisite
tremors of two people finally moving as one.

Read More: Bridget Nugent and Dean Reineking: Embracing an Adventure of a
Lifetime

Elizabeth Wurtzel Finds Someone to Love Her

ON THIS DAY When July 11Where Tappan Hill, Tarrytown, N.Y.Newlyweds' Best
Friends Joining the couple at the wedding canopy was Duke, the groom's longtime
dachshund terrier mix. He has appeared in some publicity shots for Whistle Labs,
the groom's pet company, but not in filmed ones because he can be, according to
the bride, ''unpredictable.''A Peanut Butter Strategy Once the groom picked up
the ring he would use to propose, an oval diamond in a pinkish rose-gold
setting, he worried that Duke might eat it. So he stashed it for safekeeping
behind the peanut butter in his kitchen. A Pet's Trick Duke's job at the wedding
was to escort the ring bearer, the bride's cousin Cole Bertinetti, down the
aisle. But when he saw the couple under the canopy, the 15-pound-dog bolted
ahead, leaving 3-year-old Cole on his own. Fortunately, the best man, David
Brooks, had the rings all along.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/gabrielle-karol-and-benjamin-
jacobs-after-years-of-breakup-regret-he-wins-back-the-one.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Gabrielle Karol and Benjamin Jacobs watched as the bride's
childhood rabbi, Lee Friedlander, signed their ketubah, the Jewish wedding
contract
 above, the bride and groom after the ceremony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HIKING (74%); COURTSHIP & DATING (74%);
ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%); BAIN & CO (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES
(60%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW
HAVEN, CT, USA (71%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (70%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A High Perch to Frame the View

BYLINE: By INGRID K. WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHECK IN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words


Rates

From about 40,000 Japanese yen, $335 at 120 yen to the dollar.

Basics

The Andaz Tokyo occupies the top six floors of the new 52-story Toranomon Hills
skyscraper. Opened in June 2014, the 164-room property is the first Tokyo
location from the Hyatt-owned Andaz boutique brand, which is known for
integrating local elements into a hotel's décor. Here, for example, a singular
bonsai tree sits in the soaring lobby, while elegant washi-paper artworks adorn
elevators. The seamless service reflects a redefined version of luxury in which
guests are welcomed with drinks at smooth walnut tables in the lounge instead of
standing at a check-in counter.

Location

The centrally located property is in a quiet business district between Shimbashi
and Roppongi. The nearest Tokyo Metro station, Toranomon, is a five-minute walk
away.

The Room

My spacious 48th-floor room, a Tower View King, was a study in harmony. Large
windows framed a showstopping view of the Tokyo Tower and the glittering
skyline. The startlingly comfortable low bed faced the windows, not the
superfluous flat-screen TV. There was a long gray couch by the windows -- my
preferred perch for admiring the mesmerizing view -- as well as a handsome
wooden desk, a low table and a maroon leather armchair. Moss-colored carpeting
was reminiscent of a Zen garden, while white wall panels evoked traditional
fusuma partitions. Additional adornments were minimal but carefully chosen, such
as a woodblock print and an art tome about the Edo-era artist Katsushika
Hokusai.

The Bathroom

Nearly as large as the room, the bathroom had sliding partitions and a beautiful
walnut vanity. In a nod to Japanese bath culture, a deep circular tub was
contained inside its own compartment alongside a rainfall shower. Artfully
arranged amenities included sachets of bath salts in a seasonal ''winter yuzu''
scent. Other luxuries included fluffy robes, slippers and traditional cotton
pajamas called yukata. Best of all was the high-tech Toto toilet that opened,
closed and flushed automatically, suggesting that the height of civilization is
never having to touch a toilet (with your hands).

Amenities

The Andaz strives to pamper, beginning with free Wi-Fi and a minibar packed with
free snacks and nonalcoholic drinks (alcoholic beverages incur a charge). The
hotel's gorgeous AO Spa and Club, occupying nearly 15,000 square feet on the
37th floor, overlooks the Imperial Palace, so guests can get a massage or work
out on the Technogym equipment while admiring the view. The spa's aquatic area
has a 20-meter pool, a tingly carbonated-water bath, a whirlpool and a
hydrotherapy pool with powerful water jets.

Dining

The Andaz Tavern, on the 51st floor, serves a pan-European menu beneath
sculptures of looping curlicues by the British artist Charlie Whinney.
Cocktails, Cuban cigars and Japanese whiskeys are served at the popular open-air
Rooftop Bar, a sophisticated space with spectacular 52nd-floor views. Room
service is available around the clock. My breakfast set order, which arrived in
less than 20 minutes, included natural yogurt with passion fruit and mango, and
a mini cast-iron dish of delicious baked scrambled eggs with confit tomatoes,
goat cheese and crusty bread (3,700 yen). The ground floor also houses a pastry
shop and burger bar affiliated with the hotel.

The Bottom Line

Seductively stylish with a distinct sense of place, the stunning Andaz Tokyo
Toranomon Hills hits every mark with ease.

Andaz Tokyo Toranomon Hills, 1-23-4 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo; 81-3-6830-1234;
tokyo.andaz.hyatt.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/hotel-review-the-andaz-tokyo-toranomon-
hills-in-tokyo.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This luxurious hotel offers a central location, showstopping
views and seamless service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(86%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); DRINKING
PLACES (75%); SCULPTURE (75%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (71%); MASSAGE SERVICES
(60%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Street; Pop-out Art

BYLINE: By BILL CUNNINGHAM

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 47 words


While most New Yorkers adhere to summer black or white clothing, you may see
colors like those of macaw parrots, orange and pink, or the dragonfly in the
Rockefeller Center Channel Gardens. Hairstyles, many flowing with color, and
balloon sculptures also catch the eye.

Related column



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/bill-cunningham-pop-out-art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Easy Fixes

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 816 words


Since our father died 10 years ago, my sister and I have not spoken. I have
tried to heal the rift, but it is useless. My psychiatrist and her counselor
agree. But our cousin, with whom we are both close, refuses to accept my
decision. This may be because my sister claims to want to reconcile, though her
actions say otherwise. When I ask my cousin what's going on with my sister, as I
would about any family member, she refuses to tell me anything and accuses me of
snooping. Is she trying to bully me into reconciliation by withholding
information?

GINGER, CHATTANOOGA, TENN.

Like many a rainy-day jigsaw puzzle of Monet's ''Garden at Giverny,'' there are
pieces missing here. Why would your sister's counselor tell you anything, much
less that reconciliation is futile, if that's what your sister wants? Still, I
chose this question because sometimes estrangement is inevitable. With luck, it
will be temporary. But while it rages, what of those poor souls trapped in the
middle? You got it. It's the cousin I feel for here.

If sisters (or any of us) go to war with each other, let's not drag others into
it, especially not bystanders who love both enemy combatants. It is selfish to
let our conflicts bleed onto them. And their natural impulse will be to broker
peace. Keep a lid on conflicts, including innocent-sounding questions about
people we haven't spoken to in 10 years. If outsiders meddle, say, ''Thanks for
your concern, but let us handle this.''

I respect that you are working on a tough problem. But your cousin is behaving
properly (if a tad aggressively) by staying out of a squabble that is not hers.
Otherwise, the drama queens among us have it both ways: free to satisfy our
curiosity while giving everyone else nervous stomachs lest they say the wrong
thing. This cousin may be on to something, too. If you and your sister are
forced to speak when you really want to know the 411 about each other, you may
find a way to reconcile after all.

Lead the Way

I often run into a friend on the street; we live near each other. But when I do,
he always asks where I'm headed or coming from. I find this annoyingly
intrusive. Any suggestions that won't hurt his feelings?

RICHARD, NEW YORK

Go outlandish. Every time your pal tries to pin down your movements, offer a
slightly more preposterous tale. Say: ''Tom Brady and Gisele will not stop
inviting me to lunch. They finally wore me down.'' Or, ''El Chapo Guzmán asked
me to check out security at his hotel.'' He will probably take the hint. He may
even play along, thus enlivening your street-side encounters.

Pop the Questions

I have been invited to an out-of-state wedding. The invitation includes a ''plus
one,'' but my boyfriend has never met the couple. How much of his expenses for
the weekend am I expected to cover? Am I responsible solely for the wedding
gift, or should I pay for his hotel and flights, too?

MEREDITH, NEW YORK

Hang on, I seem to have mislaid my abacus. But wouldn't a chat with your
boyfriend be more productive? A plus one is not a summons. It is our hosts
trying to be nice: allowing us to travel, dine and dance with our (presumably)
preferred partners. But it doesn't always work that way. And it is no reason to
go into hock.

If your boyfriend won't know anyone at the wedding, it probably won't be tons of
fun for him. And dragging him around all weekend may be less of a party for you
than dancing with old chums. Or I may have this all wrong. But only you two
know. So ask him if he wants to go, and if so, how much he feels comfortable
chipping in for expenses. Then ask yourself if you want (and can afford) the
difference. There's no shame in going stag or telling your beau that you want to
treat him (or that you'd like to, but can't afford it).

Exercise Restraint

My wife's friend is tall and thin. She wears workout clothes as casual wear, and
wears them well. My wife has joined a gym, and she's taken up that habit. But
she looks much better in traditional casual clothes like jeans. Spandex does not
flatter her. I have tried positive reinforcement when she wears other clothes,
but she hasn't taken the hint. How can I tell her?

ANONYMOUS

In the words of Fat Amy, the M.V.P. of the ''Pitch Perfect'' franchise, ''Even
though some of you are pretty thin, you all have fat hearts, and that's what
matters.'' See what she did there, turning fat into a beautiful thing? I bet you
mean well. But women take so much guff about their appearance that the loving
thing to do is back off. If your wife feels good in spandex, terrific! What else
really matters? And when that judging impulse creeps into your head, snap it
like the waistband on Lululemon yoga pants.

For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ­@nytimes.com or
SocialQ on Facebook. You can also address your queries on Twitter to
@SocialQPhilip. Please include a daytime phone number.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/style/a-family-rift-on-middle-ground.html

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (52%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (57%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

36 Hours in Siem Reap, Cambodia

BYLINE: By ROBYN ECKHARDT

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; WEEKEND GUIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1711 words


A decade ago Siem Reap was the place where you stayed, ate and grabbed a beer or
two between explorations of Cambodia's 12th-century temple complex Angkor Wat.
Now the city that Angkor made is something of a destination itself, luring
visitors with a lively and varied dining scene, stylish hotels, genial residents
and a laid-back river town ambience. Add a growing community of Cambodian and
international artists, performers and designers reviving traditional arts and
experimenting with new means of creative expression (the Angkor Wat
International Film Festival celebrated its fourth year in February; the Angkor
Photo Festival runs in December) and you've got an ideal short-break city,
whether or not the temples are on your agenda. (Plan on using dollars in Siem
Reap, where most prices are quoted in American currency. Small bills come in
handy for incidentals like tuk-tuk rides and bottled water.)

Friday

1. Temple Golf | 3 p.m.

For an initial, lighthearted overview of Angkor's highlights, head just outside
town to a crazy golf tribute to Cambodia's national treasure. Opened two years
ago by a former temple guide, Sopheap (Tee) Nheop, Angkor Wat Putt ($7 per adult
includes hotel pickup and drop-off) is a 14-hole miniature golf course anchored
by nine strikingly accurate scale models of Angkor's major temples. Shaded by
banana trees and serenaded with American rock classics, putt your way under
Preah Vihear and the Bayon temple's iconic stone faces to finish at Angkor Wat
itself. Ring the bell at the start of each hole for fairway drinks delivery. A
hole in one (no easy task; the course has a 51 par) earns a free beer.

2. Sraa Sipping | 6 p.m.

Variously described as elixir and rocket fuel, Cambodia's potent rice wine (sraa
in Khmer) is an acquired taste. Not so Sombai, a line of infused rice wines
inspired by the flavored rums of Mauritius and produced in Siem Reap by two
Mauritius-French expatriates. At the Sombai shop (reservations required), you
can tour the petite infusion room, filled with glass jars of sraa afloat with
ingredients like star anise, coffee beans from Ratanakiri province, ginger and
coconut and pineapple (the wine infuses up to eight weeks before being
transferred to hand-painted bottles). Then settle in for a tasting ($5 a person)
of flavors like green tea-orange (honeyed, smoky) and lemongrass-lemon
(reminiscent of a good limoncello). To sample tipples made with the wines (the
Sombai Sour, with ginger-red chili sraa and lime juice, packs a tart, zesty
punch), accompanied by local chips and other drinking foods, request a cocktail
tasting when you reserve ($10 a person).

3. Refined Dining | 8 p.m.

Don't let the polished plating at the well-regarded Cuisine Wat Damnak fool you:
The dishes from the longtime resident French chef Joannès Rivière's kitchen are
firmly rooted in Cambodian flavors. Making use of seasonal ingredients that he
gets from vendors at Siem Reap's Old Market, Mr. Rivière devises two tasting
menus ($24 and $28 for five or six courses) each week. On a recent visit,
Cambodia's iconic sour fish soup appeared in the form of a tart curry with
freshwater fish and banana trunk, and wild mushrooms gathered from forests
around the temples complemented frog meat in an Angkor Stout reduction.

Saturday

4. Street Eats | 8 a.m.

Street food in Cambodia is every bit as varied and delicious as that of Thailand
or Vietnam. Yet whether for lack of familiarity, fear of prahok (Cambodia's
pungent super-fermented fish condiment) or hygiene worries, few visitors to the
kingdom indulge. A morning spent navigating the city's food markets and street
food stalls with the Scottish chef Steven Halcrow or the American writer Lina
Goldberg, the two behind Siem Reap Food Tours ($75 per person), will vanquish
any doubts. Expect treats like grilled fish paste pancakes wrapped around spicy
cucumber pickles, steamed rice flour dumplings oozing coconut cream, jujube
fruit (red Chinese dates) stewed in smoky palm sugar and pumpkin-soy milk
shakes. Pace yourself, or you'll end up too stuffed to partake of the tour's
pièce de résistance: num banh chok, cool, slippery rice vermicelli doused with
coconut-fish or chile-chicken gravy and tossed with farmed and foraged greens
and herbs, all the more delicious eaten after a visit to the village where many
families still make the noodles by hand.

5. Shopping Spree | 2 p.m.

Siem Reap's creative vibe is evident in the city's growing number of quirky
boutiques. Work off a morning of grazing with an afternoon of browsing, starting
at Pop-Up Shop, where the Australian owner's love of Scandinavian design comes
through in not-your-usual Angkorian souvenirs (watermelon-half pillows and
block-print notecards). Then walk three blocks to Kandal Village, a community of
shop, cafe, restaurant and spa owners who have transformed two rows of
once-bland storefronts into one of Siem Reap's coolest mini 'hoods. Silk scarves
with modern ikat designs, boldly hued diamond-quilted cotton blankets and
delicate silver spoons and miniatures, plus one-off pieces like geometric
19th-century weaving patterns from France, are on display at Louise Loubatieres.
A few doors down is funkier Trunkh., packed with treasures produced (or found,
on a co-owner's provincial buying forays) in Cambodia: boldly patterned cotton
shirts and pants, primitive animal figurines made of unfired river mud,
dragonfly silk-screened sarongs, aging hand-painted shop signs, and carousel
animals. The Cambodian designer Sirivan Chak Dumas's boutique of the same name
displays smart, well-priced women's wear in bright and neutral-toned linen, silk
and featherweight cotton, but if tailor-made is more your style, head to Neary
Khmer, where you can select from richly hued raw silks (starting at $7 a meter)
and have something made to order.

6. To Market, to Market | 4 p.m.

Recharge with an iced Cuban (espresso shot, sugar syrup, milk, $2.50) at Little
Red Fox Espresso, then make your way two blocks north to Oum Khun Street for the
thrice-weekly Well Made in Cambodia Market, a showcase for Cambodian design and
craftsmanship now in its third year. Peruse over 40 stalls selling such wares as
silk scarves by the designer Eric Raisina; wallets and document cases made from
recycled packing material from Friends-International; and the beautiful vegetal
lacquerware made with natural pigments at the workshop of Eric Stocker Laque &
Textures.

7. Frozen Treats | 5:30 p.m.

Go for the air-conditioning, stay for the house-made ice cream, Siem Reap's
best, at the Glasshouse Deli.Patisserie, a bright cafe on the ground floor of
the Park Hyatt. The rich, dark chocolate ice cream is divine, but don't let it
distract you from locally inspired flavors like cinnamon swirl, lemongrass and
pandan ($2 a scoop).

8. Under the Big Top | 7 p.m.

Don't expect dancing animals at Phare, the Cambodian Circus (from $18 a person),
where every evening strands of theater, dance, music, storytelling and circus
arts come together in a sophisticated hourlong show staged by students and
graduates of Phare Performing Social Enterprise's Battambang school, which
provides free arts education to economically and socially challenged Cambodian
youth. Reserve your ticket (best seats, closest to the stage, come with a bottle
of ice water, $35) and arrive early to browse Phare's small crafts shop or grab
a juice at the cafe. (Note: latecomers are not admitted after the show starts at
8 p.m.) Shows change monthly.

9. Feasting for a Cause | 9:30 p.m.

Hire a tuk-tuk ($2) for the short ride to Marum, a hospitality training
restaurant for disadvantaged Cambodian youth run by Friends-International, with
similar restaurants in Phnom Penh and Laos. Occupying a lovely teak mansion
whose tables spill into a large garden shaded by trees strung with fairy-lights,
Marum's menu tends to tapas-style fare both authentically (crisp and creamy
silkworms with spicy green mango salad, $4.50) and creatively Cambodian (rice
paper rolls with grilled peppers, goat cheese and tamarind chile dip, $4). The
main-course-size stir-fried beef in a silky sauce soured with red tree ants,
over crunchy water spinach leaves ($6), will surprise you, in a good way. Save
room for the dense, spicy chocolate and Kampot pepper cake with passion fruit
syrup ($5.50).

Sunday

10. Tranquil Temples | 6 a.m.

The best way to avoid the crowds at Angkor Wat is to rise before the sun and
venture beyond the main temples. Situated atop a hill of the same name some 90
minutes by tuk-tuk ($25) or one hour by taxi ($40) from Siem Reap, Phnom Bok
temple is reached by a climb up 635 wide steps ($20 day passes are sold from 5
a.m. at the entrance to Angkor Archaeological Park, through which you'll pass en
route). Your reward for the effort is silence, plus sweeping views over Tonle
Sap Lake, the Kulen Plateau and swaths of undeveloped rice fields. Built between
the ninth  and 10th  centuries, the temple itself is unrestored but picturesque,
especially when the frangipani trees sprouting from its three towers are in
bloom. Bring a picnic (most hotels will pack a simple breakfast box) and enjoy
the solitude for an hour or so before descending to join late-risers at the more
popular temples closer to Siem Reap town. A loop might include stops at
diminutive Banteay Samre and Banteay Srei, whose elaborately carved red
sandstone temples draw visitors by the busload.

If You Go

Lodging

With over two million visitors a year Siem Reap boasts a range of hotels to
match any budget. One of the city's most luxurious, and private, boutique
lodgings is Maison Polanka (Upper East River Road; maisonpolanka.com), with just
five rooms (from $170 ) spread over two traditional teak houses in a walled
garden 5 minutes by car or tuk-tuk from Siem Reap's Central Market area.

Less pricey boutique amenities can be had in a tranquil setting about halfway
between Siem Reap town and Angkor Wat, at Soujourn Boutique Villas (Treak
Village Road; sojournsiemreap.com). Just ten rooms (from $60 ) share a swimming
pool set in tropical gardens, and there's an on-site spa. The hotel was opened
under the auspices of a non-governmental organization that funnels hotel
proceeds into projects within its surrounding community.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/what-to-do-in-36-hours-in-siem-reap-cam
bodia.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, num banh chok, sampled at a food stall on a tour given
by Siem Reap Food Tours. Left, at the Phare Cambodian Circus, top, and Cuisine
Wat Damnak, which offers two tasting menus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID HAGERMAN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS:IF YOU GO: 1 Angkor Wat Putt, Angkor High School Road
angkorwatputt.com. 2 Sombai, 176 Sombai Road, Salakamreuk Village
sombai .com. 3 Cuisine Wat Damnak, Wat Damnak Village, Salakamreuk Commune
cuisinewatdamnak .com. 4 Siem Reap Food Tours, siemreapfoodtours.com 5 Pop-Up
Shop, Street 20 opposite Two Dragons Guesthouse, Wat Bo
855- 93-322- 450. Louise Loubatieres, 632 Hup Guan Street
louiseloubatieres.com. Trunkh., 642/644 Hup Guan Street
trunkh.com. Sirivan, 10 Hup Guan Street
www.sirivan .asia. Neary Khmer Angkor Shop, 666 Hup Guan Street. 6 The Little
Red Fox Espresso, 593 Hup Guan Street
thelittleredfoxespresso.com. Well Made in Cambodia Night Market, Oum Khun and
14th Streets in front of Shinta Mani Hotel
shintamani.com/made -in-cambodia. 7 Glasshouse Deli.Patisserie, Siem Reap Park
Hyatt, Sivutha Boulevard
siemreap .park.hyatt.com. 8 Phare, the Cambodian Circus, Lot A, Komay Road,
behind Angkor National Museum
 pharecambodiancircus.org. 9 Marum, 8A-B Phum Slor Kram, marum-restaurant.org.
10 Phnom Bok Temple.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); GOLF (90%); RESTAURANT
REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS
(76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); BOTTLED WATER (73%); FILM (71%); POP
& ROCK (71%); FILM FESTIVALS (70%); CURRENCIES (68%)

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (98%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Instigating a 'Quiet Revolution' of Introverts

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1262 words


Last month, 50 executives from General Electric gathered on the fourth floor of
a SoHo office building for a ''fireside chat'' with Susan Cain, the author of
the 2012 book ''Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop
Talking,'' which has sold two million copies worldwide.

One man asked what advice Ms. Cain had for his introverted college-bound
daughter. ''Take time to find your tribe,'' she said. ''It's a difficult world
when the social currency is how gregarious you are.''

''I'm having my own identity crisis,'' joked a woman who said she is from a
boisterous Italian family, where her introversion is often misunderstood.

''Are you ready to do marriage counseling?'' one executive asked the author, to
a knowing chortle from the crowd.

At 47, Ms. Cain, who is petite and exudes the gentle calm of an experienced
yogi, has become a coveted draw on the public-speaking circuit -- though she is
a champion of people who don't like to advertise themselves.

A talk about ''Quiet'' she gave at a 2012 TED conference has been viewed more
than 11.6 million times online. And she has delivered more than 100 speeches
since then, sometimes commanding five figures for an appearance. (She also does
pro bono work, she stressed.)

Ms. Cain started, or at least was on the forefront of, a bona fide publishing
trend. Books by other authors after hers include ''The Introvert's Way: Living a
Quiet Life in a Noisy World'' and a guide in the popular ''For Dummies'' book
series titled ''Success as an Introvert.''

And it is at least partly because of her efforts that The Huffington Post,
BuzzFeed and the like are now teeming with personality quizzes and posts like
''Can You Survive This Party as an Introvert?'' and ''26 Cat Reactions Every
Introvert Will Understand.''

''Now people think it's cool to be an introvert,'' said Amy J. C. Cuddy, a
social psychologist and associate professor at Harvard Business School, adding
that at least half her students tell her they have read Ms. Cain's book. ''I
love that the students are no longer ashamed,'' she said.

One may have expected Ms. Cain to follow up with another book, and indeed she
considered it, but she changed her mind after seeking advice from Seth Godin, a
best-selling author who chronicled social movements.

''Writing a book is rewarding,'' Mr. Godin said he told her. ''But it doesn't
change most people's lives.''

And so Ms. Cain, who has been coached in public speaking, is now promoting Quiet
Revolution, a for-profit company she has started that is focused on the work,
education and lifestyle of introverts, which she defines roughly as people who
get their psychic energy from quiet reflection and solitude (not to be confused
with people who are shy and become anxious in unfamiliar social situations).
Extroverts, by contrast, thrive in crowds and have long been prized in society
for their ability to command attention. Many people share attributes of both,
she said.

Ms. Cain and Paul Scibetta, a former senior executive at J. P. Morgan Chase whom
she met when they both worked at the law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
in the 1990s, have set up a Quiet Leadership Institute, working with executives
at organizations like NASA, Procter & Gamble and General Electric to help them
better understand the strengths of their introverted employees.

They are developing an online education course for parents and have begun to
introduce a series of other programs: a co-branded lifestyle section on The
Huffington Post overseen by Quiet Revolution staff members (of which there are
13 thus far); a podcast; a website to support a community that includes writers
and advocates called Quiet Revolutionaries; and a line of young-adult books and
shows whose heroines are quiet leaders.

The company is based at Quiet House, a two-story Victorian house with a view of
the Hudson River near Nyack, N.Y. The employees there observe ''quiet
mornings'': no meetings before 12:30 p.m. and none on Fridays. The dining room
is a shared work space. Mr. Scibetta works in an upstairs bedroom, where he set
up a whiteboard in front of a fireplace. Across the hall is Michael Glass, the
creative director, formerly the director of TED Talks in New York.

Ms. Cain sensed her own introversion early on. ''I've been aware of it since I
was 4, even though I didn't have a language for it,'' she said. The youngest of
three raised in Lawrence, N.Y., on Long Island, she wrote plays in fifth grade
and set up a workshop under a card table in the family den where she produced a
magazine, Rags, selling subscriptions to family members.

Ms. Cain attended Princeton and then Harvard Law School, which she graduated
from in 1993. After working in corporate law, she became a consultant, teaching
executives how to negotiate, and noticed her quieter clients feared that they
lacked the proper temperament to do so. Her research suggested that this is, per
her own experience, rooted in childhood.

''Everything is telling kids: 'Do not follow your actual nature. Be a
cheerleader,' '' she said. Ms. Cain wants to let them know it's O.K., and maybe
even beneficial, to keep to themselves. ''There are a lot of kids who don't make
it to the other side,'' she said. ''And they are sitting there wishing they were
different.''

She cited some of the thousands of letters she has received from fans, like a
public relations director who told Ms. Cain she no longer felt guilty for dining
alone. One parent of an introvert sent the link of the TED Talk to a teacher who
discussed it, and the book, at parents' night, telling the crowd, ''There is
nothing wrong with your child.''

Another young person moved by Ms. Cain's work is Jake Millman, 18, who is headed
to Princeton this fall. He played competitive soccer at his high school, Horace
Mann School in the Bronx, and was co-president of his class. ''I like people,''
he said. And he likes to be alone, too. ''But I thought solitude was not
normal,'' he added. That is, until he read Ms. Cain's book.

''Now when I don't want to go out on Saturday night, my friends don't bother me
anymore,'' he said. ''I'm a proud introvert.''

Not that extroverts are being shut out of this conversation (as if). Mike Erwin,
a former professor of leadership and psychology at West Point who served in the
Iraq and Afghanistan wars, invited Ms. Cain to speak to cadets in 2012 after he
finished reading ''Quiet.'' He didn't understand students who were reticent to
talk in class or who wanted to explore every risk before jumping into a task.
''I'm an extrovert,'' he said. ''And, as I look back at my career, I wrote off a
lot of people who didn't speak up or want to be in charge.''

In May, he was appointed chief executive of the Quiet Leadership Institute,
where he is helping project managers at NASA learn how to lead teams populated
with introverts (a common personality type in science). At Procter & Gamble, Mr.
Erwin said, executives in research and development are exploring, among other
things, how to help introverts become more confident leaders.

''If you are confident in who you are,'' he said, ''you can allow a lot of
criticism to not affect you.''

This, Ms. Cain said, is particularly true in social-media culture, where
attention is heaped on the noisy and provocative.

''It's a culture that says it rewards authenticity,'' she said, ''but it really
rewards a curated, managed kind of authenticity. It's not and will never be the
authenticity of two friends sitting down and having a cup of coffee together and
sharing the truth of their lives.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/susan-cain-instigating-a-quiet-revolut
ion-of-introverts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Susan Cain, right, holds a meeting with employees of Quiet
Revolution, the for-profit company she founded that is focused on the work,
education and lifestyle of introverts
 above, the Quiet House, the company's base near Nyack, N.Y., where employees
observe ''quiet mornings'' and take in a view of the Hudson River. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BESTSELLERS (77%);
CELEBRITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%);
BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); MARRIAGE (69%); COUPLE COUNSELING (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sadie Stein, Lorin Stein

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words


Sadie Olds Stein and Lorin Hollister Stein were married Friday at the Manhattan
Marriage Bureau. Edwina Townes, a staff member of the New York City clerk's
office, officiated.

The bride, 34, and groom, 42, work in New York for The Paris Review, where she
is a writer and a contributing editor, and he is editor in chief.

The bride graduated from the University of Chicago.

She is the daughter of Priscilla A. Turner and Harry J. Stein, who live and work
in East Hampton, N.Y. The bride's father is a contributing editor for City
Journal, a quarterly magazine published by the Manhattan Institute for Policy
Research. Her mother is a freelance editor.

The groom graduated from Yale and received a master's degree in English from
Johns Hopkins University.

He is the son of Mary Lee Newbold Stein of Washington and John Hollister Stein
of Newberg, Ore., and the stepson of Marlene Young and of Mark Rosenman. The
groom's mother is a clinical social worker in Washington. His father is the
executive secretary of the International Organization for Victim Assistance, in
Newberg; the groom's stepmother is its vice president. The groom's stepfather,
who was based in Washington, retired as a professor of interdisciplinary studies
at the Union Institute & University.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/sadie-stein-lorin-stein.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); MARRIAGE (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT
(76%); WRITERS (76%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); STEPPARENTS (72%);
RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MAGAZINE
PUBLISHING (54%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); MANHATTAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY
RESEARCH (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); THE UNION INSTITUTE (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Correction

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 59 words


A report on July 12 about the marriage of Nicky Hilton and James Rothschild
included outdated information about Mr. Rothschild's career. He is no longer a
partner and a vice president of the Monument Capital Group, a position he left
in 2012. Since then he has become the founder and chief executive of JR Cap
Limited, an investment and advisory company.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a Writer, Time for a Restart

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


Kevin Sessums, the former Vanity Fair writer who chronicled his childhood in the
memoir ''Mississippi Sissy'' and then his battle with sobriety in its follow-up,
''I Left It on the Mountain,'' has parted ways with FourTwoNine, the upstart
glossy magazine founded by dot429.com, the gay and lesbian professional social
network.

Mr. Sessums helped to define celebrity journalism in the 1990s and used his
Hollywood connections to bolster the fledgling social network's presence in the
gay community.

''It was time to move on,'' Mr. Sessums said Tuesday. ''Start-ups are chaotic
places, and people handle chaos differently.''

He said he was proud of the five issues he put out and had adjusted to living in
San Francisco, where dot429.com is based. (He had lived in New York for nearly
four decades.) He said he was in talks with another start-up and was considering
writing another book. ''I'm curious to know what I'll do next,'' he said.

On his Facebook page on Monday, Mr. Sessums, who posts frequently, did not say
much, except to write, ''I reached a point at which the only principled decision
on my part was to move on.'' He also linked to a brief item on the website
Towleroad, which announced his departure, adding: ''Now it seems real since it's
appeared there. It's official.''

A year ago, in an article in The New York Times Sunday Styles section, he spoke
about the overwhelming demands of working at a start-up. He edited, wrote and
conducted celebrity interviews. (He sometimes used a pseudonym, he said.)
Budgets for celebrity articles and photo shoots were a fraction of what was
afforded at Vanity Fair.

''I look on the start-up culture the way I look on sobriety,'' he said last
August. ''It's one day at a time.''

His job at FourTwoNine, though, got Mr. Sessums back where he wanted to be: in
the limelight. For nearly 15 years as a contributing editor, Mr. Sessums wrote
27 cover profiles for Vanity Fair and never quite seemed to get over leaving in
2004. (He said he had stylistic differences with Vanity Fair's editor, Graydon
Carter.) At his apartment in San Francisco, Mr. Sessums kept a stack of old
Vanity Fairs on the floor next to his bed. He regularly posts old photos from
his Vanity Fair days on Facebook. And he continued to attend its famous Oscars
party each year.

At FourTwoNine, longtime friends, including Sarah Jessica Parker, Andy Cohen and
Jonathan Groff, were featured in the magazine at his behest.

Mr. Sessums saw his hiring two years ago as something of a comeback from a
serious drug problem that had left him homeless and on food stamps. In 2011, he
had begun using crystal meth intravenously and moved to Provincetown, Mass.,
where he attended 12-step meetings and volunteered in a soup kitchen. He found
his job at FourTwoNine while perusing mediabistro.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/21/fashion/kevin-sessums-parts-ways-with-fourtwon
ine.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Sessums said he was talking with another start-up and
considering writing another book. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT EDGE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WRITERS (90%); CELEBRITIES
(89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); PHOTO &
VIDEO SHARING (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(55%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suzanne Schueller, Daniel Gottlander

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 190 words


Suzanne Ernster Schueller, a daughter of Shannon E. Schueller and Dr. Dean R.
Schueller of Ann Arbor, Mich., was married Saturday to Daniel Johan Robert
Gottlander, the son of Eva Gottlander and Dr. Robert Gottlander of Cold Spring
Harbor, N.Y. The Rev. James N. Carruthers, a Roman Catholic priest, performed
the ceremony at St. Anne's Catholic Church on Mackinac Island, Mich.

The couple met at the University of Michigan, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Gottlander, 25, is training to become a jewelry specialist at Sotheby's in
New York. She received a post-baccalaureate certificate in Latin language from
the University of Pennsylvania.

Her father is an orthopedic surgeon at St. Joseph's Hospital in Ann Arbor. Her
mother, who works in Ann Arbor, owns Mack and Jack's Gourmet Hot Cocoa in
Monroe, Wis.

Mr. Gottlander, 27, trades interest-rate derivatives at Citigroup in New York.

His father, a dentist, is a vice president in the global prosthetic division of
Henry Schein, a distributor of medical, dental and veterinary products in
Melville, N.Y. The groom's father is a member of the company's global dental
management committee.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/suzanne-schueller-daniel-gott
lander.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA WRIGHT/IT'S WONDERFUL PHOTOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION
(76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); CLASSICS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS
(73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (71%);
ORTHOPEDICS (69%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nicole Perlroth, Heath Thomson

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 275 words


Nicole Perlroth and Heath David Thomson were married Saturday in an outdoor
ceremony at the Family Farm, an event space in Woodside, Calif. Daniel
Ellenberg, who was ordained by Open Ministry for the occasion, officiated.

The bride, 32, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a technology
reporter in San Francisco for The New York Times. She graduated from Princeton
and received a master's degree in communications from Stanford.

She is a daughter of Karen A. Perlroth and Dr. Mark G. Perlroth of Portola
Valley, Calif. The bride's father, a retired cardiologist, was a professor of
medicine at Stanford University and a director of the medical residency program
for Stanford's department of medicine. Her mother, who is based in Portola
Valley, is a Mensendieck specialist, using posture and exercise with the goal of
reshaping the body and relieving pain.

The groom, also 32, is a chef and the founder of Metes & Bounds, a pop-up
restaurant based in Portola Valley that prepares meals served at farms and
wineries. He is also a partner in Chugach Powder Guides, a helicopter-skiing and
snowcat-skiing guide operation based in Girdwood, Alaska. He graduated from the
University of Colorado.

He is a son of Karie D. Thomson and David E. Thomson of Woodside. The groom's
mother is on the board of the Kinship Foundation, a family foundation based in
Chicago that supports biomedical research, education and conservation. His
father is the chairman of Formway Design, a company in Wellington, New Zealand,
that produces office furniture. He is also the president of the board of the
African Wildlife Foundation, based in Nairobi, Kenya.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/nicole-perlroth-heath-thomson
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); OFFICE DESIGN (76%);
RESTAURANTS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); SKIING (71%); BIOMEDICINE (70%);
PHYSICIAN FELLOWSHIPS & RESIDENCIES (70%); CARDIOLOGY (70%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); WILDLIFE (64%); MEDICAL RESEARCH
(55%); WINERIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (55%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%);
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (50%); NAIROBI, KENYA (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Homes for Sale in New York and Connecticut

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS; Additional reporting by Marcelle Sussman Fischler,
Suzanne Hamlin and Lisa Prevost.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg.

LENGTH: 59 words


Click on the slide show to see this week's featured properties in the New York
region:

In Weston, Conn., a four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath contemporary with central
air-conditioning and a two-car garage on two and a quarter acres.

In Manhasset, N.Y., a three-bedroom three-bath with a deck in a gated community
with a pool, tennis, a gym and a clubhouse.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/homes-for-sale-in-weston-connecticu
t-and-manhasset-long-island.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HVAC SYSTEMS (85%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Homes for Sale in Brooklyn and Manhattan

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS; Additional reporting by Marcelle Sussman Fischler,
Suzanne Hamlin and Lisa Prevost.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; ON THE MARKET; Pg.

LENGTH: 78 words


Click on the slide show to see this week's featured properties in New York City:

In Chelsea, a one-bedroom one-bath with a decorative fireplace in a prewar
walkup.

In Kips Bay, a two-bedroom two-bath with a washer/dryer and a patio in an
elevator building.

In Fiske Terrace, a 10-bedroom 1904 house now divided between a seven-bedroom
four-and-a-half-bath owner's unit and a three-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath rental
unit, with a garage, a driveway and a side yard.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/realestate/homes-for-sale-in-chelsea-kips-bay-
and-fiske-terrace.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Uniting a Mysterious Ring With Its Rightful Owner

BYLINE: By PATRICIA MORRISROE.

Patricia Morrisroe is the author of the recently published memoir ''9½ Narrow:
My Life in Shoes.''

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1393 words


On my 25th wedding anniversary, I received a silver ring covered in diamonds via
United Parcel Service. It came with a gift receipt but without a gift card.
Oddly, the price tag was attached: $2,350, which, if calculated in cubic inches,
was almost a bargain.

Shaped like an oval shield with a sapphire in the center, the ring was so
gigantic it extended beyond the knuckle of my index finger. It was a ''statement
ring,'' and here's what it said: My husband, after 25 years of marriage, still
didn't get my taste in jewelry.

Decades earlier, there was the chunky Art Deco engagement ring that became a
nonengagement ring when we postponed the wedding. Though we had been engaged for
only 15 minutes, it was long enough for me to decide that while I still loved my
former fiancé, I definitely didn't love the ring.

Five years later, when we finally decided to marry, I ordered a simple eternity
band, which arrived too big. To keep it from falling off at our wedding, I
secured it with my nonengagement ring, which made me think of all the years we
had wasted being nonengaged.

For our 10th anniversary, my husband presented me with a delicate Burmese ruby
to make up for the Art Deco disaster. I was moved but conflicted: ''pigeon
blood'' rubies derive their name from the color of the first two drops of blood
dribbling from a butchered pigeon's nose.

I have no great fondness for pigeons, but I didn't want their symbolic blood on
my finger. Luckily, the United States government gave me the perfect out.
''Myanmar is violating human rights, and the U.S. has banned Burmese rubies,'' I
told my husband.

''I bought the ring before the ban,'' he said.

''Other people don't know that. Besides, I feel bad for the pigeons.''

''That's the last time I ever get you a ring,'' he said.

I feigned disappointment.

He stayed true to his word, until the delivery of this diamond shield.

''What were you possibly thinking?'' I asked, waving the weapon in his face.

''I'd never get you something like that,'' he said.

As it turned out, he hadn't. His gift was a beautiful bangle bracelet that
immediately fell off my wrist. To be fair, I'm very small-boned, but now it
would have to be returned for resizing to the jeweler's workshop in Jaipur,
India. Still, I was so happy he hadn't given me the shield ring that I didn't
care.

''So who gave you the ring?'' he asked.

The gift receipt was from Neiman Marcus in Beverly Hills, Calif., but the U.P.S.
box had a Texas address. I wondered if it was meant for the other Patricia
Morrisroe who lives in Oregon and sells tiny ''teacup pigs'' to celebrities.

I called the Texas number on the label. The woman who answered assured me that
the package had been delivered to the correct address. If I faxed her the gift
receipt, she said she would provide the identity of the ring's sender.

After being married for so many years, I loved the idea of having a secret
admirer. Who could it be?

I was a little disappointed when the sender turned out to be a stranger named
Stefan from Studio City, in Los Angeles. His Eastern European surname was
unrecognizable. When I told the woman I didn't know him, she emailed back that
Tom from customer service would be in touch.

Tom never called. I tried to get through to him but was placed on hold. When I
finally reached an actual person and went through the whole story, the woman
said, ''You need to talk to Tom.''

I then contacted someone in the executive office, who said he'd call back, and
surprisingly he did.

''The ring was supposed to go to Vera in Michigan,'' he said.

I asked what I should do, and he said he'd get back to me. You can guess the
rest.

I called information to get Stefan's phone number. The operator told me there
was no such listing in Studio City. I searched for him on Facebook. Most of the
men with his last name were from Bulgaria, but I picked the one most likely to
shop in Beverly Hills.

After searching his 691 friends, I found a Vera, but she lived in Bulgaria. Her
Facebook profile picture was of a boa constrictor. I sent a Facebook message to
Stefan explaining the situation. I never heard back.

Neiman Marcus doesn't have a branch in Manhattan, so I brought the ring to the
Neiman-owned Bergdorf Goodman. The woman at client services suggested taking it
to Neiman Marcus in White Plains.

Two days later, my husband announced that he had made a reservation at one of
our favorite restaurants.

''You know what I'd really like to do?'' I said. ''Go to White Plains.''

''Are you crazy? That's 40 miles away.''

''I know, but I've got to get rid of the diamond shield ring.''

''I was hoping we could have a nice romantic dinner,'' he said.

''We can -- in White Plains.''

Reluctantly, my husband drove me to Neiman Marcus, where I found a customer
service representative and dived into the story of Stefan and Vera, which had
now assumed the tragic dimensions of Romeo and Juliet.

''I can't help with rings,'' she said. ''You'll have to go upstairs to
jewelry.''

When the jewelry saleswoman asked if I wanted the gift receipt transferred to my
Bergdorf's charge, I just said yes, figuring I'd straighten it out later.

Back home, I spotted a familiar box on the coffee table. Inside was my bangle
bracelet. The jeweler had been able to resize it in her New York workshop. Now I
realized why my husband had made dinner reservations. He had wanted to make it a
special night.

The bracelet was beautiful. It was also very small, but after I used soap and
ignored the pain in my thumb joint, I was able to get it on.

''Don't tell me,'' he said. ''It doesn't fit.''

''It's perfect,'' I said. ''Besides, I'm never going to take it off.''

For the next several weeks, I forgot about Stefan and Vera. My 93-year-old
father was in a nursing home in Massachusetts, and I worried constantly about
him. My mother had died a year earlier, a month after their 65th wedding
anniversary. He was lost without her. I'd never seen him shed a tear until she
died, and afterward he couldn't speak her name without crying.

My father had been a college student when he proposed, presenting her with a
tiny diamond that she subsequently lost. Years later, he bought her a slightly
larger one. She cherished it so much that when it no longer fit on her arthritic
finger, she took it to the jewelry store to have it enlarged. At the time, she
was 92 and could barely walk, but she got there on her own.

After she died, I spoke to my father on the phone every day. One afternoon,
after telling him we were coming to visit that weekend, he said not to bother.
It wasn't like him. The head nurse assured me he was fine, but I sensed
something was wrong. Though my husband had a busy work schedule, he took the day
off and we drove to Massachusetts.

The minute I saw my father, I knew he was dying. My husband and I sat vigil for
the next two days. As I held my father's hand, I traced the contours of his
wedding band. He hadn't taken it off since my mother had put it on at their
wedding. His finger was now so thin my sister had secured the ring with surgical
tape.

My father, who could barely speak, pointed to the phone and began tracing our
old number. He wanted to talk to my mother.

''Eileen, Eileen, Eileen,'' he whispered, repeating her name. I looked over at
my husband. He had tears in his eyes.

Those were the last words my father ever spoke.

Six days after the funeral, I received a call from a Neiman Marcus customer
service representative, who said I had a credit on my account for an item that
wasn't meant for me.

''I know,'' I said. ''It's for Vera in Michigan. Stefan in Studio City sent it
to her.''

I went through the entire story, and he filled me in on the rest. Apparently,
Stefan had only recently discovered that Vera hadn't received the ring.

''It's in White Plains,'' I said.

''If it's still there,'' he replied.

''I have a feeling it is.'' (I later received a warm note of apology from Neiman
Marcus, with a generous gift card.)

So Stefan and Vera, if you're reading this, I'm sorry about the mix-up, but I
tried my best and learned a lot about love in the interim.

Vera, take it from me: If you don't like the ring, it doesn't matter. One day
Stefan will get it right, and when he does, you'll realize that without the
right guy, everything else is just an accessory.

EMAIL: modernlove@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/style/modern-love-uniting-a-mysterious-diamond
-ring-with-its-rightful-owner.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
(50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING
SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%);
NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sandy Myers, Ames Grawert

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 132 words


Sandy Lynn Myers, the daughter of Sarah Myers and Steven A. Myers of Marlboro,
N.J., was married Friday evening to Ames Cheney Grawert, the son of Melissa
McCarthy Grawert and Bruce A. Grawert of Atlanta. Brian Cook, a Universal Life
minister and a friend of the couple, officiated at Doolan's Shore Club, a hotel
and event space in Spring Lake, N.J.

The bride, 28, is keeping her name. She is the associate director of government
relations at UJA-Federation of New York, where she advocates on behalf of human
service organizations. She graduated from New York University.

The groom, 31, is an assistant district attorney in the appeals bureau of the
Nassau County District Attorney's Office in Mineola, N.Y. He graduated from Rice
University and received a law degree from New York University.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/sandy-myers-ames-grawert.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (86%); LAWYERS (85%);
LAW SCHOOLS (85%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yet Another Fine Romance

BYLINE: By LINDA MARX

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 598 words


Chloe Françoise Malle, the daughter of Candice Bergen of New York and the late
Louis Malle, the French film director, was married Saturday to Graham McGrath
Albert, the son of Gail McGrath Albert and Alan F. Albert of Williamsburg, Va.
Mayor Gyl Crayssac of Lugagnac, France, officiated in the town hall there.

A reception followed at Le Coual, the longtime country home of the bride's
family near Cahors, France.

The bride, 29, is the social editor of Vogue magazine in New York. She graduated
from Brown.

The bride's father directed the films ''Pretty Baby'' (1978), ''Atlantic City''
(1980), ''My Dinner With Andre'' (1981), ''Au Revoir les Enfants'' (1987) and
''Vanya on 42nd St.'' (1994), among others. Her mother, who divides her time
between New York and California, won five Emmys and two Golden Globes for her
performance as the lead character on the sitcom ''Murphy Brown.'' She also
appeared in films including ''Starting Over'' (1979), ''Gandhi'' (1982) and
''Carnal Knowledge'' (1971).

The bride is the stepdaughter of the real estate developer and philanthropist
Marshall Rose. Her grandfather, the late Edgar Bergen, was the ventriloquist
known for his puppet characters Charlie McCarthy and Mortimer Snerd.

Mr. Albert, 34, is a senior vice president on the securitized credit investment
team at MatlinPatterson, an asset manager in New York invested mainly in
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. He graduated from the
College of William and Mary.

The groom's mother is a reading specialist at the Merrimac Juvenile Detention
Center in Williamsburg. His father, who retired as the head coach of the College
of William and Mary's men's soccer program, is now a development officer for the
college's athletic department.

The couple, whose shared interests include education, health, travel and family,
met in September 2009 at an Ethiopian New Year's dinner organized by a mutual
friend. According to Vogue.com, the bride said Mr. Albert was not initially
impressed because she arrived late and complained about the Ethiopian wine.

''I had to woo him for a while after that,'' she said, ''but eventually it
worked.''

Four years later, Mr. Albert proposed with a 1920s Art Deco sapphire and diamond
ring over the New Year's holiday while they were vacationing in Santa Barbara,
Calif. ''I was not expecting it at all, so for the first few days I was a bit
overwhelmed by the idea of actually planning a wedding,'' the bride told Vogue.

Ms. Bergen wrote in her new memoir, ''A Fine Romance,'' that she wanted her
daughter's wedding to be held in New York. But mother and daughter compromised,
hosting an engagement party in the city because the couple preferred a small
wedding with family and close friends in France.

In an interview published in The New York Times on April 6, the bride's mother
said that while writing ''A Fine Romance,'' she struggled to find an ending that
could bring her life's passions full circle on the page. She said she found it
in her daughter's wedding reception that was being planned at Le Coual, though
it didn't make it into the book.

''There will be cocktails in the field, dinner in the garden and dancing in the
barn,'' she said. ''I'll peek from the corner for a while.''

Doesn't she dance?

''Oh, I love to dance,'' she said, chortling. ''But you don't want to crowd the
kids.''

In a blog post last February for Vogue, the bride wrote about the experiences
she has enjoyed during her many summers at Le Coual with each visit marked by
''its own unique constellation of memories.'' Now she has added one more.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/chloe-malle-and-graham-albert
-yet-another-fine-romance.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK MCMULLAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS
(78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MAYORS (77%); SPORTS OFFICIATING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT
(77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT
(70%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (68%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (67%); EMMY AWARDS
(67%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (65%); SOCCER (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES
(64%); SECURITIZATION (64%); COACHES & TRAINERS (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES
(60%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (50%)

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (57%)

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY,
NJ, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW
JERSEY, USA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Shoreditch Street Goes Cutting-Edge and Quirky

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; FORAGING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 102 words


London's Redchurch Street, with its colorful graffiti art and three- and
four-story brick-front buildings, is a retail go-to for cutting-edge brands in
the East End neighborhood of Shoreditch. The area itself has shorn its
reputation as a dodgy place to avoid and has transformed into a vibrant
residential and shopping mainstay for a hip, youthful crowd. Redchurch Street,
in particular, has attracted both chains and homegrown labels, selling clothes,
home goods and specialty items like bean-to-bar chocolate from the
Brooklyn-based Mast Brothers, which opened its first international location here
in February.



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY HASLAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recapturing Our Ideals

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; SUNDAY DIALOGUE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1790 words


To the Editor:

Children born in America today may expect to live to the year 2100. What kind of
life will our children and grandchildren experience?

Will it be the American dream of our ideals: ''life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness''; ''equal justice under law''; democracy; equal opportunity and
respect; good education and training; a satisfying job and income; security;
health and shelter in a sustainable environment with safe food, water and air?

Past civilizations and great powers have risen, declined and occasionally risen
again. Examples include Egypt, China, Greece, Rome, Persia, Spain, Britain and
the Soviet Union.

Basic causes of past declines include environmental degradation and resource
depletion; climate change, floods, droughts, famines; disease; political
polarization, social conflict and civil war; military overextension and
resource-draining wars; excessive debt; and subjugation by external powers.

Americans need to counter the basic causes of decline that exist here now, as
well as other indicators of decline, such as workers' shrinking share of wealth,
decaying infrastructure, inflating influence of money in politics, and plunging
proficiency of our political institutions in benefiting the general welfare.

Abroad we need to reverse the declining effectiveness of our efforts to realize
and sustain American security, economic and political goals, while avoiding
wars, especially a catastrophic nuclear war.

So what shall we do to regain and maintain the American dream for our children
and grandchildren, to counter the decline of America and to avoid the disaster
of war? Americans must address these questions now, before the next election.
Candidates and citizens should specify and critically evaluate what they would
do. After new policies are implemented, we need to continually re-evaluate them.
The stakes are high -- how our children and grandchildren will live, and the
continuation of the American dream.

JEFFREY S. MILSTEIN

Burke, Va.

The writer served as a policy and strategic planner in the State and Defense
Departments and was an assistant professor of political science and
international relations at Yale.

Readers React

Throughout our history there have been those who predicted an American decline.
During the Cold War the alarm came from the conservative right, in despair over
what it saw as political betrayal, moral corruption and military weakness. There
is a new wave of despair over America's future, now coming from various points
along the ideological spectrum.

I don't know if America is in decline or not, and I doubt that anyone else does
either. The Greek historian Polybius wrote that ''no sensible person could be
justified in taking present circumstances as a basis for future expectations.''

The book of the future is a closed one. We strive to do the best that we can for
our country and our grandchildren, defending (and expanding) the values and
principles that Mr. Milstein outlines. But there is a limit to what people,
however engaged and forward thinking, can do to control or determine the future.
A great national decline has many causes, not all of them obvious amid the
political clamor and rush of events.

The outcome is unknowable to us, but if history teaches anything, it is that
nothing lasts forever.

STEVEN BERKOWITZ

New York

The dream will no longer be about thriving in America, but across borders in
businesses, schools and organizations that shape their own place in the world.
The idea of relying on the nation or its government to provide the pathway, the
protection, the support for a self-realizing life is fading.

But this is not a turn to self-reliance. To realize your dreams now, and
especially in the digital, interactive future, requires a network of personal
and institutional connections that are crossing the conventional ones of family,
neighborhood, state and nation. The possibilities of making these connections
are growing exponentially. Our children and grandchildren will live in a much
more dynamic world. New forms of interaction require new controls on violence,
along with controlling the impact of too many people on the resources of the
earth. Wishing them good luck.

DOUG CHALMERS

New York

The writer is professor emeritus of political science at Columbia University.

First and foremost, we need to invest in our children, particularly their
education and health. Raise money (taxes, philanthropy, company sponsorship) to
support public schools, health clinics that serve the young, Head Start, and
activities that encourage children to develop outside of school hours. Offer
vocational opportunities for higher education that can become a viable
alternative to college degrees.

Create more opportunities for women, people of color and L.G.B.T. individuals in
all walks of business life. No longer externalize the costs of pollution from
companies. Make them pay the bills for cleanup. Put people to work with
conservation and repair work on our infrastructure and national parks. Implement
single-payer health care nationwide. For everyone. Overhaul the for-profit drug
and hospital industries. Overhaul and support the Veterans Affairs system for
our vets.

Create action groups in each state to address issues from global warming. Create
bigger financial incentives for energy-saving cars, fridges and other products.
Support the architectural Not So Big House movement for both residential and
commercial developments. Overturn Citizens United.

I realize much of the above is pie-in-the-sky. But you did ask.

TRACY KLINESTEKER

Kalamazoo, Mich.

Mr. Milstein asks what the future in this country will look like, laying out two
possibilities. He cites some of the basic causes of decline, such as
environmental degradation, climate change, political polarization,
resource-draining wars and excessive debt. He states, ''Americans must address
these questions now, before the next election.'' Our current debates are largely
off the mark. They include abortion, same-sex marriage, immigration and whether
Senator John McCain is a war hero. It may well be that we must address the
questions brought up by Mr. Milstein now, but we are not, and are not likely to
do so. We are trapped in minutiae and are largely ignoring the broader issues.
And future generations will pay dearly.

WILLIAM VAUGHAN Jr.

Chebeague Island, Me.

Ironically, for children the American dream is more realized in other advanced
democracies, where they pay for elections with public funds instead of private
big money donors. Lawmakers are freed up to respond to the needs of all economic
classes, giving children a better chance for security and mobility.

Strict gun safety laws, not dictated by gun maker lobbyists, increase kids'
chances of living out their life spans. Child care benefits enable both moms and
dads to work and raise stable families. Health care is guaranteed for all,
without excessive profits to insurance and medical businesses. Higher education
is subsidized, so graduates are free from huge college debt. Youths can get job
apprenticeships in high schools, gaining skills to earn a living. Unions are
accepted.

All these components of a healthy, secure life are fiercely contested in the
United States, with the highest child poverty rate among advanced nations.
America's conservative ideology of market solutions and small government cuts
the rug out from under families. This continues to bode ill for future child
health, education and well-being.

MEREDITH BALK

New York

Yes, ''American decline'' is the big question facing 2016 candidates (and all
citizens). Is the ''American dream'' dead? Is our sense of ''exceptionalism''
unrealistic? Do we need to learn to live within limits? Americans have always
believed we are special, that we have an ''open frontier'' of opportunities
(Frederick Jackson Turner) and enjoy the ''free security'' of two oceans (C.
Vann Woodward), creating a national spirit of optimism, security and hope for
the future. Is this still alive? Or do we accept that all civilizations fall,
that we need to limit our international commitments, focus on our domestic
problems, make democracy work and learn to live together better?

International statistics document that the United States is no longer No. 1 in
most areas (health, prosperity, happiness), and national polls reveal our lack
of confidence about the future. The challenge for politicians is to face these
realities, look beyond political games and provide concrete plans (not rhetoric)
about a new and better path to the future.

WALT GLAZER

Sagamore Hills, Ohio

The writer is a retired historian who taught at the University of Pittsburgh.

The Writer Responds

How do we achieve a better life for our children and grandchildren? We can learn
from the experiences of past civilizations and powers that declined. We can also
learn about the likely effects of specific policies such as those proposed by
Ms. Klinesteker from the contemporary experiences of people in other advanced
countries, as cited by Ms. Balk. These social policies that work are reflected
in the international comparative statistics cited by Mr. Glazer.

Professor Chalmers accurately describes the growing importance of global
interactions through the networks of communication, transportation and trade
that shape our lives. We need to widen our circle of concern to include not just
Americans, but people throughout the world. However, some transnational actors
are undeniably hostile toward us and our values, including Al Qaeda, the Islamic
State, hackers and some nation-states. Thus, our own national government must
continue to provide protection and support for us.

So why, as Mr. Vaughan notes, are most of the current proposals by candidates
largely not addressing the important issues that affect our future? American
politicians have become overly solicitous to special interests, on whose
financial support they depend to run their election campaigns. Meeting their
demands regarding taxes, subsidies and regulations often comes at the expense of
meeting the needs of a majority of voters, who give elected officials their
Constitutional legitimacy.

So what should we do? If America declines, we all do, including special
interests that will lose out to foreign competitors. The American people must
understand that their future and their children's future is at stake in
elections, and register and vote for the candidates who will support their
interests.

JEFFREY S. MILSTEIN

Burke, Va.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/recapturing-our-ideals.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); LETTERS
& COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); WRITERS (78%); COLD WAR
(78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HISTORY (75%); DROUGHT (75%); FAMINE (75%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); STRATEGIC
PLANNING (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chanel Lewis, Andre Donald

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 145 words


Chanel Natalya Lewis and Andre Khalid Donald were married Saturday at Woodbury
Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y. Lisa S. Ottley, a supervising judge for Kings
County Civil Court in Brooklyn, officiated.

Mrs. Lewis-Donald, 28, is an administrative assistant to Judge Ottley. She
graduated from the University at Buffalo.

She is a daughter of Ann Rose P. Lewis of Brooklyn. The bride's mother is a
court analyst, handling human resources responsibilities, at the Kings County
Civil Court.

Mr. Donald, 30, is a customer support manager for MakerBot Industries, a company
that makes 3-D printers in Brooklyn. He graduated from the City College of New
York.

He is a son of Lucy P. Donald and Rawle K. Donald of Brooklyn.The groom's mother
retired as a nurse practitioner for the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. His
father retired as a construction contractor in Brooklyn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/chanel-lewis-andre-donald.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(88%); NURSES & NURSING (85%); VISITING NURSES (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 3D
PRINTING (53%)

COMPANY: VISITING NURSE SERVICE OF NEW YORK (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jessica Harris, Martin Shapiro

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 172 words


Jessica Sara Harris, a daughter of Shari S. Harris and I. Ron Harris of
Chappaqua, N.Y., was married Saturday to Martin Nathan Shapiro, a son of Dr.
Priscilla A. Bresler and Dr. Charles L. Shapiro of New Rochelle, N.Y. Cantor
Dana S. Anesi officiated at Studio 450, an event space in Manhattan.

Mrs. Shapiro, 27, teaches at the Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bronx. She
graduated from Lehigh, from which she also received a master's degree in
elementary education.

Her father is a lawyer specializing in real estate law in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her
mother is a psychotherapist, also in Mount Kisco.

Mr. Shapiro, 28, is the chief operating officer of Lafco New York, a home
fragrance and personal care brand in Manhattan. He graduated from Colgate.

His parents work for the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in Manhattan.
His mother, an internist, is a senior faculty physician, and his father, an
oncologist, is a professor of medicine. The groom's father is also a director of
the Dubin Breast Center at Mount Sinai Hospital.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/jessica-harris-martin-shapiro
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDY AHART)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); TEACHING &
TEACHERS (87%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (87%); PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS (86%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); REAL ESTATE
(69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (66%); ONCOLOGY
(65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amanda Janulis, James Turley Jr.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 176 words


Amanda Susan Janulis and James Stanton Turley Jr. were married Saturday at St.
Hedwig's Church in Chicago. The Rev. Jacob D. Martin, a Roman Catholic priest
and the bride's brother, performed the ceremony.

The couple met at Northwestern University, from which they graduated.

Mrs. Turley, 31, teaches math at Frank McCourt High School in New York. She
received a master's degree in mathematics education from the City College of New
York.

She is a daughter of Kathy J. Janulis and John B. Janulis of Bridgeview, Ill.
The bride's father retired as a treatment plant operator at the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago in Cicero, Ill.

Mr. Turley, also 31, is a management consultant in New York for Capgemini
Consulting, a business and technology consultancy in Paris. He received an
M.B.A. from New York University.

He is the son of Lynne P. Turley and Mr. Turley Sr. of St. Louis. The groom's
father, who worked in New York, retired as the chairman and chief executive of
Ernst & Young, the accounting and tax advisory services firm.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/amanda-janulis-james-turley-j
r.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%);
CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); TAX CONSULTING (72%);
MATHEMATICS (72%); ACCOUNTING (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER
RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%);
NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES
OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

That Gravy Boat Has Sailed

BYLINE: By LINDA MARX

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1219 words


When it comes to registering for gifts, a generational sea change has developed,
with more and more millennial couples asking their guests to consider holding
the gravy ladles and shelving the dishes in favor of gifts of a very different
sort.

Young couples are opting instead to register for cash, home-repair gift cards
and lavish honeymoon experiences.

''It's a generational thing,'' said Nina Vitale, who oversees weddings at the
Mirbeau Inn & Spa in Skaneateles, N.Y. ''During the past two years, guests have
been bringing mostly envelopes, no gifts.'' Because so many have moved away from
registering for traditional dinner and cookware, she's jettisoned the gift table
and substituted cardholders.

The gift table also often goes nearly empty at the Chattanoogan in Tennessee.
''It is the social norm now to give gift cards or cash,'' said Casey Reese, the
hotel's wedding specialist. ''One couple posted on their wedding website that
they would rather receive monetary donations than anything else.''

Meredith Fish, 35, and Adam Kriegstein, 41, of New York registered with
Bloomingdale's once they were engaged, largely because ''some of my mom's
friends are uncomfortable giving money or not tech savvy to do a gift on the
computer,'' Ms. Fish said. But they also went with Simple Registry, where they
asked for contributions toward a honeymoon adventure in Vietnam and Thailand.
Guests could pony up for a day at an elephant camp, a romantic table set for
dinner on a secluded beach or snorkeling with whale sharks.

Jason Dorsey, the chief strategy officer and a millennials researcher at the
Center for Generational Kinetics in Austin, Tex., sees this as a change that is
continuing to accelerate. With large student loans to pay, later marriages and
often houses already purchased and filled with furnishings, millennials are
bypassing traditional registries.

''Couples of this generation prefer experiences over stuff,'' said Mr. Dorsey,
who also works with retailers and companies that cater to millennials. ''Less is
more. This generation of couples live in smaller spaces and don't need gifts.
They would prefer a visit to a yoga retreat or tickets to a concert. They want
more personal reflections of what they value.''

Dr. Arielle Kuperberg, an assistant professor of sociology at University of
North Carolina at Greensboro, is researching the rise of cohabitation and how
marriage in general has changed since the 1940s. ''When people have lived on
their own for years, it is hard to register when they marry,'' Dr. Kuperberg
said. ''This generation of couples also cohabitate in great numbers, entertain
casually, marry later. We call this the 'independent life stage' in sociological
terms. They don't need anything more for the house.''

Instead, she said, ''They ask for cash because they often have no savings and
may want to buy a new home together or be prepared for an emergency situation.''

So are wedding registries, which were all the rage two generations ago, now done
for?

''Five or six years ago, I thought asking for money or lavish honeymoon
experiences was tacky,'' said Xochitl Gonzalez, 37, an owner of AaB Creates in
New York, a wedding-planning company. ''But couples today don't need kitchen
stuff, and most don't entertain formally. So they don't need a $200 place
setting. Why not give them the honeymoon experience they want instead of
cluttering their house with a gift they won't use?''

Etiquette advisers agree it is better to write a check, buy a gift certificate
or give the bride and groom something they desire, even the latest technological
gadgets, rather than stuff their apartments with sterling silver and fine china
that they will not use and could help create another Dust Bowl.

''When couples already have china, crystal and silver, their wish list
changes,'' said the etiquette expert Peggy Post, the co-director of the Emily
Post Institute in Burlington, Vt. ''The nontraditional registries are fine as
long as couples suggest and not demand money.''

The wedding-gift concept has morphed into doing what makes the couple happy.
Some find they have gone overboard on the wedding and feel better using gift
pledges to pay bills rather than on skiing in Switzerland or surfing in Hawaii.

Drew Dolinger and Paris Wood, both 30, who are to be married Aug. 1 in Key
Largo, Fla., have lived on their own and need no bed, bath or baking items, so
they set up a registry at Honeyfund asking for $100 donations toward a down
payment on a home. ''We wanted to establish a strong financial foundation for
our future,'' said Mr. Dolinger, who is the minister of operations at Calvary
Church in Jupiter, Fla.

Other couples sign up with Hatch My House or similar registries, also geared
toward a down payment on a home or aid in fixing one up.

''Since this was my second marriage, I already had everything that we could have
received as wedding gifts,'' said Carrie Lewis, 38, who married Matthew Lewis,
also 38, last summer. The couple asked guests for gift cards or checks to help
with restoring their circa-1850 house in Brandon, Vt. ''We wanted to be
practical and invest in our home.''

Websites that offer couples these options can charge a fee from under 5 percent
to about 10 percent to either the giver or the recipient.

Sara Margulis, the chief executive of Honeyfund, said her site, though conceived
for contributions toward wedding trips, also has options for home improvements
and even fertility treatments. Ms. Margulis charges a fee of 2.8 percent when a
credit card is used, and finds most of the more than 400,000 couples who have
registered on the site since its inception in 2006, are in the 18-to-34 age
range, with wedding guests spending about $115 per gift.

Mrs. Post suggests that couples stay mindful of their more conventionally
minded, perhaps cash-adverse guests. ''I encourage couples to also register for
something from a brick-and-mortar store to give guests a choice,'' she said.
''No one wants to offend.''

Sarah Pease, a Manhattan wedding planner, said that couples who would prefer to
avoid registering with big-box stores can turn instead ''to smaller shops and
well-curated items.''

For their March wedding in Milan, where they live, Cecilia Canavesio, 30, and
Nathan Sutton, 33, were at first focused on requesting gifts of money to be
applied toward a wedding trip to Japan. But they came to recognize that sending
money might not be acceptable to some of their guests. So they organized three
registries. The request for honeymoon help was sent to like-minded friends, and
for those who were disinclined to write a check, they selected La Rinascente, a
department store, and Molteni & C, a home-design website with items they love.

Cathi and Chris Claflin had each lived on their own before their wedding in
Miami in 2008. Yes, they registered for some fine china they loved. But higher
on their wish list was their Napa Valley honeymoon, which HoneymoonWishes.com
helped fund, with one guest, for instance, paying for the couple's hot air
balloon ride, and another buying them dinner at the restaurant French Laundry.

''These experiences were so much better than receiving another gravy boat,''
Mrs. Claflin, 43, said.

Read more: The Freedom of 'I Do,' Take Two

The Party's Over ... Over My Budget, That Is




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/weddings/passing-on-wedding-gifts-mill
ennials-prefer-cash.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); WEDDING INDUSTRY (89%); COHABITATION
(89%); MARRIAGE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT
(72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); WATER SPORTS (64%);
COMPANY STRATEGY (63%); STUDENT LOANS (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); YOGA (50%)

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (71%); AUSTIN, TX, USA
(53%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (73%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (72%);
TENNESSEE, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); THAILAND (69%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Four-Legged Peace Brokers

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD.

Henry Alford is the author of ''Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That? A Modern
Guide to Manners.'' Circa Now appears monthly.

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CIRCA NOW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1131 words


I say things to our cat Linda that I'm too emotionally constipated to say to my
boyfriend: ''I love you so much. I wish I could take you on the plane with me,
Mrs. Scruffins McDandertop. When I get back, we will have many hourlong sessions
of adoration and nuzzle-based loving.''

It's not that I couldn't say this stuff to Greg, it's simply that I'm not in the
habit. I suppose I'm more apt to summon emotional baldness and affective need
with Linda because she is mute and nonresponding; she can't reflect back my
candor and longing to scale, and thus I'm free of potential embarrassment.
Linda's typical response to such endearments is to extend one of her paws toward
me as if my face were a touch screen.

Am I out of line here? It strikes me that, while, yes, it would behoove me to
express my feelings for other humans more freely, my cat-talking is of offense
only if I were to do it in front of Greg frequently. In which case I may be
better served learning to scrapbook or to configure the foam on cappuccinos into
unicorns or Mahatma Gandhi.

A friend of mine employs his pet-talking to different ends. When in the presence
of his wife and his dog, my friend will turn to the dog and say something like:
''Tell Mommy that Daddy is upset that Mommy canceled on him. Mommy should know
that it's important to keep her commitments.''

Here is provocation. Though this deployment of a four-legged friend is
admittedly odd and possibly manipulative, if waged infrequently it may be an
acceptable and effective avenue toward reconciliation as long as a) it's not
done in front of people other than the wife, and b) leads to conversation in a
form that both husband and wife are comfortable with, be that form spouse to
spouse, or be it spouse to dog to African gray parrot to pet astrologist to
spouse.

The multimedia artist Camilla Ha said, ''I tend to use animals as personal
'feelings ventriloquists.' '' Ms. Ha explained that her upstairs neighbor in
Brooklyn, upon moving in, removed her own apartment's wall-to-wall carpeting.
Moreover, this neighbor and her partner both work in bars and come home
regularly at 4 a.m. on weekdays, ''which they seem to think is the perfect time
to move furniture, drag heavy things up and down the stairs, and nail new
pictures to the wall.''

So Ms. Ha takes solace in talking to the couple's French bulldog, Lilo, whenever
she bumps into him and one of his keepers: ''Oh, hello Lilo. You're so frisky
today! I wish I felt frisky, but your mommy woke me up again last night!''

Sometimes the neighbor ''will snort in recognition, and then we go our separate
ways.'' But other times the neighbor will proceed to talk to Ms. Ha's puppy,
Zeus: ''She'll try to make amends with me by complimenting and conversing with
Zeus while ignoring me. It's become some kind of
passive-aggressive-not-really-passive way of communicating.'' What's more, ''I
haven't experienced any late-night disturbances in the past couple months, so
maybe it's working.''

The question of whether pets have an emotional life and whether their feelings
can be ''hurt'' is a much-traveled roadway; the topic is to the book publishing
industry as psychics are to the television drama. I have no, uh, dog in this
race.

However, from the perspective of etiquette, the two questions that we should
apply when it comes to the injection of pets into human affairs and disputes
are: Is the dog being put in any kind of physical peril, and is any human other
than the two having a dispute being in any way compromised or forced to stare
into the middistance as if nothing weird is going on?

I would suggest that the problem area is occupied mostly by instances in which
pets or their output are physically rather than conversationally deployed. Take
the case of a couple I know who broke up some years ago; I would answer both
questions with a qualified, ''Maybe.''

The two lovers were so angry after their split that they could not bear to lay
eyes on each other. So, when Partner A walked their joint-custody dog to Partner
B's apartment for the weekly handoff, Partner A would telephone Partner B from
the sidewalk to announce arrival; then place the dog in the building's
operator-less elevator; then press 5, sending the dog up all by himself. I spend
many hours imagining the facial expressions of the building residents on Floors
2, 3 and 4 who summoned the elevator and then stumbled onto McGruff the Crime
Dog, busy on a new case.

In the case of Danielle Cocanougher, a marketing manager for the iPhone app
Allcal -- or, rather, Ms. Cocanougher's co-worker -- I would answer the second
question with a resounding, ''Yes.'' Ms. Cocanougher said that her colleague
''dumps his kitty litter next to his neighbor's fence in retaliation for tearing
down his fence one day while he was out of town.''

Ms. Cocanougher said that her co-worker is ''definitely proud that he has come
up with this solution''; asked for her own response to the situation, Ms.
Cocanougher said, ''That can't be good for anyone's yard.''

Some domestic disputes are so acute that no amount of pet-talking or
kitty-litter-distributing can clear the air or wreak vengeance. Ms. Ha said that
she used to live in an industrial loft on the South Side of Chicago, where one
of her artist roommates was an unemployed fellow whom she calls Droopy.

''On the rare occasion Droopy bothered to come out of his room, he shuffled
around in a pair of tattered slippers that became my personal 'Tell-Tale Heart,'
driving me mad any time I'd hear that sloven's dreary shuffle across the
concrete floor,'' she said.

''Droopy had a cat named Cat Cat. Cat Cat had never been fixed. She meowed her
tortured death sex meow all day and night. But the best part was the peeing. She
peed everywhere, but mostly on anything that belonged to me. My housemates and I
insisted that Droopy get Cat Cat fixed. He claimed he wanted to but couldn't
afford it. Anytime I found a new item of mine she'd peed on, I'd gently toss her
in Droopy's room, saying: 'Oh, did Cat Cat pee on my favorite sweater? Doesn't
Cat Cat wish a responsible adult would get her fixed?' ''

But this time, the ventriloquizing didn't produce its desired results. ''At some
point,'' Ms. Ha said, ''we roommates all realized that we were no match for
Droopy's listless defiance, and eventually found a free neutering service not
too far from the warehouse. On the day of the appointment, we gave Droopy $1.50
for the bus, put Cat Cat in a cat carrier, and gently pushed them out the
door.''

Indeed, pets can be portal openers. The other day, I found myself cuddling and
whispering to Linda. When my endearments started to get a little purple, I went
into the other room and told Greg that I love him. Then I dangled a piece of
string in front of his face.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/fashion/when-your-dog-cat-pet-is-a-four-legged
-peace-broker.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUISA RIVERA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (89%); ANIMALS (87%); PEACE PROCESS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

West Loop Leaves Its Gritty Past Behind

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 766 words


Over the past two decades, the West Loop, an industrial area in Chicago just
west of the downtown Loop, has gradually shifted from meatpacking operations,
commercial storage and food distribution to loft residences and restaurants. Its
low-rise brick warehouses with unobstructed views of the downtown skyline were
seen as attractive and affordable for restaurants and residents willing to put
up with truck traffic from wholesalers. But in the past year, the area has
rapidly developed as not just a place to taxi in for a trendy meal, but to stay
a while.

Last summer, the West Loop got its first boutique hotel, Soho House Chicago
(sohohousechicago.com), catering to artistic types working and networking in the
area. The stylish 42-room building houses two restaurants open to the public,
but most of the five-story former factory, including a rooftop pool, deluxe gym
with a boxing ring and private lounge, is reserved for hotel guests and club
members (the London chain restricts membership to those in ''creative'' fields).

''We loved the fact that you could sit on that roof and see the entire beautiful
skyline and you can't see it in the Loop,'' said Nick Jones, the founder and
managing director of Soho House, of which there are 14 outposts.

The West Loop's proximity to downtown attractions was enhanced three years ago
when the Chicago Transit Authority opened an elevated ''L'' train stop on Morgan
and Lake Streets, offering residents and visitors easy access to traditionally
popular tourist areas of the city, including Millennium Park, home to video
screen fountains and a Frank Gehry-designed outdoor theater.

One year later Tremaine Atkinson opened CH Distillery & Cocktail Bar
(chdistillery.com), a sleek 48-seat bar with views behind glass of gleaming
stills that produce his grain-to-bottle booze. He said he got his long-term
lease at an opportune time.

''It seems to be going the way of the meatpacking district in New York,'' he
said. ''In 10 years it will be crowded with retail and tourists.''

Retail has yet to catch up to the restaurant rush, but for one-train-stop
dining, there are arguably no areas in the city that match the concentrated
selection here. Established hits include Next (nextrestaurant.com) from the chef
Grant Achatz, which changes concepts each quarter; Girl and the Goat
(girlandthegoat.com) from Stephanie Izard, who champions seasonal American
cooking; and Graham Elliott Bistro (gebistro.com) from the chef who also
oversees culinary operations at the popular music fest Lollapalooza.

Some newcomers include Momotaro (momotarochicago.com), a sprawling Japanese
restaurant with a drinks-and-snacks-focused izakaya on the lower level, a sushi
island on the main floor and an encyclopedic menu. Tête Charcuterie
(tetechicago.com) specializes in house-made pâtés and cured meats. The Betty
(thebettychicago.com) offers a mostly small-plate menu and thoughtful cocktails
in a vintage-inspired barroom that stays open late to attract area chefs after
their kitchens close.

''One of the things that drew us to the neighborhood was personality,'' said Rob
Katz, a partner in Boka Restaurant Group, which opened Girl and the Goat in
2010, runs Momotaro and plans two more restaurants by this fall: a Chinese spot
with Ms. Izard and a steakhouse. ''There are grittier neighborhoods, but the
West Loop also had soul.''

Ironically, one of the neighborhood's earliest magnets, Harpo Studios, run by
Oprah Winfrey, who taped her talk show there for two decades, is closing just as
Google, which is building its new Chicago headquarters in a 10-story former cold
storage building, moves in next year. A link in the Ace Hotels chain of
Portland, Ore., is to be built across the street. Developers have presented
plans for an 83-room Nobu Hotel nearby, with a 10,000-square-foot restaurant.

As a measure of all the construction in the district, parking is harder to find
by day, during builders' hours, than at night, when valet parkers stake out most
of the corners on the Randolph Street thoroughfare. But daytime traffic is
nothing compared with the evening swarms.

Donnie Madia was an early West Loop restaurant pioneer when he, the chef Paul
Kahan and partners opened the popular Blackbird (blackbirdrestaurant.com) in
1997. Their company, One Off Hospitality Group, now operates four restaurants in
the West Loop.

He calls the real estate market of the past two years a ''frenzy,'' adding,
''It's no longer Chicago restaurants and chefs, but people around the country
who want to come and take a bite out of the West Loop and negotiate a lease.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/travel/in-chicago-the-west-loop-leaves-its-gri
tty-past-behind.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from left: The lobby of Soho House Chicago, a hotel
and club in the West Loop
a street view of the neighborhood with the ''L'' overhead
pizza with burrata and black olives at Pizza East in Soho House
 shrimp served artistically at Next, which changes concepts each quarter.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MIYAZAKI/REDUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%);
ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE
(78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); RETAILERS (75%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%);
BOXING (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (50%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Van Miller, Longtime Radio Voice of Buffalo Bills, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 251 words


Van Miller, the voice of the Buffalo Bills from the team's earliest days in the
American Football League, died on July 17. He was 87.

The Bills' president, Russ Brandon, announced the death.

Mr. Miller, who was awarded the Pete Rozelle Radio-Television Award by the Pro
Football Hall of Fame, was known for his deep knowledge of sports, his comic
timing in the booth and his signature calls: ''Fasten your seatbelts!'' ''Do you
believe it?'' ''It is fan-demonium!'' (later ''Van-demonium'') and, at halftime,
''That's only the half of it.''

Mr. Miller, who was born in western New York on Nov. 22, 1927, began his
broadcasting career in 1955 calling high school sports for WBEN radio and
television. He became the Bills' play-by-play announcer on the Buffalo Bills
Radio Network during the team's first season, in 1960, when they were in the
A.F.L. played at War Memorial Stadium.

He had the job until 1970 and again from 1978 until his retirement in 2003. He
called a total of 605 Bills games.

Mr. Miller also called games for the Buffalo Braves of the National Basketball
League, Niagara University basketball and University at Buffalo football, as
well as Buffalo Bisons minor league baseball and Buffalo Stallions soccer. He
did play-by-play for college basketball into the 1990s for the Empire Sports
Network, an upstate New York cable television outfit that went out of business
this year.

He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Gloria; a daughter, Cathy; a son, Van;
and three grandchildren.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/25/sports/football/van-miller-longtime-radio-voic
e-of-buffalo-bills-dies-at-87.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Van Miller in 2003. His signature calls included ''Fasten your
seatbelts!'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION
INDUSTRY (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL
SPORTS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (73%); SOCCER (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); BASEBALL (73%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%)

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Of Dogs, Faith and Islam

BYLINE: By MOHAMMED HANIF.

Mohammed Hanif is the author of the novels ''A Case of Exploding Mangoes'' and
''Our Lady of Alice Bhatti.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1179 words


KARACHI, Pakistan -- When I take my dog for a walk on the beach near my house in
Karachi, this is how people react: Mothers tell their kids, look, a dog; kids
ask me the dog's name and if they can touch him; most grown men either recoil or
ask me about the price and the breed. Sometimes when I see someone heading to
the neighborhood mosque, I cross to the other side of the street. There is a
popular belief among the pious that if they come in contact with a dog, they
become unclean. You have to take a ritual bath before you can offer your
prayers.

Worshipers are usually in a hurry in Karachi. These are perilous times, and I
don't want to come between men of God and God by delaying their prayers. They
are, after all, fulfilling their obligation as I am trying to do.

I grew up in a very religious household where dogs weren't exactly loved, but
our faith wasn't threatened every time a dog appeared on our doorstep. As a
teenager in our village in central Punjab, I saw our local imam, who led the
prayers, playing with his Russian poodle. His grandsons, who were visiting one
summer, brought it and left it behind. I would see the imam with his poodle out
on the street, petting her, cuddling her. His long snow-white beard and the
poodle's electric shiny curls sometimes touched. In almost a decade of
devoutness that I prayed behind him, I never saw anybody object to his coming
into physical contact with a dog. Maybe it was the imam's authority. Maybe the
poodle looked cleaner than some of us peasant worshipers. Maybe people thought a
man as old and as pious as he knew what he was doing.

Today, if someone in his position tried to cuddle a dog in public, he would
surely lose his status as imam, if not his head. Like Muslims everywhere in the
world, we also yearn for more innocent times, when we could stay pure by keeping
dogs at bay. There are many more worshipers in the mosques now than there were
in my childhood, but there are no imams to tell the religious stories about dog
love.

If you go by the fatwas issued by today's religious scholars, some dogs are
allowed in Islam and other dogs are not. At best, they make it sound as if Islam
were not the second-largest religion in the world -- comprising various cultural
histories, ancient myths and thousands of ways of relating to animals -- but a
posh kennel club.

Sometimes I wish I could ask our neighborhood imam to tell us the story that, as
children, we heard in many Friday sermons. It's an Islamic fable about
compassion and forgiveness and dogs. Since most religions use a woman's virtue
to teach us about morality, this one happens to be about a prostitute who had
lived all her life in sin. One day she stopped by a well to have a drink of
water and spotted a dog, a very thirsty dog panting at the edge of the well. She
lowered a shoe into the well to draw water and quenched the dog's thirst. As a
result of this single act of mercy, Allah forgave all her sins. The fable is
about sinners getting a chance at redemption, but it's the image of a thirsty
dog panting by a well that stuck with me. In some versions of the story, the dog
is so thirsty that he tries to eat mud.

The Quran itself is mostly silent on the subject of dogs. The only real dog that
appears in the text is a companion of the People of the Cave, a small group of
young men who, threatened by an ancient king after refusing to abandon their
faith, hide in a cave and take a 309-year-long nap. During these three centuries
of hiding, their dog lay stretched out at the entrance of the cave to keep any
intruders at bay. The fable evokes not revulsion but time travel and
companionship. The Quran's other significant mention of the dog is in a story
about a man in lust with earthly desires, of whom it is said, ''If thou
attackest him, lolleth out his tongue; and if thou leavest him alone, lolleth
out his tongue.''

Most of Muslims' dog hate comes to us via the Hadith, a collection of sayings
attributed to the Prophet Muhammad. There are various, often contradictory
hadiths about whether or not you are allowed to keep a dog as a pet. Dogs are
allowed for security, says one. Their fur is fine but their saliva is unclean,
says another. But if the fur gets wet, it becomes unclean. You can pet dogs, but
you may not kiss them. You can keep them if they are not allowed inside the
house. You can have them as long as you use them for hunting. What about the
saliva they leave on the hunted animals? That's fine.

A popular hadith about dogs says that angels won't enter your abode if there is
a dog in the house. Apparently, the angels don't mind if the dog is out on the
lawn or playing in the courtyard. Which basically leads you to the conclusion
that angels don't much care for believers living in small apartments or houses
without big lawns.

The hadith warning us about the angels' revulsion for dogs is sometimes said to
have been narrated by one of the Prophet Muhammad's close companions and the
most prolific of his scribes. His name was Abu Huraira. He was also the most
famous cat lover in Islamic history. In fact, his name means Father of the Cats.
Some competing scribes from the era have called him an unreliable narrator, but
nobody can call him out on any perceived bias against dogs: He tells the story
about the forgiven prostitute.

Many other stories support the fact that caring about dogs doesn't automatically
make you a heathen. In one story, the Prophet Muhammad was leading his army into
a battle when he came upon a female dog with a litter of puppies. He posted a
companion to protect them. Umar, the second caliph, stated that he would be
personally responsible if even a stray dog went to sleep hungry under his
administration.

There are lots of people who hate dogs but care about the human condition; they
care about children begging on the streets, or transgender people not getting
jobs. Like them, I worry if it's O.K. to care about a mutt when the world around
us is falling apart. Then I tell myself it's exactly when the world is falling
apart that you should care about mutts. After all, our prophet cared about the
safety of dogs in the middle of a battle.

Our classical poetry, religious and romantic, heretic and Sufi, is full of
verses where a lover wants to be a stray dog living on the street corner of his
beloved's home. Sufi poets have held dogs as a symbol of devotion and superhuman
dedication. But even when the pious ones are crooning away about their desire to
be a dog in the holy city of Medina, they can't stand a real dog when it happens
to pass by.

I have had to drag my dog away from speeches and recitals because he gets
excited and starts barking. He probably wants to join in, but poets and
protesters -- religious or godless -- don't want dogs joining in their
celebrations. I am reminded of the Arabic proverb: The dogs bark and the caravan
moves on. Sometimes it's the caravan that barks and the dogs that have to keep
moving.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/25/opinion/sunday/mohammed-hanif-of-dogs-faith-an
d-imams.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WAR ZWART)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); DOGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%);
CHILDREN (77%); ADULTS (73%)

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (93%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Essence of a Selfie

BYLINE: By JASON FEIFER.

Jason Feifer is the deputy editor of Maxim.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LOOSE ENDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 479 words


ALL selfies are photos. Not all photos are selfies. This distinction is lost on
many -- including brands on Twitter, television news anchors, your parents, and
let's be real, newspapers -- which have used the word ''selfie'' to describe
group photos, buildings, scenery and more. It's time to clear up what exactly a
selfie is.

I held a camera and took a photo of myself.

That is a selfie.

I took a photo of myself and two friends.

That is a selfie. Also called a groupie.

I set the self-timer on a camera, stepped back five feet, and it took my photo.

That's in the selfie family, but isn't a pure selfie. Consider it a
self-portrait.

I took a photo of a slice of pizza and called it a ''pizza selfie.''

Are you in the photo with the pizza?

No, it is just of the pizza.

Not a selfie.

I took a photo of a photo of myself.

That is a photo of a photo of yourself.

I used a selfie stick to take a photograph of myself.

That is a selfie.

I used a 300-foot selfie stick to take a photograph of myself, but because of
the distance, I am barely visible in the photo.

That is still a selfie.

I used a 300-foot selfie stick to take a photograph of myself, but before the
camera went off, a migrating trumpeter swan grabbed the camera, somehow aimed it
at me, and tapped the shutter.

The bird took a photo of you. Not a selfie.

The bird also took a photo of itself.

Then the bird also took a selfie.

I swallowed a camera that is programmed to take a photograph every time I
breathe.

Is that safe? Please check with a doctor.

But it is taking my selfies.

No, it is not. Remember when your grandma took a photo of you with your iPhone,
and half her finger covered the lens? Your grandma did not take a selfie, even
though part of her body was visible in the photo.

Oh, but there was that time my grandma turned the camera on herself, and the
photo was 75 percent her finger and 25 percent her face.

The photo is of the photographer, who is holding the camera. That is a selfie,
though not a very good one.

I took a photo of myself inside the Large Hadron Collider.

Now that is a great selfie.

I called it a ''matter selfie.''

Sure.

I took a photo of the Hadron Collider without me in it, and called it a ''matter
selfie'' because I am matter, and the camera is matter, and the Hadron Collider
is matter.

Not a selfie.

But the selfie is matter, too.

If all photos of matter were selfies, then all photos would be selfies. But they
are different words because they are distinct things.

What is the self, anyway?

It is the identifiable subject of a selfie.

I took a photo of my soul mate as she gazed into my eyes. We feel we are one. We
are the same person, the same self.

Great. Not a selfie.

I took a photo of myself during an existential crisis. My life has no value; my
self is vacant.

Still a selfie.

I took a photo of a millennial.

Not a selfie.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/22/opinion/is-this-a-selfie.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELFIES (94%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(73%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (63%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cruises: Quicker Antarctica Trips

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words


Our weekday morning digest that includes consumer news, deals, tips and anything
else that travelers may want to know.

TOURS AND HIKES IN WILLAMETTE WINE COUNTRY

Menus of vineyard experiences aren't uncommon in Napa and Sonoma Valleys, but
rarer in the less commercial Willamette Valley in Oregon. This summer, the small
pinot noir specialist Penner-Ash Wine Cellars in the Willamette town of Newberg
has introduced a menu of estate experiences spanning tours, tastings and hikes.

The winery now offers two free half-hour drop-in tours of the gravity-flow
winery, at 11:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. daily. Other options are available by
advance booking and include private winery tours with a flight of five wines to
taste ($35 a person) and an optional box lunch ($35 extra). Guided hikes on the
80-acre property start at $50 a person.

A NEW APP FOR MUSLIM VISITORS IN THAILAND

The Tourism Authority of Thailand has introduced its first mobile app for Muslim
visitors, designed to highlight mosques, prayer rooms and halal restaurants and
hotels around the country.

Available for iOS and Android operating systems, the free app offers mobile
searching for nearby attractions as well as map navigation, and includes an
offline-accessible guidebook to halal restaurants in 19 cities.

ANTARCTICA FOR TIME-PRESSED TRAVELERS

The expedition cruise specialist Quark Expeditions has just announced new
eight-day Antarctica itineraries, their shortest ever, designed to appeal to
vacation-poor polar fans.

Three ''Fly the Drake'' itineraries include charter flights from Punta Arenas in
southern Chile to King George Island where guests will board the 117-passenger
Sea Adventurer for four days at sea exploring the South Shetland Islands and the
Antarctic Peninsula. Daily excursions include small boat trips to see whales,
glaciers and icebergs and landings on beaches shared by penguins before flying
back to Punta Arenas. Departures take place in December 2016 and start at $8,995
a person.

Nine additional ''Antarctic Express'' departures in early 2017 range from 10 to
11 days and involve flying across the Drake Passage in one direction and
cruising back in the other to shave time.

A PRAIRIE SCHOOL HOME, ON WHEELS

The Prairie School of design takes a road trip in the new Escape Traveler, a
269-square-foot trailer home that can be pulled by a pick-up and, when parked,
sleep up to six people.

Its peaked ceilings, large windows and cedar siding were inspired by Canoe Bay,
a Wisconsin resort featuring cottages designed by a former associate of Frank
Lloyd Wright.

Two sleeping lofts and a convertible daybed will accommodate six travelers. The
main living area features a big-screen TV and an electric fireplace, the kitchen
is furnished in full-size appliances and oak cabinetry, and the bathroom has a
shower and Toto toilet. The unit is designed to be compatible with electricity
and water hook-ups available at RV parks.

Units start at $58,800 each for purchase. The company plans to offer a unit to
rent at Canoe Bay in the next two months.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/15/travel/wednesdays-travel-news-wine-in-oregon-q
uicker-antarctica-tours.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA CRIMMIN/QUARK EXPEDITIONS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HIKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOBILE
APPLICATIONS (90%); WINE (90%); CRUISES (90%); WINERIES (90%); RESTAURANTS
(89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); AIR CHARTER
SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM
(78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); RELIGION
(72%); MARINE MAMMALS (68%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (66%); GLACIERS &
ICEBERGS (65%); MOBILE HOMES (60%)

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: ANTARCTICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (90%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Faces of 85+

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words


Ping Wong, 90

From Born in Hong Kong; lives near Gramercy Park in Manhattan, in a subsidized
building for low-income seniors

Marital Status Widowed, one daughter in New Jersey

Career Worked as an interpreter for a doctor

Today Ms. Wong lives for mah-jongg and regular visits from her daughter; she has
arthritis pain but otherwise her health is good.

Jonas Mekas, 92

From Born in Semeniskiai, Lithuania; lives in a loft in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn

Marital Status Divorced, two children, one of whom, his son, Sebastian, lives
with him

Career Works as a filmmaker, writer, poet; a founder of Anthology Film Archives

Today At 92, Mr. Mekas is busier than ever. The good news is that his doctor
said he would live to 120.

Frederick Jones, 88

From Born in Philadelphia; lives in Crown Heights in his own apartment

Marital Status Never married, six children

Career Worked as a social investigator for New York City

Today Mr. Jones lives alone in a third-floor walk-up, with health problems that
limit his mobility.

John Sorensen, 91

From Born in Waterford, N.Y.; lives in his own apartment on the Upper West Side

Marital Status Had a partner for 60 years

Career Worked as an interior designer

Today Mr. Sorensen had a house on Fire Island, music and a man who loved him,
but since his partner's death, he has looked forward to his own.

Helen Moses, 90

From Born in Spring Valley, N.Y.; lives at the Hebrew Home at Riverdale in the
Bronx

Marital Status Widowed, three children, dating Howie Zeimer, her neighbor at the
nursing home

Career Worked as a sales clerk at the Gap

Today Ms. Moses found love at the nursing home; now she and Mr. Zeimer plan to
marry.

Ruth Willig, 91

From Born in Brownsville, Brooklyn; lives in an assisted-living center in
Sheepshead Bay

Marital Status Widowed, four children

Career Retired microbiologist

Today Last spring, Ms. Willig was forced to leave her home in an assisted-living
residence in Park Slope. Angered by the move, she misses her old friends and
neighborhood.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (86%); SENIOR CITIZENS
(78%); MARRIAGE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); COURTSHIP & DATING (73%);
WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); POETRY (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); ASSISTED
LIVING SERVICES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (66%); ARCHIVE
COLLECTIONS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (88%); LITHUANIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Strip

BYLINE: By BRIAN McFADDEN

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 8 words


A weekly comic strip featured in the Sunday Review.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/26/opinion/sunday/the-strip-brian-mcfadden-comics
.html

GRAPHIC: CARTOON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials ZINAMAN, DICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 13 words


ZINAMAN--Dick. Happy Birthday! We miss your great smile and contagious laugh.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials LITTMAN, MADELYN C

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 27 words


LITTMAN--Madelyn C. Jan. 24, 1952--July 23, 2010. You would be so proud of Emily
& Molly. We miss you every day. Love you forever -- Frank, Emily and Molly
Wagner 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials APPLEMAN, MARK J

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 20 words


APPLEMAN--Mark J. Still miss you after all these years. Marguerite please
contact me I'm in Washington, DC. Larry Ravitz 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths VARGA, VERA (NEE SZEKERES)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 98 words


VARGA--Vera (nee Szekeres), died at 87 after a brief illness. She was born in
Gyor, Hungary, and lived in Chicago. She was a Holocaust survivor, adored wife,
mother and grandmother. Graduating Summa cum Laude from medical school, she
became a pediatrician. Escaping from Hungary in 1968, she settled first in
Nyack, NY and later in Princeton, NJ. Her kindness, wisdom and joie de vivre
touched all who knew her. She is survived by Ervin, her husband of 67 years;
sons Peter and John; daughters-in- law Linda Piccinini and Julie Varga, and
grandchildren Adrian, Danielle, Peter and Andrew. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GRANDCHILDREN
(87%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (84%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (90%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths TURNER, BARRY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 16 words


TURNER--Barry. The Marks family extend our condolences on the passing of our
dear friend Barry. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SURAWICZ, BORYS MD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 29 words


SURAWICZ--Borys MD. Born 1917 Moscow, Russia, died 2015 in Palm Coast FL.
Cardiologist, researcher, clinician, teacher and mentor. Full obituary online
at: www.nytimes.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CARDIOLOGY
(86%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SULLIVAN, JAMES T.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 146 words


SULLIVAN--James T.,86, passed away on July 17, 2015 in Boca Raton FL. James
worked with the New York City Police Department from 1953 to 1984, being
promoted to the rank of Chief of Detectives in 1978; and was Chief of Police of
the Waterfront Commision of New York Harbor from 1986 to 1992. He served his
country in the US Army during the Korean Conflict and he belonged to the Local
10-13 Club of Broward County. He is survived by his beloved wife of 22 years
Angela Sullivan, and his children Kathleen, Eileen, Timothy, James Jr, Maureen
and Thomas. He is also survived by six grandchildren and his sister Mary Alice
Meyer. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation in James memory to the Michael
J Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research www.michaeljfox.org Funeral services
are private and entrusted to Babione- Kraeer Funeral Home and Cremation Center,
Boca Raton FL. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); POLICE FORCES (90%); KOREAN WAR (88%);
GRANDCHILDREN (68%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (66%); ARMIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STERN, VERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 55 words


STERN--Vera. On behalf of the Board of Directors of the Musicians Foundation we
express our condolences and deepest sympathies to her extensive family. She
served on the Board for over forty years with devotion and a deep sense of
caring for the musicians who are our clients. She will be sorely missed. Hans E.
Tausig, President 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STERN, VERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 51 words


STERN--Vera. All of us at Opus 3 Artists join musicians everywhere in mourning
the death of Vera Stern. She was a source of strength to the international
musical community, and an important inspiration to us in our days as ICM
Artists. We extend our condolences to Michael, Shira, David, and their families.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STERNKLAR, JACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 253 words


STERNKLAR--Jack, February 5, 1922- July 5, 2015. Born to Sabina and Zacharia
Sternklar in Vienna, Austria, Jack arrived in New York alone on July 4, 1938 at
the age of 16, his education cut short by the Nazis. Jack served in the U.S.
Army in World War II.

Before embarking on a successful career as an owner of real estate, Jack opened
the first Sabbath-observant grocery store in Boro Park, Brooklyn with his
father, who survived Dachau and Buchenwald. A beloved Father, Grandfather,
Great- Grandfather, Brother and Uncle, Jack is survived by his wife of 64 years,
Lila; daughter Cindy Sternklar Worenklein, son-in-law Jacob Worenklein; daughter
Sarah Sternklar, son-in-law Marvin Davis; and son Mark Sternklar, daughter in
law, Nora Tammam; his grandchildren Sabrina, Ari, Etan, Sasha, Benjamin, Sabina,
Shira, Rena and Yigal; and his great grandchildren Charlotte, Oliver, Ayla, Lev,
Noah, Eli, Be'eri, Raanan, Uriya, Dvash, Naaveh, Tiferet, Adi, and Tehila; his
sister, Rosa (Ronnie) Gorden; and his nieces and nephews Caryn and Larry
Malitzky and Zachary and Elana Gorden. He loved Jewish history, current events,
his work, and most of all, his family. He was a generous supporter of education,
Jewish causes and Israel. He was a voracious reader and self educated to a high
standard of intellectual achievement. He was known for his integrity, his
powerful mind, and his remarkable wit until the day he died. He was the most
generous, humble, kind and gentle of all men. He will be missed by all who ever
met him. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%);
WORLD WAR II (77%); US ARMY (72%); ARMIES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%)

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths STARK, LESLIE, J.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 343 words


STARK--Leslie, J.,a beloved Renaissance Man died July 17, 2015 at the age of 76
at his home on Martha's Vineyard. The cause of death was Myelodysplasia. He was
a graduate of Poly Prep and Hobart & William Smith Colleges where he served on
the board for many years.

Upon graduation from college he attended the Yale School of Drama. He acted in
New York in theatre and on T.V. He was the International Marketing Director of a
subsidiary of Revlon and was based in Brussels and Hong Kong. After meeting his
wife of 49 years Myra, a PHD in English Literature he entered the world of
advertising, working at Benton and Bowles which became DMB& B. He became a
successful producer of TV commercials and inspired all who worked with him. He
had boundless energy and curiosity and fully embraced everything he did. But he
will be remembered most for his numerous quiet acts of kindness. When he retired
to Martha's Vineyard he continued to pursue his many passions including jazz,
which he taught. He produced, directed and starred in countless plays at the
Vineyard Playhouse and Island Theatre Workshop; was a member of the Peter Luce
Play Readers Group. He enjoyed ballroom dancing, was a superb cook; learned and
performed the ukelele after being told his fingers were not dexterous enough for
the cello. He was a member of The Chamber Music Society. He was on the board and
a major supporter of the Cancer Society Support Group and devoted to the
Vineyard House. He worked on the Martha's Vineyard Gazette the oldest newspaper
on the island. He is survived by his adored wife Myra, daughter Victoria Stark,
son Brian Stark and his wife Julie Ramos M.D., granddaughter Eliana, sisters,
Renee Stark, Cheryl Stark, sisters-in-law, Margery Meltzer, and Ruth Waldbaum,
M.D., brother-in- law, Robert Waldbaum M.D., nieces Karen Andrade, Jennifer
Marcus, Nicole Moser, Alexandra Kinnie and Hillary Waldbaum. We all adored
Leslie and will miss him dearly. Donations can be made to the Martha's Vineyard
Cancer Support Group, PO Box 2214, Martha's Vineyard, MA 02568. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%);
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); DANCE
(76%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH
ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LITERATURE (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(65%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (57%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING
CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7311
ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (95%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SMALL, ROBERT D.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 164 words


SMALL--Robert D.,MD. The Board of Directors, management, physicians, and staff
of White Plains Hospital mourn the sudden passing of our dear friend and
esteemed colleague, Robert D. Small, MD. A well-known and beloved orthopedic
surgeon in Westchester for the past three decades, Dr. Small joined the staff of
White Plains Hospital in 1983, after completing his residency at the Hospital
for Joint Diseases and fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery. He became
part of the White Plains Hospital Physician Associates Orthopedic Specialists
Group in 2011. Earlier this year, Dr. Small was elected President of the Medical
and Dental Staff at White Plains Hospital. He was Chief Emeritus of orthopedic
surgery as well as the Director of the Westchester Orthopedics Institute at the
Hospital and a founder of Bone and Joint Associates. Bob's kind heart, boundless
energy and generous spirit will be greatly missed, and we extend our heartfelt
condolences to his entire family. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORTHOPEDICS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS
(90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); SURGERY &
TRANSPLANTATION (88%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (88%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS
& INJURIES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SKOPIN, CAROLINE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 145 words


SKOPIN--Caroline. November 14, 1927 - July 23, 2015 of Manhattan, NY. Caroline
Skopin was one of the reasons this world was a better place to live. She was as
beautiful on the inside as was her natural beauty on the outside. Honored in her
lifetime by associations including In Touch Networks and The Jewish Guild For
The Blind, she, as did her husband Murray Skopin (deceased), gave of herself
asking nothing in return but the satisfaction that she was able to be there to
enhance the lives of others. Caroline loved words and books (especially
mysteries). Her daily reading of The New York Times was essential to her
lifestyle. Caroline is survived by her sister Ellen Schefler, brother Arthur
Schefler, nephews Raymond and Jeffery Skopin and too many dear friends to list
(including Barbara Danziger, Jim Schnars, Gloria Briggs, Steve and Jean Zorn and
Shirly Thaler). 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH GUILD FOR THE BLIND (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SISCHY, INGRID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 55 words


SISCHY--Ingrid. The Board of Trustees and staff of Dia Art Foundation mourn the
loss of Ingrid Sischy and extend our deepest condolences to our longtime friend
and Trustee, Sandra Brant and her family. Ingrid's contributions to the world of
art and fashion are immense. We will greatly miss her enthusiasm, counsel, and
generosity. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SISCHY, INGRID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 74 words


SISCHY--Ingrid. The board and staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem deeply mourn
the passing of Ingrid Sischy. Ingrid was a fierce and committed champion of art
and culture. Her sharp intellect, voracious curiosity, and unbridled passion
will be profoundly missed. We send our sincerest condolences to Sandra Brandt
and Ingrid's entire family and many friends. Raymond J. McGuire, Chairman,
Thelma Golden, Director, The Studio Museum in Harlem 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SISCHY, INGRID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 112 words


SISCHY--Ingrid. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation is profoundly saddened by
the passing of Ingrid Sischy, whose commitment to and tireless support of our
mission to rid the world of breast cancer was a source of strength, wisdom and
dedication. As a brilliant and prolific writer, editor, speaker, advisor and
friend she was a motive force in all of the arts and an irreplaceable central
figure in contemporary culture. We join with the world in offering our deepest
condolences to her beloved wife, Sandra Brant, and all of Ingrid's family.
Leonard A. Lauder, Co-Chairman Kinga Lampert, Co-Chairman Larry Norton, MD,
Scientific Director Myra J. Biblowit, President 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAST CANCER (90%); CANCER (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ONCOLOGY
(88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (88%); WRITERS (84%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SILVERSTEIN, MAURICE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 108 words


SILVERSTEIN--Maurice, died on Tuesday at the age of 84 after a prolonged illness
which he battled with dignity, grace, and humor. He was a graduate of Tilden
High and City College. After proudly serving as a Lieutenant in the Navy, he
graduated Columbia Law on the GI bill in '58, a Stone Scholar. Thus, a
provincial Brooklyn boy become an international licensing lawyer for the
pharmaceutical industry. He is survived by his beloved wife Lenore, his
daughters Leila Thomas and Laura Colban, and his grandchildren, Caleb, Danie,
and Owen Thomas and Andreas, Kaia, and Amelia Colban. Please send donations to
Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BLOOD DISORDERS (85%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%);
PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (83%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROTHENBERG, SELMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 78 words


ROTHENBERG--Selma. UJA-Federation of New York mourns the passing of Selma
Rothenberg. Selma leaves behind a loving family who carries on a tradition of
exceptional Jewish philanthropy. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Selma's
children, Susan and Scott Shay, Rona Rothenberg and Yehuda Ben-Israel, and
Robert and Lori Rothenberg; her grandchildren; and the entire family. Alisa R.
Doctoroff, President; Linda Mirels, Chair of the Board; Eric S. Goldstein, CEO
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROSENBAUM, EVA (MENDOZA)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 68 words


ROSENBAUM--Eva (Mendoza), 91, died July 9, 2015. She was born in England and was
the loving wife of Ira; loving mother of Susan (Jose) and Jeffery (Nancy);
loving grandmother of Julian, Daniel, Emily (Aaron) and their daughter Harper.
She remained very close to her sister Monica, brother Ronald (deceased) and
their families in England. All will remember her with love. Contributions may be
made to UNICEF. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (55%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROSE, ALAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 364 words


ROSE--Alan, aged 67, died at home in New York City on July 7 from lung cancer.
He was born on April 27, 1948 in Regensberg, Germany to Herbert and Marjorie
(Murrell) Rose. Alan's early years were spent living in Germany, Japan, Colorado
and Mississippi.

The family moved to Baltimore in Alan's teenage years and he became an ardent
fan of both the city and its people. After three years at the Maryland Institute
of Art Mr. Rose worked as an independent graphic designer for Harry, an
underground newspaper and on John Waters' films. For a brief period he lived in
San Francisco collaborating on artwork for albums put out by various bands
including The Quicksilver Messenger Service. Moving to New York in the early
70's he joined the National Lampoon. Alan Rose earned acclaim with his 1980's
World At Your Feet Books, a series of such landmarks as the Empire State
Building. He married Anne (Spaulding) Rose in 1981 and moved to Springfield,
Massachusetts. During the summers he transformed a simple Adirondack cabin into
a magical mountaintop masterpiece, complete with birch bark wallpaper and a tree
in the living room. No typical father figure he coached his stepdaughters on
junk store shopping, culinary risk-taking as well as dirt bike riding on
Cuttyhunk Island. Alan's unconventional, selfgoverning and thrifty nature
generated countless adventures for himself and those around him. His ideas were
as innovative as his humor was keen. He is survived by his wife, Anne, his
brother Michael B. Rose (Jenny) of Plymouth, Massachusetts, his stepdaughters
Hilary Diebold of West Springfield, Massachusetts, Anne Diebold (Dan Szenda) of
Southwick, Massachusetts and two step-grandchildren. In addition he leaves an
aunt, five cousins, three step-nieces, one step- nephew and one great step-
nephew. There will be a private service at the Adirondack lake he loved and a
memorial service at a later date. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that
donations be made in Alan Rose's name to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
(MSK) and sent to the Office of Development, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, Attn: Lauren Kelly, 633 Third Avenue, 28th Floor, New York, NY 10017.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CANCER (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LUNG CANCER
(78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (70%);
MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); STEPPARENTS (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA
(69%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%);
MARYLAND, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RIPPE, WILLIAM C.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 122 words


RIPPE--William C.,The Lung Cancer Research Foundation (LCRF) mourns the loss of
Board member William "Bill" C. Rippe. Bill passed away on July 21st after a long
and courageous battle with lung cancer. A committed member of the LCRF Board of
Directors, Bill believed firmly in the mission of the Foundation-to improve and
save lives by funding groundbreaking research for the prevention, diagnosis,
treatment and cure of lung cancer. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife
Laure Sudreau - Rippe, parents Marianne and Dick, children Brad, Amy and Chloe
and his step-children Lucas and Juliette. We have lost a dear friend and valued
colleague. Pippa Gerard Chairman, LCRF Board of Directors Nancy Sanford
Executive Director, LCRF 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONCOLOGY (90%); LUNG CANCER (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CANCER
(90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); BOARDS
OF DIRECTORS (88%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STEPPARENTS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RAVOSA, CARMINO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 50 words


RAVOSA--Carmino. A gifted musician, composer, and beloved colleague, who wove
together historical events and the world of childhood into whimsical, memorable
songs and plays, delighting generations of Dalton children and community
members. His musical legacy lives on. Ellen C. Stein Head of School 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%);
MUSIC COMPOSITION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths PORCELLI, ADELE MARIE (PIAZZA)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 80 words


PORCELLI--Adele Marie (Piazza), born April 12, 1921 in Brooklyn, New York, where
she lived all of her 94 years until she passed away. Wife, mother, grandmother,
and great-grandmother, she was a feminist before the word was invented. Avid
reader, cleaner, watcher of Jeopardy and kibitzer in Cobble Hill park, she died
as she had lived, independent and opinionated. May she rest in peace. Wake
Sunday, July 26, 2-7pm, Cobble Hill Funeral Home, 171 Court Street, Brooklyn,
New York. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MITTLER, GERALD A

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 92 words


MITTLER--Gerald A. Jerry passed away on July 18, 2015. Beloved husband to
Roberta. Loving dad to Kara Segal, Cheryl Eldredge and Mitchel Mittler. Loving
father-in-law to Bart, Matt and Susan. Adoring grandfather to Jeremy, Ilana,
Tori, Zoe, Olivia, Adi and Benjamin. Loving brother to Rochelle Sicklick. His
warmth, compassion and humor touched us all. He will be missed. Donations can be
made to the following: Long Island State Vets Home at Stonybrook, Wounded
Warriors, Smithtown Hadassah, Breast Cancer Foundation, Colon/ Rectal Cancer
Foundation. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COLORECTAL CANCER (84%); BREAST CANCER (82%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MISHKIN, PAUL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 27 words


MISHKIN--Paul. My beloved husband, Paul Mishkin, June 4, 1923, New York, July 6,
2015 Amsterdam. Ina Mishkin, Eosstraat 434, 1076 DT Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%)

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MERCADO, LUIS G.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 110 words


MERCADO--Luis G.,died at his home on July 20, 2015, age 80 years. A loving
father of Deborah, grandfather of Ashley and Stephan and super great-granddad
for Dionte. He was deeply grateful to his sister Sequi for her devoted care of
their mother during her later years. He had the greatest respect and admiration
for his cherished daughter Deborah who with love, courage and determination
brought two wonderful children to adulthood. Gil was my special friend and
companion for over 46 years; as kind and generous a partner one could hope for.
Dearest Gil, we spent the young and long years well. Thanks for everything you
have meant to me. Donald Fredrickson 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MARVEL, MATTHEW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 29 words


MARVEL--Matthew. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, who died in his home
in Brooklyn on July 13th. His unique wit, passion for music, and gentle spirit
will be missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LICHTENSTEIN, DOROTHY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 164 words


LICHTENSTEIN--Dorothy. 96, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died July 23, 2015 in
Carlsbad, CA, of complications of Alzheimer's disease. She was born in Manhattan
on June 27, 1919, to Zachara and Molly Ehrlich Ger. For 60 years the beloved
wife of Milton Julian Lichtenstein until his death in 2005. Loving mother of
Todd (Mimi Bowling) and Gregg (Janel Jacob) and adoring grandmother of Brian
(Allegra Conway) and David, all of whom survive her. PS 11, Julia Richman High
School, NYU (BA and MA). Teacher, traveler, foodie, dancer, reluctant sailor,
indefatigable shopper, consummate hostess, devotee of all the arts, and above
all a steadfast friend to so many. Graveside services Sunday, July 26, 11:00
a.m. at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, with a gathering to follow at the home of
Todd and Mimi. For information, contact Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, (212)
769-4400. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions to a liberal or
humanitarian cause or an arts organization. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LESCH, JUDITH WILLIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 109 words


LESCH--Judith Willis, died peacefully, surrounded by her family, on July 23,
2015 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. She had heroically
battled pancreatic cancer for three years. She was much beloved and is survived
by her loving husband, Michael, a lawyer, daughter Sara Lesch (Gabriel Mesa), a
lawyer, and son Ben Lesch (Ali), a teacher, and grandchildren Ana and Amalia
Mesa, and Charlie, Daniel and Willa Lesch. Services will be Monday, July 27,
2015 at 11am at the Larchmont Temple, 74 Larchmont Ave., Larchmont, NY. Shiva
will be observed starting at 6pm Monday and 3pm on Tuesday. For full obit, see
her page at:

www.JJFFH.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CANCER (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); ENDOCRINE
SYSTEM DISORDERS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (84%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEONE, RICHARD C

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 86 words


LEONE--Richard C. Dick was one of a kind. His titanic intellect, wit, and
insights into the human condition and uncomfortable truths of life were enduring
gifts to those he befriended and inspired. In government service and devotion to
the public interest, he defined the gold standard. His legacy of integrity and
compassion will forever guide those he knew and loved. Our deepest condolences
to Meg (his rock), Kate (Will), Max, granddaughter Lucy, and sister Sandra.
Ellen & Lew Kaden Hilary Ballon & Orin Kramer 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LAPIDUS, DOROTHY FRANCES (FARRIS)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 43 words


LAPIDUS--Dorothy Frances (Farris), 92. Born in Wilkes- Barre, PA. Long time
resident of Brooklyn Heights and proud City College graduate, died in her home
on July 20. A teacher, author, and dear friend and neighbor. At her direction,
there will be no service. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KOSSOFF, IRWIN IRA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 91 words


KOSSOFF--Irwin Ira, passed peacefully on July 23 at age 93. He is survived by
his wife Edith and his sister Laine Rudd; his children Alan Kossoff, Evan Don
Kossoff, Tom Kossoff, Mitzi Gilbert, Hank Steinberg and Steve Steinberg, and his
11 grandchildren. Ira was a recipient of a Purple Heart medal from WWII and was
a paper box manufacturer. The funeral will be Monday, July 27 at 11:15am,
Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 St. in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, his
family asks that donations be made to the Cystic Fibrosis Association. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG
(53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KOLLISCH, PETER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 71 words


KOLLISCH--Peter, 87, died July 16, 2015. Born in Austria, escaped WWII -
Holocaust on the Kindertransport. Devoted family man, dedicated school social
worker, and friendly Upper West Side neighbor; remembered for lively story-
telling, generosity, and good humor. Peter is survived by wife Annie, children
David and Lisa, four grandchildren and beloved sister Eva. A memorial service
will be held in fall 2015 in New York City. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WORLD WAR II (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KAPPEL, BARBARA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 57 words


KAPPEL--Barbara, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of NYC; beloved wife of the late
Joseph and dear mother of Maxine and James Portnof and Dr. Bruce and Elyse
Kappel; sister of the late Robert Worth and cherished grandmother of Rachel and
Harry Portnof and Joshua and Brandon Kappel. Funeral Services held privately at
the convenience of the family. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KANE, TINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 29 words


KANE--Tina. December 21, 1942. Died on July 25, 2015. Conservator in Textile
Conservation at Metropolitan Museum of Art, she was beloved by many in the U.S.
and Australia. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KANDELL, BRIAN J

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 136 words


KANDELL--Brian J. "Yank", passed away on July 10, 2015. Loving husband, father,
and grandfather. An Army Veteran and devoted member of the Order of the Arrow of
the Boy Scouts. A graduate of Brooklyn Law School, Brian practiced law in New
York and Pennsylvania. Beloved and respected by his many friends and colleagues;
he will be dearly missed. Brian will be interred following a family graveside
service on July 26th at Mt. Hebron cemetery in Flushing, NY. A memorial service
will be held on Sunday August 2, 2015 at 2 PM at Gutterman's Funeral Chapel 175
N. Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, NY, followed by a gathering of family and
friends. The family requests that memorial contributions be made out to the Ten
Mile River Scout Museum and mailed to Hal Rosenfeld, Trustee, 46 Henry Street,
Merrick, NY 11566. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORDER OF THE ARROW (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HORVITZ, LOIS UNGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 35 words


HORVITZ--Lois Unger, wife of the late Harry R. Mother of Michael (Jane) Horvitz,
Pam (Tony) Schneider and Peter (Margaret O'Meara) Horvitz. Grandmother and
great-grandmother. Services held in Cleveland, OH. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (65%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GRAY, WALTER EVANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 102 words


GRAY--Walter Evans, 66, passed away July, 20, 2015 at Hogar Isla Verde Nursing
Home, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Mr. Gray is the son of Frank Biddle Gray of
Montevideo, Uruguay, and Blanche Fleming Gray of Memphis, Tennessee, both
deceased. Mr. Gray attended Woodberry Forest in Virginia and was graduated from
Vassar Collage. Mr. Gray began his career at Young @ Rubicam, New York, and
became Media Director at Y@R, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Mr Gray was founder and
President of ADSERVE L.A. Inc, a media research firm in San Juan. Mr Gray is
survived by this brother, Frank Biddle Gray, Jr., of Charlottesville, VA. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (90%); MONTEVIDEO, URUGUAY (71%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA
(70%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); URUGUAY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GONZALEZ, NICHOLAS JAMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 189 words


GONZALEZ--Nicholas James, MD, died unexpectedly at his home on July 21, 2015. He
was 67. He was born on December 28, 1947 in Flushing, NY, and was the son of
Marie and William Gonzalez. He graduated from Brown University and Cornell
Medical College. Dr. Gonzalez was a pioneer in cancer treatment offering
intensive nutritional therapy treatment in the treatment of advanced cancer and
other incurable diseases, as well as for prevention. Dr. Gonzalez has been the
recipient of numerous nationally and internationally recognized medical awards.
Survivors include his cherished wife, Mary Beth Gonzalez (nee Pryor); his
beloved mother and siblings, Marie Franzese Gonzalez, Dana (John) Segretto and
William Gonzalez and a host of heartbroken nieces, nephews, in-laws and friends.
The Funeral Service will be held at 2pm on Tuesday, July 28, 2015 at St.
Matthew's Episcopal Church, 382 Cantitoe Street, Bedford, NY. Interment will
follow at St. Matthew's Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be
kindly directed to Nick's foundation, Nutritional Research and Educational
Foundation http://www.nutritional research.info/ 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (90%);
NUTRITION (90%); CANCER (90%); ONCOLOGY (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%);
FOUNDATIONS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GARTNER, ALAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 44 words


GARTNER--Alan. April 1935 - July 14, 2015. Unrecognized hero of the 1960's civil
rights movement; visionary leader of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE);
brilliant; caring; compassionate and our very good friend. We will miss him.
Marvin & Evelyn Jones Rich 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FAISON, MARILYN MAZZA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 66 words


FAISON--Marilyn Mazza, Portland, Maine - Marilyn Mazza Faison, of Peaks Island,
Maine and New York City died on July 22, 2015. She is survived by her husband
John Faison, sister Joann Weston, brother John Mazza, sister-in-law Susan
Faison, and several nieces and nephews. There will be a private, family
gathering to commemorate her life. To see her full obituary, please go to
www.athutchins.com. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%)

STATE: MAINE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ENTENMAN, ROBERT J.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 36 words


ENTENMAN--Robert J.,Jr. 57, Global Head eCommerce, Uni-Credit died May 28th,
2015 in London of complications from surgery. Survived by wife Athina, children
Chloe and Alexander and extended family and is sadly missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (85%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DUNTON, PATRICIA HALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 25 words


DUNTON--Patricia Hall, 84, of Marietta, GA, passed away July, 21, 2015
surrounded by family. Survived by six children and twenty two grandchildren. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials DUKESS, A. CARLETON. FOR OUR ENTIRE LIVES, CARLETON WAS A
BELOVED MEMBER OF OUR EXTENDED FAMILY. HE WILL LIVE IN OUR HEARTS FOREVER.
SENDING OUR DEEPEST LOVE AND SYMPATHY TO MONA AND THE ENTIRE DUKESS FAMILY. THE
ZANKEL BROTHERS 1

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 38 words


DUKESS--A. Carleton. For our entire lives, Carleton was a beloved member of our
extended family. He will live in our hearts forever. Sending our deepest love
and sympathy to Mona and the entire Dukess family. The Zankel Brothers 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DONOVAN, EILEEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 248 words


DONOVAN--Eileen. Mrs. Eileen Frances Donovan, nee McAllister, born and raised in
Brooklyn, daughter of Anthony and Marjorie McAllister of NYC's family run 150
year old McAllister Towing (Tugboat) Company.

For 51 years wife of the late Dr. J. Timothy Donovan, survived by her siblings
Patrice Guiney, Marjorie (Jack Toner) Brian (Rosemary), Bruce (Susan) and
Michael (Patti) McAllister, her children Tim, Anthony, Sean, Moira, Eileen and
Tate Donovan, daughters-in-law Karen and Mary J, grandchildren Ari, Marnika,
Kyrie Weiss and Lia Allee, and myriads of cousins. Graduate of Fontbonne Academy
and St. Elizabeth's College, NJ, Class of 1949, and received her Master of
Education from Columbia University in 1970, from which she proceeded to tutor
remedial reading. She ran numerous charity events. An early volunteer in the HIV
crisis during the 1980's. In 1988 she became a devoted hospice volunteer and
continued until recently to partner with Sr. Rosalie O'Connor of St. Francis
Missionary Convent, to visit the sick and shut ins in Bergen County. She
remained an active Eucharistic Minister serving daily mass at her parish St.
Therese of Liseux, Cresskill, NJ, and a leading member of the Third Order of Our
Lady of Mt. Carmel of Engelwood. Wake at Barrett's Funeral Home, Tenafly, NJ.
(Sunday, July 26th, 2-6pm). Funeral Mass at St. Therese Parish, Cresskill, NY
(July 27, 10am). In lieu of flowers, send donations to Hope House Ministries, PO
Box 358, Port Jefferson, NY 11777. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%);
FUNDRAISING (78%); HOSPICE (73%); CHARITIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials DOCTOROW, E.L. THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND LETTERS
NOTES WITH SORROW THE DEATH OF OUR ESTEEMED COLLEAGUE. A MASTERFUL STORY TELLER,
WONDERFULLY IMAGINATIVE, HE RANGED OVER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY YEARS OF AMERICAN
HISTORY MAKING IT COME ALIVE IN HIS NOVELS AND SHORT STORIES TO THE DELIGHT OF
HIS DEVOTED READERS. 1

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 52 words


DOCTOROW--E.L. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the
death of our esteemed colleague. A masterful story teller, wonderfully
imaginative, he ranged over one hundred fifty years of American history making
it come alive in his novels and short stories to the delight of his devoted
readers. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL
SCIENCE (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DAVIS, RUTH KALAIDJIAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 236 words


DAVIS--Ruth Kalaidjian, of New York City, passed away peacefully at her home on
Thursday, July 16, 2015. She was born on September 7, 1913. Beloved mother of
Sarah and John Davis and grandmother of Nicholas and Elisabeth, she was the
daughter of Mihran Tatios Kalaidjian and Aimee Gillies Kalaidjian. She is
preceded in death by her brothers Robert and William, and survived by her
brother Edward and sister Marjorie Gottwik, as well as, numerous beloved nieces
and nephews.

She was an alumna of Barnard College (1934), and subsequently earned an M.S. in
Social Work from Columbia University (1943) and a PhD from New York University
(1971), focusing her research on college choices among highly gifted girls. Her
active career in teaching and counseling, was motivated by a lifelong commitment
to education. She specialized in teaching the understanding of the development
of children from infancy through adolescence. In addition to the private
practice of psychotherapy, she was also the director of guidance programs at The
Madeira School and Hunter High School. She taught at Sarah Lawrence College and
Hunter College, from which she retired as a full, tenured professor. Age did not
diminish her sharp mind. She was reading and discussing world events until the
day she died. In the tradition of honoring her milestone birthdays, her 102nd
birthday will be celebrated with a gathering by all who loved her. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (70%); PSYCHOLOGY
(69%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths COOLING, WILLIAM GORDON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 117 words


COOLING--William Gordon, on July 22, 2015 in Stamford, CT. He led a long and
distinguished career in international business, retiring in 2003 as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Panamerican Beverages (now Coca-Cola FEMSA). Prior to
that, he spent 25 years with Colgate-Palmolive, rising to the position of Senior
Executive Vice President. Survived by his close former wife, Anne Cooling, and
his children William Jr (Billy), Andrew, Sarah and Melissa. Memorial Service was
held at Noroton Presbyterian Church in Darien on Saturday, July 25. Memorial
contributions may be made to the Stamford Hospital Foundation, 1351 Washington
Blvd, Suite 202, Stamford, CT 06902.

www.lawrencefuneral home.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (88%);
SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (88%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA FEMSA DE BUENOS AIRES SA (58%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (58%);
COCA-COLA FEMSA SAB DE CV (58%)

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (58%); KOF (NYSE) (58%); KOF (BMV) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP &
OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING
(58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%);
NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS
& CARBONATED WATER (58%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths COLBY, BARBARA HEINZEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 318 words


COLBY--Barbara Heinzen, died peacefully Thursday, July 16 at the age of 94. She
served with her husband and their family during his long CIA career in Sweden,
Italy, Vietnam, and Washington, D.C., culminating in his service as Director of
Central Intelligence from 1973-1976. She served on the Agency's Family Advisory
Board, and played an important role in the passage of legislation guaranteeing a
share of lifetime benefits to former spouses of Agency employees. She received
the CIA Director's Award in 2002 for her "untiring efforts on the part of former
Agency spouses" and her "constant concern for the welfare of Agency families,"
Mrs. Colby was born Barbara Ann Heinzen in Springfield, Ohio on December 25,
1920. Her father, Karl, was a journalist, businessman, and president of the
Bayer Aspirin Company in the mid-1930s. Her mother Annette was a fashion
coordinator for the Montgomery Ward Company. Barbara received a B.A. in History
from Barnard College in 1942 and was an advertising copywriter before marrying
William Egan Colby in 1945. Their marriage ended in divorce. In 1992 she
received an M.A. in the Humanities from Georgetown University.

She was a Dame of the Order of Malta. A beloved mother, grandmother and
great-grandmother, she is survived by four children, eight grandchildren and
three great- grandchildren: her son Jonathan and Susan Colby of Jupiter Island,
FL, her son Carl Colby of Washington, D.C., her son Paul and Amie Colby of
Alexandria, VA, and her daughter Christine Colby Giraudo and John Giraudo of
Washington, D.C.; her grandchildren Emily and Scott McLellan, Elbridge Colby and
Susana Cordeiro Guerra, George Colby, 1st Lt. Arthur Colby, USMC, Peter and
Sabrina Giraudo, and Charles and Elizabeth Colby. A daughter, Catherine Ann
Colby, predeceased her in 1973. The funeral will be held at Holy Trinity Church
in Washington, D.C., at 10:30am on Thursday, July 23. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%);
GRANDPARENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE
(72%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CAMUS, JACQUES PIERRE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 176 words


CAMUS--Jacques Pierre. Passed away July 20, 2015 at his Laguna Beach, CA home
after battling cancer. Born July 5, 1931 to a farming family in Nollevaux,
Belgium, Camus graduated from the prestigious Namur Hotel School. He then
embarked on a career that spanned decades as a world class hotelier. He was
employed as a Senior Executive by Loews Hotels in New York City at The Drake,
The Summit and the famed Regency Hotel on Park Avenue, among others. He ended
his illustrious career as General Manager of the Westwood Marquis in Los
Angeles. Camus will be missed by his long term partner, Fernand Poitras, by the
Poitras Family, by Thomas Crijns, who was like a son to Jacques, by his cousin
Chantal Bellevaux and her husband Jules Martin, as well as by scores of friends
from around the world. A Mass and reception will be held in celebration of
Jacques' life at 4:30pm on August 15 at The Sherman Library and Gardens, 2647
East Coast Highway, Corona Del Mar, CA. The family requests that donations be
made to a charity of your choice, in lieu of flowers. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CHARITIES (65%)

COMPANY: LOEWS HOTELS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BERKOWITZ, LORI (LAX)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 129 words


BERKOWITZ--Lori (Lax), 87, of New York, NY and Loon Lake, NY. Beloved wife of
Peter Lax, (and the late Jerome Berkowitz), passed away July 19, 2015. Lori
lived and breathed music as principal violist for the American Symphony
Orchestra and teacher at Manhattan School of Music, Children's Orchestra
Society, and Princeton Chamber Week. She co-founded Loon Lake Live! and was an
active viola coach and chamber musician. An avid hiker, berry picker and
stargazer, Lori savored the outdoors. She was an original and a welcoming,
gentle soul, who loved her family. Survivors include Peter Lax, children David
Berkowitz (Susan) and Susan Berkowitz (Robin), and grandchildren Jeffrey and
Dana. Contributions may be made to: Children's Orchestra Society, Inc. or Loon
Lake Live! 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); MUSIC EDUCATION (87%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (71%); HIKING (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 372 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ADKINS, WINTHROP R. WINTHROP R. ADKINS, PH.D.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 981 words


ADKINS--Winthrop R. Winthrop R. Adkins, Ph.D.,age 82, a quintessential "teacher
of life" passed away on July 17, 2015 from complications following lung surgery.
He was a Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Education at Columbia University,
Teachers College where he taught masters and doctoral students in psychology,
counseling and education. Dr. Adkins was born in Beirut, Syria (now Lebanon) on
October 25, 1932 to Dr. Leslie John Adkins and Mrs. Edith Sanderson who were
missionaries serving in Turkey and Syria. He was a graduate of Phillips Andover
Academy and of Princeton University, Class of 1955. He received his doctorate in
Counseling Psychology from Columbia University, Teachers College in 1963 where
he worked on the groundbreaking Career Pattern Study. This was followed by a
year at Harvard University at the Center for Personality.

He was associated with the US Navy for over twelve years, first as a member of
the NROTC at Princeton and then as a Naval Officer on the USS Salem, from 1955
to 1958, the flagship of the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. During that time
he received training at the Naval Justice School. He became involved with the
War on Poverty where he worked with the YMCA of Greater New York in
Bedford-Stuyvesant, Project TRY, to develop a large training center for
educationally and economically disadvantaged youth. In 1966 he became a founding
faculty member of York College, City CUNY where he helped design the Search for
Education, Elevation and Knowledge (SEEK) program, directed at helping low
income students achieve college success. His work at Teachers College and at the
Institute for Life Coping Skills for over thirty years, reflected his passionate
interest in developing new methods for helping people learn the complex
attitudes and behaviors they needed to cope with the predictable life tasks of
career, marriage, parenting, dealing with family dynamics, confronting loss and
other psychological issues. His design of multi-media counseling systems to
reach larger numbers of people was a major focus of his work. He trained
thousands of graduate students on how to develop psychological, behaviorally
based interventions, using his methods and theory, for a variety of populations
and problems. Dr. Adkins numerous professional research and writing focused on
these issues and he was in the process of writing a book which summarized his
theoretical models and ways to apply them in all these areas. The Adkins Life
Skills Career Development Program (ALSP) was his most successful and nationally
known program. The ALSP was originally published by The Psychological
Corporation, a division of Harcourt, Brace, and Jovanovich. The program helped
people learn to make short-term and long-term job and career choices, become
self-directing and learn to navigate occupational systems. Most importantly it
helped people learn about and believe in themselves. The ALSP was used in over
2,000 agencies including prisons, homeless shelters, drug rehabilitation
centers, welfare-to-work programs, economic opportunity centers and community
colleges, in 45 states. The Institute trained over 5000 staff members as Life
Skills Educators who delivered the program in their own agencies. Over 1 million
people graduated from this program. The impact of the program was well
documented in numerous academic research studies. There is Spanish and an
Italian version of the program. A Life Coping Skills curriculum, based on Dr.
Adkin's theory and methods, was instituted in over 200 community colleges in
India to help students from small villages learn how to psychologically navigate
larger urban life. Over the years, Dr. Adkins served on many non-profit boards
of directors, including the YMCA of Greater New York, the HOPE Program for the
homeless, the NYS Advisory Group on Adult Education, the Greenwich Adult and
Continuing Program and the Center for Insurance Research. He was also a founding
board member of Princeton Project '55 Center for Civic Leadership, inspired by
Ralph Nader, a classmate, which helped Princeton undergraduates become involved
with the work of non-profit and non-governmental organizations nationwide. In
recent years, together with his wife Dr. Caroline Manuele Adkins, he continued
to direct the Institute for Life Coping Skills, revising its 3rd and
international editions. In semi- retirement, Win as he was affectionately known
became an enthusiastic member of the Retired Men's Association of Greenwich, CT
where he served on the Program Committee and was a Co-Director of the Melody
Men, a singing group that entertained in nursing homes throughout the local
area. He was predeceased by his parents and his sister Beverly Wells. He is
survived by his loving wife Dr. Caroline Manuele Adkins, a Professor Emerita in
Psychology and Counseling from Hunter College, City University of New York, his
son Jason, and his wife Karen Kraut, his daughter Jennifer, and her husband
David Ernst and five grandchildren, Benjamin, Julia, Daniel, Oakes and Locke. He
is also survived by his sister Sally Wilbur and his brother Dr. Douglas Adkins
and his wife Dr. Rapee Adkins, his former wife Susan Fisher and many nieces and
nephews. Winthrop Adkins was an inspired and passionate teacher. He was
concerned always with social and economic justice and with making a real
difference in the world. He spent countless hours personally counseling people
who were going through crises and transitions in living. He was a "force of
life" who dignified everyone he met and made them feel special, no matter who
they were. He was a loving husband, father, brother and uncle to all his family.
He was always so much fun to be with. Our hearts are heavy and sad and we will
miss him forever. There will be a Memorial Service at 11am on August 1st at
Round Hill Community Church, 395 Round Hill Rd, and Greenwich, CT 06831. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%);
PSYCHOLOGY (90%); NAVIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); DEATHS
& OBITUARIES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); SURGERY &
TRANSPLANTATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); HOMELESSNESS (76%);
TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES
(71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); US NAVY (68%); PARENTING (65%); WRITERS
(65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%)

COMPANY: PSYCHOLOGICAL CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD
UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (93%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%);
MEDITERRANEAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
