
                               1 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Another Tumble in the Price of Oil Leaves Equities Mostly Lower

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 659 words


Another drop in oil prices helped drive the stock market to a loss on Thursday,
as major indexes gave up their gains from the day before. Chevron, Exxon Mobil
and other energy companies led stocks down.

Benchmark U.S. oil sank 70 cents to close at $43.96 a barrel in New York,
extending a slump that has slashed prices by more than half over the past year.

''Given the big drop that we've had the big question is, when does oil hit
bottom?'' said Jeff Carbone, a senior partner at Cornerstone Financial Partners
in Charlotte, North Carolina. ''I don't think oil will bottom out until a
company or a country flinches and cuts production. Right now producers are still
pumping as much as they can.''

It was Apple's first day as a member of the Dow Jones industrial average, as the
maker of iPhones, iPads and other gadgets replaced AT&T. Goldman Sachs also took
Visa's title as the most expensive stock among the blue chips. Because the Dow
weighs its 30 companies by their share price instead of their market value, a
stock split for Visa pushed the payment processor off its perch.

The Standard & Poor's 500-stock fell 10.23 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,089.27.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 117.16 points, or 0.6 percent, to
17,959.03. The Nasdaq rose 9.55 points, or 0.2 percent, to 4,992.38.

The economic news out Thursday gave investors little encouragement to drive
stocks up. An index aimed at gauging the economy's momentum rose by a slight
amount for a second straight month, and the number of people seeking U.S.
unemployment benefits held steady. The Labor Department reported that weekly
applications for unemployment aid edged up by 1,000 to 291,000 last week.

Phil Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors, thinks the market
could hit a rough patch soon, with the S.&P. 500 sliding 5 percent or more in
the coming months. ''Why do we think that? Because what hit the fourth quarter
hit in the first quarter: the stronger dollar, the decline in energy prices and
the weather.''

Any turbulence shouldn't last long, Orlando said, arguing that low gas prices
could lead to a surge in consumer spending later in the year. ''At some point,
people have to say maybe energy prices will stay low and so we'll ratchet up our
spending,'' he said.

The stock market surged Wednesday after the Federal Reserve signaled that it
wasn't in a hurry to raise interest rates. Years of ultra-low rates has helped
lift stock and bond prices by keeping the cost of borrowing cheap. The Fed has
held its benchmark interest rate close to zero since 2008.

Major markets in Europe were mixed. Germany's DAX fell 0.2 percent, while
France's CAC 40 edged up 0.1 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.2 percent.

Back in the U.S., Nucor, a steel company, cut its forecast for quarterly
earnings, blaming rising imports for driving steel prices down. Nucor plunged
$3.17, or 6 percent, to $46.10.

Transocean announced late Wednesday that it would scrap four drilling rigs that
it had tried to sell, requiring the company to take a charge against its
earnings. Transocean sank $1.09, or 7 percent, to $14.16.

Prices for U.S. government bond prices slipped, nudging yields up. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.97 percent from 1.92 percent on Wednesday.

In the commodity markets, precious and industrial metals settled with strong
gains. Gold rose $17.70 to $1,169 an ounce, while silver jumped 57 cents to
$16.11 an ounce. Copper added nine cents to $2.66 a pound.

Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils used by many U.S. refineries,
fell $1.48 to close at $54.43 in London.

In other futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, wholesale gasoline
fell 2.5 cents to close at $1.774 a gallon; heating oil fell 5.1 cents to close
at $1.722 a gallon; and natural gas fell 10.7 cents to close at $2.813 per 1,000
cubic feet.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Thursday. (Source: Bloomberg)
Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits
for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic components intended to predict
overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES PRICES (78%);
PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); STOCK
SPLITS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS
(70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); SMARTPHONES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES
(68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); VISA INC (55%);
FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); V (NYSE) (55%); FII (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110
PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION
(58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE
ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT
INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (52%)

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dodging Bullets and Past Mistakes

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707 words


It's not a hard and fast rule, but in general when the main character, sometime
in the third act, says, ''I did some bad things ... '' and stares off into the
middle distance, the implied end of the sentence is ''including this movie.'' I
take no particular pleasure in reporting that this is the case in ''The
Gunman,'' a globe-trotting action thriller and also, in passing, a melodrama of
male sexual jealousy, an indictment of Western meddling in Africa and a
concussion-awareness public service announcement.

All of which could be worthy and interesting. Sean Penn, who plays Jim Terrier,
the titular shooter, afflicted by conscience and a head injury, has done some
indisputably great things. And among the guys he pistol whips and pals around
with here are Javier Bardem, Mark Rylance, Ray Winstone and Idris Elba, all fine
actors not above a bit of genre showboating. The atmosphere is leathery and
masculine, redolent of stale cologne and weary bravado, with a token woman (the
Italian actress Jasmine Trinca) whose job is to be menaced, protected and
partially undressed. She is allowed to drive a car, but the fighting and
shooting -- the bad things that are also, in a movie like this, the cool things
and the important things -- are left to the men.

At the start of the movie Annie (Ms. Trinca) is Jim's girl, and he is an
American sniper pretending to provide security to humanitarian relief workers in
the Democratic Republic of Congo. While Annie tries to do good amid the
atrocities of that country's long civil war, Jim and his colleagues conspire to
assassinate a government minister who is inconveniently trying to renegotiate
contracts with multinational mining companies. The guy running the conspiracy is
Felix (Mr. Bardem), who uses the operation as a pretext to steal Annie from Jim.

Eight years later, Jim is back in Congo digging wells, surfing and condescending
to the locals -- in other words, doing penance for his earlier misdeeds and
trying to forget about his lost love. But a bunch of men with machetes and
assault rifles show up (shouting ''Where's the white man?'') to drag him back
into the old life. Jim is chased from London to Barcelona to Gibraltar, and Mr.
Penn, grimacing and flexing his impressive brows and well-veined biceps, is put
through the paces of the midlife-crisis action thriller. Minions are
slaughtered. Cellphones are dialed. Interpol is invoked.

The director, Pierre Morel, is not too bad at this sort of thing, having
directed Liam Neeson in the first ''Taken'' movie, a touchstone of modern
angry-dad cinema, and John Travolta in ''To Paris With Love.'' He runs away
pretty quickly from the topical pretensions of the script (written by Don
MacPherson, Pete Travis and Mr. Penn and based on a Jean-Patrick Manchette
novel), and concentrates on set pieces -- chases, shootouts, a climactic
showdown at a bullfighting ring -- that are effective without being all that
original.

Mr. Penn, aiming for weary, battered intensity, settles into a zone somewhere
between fatigue and indigestion. Jim's bouts of forgetfulness, blurred vision
and vertigo -- results of a career of international headbanging -- are meant to
add some vulnerability to the character but really add only a layer of
contrivance to the plot, which runs out of steam long before the loose ends are
tied up. Mr. Bardem at least seems to be having fun, playing a big, silly drunk
scene and exiting the movie before things get completely stupid. The poor gunman
has to stick around until the end. No wonder he's jealous.

''The Gunman'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Killing and cursing.

The Gunman

Opens on Friday

Directed by Pierre Morel; written by Don MacPherson, Pete Travis and Sean Penn,
based on the novel ''The Prone Gunman'' by Jean-Patrick Manchette; director of
photography, Flavio Labiano; edited by Frederic Thoraval; production design by
Andrew Laws; costumes by Jill Taylor; produced by Ron Halpern, Mr. Penn and
Andrew Rona; released by Open Road. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes.

WITH: Sean Penn (Jim Terrier), Idris Elba (Barnes), Ray Winstone (Stanley), Mark
Rylance (Cox), Jasmine Trinca (Annie), Peter Franzén (Reiniger) and Javier
Bardem (Felix).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-the-gunman-sean-penn-plays-a-
remorseful-sniper-on-the-run.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Gunman: Sean Penn plays a sniper afflicted by conscience in
Pierre Morel's action thriller, opening on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH
BERNSTEIN/OPEN ROAD FILMS) (C1)
 Sean Penn and Jasmine Trinca portray a couple in the  Democratic Republic of
Congo in a globe-trotting action thriller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE ALBLAS/OPEN ROAD
FILMS) (C11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); SHOOTINGS
(89%); FILM (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (76%); CONCUSSIONS (75%); FIREARMS (73%); CIVIL WAR (71%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (71%); ASSASSINATION (71%); HEAD INJURIES (70%); BRAIN INJURIES
(70%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (54%); MINES & MINING
(50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: MARK RYLANCE (79%); LIAM NEESON (79%)

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (73%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (68%)

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%);
AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fears of Greek Debt Default Overshadow European Union Gathering

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS and JAMES KANTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 992 words


BRUSSELS --  A day before nearly $2 billion in debt becomes due for repayment by
Greece's nearly bankrupt government, European leaders gathered in Brussels on
Thursday for a long-planned summit meeting now overshadowed by the mounting risk
of a Greek default and revived fears about the future of Europe's common
currency.

In keeping with the European Union's preference for orderly procedure rather
than confronting crises as they happen, however, Greece's desperate financial
situation did not figure on the official agenda for the two-day gathering.
Instead, leaders focused on long-stalled but recently revived plans to reduce
dependency on Russian gas; the conflict in Ukraine; and the spreading chaos in
Libya.

All the same, Greece's travails and the threat these pose to Europe's common
currency, quickly muscled their way onto center stage, with leaders on both the
left and right voicing concern about the failure of an agreement reached on Feb.
20 between Greece and its creditors to calm, never mind end, the long-running
Greek crisis.

France's Socialist president, François Hollande, siding with Germany and other
countries that insist Greece must honor the pledges made in February, said
Thursday's summit meeting would emphasize ''to one and all the respect of
commitments.''

''There was an agreement that was reached on Feb. 20 and then confirmed on Feb.
24 and we are therefore going to put this agreement into effect,'' he added.

Mr. Hollande and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany were due to meet the Greek
prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, late Thursday on the sidelines here to discuss
ways to contain a crisis that has again stirred speculation of a possible
''Grexit,'' or Greek exit, from the 19-nation eurozone.

In a sign of tensions, Charles Michel, the prime minister of Belgium, another
country that uses the euro, complained that mediation with Greece should involve
all members of the eurozone and could not be done by a few individual members.

''I am angry,'' Mr. Michel said, according to Belgian news reports. ''We did not
give a mandate to either France or Germany to negotiate.''

A departure from the eurozone could force Greece to leave the European Union,
too, a step that would, for the first time, throw into reverse a process of
integration that has advanced steadily for more than six decades.

It would also raise doubts about the future integrity and viability of Europe's
most significant joint venture, its common currency.

''The eurozone is more than a fixed-rate system, it's more than that,'' Pierre
Moscovici, the European commissioner for economic and financial affairs, said at
a news conference in Brussels on Wednesday. ''It's a single currency and the
single currency has to be perpetual for all its members and as soon as one
leaves, the question is, who's next?''

Greece's uncoupling from the rest of Europe would also heighten geostrategic
concerns, particularly in Washington, by raising the prospect of Greece turning
to Russia, a country with which it has close historical ties, or even to China
for aid.

Finland, a eurozone member long hostile to cutting Greece any slack, warned that
trust in the euro hinged on carrying through on the deal reached last month by
the Eurogroup, consisting of eurozone finance ministers.

''At the end of the day the euro is about confidence and we have to be confident
we implement the decisions that we take,'' the Finnish prime minister, Alexander
Stubb, told reporters in Brussels.

One senior European diplomat, describing Greece as ''the elephant in the room''
at the meeting, lamented that ''remarkably little progress has been made'' in
talks between Greece and creditors and that the stalemate meant ''we are very
near a crunch.''

The February deal extended Greece's current bailout for four months but made the
release of any pending payments to Athens contingent on its adoption of measures
to boost tax revenue, contain government spending and implement labor market and
other changes. Greece has had two international bailouts worth 240 billion
euros, or $273 billion, since 2010.

Instead, the Greek Parliament, dominated by the radical left-wing Syriza party,
passed a ''humanitarian crisis bill'' on Wednesday that the European Commission,
one of Greece's principal creditors, objected to as a signal that Athens was
''proceeding unilaterally and in a piecemeal manner that is inconsistent with
the commitments'' made in February.

Mr. Tsipras, the Greek prime minister, has faced criticism from some supporters
for accepting a deal that effectively continued an austerity program his party
had vowed to scrap. He seized on the European Commission's objections to the
anti-poverty bill to try and rally outrage against Brussels, presenting Greece's
creditors as hardhearted Scrooges who want to veto help for the poor by
bureaucratic fiat.

In what has become as much a public relations battle as a debate over budget
targets, Mr. Moscovici, the bloc's senior economic policy maker, denied this,
saying there was ''no question of us putting any kind of veto on a humanitarian
bill.'' Brussels, he said, merely wants to be consulted, as Athens had promised
to do.

While many Greeks seem to support their government, many European leaders and
officials are exasperated by what they see as a push by Athens to ignore its
February pledge and a campaign to whip up public anger against the institutions
and countries, particularly Germany, whose cash Greece desperately needs to
avert default.

''The anti-German and anti-European rhetoric by Greek ministers have cost the
Greek government a lot of credibility,'' Guy Verhofstadt, head of a centrist
bloc of legislators in the European Parliament said.

Instead of denouncing Germans and other creditors, Mr. Verhofstadt added,
''first Tsipras should show that he is willing to reform Greek society. It is
very disappointing we are already waiting for months for a serious reform
plan.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/greece-debt-default-european-unio
n.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY &
BANKRUPTCY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%);
CURRENCIES (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%);
EURO (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO
CRISIS (78%); FRENCH PRESIDENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); GERMAN
CHANCELLORS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%); PIERRE MOSCOVICI (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%);
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (70%)

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); BELGIUM (95%); GREECE
(95%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); UKRAINE (79%); LIBYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Movies

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 4147 words


Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English
subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases: nytimes.com/movies.

'American Sniper' (R, 2:14) In this film, based on the memoir by Chris Kyle, a
Navy SEAL sniper who served four tours of duty in Iraq, Clint Eastwood's
direction is as blunt and effective as ever, and Bradley Cooper's performance as
Kyle is a remarkable feat of transformation. But as a movie about recent
history, the film is troublingly blurry, and heavy with unacknowledged political
bias. (A.O. Scott)

? 'The Babadook' (No rating, 1:35) Jennifer Kent's feature debut is a
deceptively simple, effectively scary tale of a storybook demon that comes to
life and torments a young mother and her 6-year-old son. It's a minor
masterpiece of the psychological horror genre. (Scott)

? 'Birdman' (R, 1:59) This funny, frenetic, rambunctiously showboating
entertainment from the director Alejandro G. Iñárritu (''Babel'') stars a
blissed-out Michael Keaton as a Hollywood has-been turned Broadway
second-chancer who's about to open a play based on the Raymond Carver story
''What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.'' The crack supporting cast
includes Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, Andrea Riseborough, Amy Ryan, Emma
Stone, Naomi Watts and Lindsay Duncan. (Manohla Dargis)

'The Boy Next Door' (R, 1:31) An almost divorced schoolteacher (Jennifer Lopez)
succumbs to a buff young neighbor one night, and the rest of Rob Cohen's
thriller is devoted to showing how bad an idea that passionate mistake was. It's
routine, but the appealing Ms. Lopez never talks down to the often laughably
written material. (Nicolas Rapold)

? 'Boyhood' (R, 2:45) Radical in its conceit, familiar in its everyday details,
Richard Linklater's masterpiece follows a boy, Mason (Ellar Coltrane), who's 6
when the story opens and 18 when it ends. In between, he goes to school; argues
with his sister, Samantha (Lorelei Linklater, the director's daughter); and
watches his mother, Olivia (Patricia Arquette), struggle with work and men,
including her ex-husband, Mason Sr. (Ethan Hawke). Shot over 12 consecutive
years, the film exists at the juncture of classical cinema and the modern art
film without being slavishly indebted to either tradition. (Dargis)

'Chappie' (R, 2:00) Frankenstein's monster gets a titanium makeover in a
science-fiction blood-spurter and would-be heartwarmer from the director Neill
Blomkamp (''District 9'') that wavers uncertainly between laughter and tears.
Even at his shakiest, he holds your attention with stories about characters
banding together to emerge from a hell not of their making. (Dargis)

'Cinderella' (PG, 1:45) In Disney's latest version, directed by Kenneth Branagh,
the mice stick to squeaking and look about as real as most computer-generated
rodents. Much remains the same, however, including a fairy tale that opens with
clear skies but soon plays the poor-little-girl blues before you-know-who comes
along. Lily James and Cate Blanchett star. (Dargis)

? 'Citizenfour' (R, 1:54) Laura Poitras's documentary about Edward Snowden, the
former National Security Agency contractor who revealed the startling extent of
the United States government's electronic surveillance activities, is a sharp
and scary fable about the often invisible power of the modern state, and the
vulnerability of individuals. (Scott)

'Cymbeline' (R, 1:38) Zoom, zoom, bang, bang: In this appealing, eccentric
divertissement from the director Michael Almereyda, Shakespeare's Cymbeline (Ed
Harris) is now the leader of a motorcycle pack and comes equipped with a leather
jacket, big guns and a daughter touchingly played by Dakota Johnson. The play's
still, you know, the thing. (Dargis)

'Deli Man' (PG-13, 1:31) Heavy on the schmaltz, in all senses, this documentary
examines the state of the Jewish deli through David Gruber, known as Ziggy, a
founder of a delicatessen in Houston. Trained in culinary school, he represents
the third generation in his family to run such a restaurant, the film says.
Mainly, the movie is a showcase for some amazing-looking matzo balls, corned
beef and chopped liver and for Ziggy himself, who bemoans the loss of Yiddish
culture. (Ben Kenigsberg)

'The Duff'  (PG-13, 1:40) Bianca (Mae Whitman) learns that her peers regard her
as a DUFF, or designated ugly fat friend, in this would-be subversive comedy,
adapted from a novel by Kody Keplinger. The movie begins, in an apparent nod to
''The Breakfast Club,'' by informing us that teenage stereotypes have changed.
You could have fooled these characters, who ruthlessly enforce the traditional
pecking order. (Kenigsberg)

'Earth's Golden Playground' (No rating, 1:46) Andreas Horvath's procedurally
minded documentary -- a gratifyingly levelheaded look at modern-day prospectors
in the Yukon territory of Canada -- is all too successful at taking the ''rush''
out of ''gold rush.'' (Rapold)

'Fifty Shades of Grey' (R, 2:04) Under the direction of Sam Taylor-Johnson, E.
L. James's kinky best seller has been awkwardly transformed into a feature film
that is part romantic comedy, part erotic melodrama, and pretty much entirely a
mess. It's still kind of fun though, mostly thanks to Dakota Johnson's funny and
sensitive performance as Anastasia Steele, an innocent college student seduced
by a ridiculous billionaire. (Scott)

'Focus' (R, 1:44) This tale of two con artists in love is slick and shallow, but
since the lovebirds are played by Will Smith and Margot Robbie -- and since
Gerald McRaney shows up near the end to spew inventive profanity -- there isn't
really much to complain about. (Scott)

'Futuro Beach' (No rating, 1:46, in Portuguese and German) Balancing abstract
storytelling with ravishing visuals, this elliptical romance by the writer and
director Karim Aïnouz tracks a haunted Brazilian lifeguard (Wagner Moura) and
his German lover (Clemens Schick) through a spiderweb story of liberation and
reinvention. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

? 'Gett: The Trial of Viviane Amsalem' (No rating, 1:55) This story of an
Israeli woman seeking a divorce makes for gripping cinema from start to finish.
Brought to powerful life by Ronit Elkabetz, Viviane is a fleshed-out character,
a political metaphor, a shout to heaven and earth. Ms. Elkabetz directed with
her brother, Shlomi Elkabetz. (Dargis)

'A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night' (No rating, 1:47, in Farsi) By the time the
vampire in the chador is skateboarding down a dark, desolate street, the
director Ana Lily Amirpour has ensured that her debut feature will roll on in
your memory. She can fill a wide-screen frame, and if you don't mind narrative
repetition and passages in which nothing much happens, beyond pretty people
staring at other pretty people, you may not mind that she has trouble filling
this overlong movie. Still, she gives you much to look at in this
black-and-white film that was shot for what seems like two well-spent dollars
and change. (Dargis)

? 'Goodbye to Language' ('Adieu au Langage') (No rating, 1:10, in French) Late
Godard in 3-D, as puzzling and enchanting as ever, and as intent on redrawing
the boundaries between word and image, thought and feeling, cinema and life.
(Scott)

? 'An Honest Liar' (No rating, 1:32) Documenting a lifetime spent gulling
audiences and debunking con men, Justin Weinstein and Tyler Measom's jaunty and
ultimately moving portrait of the renowned illusionist James Randi presents a
twinkling skeptic who killed careers by sleight of hand. (Catsoulis)

'Hot Tub Time Machine 2' (R, 1:33) The original film's flurry of joking pop
cultural references has become a white-out blizzard of allusions in this sequel.
The strategy of its director, Steve Pink, is to keep the momentum so breathless
that the story outpaces the expectations of an audience with a presumed
attention span of zero. (Stephen Holden)

'The Hunting Ground' (PG-13, 1:43) This documentary shocker from Kirby Dick,
about rape on American college campuses, goes right for the gut. It's a blunt
instrument of a movie that derives its power largely from the many young women
and some men who recount on camera how they were raped at their schools and then
denied justice by those same schools. (Dargis)

? 'Ida' (No rating, 1:20, in Polish) Set in Poland in 1962 and shot in haunting,
narrow-screen black-and-white, Pawel Pawlikowski's new film (his first made in
his native land and language) is a fable about memory, forgetting and the tragic
weight of history. Two women -- a teenage novice about to take her vows as a nun
(Agata Trzebuchowska) and her aunt (Agata Kulesza), a cynical Communist official
-- search for the truth about what happened to their family during World War II.
The two Agatas are unforgettable, and Mr. Pawlikowski tells his relatively
simple, small-scale story with such clarity and nuance that it expands before
your eyes. (Scott)

'The Imitation Game' (PG-13, 1:54) Benedict Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing, the
British mathematician whose research paved the way for modern computing and
whose code-breaking work during World War II contributed to the defeat of
Germany, in this well-made, by-the-numbers biopic. (Scott)

? 'Interstellar' (PG-13, 2:49) Christopher Nolan filters earthbound anxieties
about climate change and human extinction into a big, rousing outer-space
adventure, with Matthew McConaughey as an astronaut spinning through space and
time in search of a future and Jessica Chastain as his daughter, crunching the
numbers down below. (Scott)

? 'It Follows' (R, 1:40) This nifty chiller abides by a principle that few
horror movies have the courage to embrace: The unknown is the unknown. Clues to
the source and motives of this menace are dropped, but they don't add up. Like
the evil in a David Lynch horror film, it is out there in the night, waiting to
get you. (Holden)

'Jupiter Ascending' (PG-13, 2:08) The latest from Lana and Andy Wachowski (''The
Matrix'') is a big, woozy, spacey fairy tale with a science-fiction exoskeleton
and a core of pure mush. Mila Kunis plays an earthling who turns out to be the
reconstituted queen of the universe or some such while Channing Tatum plays the
hero. (Dargis)

'Kingsman: The Secret Service' (R, 2:09) Well, at least Colin Firth looks as if
he were having a good time in this bludgeoning, ultra-violent Bond parody. The
director, Matthew Vaughn, has no interest in, or understanding of, violence as a
cinematic tool -- he gorges on splatter, splashing rooms red until it's the only
color left. (Dargis)

'Kumiko, the Treasure Hunter' (No rating, 1:45, in English and Japanese) The
real-life story that inspired this movie turned out to be too good to be true,
but that doesn't diminish the film, thanks to a heartbreaking performance by
Rinko Kikuchi in the title role. She is a Japanese woman who mistakes ''Fargo''
for a documentary and goes in search of the case full of money buried in that
Coen brothers movie. The source tale has since been shown to be largely an urban
legend, but Ms. Kikuchi makes you believe that there's a fine line between
reality and fantasy. (Neil Genzlinger)

'The Lazarus Effect' (PG-13, 1:23) The researchers in this film devise a serum
that resurrects the dead by stimulating brain activity. The film itself -- a
risible mix of pseudoscientific hokum and supernatural freakouts -- seems best
watched with as few neurons firing as possible. (Kenigsberg)

? 'Like Sunday, Like Rain' (R, 1:44) Leighton Meester of ''Gossip Girl'' acquits
herself quite well in this nicely etched tale of two intersecting lives, and so
does a newcomer named Julian Shatkin. He is a 13-year-old cello prodigy, and she
is the aimless young woman hired to be his nanny. Their slow journey to trust
and friendship helps both of them. (Genzlinger)

'Maps to the Stars' (R, 1:51) Directed by David Cronenberg from a script by
Bruce Wagner, this queasy, ferocious glimpse at Hollywood is part satire, part
horror movie, and somehow both beautiful and hideous. John Cusack, Mia
Wasikowska and Julianne Moore, as a fading star in mid-crack-up, deliver
skin-crawling, intriguing performances. (Scott)

'McFarland, USA' (PG, 2:08) Hokey and effective, this uplifting story of
tolerance and athletic glory stars Kevin Costner as a disgraced football coach
who starts a cross-country program at a mostly Mexican-American high school in a
poor agricultural town in California's Central Valley. (Scott)

? 'A Most Violent Year' (R, 2:05) The year is 1981, the violence is more
implicit than overt, and J.C. Chandor's third film is a tough and trenchant
portrait of the soul of man under capitalism. Oscar Isaac is Abel Morales, the
ambitious owner of a heating-oil business, who finds himself besieged by
competitors, the assistant district attorney (David Oyelowo) and, at times, his
own wife (Jessica Chastain). (Scott)

? 'Mr. Turner' (R, 2:29) As the 19th-century British painter J.M.W. Turner,
Timothy Spall snorts, bellows and grunts his way through a galvanic portrayal of
a genius at work. Casting aside the usual mythology of the tormented artist, the
director, Mike Leigh, grounds Turner's work in the material life of his times,
showing the making of art as a social and physical activity. The cinematography,
by Dick Pope, uncannily captures the world as Turner saw and painted it. (Scott)

'Run All Night' (R, 1:54) Yes, it's Liam Neeson in another action film, but at
least this one offers a tight script and strong performances, including a vivid
supporting turn by Ed Harris as Mr. Neeson's adversary. The brawls, chases and
shootouts may not be to your taste, but let's face facts: Mr. Neeson is the best
actor the action genre has had in decades. (Webster)

? 'Selma' (PG-13, 2:07) In her meticulous recounting of the events leading up to
the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery in March 1965, Ava DuVernay has
made a rousing historical film that bristles with present-day political
relevance. David Oyelowo's sly and dignified performance as the Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. provides a dramatic anchor, but the movie is less the portrait
of a (flawed, doubt-plagued) great man than the snapshot of a movement. An
essential movie. (Scott)

? ' '71' (R, 1:39) This excitingly jumpy, finely calibrated chase movie about a
British soldier (Jack O'Connell) caught behind enemy lines in Belfast, Northern
Ireland, goes from zero to 100 in the blink of an eye. The director Yann Demange
makes his feature debut with '''71,'' but he already knows how to move bodies
through space and the choreography that he's worked out in this movie is a thing
of joy. (Dargis)

? 'Seymour: An Introduction' (PG, 1:21) As its title suggests, Ethan Hawke's
intimate, big-hearted documentary doesn't try to offer the final word on its
subject, Seymour Bernstein, the pianist, composer, teacher, philosopher and
ultimate New Yorker. Instead, in 81 transporting minutes, it draws you so
completely into his world that you feel as if you knew all there is to know.
(Dargis)

'The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge Out of Water' (PG, 1:32) The irrepressible show's
second feature-length installment is a bit less fluid and fresh than its 2004
predecessor, but the nutty writing and sheer brio confirm the stamina of its
enduring and skillfully voiced characters. The underwater wonderland remains
wondrous for the willful banality of its misshapen populace, and the plotting is
joyfully absurd. (Rapold)

'Still Alice' (PG-13, 1:39) Julianne Moore, as a linguistics professor with
early-onset Alzheimer's disease, and Kristen Stewart, as one of her daughters,
give sensitive and surprising performances, but this movie, based on Lisa
Genova's novel and directed by Wash Westmoreland and Richard Glatzer, is too
thin and cautious to give the story the devastating power it deserves. (Scott)

'The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel' (PG, 2:03) Beyond its blindingly
colorful palette, the scant pleasures to be gleaned from this sequel to the 2012
hit, ''The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel,'' derive from watching its eminent,
mostly British cast ham it up while trying to inflate dramatic molehills into
mountains. To get away pretending that less is more, strenuous overacting is
required. (Holden)

'3 Hearts' (PG-13, 1:46, in French) This quintessential Gallic bodice-ripper
might be described as a hybrid of ''An Affair to Remember'' and the German
filmmaker Dominik Graf's recent ''Beloved Sisters.'' But its internal clock is
askew, and the premise of the movie, which is set in the present, feels musty.
The screenplay relies so many mechanical contrivances to make the story gripping
that you can hear the rusty machinery clanking. (Holden)

? 'Timbuktu' (PG-13, 1:37, in Arabic, Bambara, English, French, Songhay and
Tamasheq) Abderrahmane Sissako's film about life under jihadist rule in northern
Mali is unsparing, humane and surprisingly funny, examining the absurdity as
well as the cruelty of Islamist extremism. It's an obviously timely movie, but
also, in the manner of political films like ''Modern Times'' and ''The Bicycle
Thief,'' it feels permanent and essential. (Scott)

? 'Two Days, One Night' (PG-13, 1:35, in French) In this film by Jean-Pierre and
Luc Dardenne, Marion Cotillard plays a Belgian factory-worker whose fight to
keep her job is also a struggle for dignity, identity and solidarity. (Scott)

'Unfinished Business' (R, 1:30) A ''EuroTrip'' with balance sheets, this slick
yet sludgy comedy -- about businessmen (led by Vince Vaughn) chasing a contract
to Berlin, where they engage in debauched antics -- fails to seal the deal, not
least for its rankling and retrograde depictions of corporate women (bad) and
stay-at-home moms (good). (Andy Webster)

'The Wedding Ringer' (R, 1:41) Kevin Hart plays a professional best man in
Jeremy Garelick's reflexively raunchy comedy about a self-described yutz (Josh
Gad) who needs to hire friends for his wedding. The story generally takes the
shortest route to its jokes (usually through insults or stereotypes), but the
laughs are not a sure thing. (Rapold)

? 'What We Do in the Shadows' (No rating, 1:25) Set in modern-day Wellington,
New Zealand, Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi's weird and witty mockumentary
turns the daily lives of four vampire housemates into a dotty look at oldsters
struggling to adapt to an unwelcoming modernity. (Catsoulis)

? 'Whiplash' (R, 1:45) Miles Teller is an ambitious young drummer and J.K.
Simmons is his intense -- or maybe insane -- mentor in Damien Chazelle's
energetic and ingenious psychological thriller about the pursuit of greatness
and its cost. (Scott)

'Wild Tales' (R, 1:54, in Spanish) As high-spirited as its title suggests, this
anthology from the Argentine writer-director Damián Szifron offers up a
scabrous, often unsettlingly funny look at human behavior in extremis. The best
stories are as narratively stripped down as a Road Runner cartoon; they make
worrying over ethics seem somehow self-indulgent. (Dargis)

'The Wrecking Crew' (PG, 1:41) A sentimental documentary about the 1960s Los
Angeles session musicians who played everything from the Beach Boys to the
Monkees, made by the son of one of the guitar players. (Jon Caramanica)

Film Series

'Gremlins 2: The New Batch' (Friday and Saturday) Nestled alongside ''The
Godfather Part II,'' ''Bride of Frankenstein'' and ''Toy Story 3'' on the short
list of superior sequels is this underrated 1990 comedy. Joe Dante does
everything that typically works against sequels -- louder, bigger, less
disciplined -- to his advantage in this cacophonous tribute to Tex Avery, Frank
Tashlin, Mad magazine and Jacques Tati. John Glover parodies Donald Trump better
than Mr. Trump ever has, and Mr. Dante finds room for Tony Randall, Leonard
Maltin and a black-and-white nudie called ''Volleyball Holiday.'' Feeding the
gremlins after midnight may not be wise, but watching them then sounds like a
fine idea. Nitehawk Cinema, 136 Metropolitan Avenue, near Berry Street,
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-384-3980, nitehawkcinema.com. (Eric Grode)

D. W. Griffith  (through April 27) This year is the centennial of Ingrid
Bergman, Arthur Miller, Frank Sinatra and, according to a recent New York
magazine article, the feature film. This last, factually debatable distinction
refers to the 1915 release of the Ku Klux Klan paean ''The Birth of a Nation,''
which remains as pioneering and as indefensible as ever. It kicked off this
nine-week series of Monday screenings dedicated to D.W. Griffith, whose
innovations can be seen in virtually every film to follow in his virtuosic wake.
The coming weeks will feature Griffith's no less ambitious ''Intolerance,'' the
most expensive film made at that time, and ''Way Down East,'' with its
white-knuckle chase across real-life ice floes. Film Forum, 209 West Houston
Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, 212-727-8110,
filmforum.org. (Grode)

The Killer Must Kill Again!: Giallo Fever, Part 2 (Friday through March 29)
Truth-in-advertising warning: The 1975 film promised in this series's name is
nowhere to be found among the 11 Italian thrillers on lurid display. But if that
title tempts you, how about ''Bodies Bear Traces of Carnal Violence''? That's
the rough translation of the original Italian title of what we call ''Torso,'' a
1973 proto-slasher by Sergio Martino (who himself used several pseudonyms).
Mario Bava (''A Bay of Blood,'' a.k.a. ''Twitch of the Death Nerve''), Dario
Argento (''Tenebrae'' and ''Four Flies on Grey Velvet'') and Lucio Fulci (''The
Psychic'') are among the better-known directors to be featured in this series,
packed with gratuitous nudity and exquisitely art-directed carnage. Anthology
Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, 212-505-5181,
anthologyfilmarchives.org. (Grode)

New Directors/New Films 2015  (through March 29) ''Pi.'' ''Run Lola Run.''
''Trouble the Water.'' ''Dear White People.'' ''The Babadook.'' These are the
kinds of movies that demand your attention, and they all made splashy
appearances in this festival, now entering its 44th year. Will any of this
year's 26 feature films herald the arrival of the next Spike Lee, Pedro
Almodóvar or Wim Wenders, to name just a few directors who made crucial early
appearances in the festival? Don't rule out the likes of Laura Citarella and
Verónica Llinás, who directed the almost wordless ''Dog Lady'' (screening on
Wednesday and Thursday), or Kornel Mundruczo, whose highly acclaimed ''White
God'' (Friday and Saturday) takes a very different stance on our canine
companions. A complete schedule is at newdirectors.org. Museum of Modern Art,
Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 212-708-9400, moma.org; Walter Reade Theater, 165
West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, 212-875-5601, filmlinc.com. (Grode)

New Voices in Black Cinema (Thursday through March 29) Setting himself no less a
task than giving voice to ''an America that is rarely heard,'' Arthur Jafa asks
the likes of Kara Walker and Flying Lotus what it means to be black in America
today in ''Dreams Are Colder Than Death.'' Several other titles in this series
also aim to answer this, via subjects ranging from mountaineers in Alaska (''An
American Ascent'') to an autistic man in Brooklyn (''Knucklehead,'' which opens
the festival on Thursday at 7 p.m.). Other titles roam as far as Australia (the
documentary ''Black Panther Woman'') and South Africa (the black-and-white noir
''Of Good Report''). Of particular note is the program of short films, which
includes ''Mulignans,'' a delicious sendup of mobster-movie racism; the hypnotic
''Papa Machete,'' about an elderly master of the Haitian art of machete fencing;
and ''My American Fund,'' about an American boy desperate to cut short his
enforced year in Nigeria and resume addressing Mr. Jafa's question. BAM Rose
Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn,
718-636-4100, bam.org/newvoices. (Grode)

'Required Viewing: Mad Men's Movie Influences'  (through April 26) With the
head-scratching exception of Jacques Demy's melancholy ''Model Shop,'' Don
Draper's moviegoing preferences on ''Mad Men'' have tended toward the big and
brash: ''Planet of the Apes,'' ''Casino Royale.'' Matthew Weiner, the creator of
Don Draper and everyone else on that show, has more diverse tastes, as shown by
the 10 films of his choosing, each of which played a role in molding the ''Mad
Men'' ethos and aesthetic. Surprisingly, only four were released in the 1960s:
''The Apartment'' (which he will introduce on Friday at 9:15 p.m.), ''Les Bonnes
Femmes,'' ''The Americanization of Emily'' and ''Dear Heart.'' Among the others
is the 1959 working-girl melodrama ''The Best of Everything,'' which Mr. Weiner
has called ''part of the group mind-set'' for the ''Mad Men'' pilot. Museum of
the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, 718-784-0077,
movingimage.us. (Grode)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/movie-listings-for-march-20-26.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS
(89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HORROR FILMS (78%)

PERSON: BRADLEY COOPER (92%); MICHAEL KEATON (79%); RICHARD LINKLATER (79%);
PATRICIA ARQUETTE (79%); EMMA STONE (79%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (73%); CLINT EASTWOOD
(58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Putting a Breakup of Bank of America to a Shareholder Vote

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE.

Antony Currie is an associate editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 410 words


The idea of big American banks breaking up will finally get input from the
public.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is allowing Bank of America shareholders
to vote at the firm's annual meeting on whether executives should contemplate
spinning off the Merrill Lynch investment bank. The regulator had previously
muzzled similar requests.

Bartlett Naylor, who has submitted the Bank of America proposal on behalf of the
nonprofit group Public Citizen, isn't demanding immediate action to offload the
investment bank. He simply wants a vote on whether the $170 billion lender
should consider setting up a committee of independent directors to make plans
for breaking off noncore businesses.

That's pretty uncontroversial. And Bank of America and its main rivals have to
run many of the numbers internally anyway as part of their so-called living
wills, which outline to watchdogs how financial firms believe that they can be
broken up in times of crisis. What's more, the merits of dismantling a company
ought to be a regular topic for any board, given directors' duty to optimize the
business for shareholders.

JPMorgan Chase, worth $230 billion, has already taken a stab at defending its
banking conglomerate structure. At its investor day last month, its chief
executive, Jamie Dimon, and its chief financial officer, Marianne Lake, laid out
the case for keeping the company's various operations together. The rationale
included $15 billion of revenue from cross-selling, $3 billion of saved costs
and negative factors that would offset the benefit of releasing capital if the
lender were broken up.

The trouble is, this wasn't done because shareholders wanted it. Two years ago,
the Securities and Exchange Commission blocked an annual meeting proposal
calling for ''extraordinary transactions that could enhance stockholder value.''
Mr. Dimon and Ms. Lake revealed their math partly because sell-side analysts at
Goldman Sachs produced a report dissecting a breakup.

It may well be that splitting off big divisions ultimately is not worth it.
Goldman came up with a potential boost to JPMorgan shareholder value of 5
percent to 25 percent. The low end of that would not justify the effort, though
the high end might.

In any event, regulators would have something to say about any such transactions
at a financial firm as big as JPMorgan or Bank of America. Banks may not like
the scrutiny, but now shareholders will get a say in the debate, too.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/putting-a-breakup-of-bank-of
-america-to-a-shareholder-vote.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW
(90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DEMERGERS &
SPINOFFS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (79%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LIVING WILLS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%);
8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING
(58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, &
FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MARIANNE LAKE (79%); JAMES DIMON (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republican Budgets in Both House and the Senate Add to Military Spending

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 990 words


WASHINGTON --  Congressional defense hawks seized the upper hand in their fight
with deficit hawks on Thursday, securing billions of dollars for the Pentagon in
a victory that presages a broader revolt against tight spending limits.

After intervention by Republican leaders, the House Budget Committee voted out
an otherwise austere spending plan, promising to add $2 billion in additional
''emergency'' war funding to a budget that already raised combat funds by $38
billion. That money, over the objections of deficit hawks, will be added Monday
as the full House prepares to debate the tax-and-spending blueprint.

In the Senate, a revolt by defense advocates forced the Budget Committee to add
$38 billion in military spending through a war account not subject to statutory
spending restrictions. That came little more than 24 hours after the Senate
committee unveiled a budget plan that capped war spending at President Obama's
$58 billion request and added parliamentary language intended to thwart any
increases in the account.

''We need to make sure the No. 1 priority for the federal government is
adequately funded, so I support any means necessary to accomplish that goal,''
said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate.

The turmoil around the military funding fight is not likely to end soon. House
Republicans opposed to additional spending were fuming Thursday over what they
saw as an intervention by Republican leaders, especially Representative Kevin
McCarthy of California, the majority leader, to tip the scales against deficit
reduction.

Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, chairman of the House Rules Committee,
acknowledged that it would be difficult to placate the defense hawks through a
parliamentary maneuver in his committee.

The floor fight next week will be no less contentious.

''It's imperative that the budget be placed on a trajectory that balances within
the next 10 years,'' said Representative Tom McClintock, Republican of
California. ''My concern is that the amendment would take us farther from that
goal, not closer.''

But if anything, the chafing under the spending caps established by the 2011
Budget Control Act -- and the automatic cuts called sequestration that enforce
them -- could spread. Representative Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the
House Homeland Security Committee, said budget cuts had forced the Navy to
retreat from patrolling the seas around North America and a similarly troubled
Coast Guard ''can only address one out of every three targets at this point in
time.''

The Coast Guard is funded by the Department of Homeland Security, which is
subject to nonmilitary spending caps.

''We have to change the law,'' Mr. McCaul said. ''Providing for the common
defense should apply to all national security agencies.''

Representative Matt Salmon, Republican of Arizona and an outspoken conservative,
said the spending caps conservatives secured in a budget showdown with President
Obama needed adjusting, even if his colleagues continued to call those caps
''sacrosanct.''

''New law always supersedes old law,'' he said Thursday. ''That's why we're
elected every two years, because the priorities in this country, they change
from time to time. We ought to have the flexibility to address those changes.''

For now, the focus must be on defense, said Senator John McCain of Arizona,
chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. With his committee pressing
hard, Senators Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, and Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, amended the Senate budget in committee to add $38
billion to the special war account.

''The world is dramatically different than it was in 2011, for the worse,'' Mr.
Graham said.

Senator Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, objected ''for the sake of
fiscal solvency and quite frankly for the viability of our nation,'' saying his
colleagues were creating a mechanism to increase military spending every year
without any controls. Then he voted for it, adding his own amendment to make an
annual recurrence more difficult.

''This discussion is really quite extraordinary,'' protested Senator Bernie
Sanders of Vermont, the liberal independent who is ranking member of the Budget
Committee. ''You're always telling us the deficit is so bad we've got to cut
programs for the elderly, for the sick and for the poor, and suddenly all of
that rhetoric disappears.''

For now, Republican leaders say they are holding the line against additional
spending.

''It would be a mistake to blow the caps and just go back to the big spending
that preceded that,'' Mr. Cornyn said. ''I think it's been actually a pretty
good break on discretionary spending.''

But as the House and Senate Appropriations Committees begin writing domestic
spending bills, the clamor for compromise is likely to grow louder. Constituent
interests are already beginning to pinch. Representative Kristi Noem, Republican
of South Dakota, said, ''My job is to make sure rural areas get taken care of.''

Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota, fretted over further cuts to
agriculture.

Representative John Culberson, Republican of Texas, who leads the Appropriations
subcommittee that funds the departments of Commerce, Justice and State, said,
''Of course we are concerned about the effects of sequestration, and we need a
long-term statutory solution,''.

Representative Hal Rogers of Kentucky, chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee, said he ''absolutely'' wanted legislation to raise the spending
limits.

''At the end of the process, it will be difficult to increase military spending
without providing some assistance to nondefense,'' said Representative Charlie
Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania and a senior member of the House Appropriations
Committee.'' At some point there are going to have to be negotiations between
the House, the Senate and the White House about rebalancing.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/republican-budgets-in-both-house-a
nd-the-senate-add-to-military-spending.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bernie Sanders, left, complained Thursday that when
warnings about the deficit threaten  military spending instead of domestic
programs, ''suddenly all of that rhetoric disappears.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US 2013
FISCAL CLIFF (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US BUDGET
CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS
(77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (79%); TOM MCCLINTOCK (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); MATT
SALMON (79%); JOHN CORNYN (59%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); PETE SESSIONS (58%);
MICHAEL T MCCAUL (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

England Doesn't Fit Champions League Puzzle

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; GLOBAL SOCCER; Pg.

LENGTH: 889 words


LONDON --  Britain has given the world two great sports, but right now it cannot
make or buy a winning team in either of them.

Last year, England's national soccer team was brushed aside in the group stage
of the World Cup in Brazil. On Wednesday the last of its clubs, Manchester City,
exited from the Champions League.

England has similarly been humbled by failing to get past the group phase of the
Cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.

It is not about ambition, because the British invented these sports and sent out
missionaries to teach their games while they set the standard of play.

It isn't through lack of trying now, because no league on earth expends more
money or makes a greater effort to improve than the English Premier League
clubs.

Until recently, the English were a dominant force in the Champions League. But
after the exit of Manchester City and Arsenal this week, following the
elimination of Chelsea and Liverpool in earlier matches, there is no Premier
League presence left in the tournament.

Friday's quarterfinal draw involves two French clubs (Paris St.-Germain and
Monaco), three Spanish contenders (Barcelona, Atlético Madrid and Real Madrid),
one German (Bayern Munich), one Italian (Juventus) and one Portuguese (F.C.
Porto).

All this is a far cry from 2008, when three English teams reached the Champions
League semifinals and other countries feared the Premier League was becoming too
omnipotent in Europe.

The English clubs, many of them now owned by overseas investors, share an
unrivaled television income that tempts foreign players like bees to honey. Yet
England's presence has now been completely erased just when the competition
reaches it most meaningful stage.

The goal that confirmed Manchester City's elimination on Wednesday was
everything that England wishes it had, and much of what is beyond it.

Barcelona midfielder Ivan Rakitic began the move by digging out the ball on the
edge of his own penalty box. The left back Jordi Alba then picked up his pass
and ran 30 yards before passing the ball to the man who makes all the
difference.

Lionel Messi changed both speed and direction to throw off two nearby defenders
and spotted a player moving into the opponent's penalty area. It was neither
Neymar nor Luis Suárez, both of whom who lured defenders from the goal and
created a chance for the indefatigable Rakitic to knock down with his chest a
pass from Messi and lob it over the shoulder of City goalkeeper Joe Hart.

It wasn't Messi, alone. There was a gulf of talent between the sides, and the
more that City tried to speed up the tempo and bring to bear what the Premier
League is noted for -- the intensity of its play -- the more Barcelona kept the
ball away from it. At times, Barça slowed the game to walking pace.

There have been diverse but salutary lessons for England's teams this season.
Paris St.-Germain conquered Chelsea in the air, where Chelsea reckons itself to
be unbeatable, with headed goals from corner kicks. Arsenal lost on its own
ground to a Monaco side that could scarcely believe that the London team would
gift away goals and be so open to the counterattack. And Liverpool? The
Liverpool team that is now climbing rapidly through the ranks of the Premiership
was blown away in the autumn, seemingly not ready for the demands of European
soccer while it was rebuilding its lineup during the first half of this season.

So four English sides failed to progress in a Champions League in which this
season's big beasts are Barcelona, Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. The French
renaissance has plenty to do with P.S.G. receiving a huge financial backing from
Qatar, though Monaco, owned by a Russian billionaire, advanced because it was
able to expose Arsenal's complacent approach in London.

Munich, now under the former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola, combines the core of
Germany's World Cup champion with the sorcery of a select few imported talents,
like Franck Ribéry and Arjen Robben and Robert Lewandowski.

The Madrid clubs fought last season's final in Lisbon and are continuing where
they left off, and Portugal's champion Porto has progressed through
organization, technique and the ability to get the maximum out of its players.

Which leaves who? The Old Lady of Torino, Juventus.

Italy's clubs once dominated as England's did, and just as the Spanish teams
have done lately. But while Juventus is running away with the Serie A
championship for the second straight year, its easy elimination of Borussia
Dortmund on Wednesday will have surprised the remaining teams in the Champions
League.

Juventus started without the playmaker Andrea Pirlo and lost the powerful
midfielder Paul Pogba to an injury early in the game at Dortmund. Undaunted, the
Italian champion destroyed Dortmund with three breakaway goals.

Carlos Tevez was the catalyst. He scored first from 28 yards and set up the
second with a selfless pass for Álvaro Morata, then finished off the scoring in
Juventus's 3-0 victory.

Tevez seemed inspired in front of 80,000 fans in Germany, who usually empower
their team. Like Messi, Tevez is from Argentina but, unlike Messi, he does not
stay in one place for long. He once represented Manchester City, but was let go
because he challenged authority. Now 31, he seems to have found a team that
understands him.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/soccer/england-doesnt-fit-champions-lea
gue-puzzle.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES
(78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); FIFA WORLD CUP (77%); CRICKET (73%); FOREIGN
INVESTMENT (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (79%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (87%);
PARIS, FRANCE (55%)

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); BRAZIL (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (88%); NEW ZEALAND
(79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%);
EUROPE (70%); MONACO (55%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Descendant of Golfing Royalty Carves His Own Path

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 856 words


ORLANDO, Fla. --  The starter on the 10th hole, Butch Cronon, took particular
delight in announcing the first player in the final threesome of the morning
wave Thursday at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. ''From Fort Collins, Colo.,''
Cronon intoned, ''please welcome home, Sam Saunders.''

Saunders, who grew up less than eight miles from Bay Hill Golf Club, is two
generations removed from his grandfather Palmer's long and popular reign as the
king of golf. Saunders was ogled like a princeling before he knew his family was
golf royalty.

''I remember when he could hardly pick up a golf club,'' Cronon, a longtime
tournament volunteer, said of Saunders, who is making his sixth start in the
event.

A sea of familiar faces graced his gallery, and yet Saunders's two-under-par 70
in the first round felt different. It was the first time he felt as if he truly
belonged in his home-course tournament, and not because he was tied with the
world's No. 1 player, Rory McIlroy, and within range of the leader, Morgan
Hoffmann, who carded a 66.

For the first time, Saunders felt as if he had made the field on his own merit.
In his other appearances, Saunders, 27, played on an unrestricted exemption,
which was akin to earning a spot in the Olympics because you are from the host
country. This year he was one of two golfers to earn exemptions because of
distinguished play last year on the Web.com Tour. The other was Blayne Barber,
who carded a 72.

''I know it's still an exemption here this week, but there's a new sense of
belonging,'' Saunders said. ''It's a spot that technically I've earned in some
way, and that feels a lot different for me.''

Last year, Saunders was in contention here before tumbling down the leaderboard
with a closing 77 to finish 13 strokes behind the winner, Matt Every. But even
then Saunders had to shake off the sensation of being an interloper. After a
slow start to his 2014-15 season, he is coming off his first top-25 finishes, a
loss in a five-man playoff at the Puerto Rico Open and a tie for 24th at the
Valspar Championship.

''To come into this week feeling like I'm playing well and my game is at a point
where I feel like I can contend to win a tournament is very important to me,''
Saunders said.

Saunders had not met many people who were not aware of his famous bloodline.
Then he was introduced to his future wife, Kelly, in Boulder, Colo., through one
of her friends who was dating a caddie. Kelly, who was raising a young son from
a previous relationship and working as a pharmaceutical representative, grew
suspicious when Saunders said he had to leave to play in tournaments in Omaha,
Neb., or Wichita, Kan. Those did not sound like PGA Tour stops, so one day,
about a month after they had started dating, she typed his name into a Google
search field.

Recalling the conversation that ensued, she said: ''I told him, 'I Googled you
today.' And he said, 'Oh, yeah? And what did you find out?' I said, 'That you
have a pretty famous grandfather.' And he said, 'Yes, and I love that it took
you so long to find out.' ''

They married in November 2012, when her son Cohen was 3. In December 2013, Kelly
gave birth to another son, Ace, which is Palmer's pet name for Saunders.

After Ace's arrival, Saunders persuaded his wife to give up her job to be a
stay-at-home mother. She admitted having misgivings, especially given Saunders's
struggles on the golf course in 2013. He made six cuts, and $27,156, in 19
starts on the Web.com Tour, golf's minor league circuit. She promised Saunders
she would quit her job if he regained his playing privileges at qualifying
school, which he did.

Saunders credits the support of his wife and a stern talking-to from Palmer for
his turnaround. In the midst of his struggles in 2013, he visited his
grandfather in Latrobe, Pa., where Palmer spends a few months every year. During
a range session, Saunders confided that he was contemplating giving up golf
because he had a family to support. According to Saunders, Palmer applauded his
decision to move his home base from Florida to Colorado and encouraged him to
stay the course.

''That meant a lot to me that he supported the decisions that I had made and
that I had kind of gone out and done my own thing,'' Saunders said.

In 2014, Saunders collected five top-five finishes on the Web.com Tour and made
the cut in 16 of 22 starts. He tied for seventh at the Web.com Tour Championship
to secure his playing privileges on the PGA Tour.

Two weeks ago in Puerto Rico, without his wife there, Saunders closed with a 68
to pull one stroke behind the co-leaders, who had a par 5 left. They made bogey
6s to force the playoff, and on the first extra hole Saunders hit his approach
to eight feet. After Alex Cejka drained his 15-foot birdie attempt, Saunders
missed his birdie putt.

Palmer, who was following the action from his home in Florida, could not have
been more proud of Saunders.

''It isn't easy for him to be my grandson and to carry on the way he has and do
the things that he's done,'' Palmer said Wednesday, adding, ''I have every
confidence in him to play the Tour and play it well.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/golf/sam-saunders-a-descendant-of-a-kin
g-of-golf-carves-his-own-path.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arnold Palmer on Wednesday with his grandson Sam Saunders,  who
shot a two-under-par 70 on Thursday at Bay Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
GREENWOOD/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ATHLETES (76%)

COMPANY: WEB.COM INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%); SIC7374
COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: RORY MCILROY (79%)

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (89%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (73%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Release of Garner Grand Jury Details

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 648 words


A judge ruled on Thursday against releasing the evidence presented to the grand
jury that decided not to indict a New York police officer in the chokehold death
of Eric Garner.

Lawyers for the parties seeking the evidence had seized on the public outcry for
transparency after the grand jury, as well as the one in the shooting death of
Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., declined to bring criminal charges against the
officers involved.

The prosecutor in the Brown case made public much of the information about the
Ferguson grand jury. But on Staten Island, Justice William E. Garnett of State
Supreme Court decided against the request for public disclosure sought by the
New York Civil Liberties Union; the city's public advocate, Letitia James; the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; and The New York
Post.

Justice Garnett sided with the Staten Island district attorney, Daniel M.
Donovan Jr., who has fought the release of grand jury materials, arguing such
disclosure would have a ''chilling effect'' on witnesses.

Mr. Garner died on July 17 after a confrontation with the police. Officer Daniel
Pantaleo put him in a chokehold as he and other officers tried to take Mr.
Garner into custody on suspicion of selling loose, untaxed cigarettes. Mr.
Garner was unarmed.

In his decision, Justice Garnett's reasoning reflected his line of questioning
in the hearing when he asked what each party would do with the documents if
released. Ultimately, he ruled, the parties seeking disclosure had failed to
establish a ''compelling and particularized need'' to make the grand jury
minutes public.

The parties, Justice Garnett wrote in his conclusion, ''merely ask for
disclosure for distribution to the public.''

''This request is not a legally cognizable reason for disclosure,'' he
continued. ''What would they use the minutes for? The only answer which the
court heard was the possibility of effecting legislative change. That proffered
need is purely speculative and does not satisfy the requirements of the law.''

State law strictly protects the secrecy of grand jury materials.

''But that presumption is not absolute,'' Arthur Eisenberg, the legal director
of the civil liberties group, said.

Ms. James and the civil liberties group immediately vowed to appeal the
decision. They have 30 days to file notice.

One of the parties' chief complaints is that while for most felonies grand
juries are swift, bare-bones proceedings, those involving police-related deaths
can go on for weeks or months and take on the feel of a minitrial carried out
behind closed doors.

At a news conference, Ms. James said she hoped disclosure would help answer key
questions. ''How many witnesses? What was the substance of their testimony? What
was the physical evidence? Why did it take nine weeks? What were the charges?
What was the explanation of law?'' she said. ''All of those questions and more
need to be answered.''

Jonathan Moore, a lawyer representing Mr. Garner's mother and his widow and five
children, said, ''I think it's unfortunate given the great deal of public
interest in this case that he's refused to provide the public access to any of
the materials in the grand jury.''

Mr. Moore said the grand jury process needed reform.

''Secret grand juries are an anachronism,'' he said. ''The judge has essentially
sanctioned the use of a secret trial for a very public matter. If this was a
normal grand jury process, they would have had an indictment in five minutes.''

Mr. Donovan, a Republican, is considered the likely successor to Representative
Michael G. Grimm, who resigned earlier this year. Though Mr. Donovan succeeded
in arguing for public disclosure of summary information about the Garner grand
jury after its vote in December, he issued a one-line statement on Thursday:
''We respect and will adhere to Judge Garnett's well-reasoned decision.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/in-eric-garner-case-judge-rules-again
st-releasing-grand-jury-evidence.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (93%); LAWYERS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); DEATHS & INJURIES
BY POLICE (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MICHAEL
BROWN SHOOTING (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); JUDGES (78%); APPEALS (78%); FELONIES
(78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

PERSON: DANIEL DONOVAN JR (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

More U.S. Troops Seen Staying in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and MARK MAZZETTI; Eric Schmitt contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1278 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration is nearing a decision to keep more
troops in Afghanistan next year than it had intended, effectively upending its
drawdown plans in response to roiling violence in the country and another false
start in the effort to open peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan
government.

As recently as last month, American officials had hoped that a renewed push to
bring the Taliban to the negotiating table would yield the beginnings of a peace
process and allow the United States to stick with its plan to drop the number of
troops in Afghanistan from just under 10,000 to about 5,600 by the end of the
year.

But those hopes have been dashed by signs that the Taliban remain deeply divided
over whether to engage in talks, as they have been for years, and that the
remaining Qaeda presence in the region is proving more resilient than officials
had anticipated.

As a result, Afghan and American officials are girding for another year of
bloody fighting with the insurgents. Senior Obama administration officials
broadly concluded during meetings over the last week that many of the roughly
10,000 troops and thousands of civilian contractors in Afghanistan would be
needed well into 2016, officials said.

A change in the administration's plans would be further evidence of the
continuing demands of America's longest war, which has raged on even after
President Obama declared an end to America's ''combat role'' in Afghanistan. It
would also reflect the impact of events in Iraq last year, where Iraqi military
units collapsed in the face of an offensive by the Islamic State and the
administration was compelled to send troops back to the country.

At the same time, the change would expose Mr. Obama to criticism from members of
his own party who have pressed him to end America's military role in
Afghanistan. Some of the American officials, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss classified deliberations over troop strength, said there
might not be a public announcement on troop numbers to avoid potential criticism
that Mr. Obama is backing away from his pledge to end the war in Afghanistan
before he leaves office.

The White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said on Thursday that Mr. Obama
had yet to make a final decision about altering the plans to pull out troops,
most of whom are there to train and advise Afghan forces, not to fight. But Mr.
Earnest added that the president has always said that the military strategy
would ''constantly be checked against the security situation inside
Afghanistan.''

Another senior administration official said that Afghanistan's new president,
Ashraf Ghani, had requested flexibility on the pace of the drawdown, and that
''we are actively considering that request.''

Other officials said that the decision was all but made and that only the
details had to be worked out. ''President Obama has to decide the slope, the
pace, of the withdrawal, but all indications are that he'll delay,'' said one of
the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal
policy deliberations.

The intensity of the fighting in Afghanistan usually ebbs and flows with
changing seasons, and the Taliban usually hunker down during the colder months
when the high mountain passes connecting them to sanctuaries in Pakistan are
blocked by snow. But snow and cold have brought little relief this year, with
American military officials saying that the fighting this winter has been among
the most intense since the war began.

The approaching summer fighting season is expected to be even more intense,
adding to the urgency of the situation. There are also concerns about the
ability of Afghan forces, which have struggled to hold off Taliban offensives
since taking the lead in security over the past two years.

Exactly how many American troops would remain in Afghanistan, and how far into
2016 they would stay, is still to be decided, the officials said. They also
insisted that the administration was, for now, committed to withdrawing all but
a small force to protect the embassy in Kabul by the end of 2016.

Mr. Obama is expected to discuss the shifting plans for 2016 when he meets with
Mr. Ghani during a scheduled visit to Washington next week. Mr. Ghani has pushed
to keep as many international troops on hand as possible for as long as
possible.

American commanders have similarly called for a slower withdrawal. But Mr.
Obama's wariness of his military's judgment on Afghanistan runs deep, and Mr.
Ghani's willingness to work with the United States has been ''a big deal'' for
Mr. Obama, a senior American official said.

''There's a partner there now, and the thinking is that we should help,'' the
official said.

Since assuming office in September, Mr. Ghani has shown a far greater
willingness to work with the United States than had his predecessor, Hamid
Karzai. Mr. Ghani, for example, eased restrictions on nighttime raids and
airstrikes by American-led forces put in place by Mr. Karzai.

During a trip to Afghanistan last month, Ashton B. Carter, the new secretary of
defense, said the administration was open to slowing the withdrawal of troops
from Afghanistan, citing the improved relations under Mr. Ghani. And military
leaders have openly said that Afghan forces still need American support.

''We have to make sure that the Afghan security forces continue to improve,''
said Gen. Ray Odierno, the Army chief of staff, speaking to the benefits of a
more prolonged drawdown during a House hearing on Tuesday.

''We have to continue to help them as they continue to fight,'' he added. ''It's
important we stay with them and that we have a conditions-based capability.''

On the ground in Afghanistan, those conditions remain tenuous. In eastern and
southern Afghanistan, where the Taliban have traditionally been strongest, only
airstrikes and other help from the American-led military coalition kept the
Taliban from seizing significant territory during last year's fighting season.
The insurgents also pushed into parts of northern Afghanistan that were recently
viewed as being firmly under government control.

Keeping the number of troops closer to 10,000 would also allow the American-led
coalition to maintain two large bases in Kandahar, the main city in southern
Afghanistan, and in Jalalabad, the biggest city in the country's east. The base
in Jalalabad is a hub for the collection of intelligence on Qaeda operations; it
was, for instance, the base from which American forces launched the raid in 2011
that killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.

Despite the formal end of the American-led combat mission in Afghanistan,
coalition forces are still regularly launching airstrikes to support Afghan
soldiers and police, and American Special Operations troops are still raiding
remote villages and mountainside redoubts that shelter both Taliban fighters and
operatives from Al Qaeda and other foreign extremist groups.

In Washington, officials have sought to draw a sharp line between the two
groups, saying counterterrorism forces -- which number about 2,000 -- are in
Afghanistan to target only those who pose a direct threat to the United States.
The Taliban, whose main focus is toppling Afghanistan's government, is a problem
for Afghan forces.

But distinctions on the ground are more blurred. Foreign fighters often work
alongside Taliban insurgents, providing expertise.

To help Afghan forces, American commanders have also interpreted their mandate
to target any insurgent, Taliban or otherwise, who intends to attack coalition
or Afghan forces, allowing them to go after Taliban commanders and other
insurgents.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/more-us-troops-seen-staying-in-afgh
anistan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American troops in 2013 in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan.
Officials expect fighting there to intensify as summer approaches. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Ashraf Ghani  sought flexibility on American  troop withdrawal.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY OMAR SOBHANI/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT
(89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACE PROCESS
(77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (72%); RELIGION
(50%)

PERSON: ASHRAF GHANI AHMADZAI (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malcolm Fraser, a Leader Given Power During Crisis In Australia, Is Dead at 84

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK; Michelle Innis contributed reporting from Sydney,
Australia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 830 words


Malcolm Fraser, who was appointed prime minister of Australia by the British
crown during a constitutional crisis and led his country for eight years,
winning three elections, died on Friday. He was 84.

A family statement released by his office in Canberra, the capital, said he died
''after a brief illness.''

A fiscal conservative, Mr. Fraser rose to power in November 1975, when Governor
General Sir John Kerr, Queen Elizabeth II's appointed representative in the
Commonwealth of Australia, dismissed Prime Minister Gough Whitlam's Labor
government and dissolved both houses of Parliament during a paralyzing spending
crisis and a year of economic weakness.

Mr. Fraser, as head of the Liberal Party opposition, was appointed to lead a
caretaker government. He had refused to approve Labor's 1975-76 budget unless
Mr. Whitlam, whose approval ratings had sunk, called a new election. The
deadlock prompted Sir John's unexpected move.

An incensed Mr. Whitlam, whose party had held a majority in the House of
Representatives, complained that he was the first prime minister to be dismissed
by the British crown since King George III ousted Lord North 200 years earlier.
Mr. Whitlam died in October.

The move shocked Australians. In Sydney, protesters broke into the offices of an
anti-Whitlam newspaper and burned its afternoon edition. Mr. Fraser received
death threats, and Labor lawmakers jeered his first speech to the House,
shouting, ''It's war!''

Mr. Fraser's coalition government went on to win majorities in both houses of
Parliament in the 1975 election as well as in the next two.

In a statement on Friday, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, leader of the Liberal
Party, called the 1975 constitutional crisis ''one of the defining political
events of our nation.'' He hailed Mr. Fraser as having ''restored economically
responsible government while recognizing social change'' at a crucial moment in
the country's history.

Dour and awkward in manner, sometimes abrasive and physically imposing -- he
stood 6 foot 4 and weighed 220 pounds when he became prime minister -- Mr.
Fraser dominated Australian politics until 1983.

He championed economic conservatism -- his favorite author, he said in 1975, was
Ayn Rand -- but rejected deregulation. He embraced multiculturalism and land
rights for Australia's indigenous Aboriginal people, and welcomed tens of
thousands of Vietnamese refugees fleeing their war-ravaged country. And he
denounced apartheid in South Africa and white minority rule in Rhodesia, now
known as Zimbabwe.

''Malcolm Fraser weathered a lot of storms, but he remained true to core values
which were important to him, and one of them was antiracism,'' said Michael
Kirby, a former justice of the High Court of Australia.

Though Mr. Fraser owed his political ascent to Australia's connection to the
Commonwealth of Nations as a former British colony, he weakened the link by
abolishing the right of Australians to appeal legal decisions to the Privy
Council, a British court. The High Court became the country's final court of
appeal for the first time in its history.

John Malcolm Fraser was born into a wealthy family on May 21, 1930, in Toorak,
in the Australian state of Victoria. His parents, John Neville and Una Fraser,
later moved the family to an 8,000-acre ranch in western Victoria, near
Hamilton. He was educated at the elite Melbourne Grammar School and in England,
at Magdalen College, Oxford.

Returning to his hometown as a grazier, the Australian term for gentleman
rancher, Mr. Fraser turned to politics, becoming the country's youngest lawmaker
at age 25.

He married Tamara Beggs, a granddaughter of a Russian aristocrat who had been
trapped in Australia during the Russian Revolution in 1917 and stayed there. His
wife survives him, as do their four children, Mark, Angela, Hugh and Phoebe.

After his party lost the 1983 election, Mr. Fraser remained active in public
affairs, campaigning for human rights and founding the Australian chapter of an
international relief agency, Care Australia.

Scandal enveloped him in 1986, when, during a visit to Memphis as head of a
commonwealth organization, he was found wearing only a towel in the foyer of a
seedy hotel that was popular with prostitutes. His wife later said that he had
no recollection of the circumstances and that she believed he had been the
victim of a practical joke by others in his delegation.

In later years he wrote a column in the newspaper The Australian and regularly
used social media, posting to Twitter two days before his death.

Speaking to reporters after Mr. Whitlam died in October, Mr. Fraser said that
despite their differences during the 1975 crisis, the two never bore each other
any personal animosity.

''Gough Whitlam wasn't the sort of person who bore grudges,'' Mr. Fraser told an
Australian news site. ''He was a prime minister who did many different things,
and many of his ideas were good.''

Reprinted from Friday's late editions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/malcolm-fraser-a-leader-given-power
-during-crisis-in-australia-dies-at-84.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Malcolm Fraser, a fiscal conservative who championed
multiculturalism,  was Australia's prime minister from 1975 to '83. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JOEL CARRETT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEADS
OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%);
POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%);
APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REFUGEES (71%);
HISTORY (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); WRITERS (65%); MINORITY GROUPS (64%);
RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

PERSON: TONY ABBOTT (79%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

CITY: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%)

STATE: AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (92%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ZIMBABWE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israeli Leader Backs Off Stand on 2-State Option

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Jodi Rudoren reported from
Jerusalem, and Michael D. Shear from Washington. Diaa Hadid contributed
reporting from Jerusalem, and Julie Hirschfeld Davis from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words


JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Thursday tried to
backtrack from his pre-election declaration that no Palestinian state would be
established on his watch, but his new assertions appeared to do nothing to
assuage an infuriated Obama administration.

In a series of interviews with American broadcasters, Mr. Netanyahu also said he
had not been trying to suppress the votes of Arab citizens with an Election Day
video warning that they were being bused to polling stations in ''droves,''
remarks that had also caused outrage at the White House and around the world.

Mr. Netanyahu said he had not intended to reverse his endorsement in a 2009
speech at Bar-Ilan University of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict, but only to say that it was impossible right now.

He cited the Palestinian leadership's refusal to recognize Israel as a Jewish
state and its pact with the militant Islamist Hamas movement, as well as the
rise of Islamic terrorism across the region.

''I haven't changed my policy,'' Mr. Netanyahu said in an interview with MSNBC,
his first since his resounding victory on Tuesday, which handed him a fourth
term. ''What has changed is the reality.''

''I want a sustainable, peaceful two-state solution, but for that, circumstances
have to change,'' he said. ''I was talking about what is achievable and what is
not achievable. To make it achievable, then you have to have real negotiations
with people who are committed to peace.''

But Mr. Netanyahu did not say he was ready to return to negotiations or to
present any new ideas for achieving peace.

President Obama waited nearly two full days before making a congratulatory phone
call to Mr. Netanyahu on Thursday evening, as his administration was still
seething over the Israeli leader's pre-election comments.

In a striking indication of how bitter tensions remain between the two, Mr.
Obama told Mr. Netanyahu directly that the United States would have to
''reassess our options'' after the prime minister's ''new positions and
comments'' on the two-state solution, according to a White House official who
spoke without authorization to detail the private conversation.

During the phone call, the official said, the two also discussed the comments
the prime minister had made about Israeli Arabs.

The formal White House account of the call made no mention of the criticism,
although it noted that Mr. Obama had ''reaffirmed the United States'
longstanding commitment to a two-state solution that results in a secure Israel
alongside a sovereign and viable Palestine.''

The statement also said Mr. Obama reiterated his intention to reach a deal with
Iran on its nuclear program -- another sore point with Mr. Netanyahu, who
angered the White House earlier this month by criticizing the negotiations in a
speech to Congress.

Earlier Thursday, Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that
regardless of the prime minister's clarifications, his pre-election statements
demonstrated that he was ''no longer committed to a two-state solution,'' which
''means that the United States is in a position to re-evaluate our thinking.''

A day after other White House officials suggested that the administration might
now support a Security Council resolution calling for the establishment of a
sovereign Palestine roughly along the pre-1967 lines that divided Israel from
the West Bank and Gaza, Mr. Earnest said Mr. Netanyahu's statements ''do have
consequences for actions that we take at the United Nations and other places.''

The standoff showed the lasting damage done to Mr. Netanyahu's already-strained
relationship with Washington during a divisive Israeli campaign. The tensions
were worsened when the prime minister spoke to Congress, against White House
wishes, about his objections to an Iran nuclear deal.

In Israel, Mr. Netanyahu's apparent reversal regarding a Palestinian state on
the eve of an election was largely seen as a blatant, somewhat desperate appeal
to take votes from parties on his right flank -- which appears to be exactly
what happened.

Many analysts expected Mr. Netanyahu to backtrack after the ballots were
tallied; after all, back in 2009, he refused to explicitly endorse an
independent Palestinian state right up until the Bar-Ilan speech in which he did
so.

But in Washington, many officials have long suspected that Mr. Netanyahu was
never serious about making peace with the Palestinians or about the
American-brokered negotiations toward such an outcome that collapsed last
spring. So when a right-leaning Israeli news site asked him directly on Monday,
''If you are prime minister, a Palestinian state will not be established?'' and
he answered, ''Indeed,'' they pounced.

Mr. Earnest said, ''This is not a situation where the prime minister is creating
some daylight between himself and President Obama.'' Rather, the remarks created
some daylight between Mr. Netanyahu and ''Democrat and Republican presidents in
the United States and every single member of the House of Representatives,'' he
said, referring to a unanimous House resolution late last year endorsing a
two-state solution.

President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority also seized on Mr.
Netanyahu's original repudiation of a two-state solution to say he would
continue his unilateral strategy of seeking full United Nations recognition and
using the International Criminal Court to press war-crimes charges against
Israelis.

''If these things are true, it means that the Israeli government has no serious
intentions to reach a peace agreement that will create two states based on the
1967 borders,'' Mr. Abbas said at a meeting of the Palestine Liberation
Organization's executive committee in the West Bank city of Ramallah. ''We
therefore will not retreat from our position to apply international law, and so
it is our right to go anywhere in the world to realize our rights according to
international law.''

The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, when asked how he would respond
if Mr. Netanyahu retracted his statements, said, ''I don't want to engage in
wishful thinking.''

''Can you imagine Netanyahu standing up and saying, 'I'm sorry, I didn't mean
it, but I believe in a two-state solution; I recognize the state of Palestine, I
will carry my obligations, I will stop settlement activities'? People will
laugh,'' Mr. Erekat told reporters at a briefing in East Jerusalem. ''If he says
that he will stop settlement activities, I'll go see him now. Now. In his house.
I've been there before. I've known him for 31 years.''

After a pre-election blitz of which several commentators observed that Mr.
Netanyahu gave more interviews to Israeli news organizations in six days than he
had during six years in office, the prime minister turned to international
outlets on Thursday. It was a kind of damage-control tour after a campaign of
hard-line stances and statements about Israeli Arabs that were widely condemned
as race-baiting.

''I wasn't trying to block anyone from voting; I was trying to mobilize my own
voters,'' Mr. Netanyahu told Steve Inskeep of NPR in a conversation set for
broadcast on Friday's ''Morning Edition.'' ''The Arabs in Israel are the only
Arabs that have consistently had the right to participate in elections. That's
sacrosanct.''

He also said he was proud to be ''prime minister of all of Israel's citizens,
Arabs and Jews alike.''

Mr. Netanyahu's office did not respond to interview requests from The New York
Times in the days leading up to Tuesday's election or on Wednesday or Thursday.
In addition to appearing on MSNBC and NPR, he was on Fox News on Thursday, where
he said he hoped that White House considerations of supporting a United Nations
resolution recognizing Palestine were ''not true.''

''President Obama has said time and again, as I've said, that the only path to a
peace agreement is an agreement, a negotiated agreement; you can't impose it,''
he said on Fox. ''I think that you can't force the people of Israel -- who have
just elected me by a wide margin to bring them peace and security, to secure the
State of Israel -- to accept terms that would endanger the very survival of the
State of Israel. I don't think that's the direction of American policy.''

Mr. Earnest, the White House press secretary, said Thursday that he was ''not
suggesting that any policy decisions have been made at this point.'' But he
appeared unmoved by Mr. Netanyahu's new talking points, saying of the two-state
solution that American presidents have backed for decades, ''It's pretty clear
that Israel is no longer committed to that outcome, that pursuit.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/israel-netanyahu-elections-pa
lestinian-state.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrea Mitchell of NBC News interviewing Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMOS BEN GERSHOM/GOVERNMENT PRESS OFFICE,
VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A14)  CHARTS: In Netanyahu's Next Knesset, a More Compatible
Coalition: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his Likud party achieved a
strong victory in Tuesday's election. Now,  he is likely to build a right-wing
coalition of 67 of the 120 members of the Knesset, Israel's Parliament. (CHARTS
BY JEREMY ASHKENAS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
CONFLICTS (78%); HAMAS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%);
TERRORISM (72%); RELIGION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES
(94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illinois: Governor Tells Agencies to Divert Union Fees

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | MIDWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 233 words


Gov. Bruce Rauner, dogged in his attempts to eliminate fees paid to unions by
workers who choose not to join, has instructed state agencies to divert money
from nonunion employee paychecks away from organized labor until a judge settles
the matter.

In a memorandum obtained by The Associated Press, his general counsel, Jason
Barclay, directs departments under the Republican governor's control to create
two sets of books: one with the ''proper pay'' and one, to be processed, that
reduces the worker's gross pay by an amount equal to what is normally paid in
the fees. The idea was immediately condemned by the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, the largest of two dozen unions that
filed a countersuit over an executive order Mr. Rauner signed last month
eliminating the fees. He is seeking a federal court's declaration that they are
unconstitutional. ''To frustrate lawful fair-share agreements, Mr. Rauner is
ordering payroll staff to make unauthorized reductions in employees' established
salaries,'' Roberta Lynch, executive director of the federation's Council 31,
said in a statement. About 6,500 nonunion workers pay amounts lower than union
dues -- about $575 annually -- to cover the costs of union negotiating and
grievances. Unions must represent those who choose not to join. Mr. Rauner's
action could keep about $3.74 million out of union bank accounts.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/illinois-governor-tells-agencies-to-divert-
union-fees.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%);
US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); EXECUTIVES
(76%); LAWYERS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (72%); COUNTIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (57%)

PERSON: BRUCE RAUNER (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leniency for General Petraeus: His Lawyer's Argument

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 309 words


To the Editor:

''Gen. Petraeus's Light Punishment'' (editorial, March 17) compares Gen. David
H. Petraeus's prosecution to two other cases involving classified information,
which I don't think is valid.

General Petraeus's case is about the unlawful removal and improper storage of
classified materials, not the dissemination of such materials to the public.
Indeed, a statement of facts filed with the plea agreement and signed by both
General Petraeus and the Justice Department makes clear that ''no classified
information'' from his ''black books'' (personal notebooks) that were given to
his biographer, Paula Broadwell, appeared in the biography.

By contrast, Stephen J. Kim arranged for the publication of highly sensitive
classified information from an intelligence report on North Korea's military
capabilities, and John C. Kiriakou revealed the identities of covert C.I.A.
agents, a betrayal of colleagues ''whose secrecy is their only safety,'' in the
words of a government attorney.

Because of the nature of those public disclosures, Mr. Kim was prosecuted for a
felony under the Espionage Act, and Mr. Kiriakou was prosecuted for a felony
under the Intelligence Identities Protection Act.

By contrast, General Petraeus has pleaded to a misdemeanor charge for
mishandling classified information under a statute that is routinely invoked
(without prison sentences) for government employees who mishandle (but do not
disclose to the public) such information, either negligently or intentionally.

Reporters, like biographers, are frequently given access to sensitive
information on the understanding that they will not publicize it, and it is
hypocritical for The Times to argue for leniency for Mr. Kim and Mr. Kiriakou
and harshness for General Petraeus.

DAVID E. KENDALL

Washington


The writer is an attorney who represents General Petraeus.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/leniency-for-general-petraeus-his-lawy
ers-argument.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); FELONIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%);
PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); SENTENCING (73%);
AGREEMENTS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Putting Nothing Aside

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SOBLE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words


TOKYO --  Takazumi Fukuoka should be exactly what Japan needs to get its economy
moving again.

Mr. Fukuoka, an art director at a small online media company, has an active and
free-spending social life. A part-time D.J., he often buys records in the music
shops of Tokyo's trendy Shibuya district. He eats and drinks out regularly, too.

But his salary has barely budged in recent years. So he is spending every yen he
earns.

''I'm not saving,'' said Mr. Fukuoka, 30. ''There are people my age who are
married with kids and have their own houses, but I don't have any of that.''

It is an increasingly common refrain in Japan -- and one that complicates the
government's efforts to revitalize the country's economy.

The country's savings rate, long one of the highest in the world, is now below
zero. In short, Japan's citizens are spending more than they earn. By
comparison, the rate in the United States, where consumers have a reputation for
living beyond their means, is on the rise, hitting 5.5 percent in January.

The reversal is stark. For decades, many Japanese hoarded cash, a habit that
took hold in the years after World War II, when government protections like
unemployment insurance and public pensions were scarce.

Today, Japan is in a bind. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to inject life
into the lackluster economy, in part by getting people to spend more. Yet
stagnant wages mean many cannot do so without shortchanging their futures.
Japan's large aging population is already drawing down nest eggs, and younger
people aren't filling the void.

A particularly pressing concern is the sharp increase in so-called zero savers
-- those with little or no financial assets, like Mr. Fukuoka.

About 40 percent of unmarried adults are zero savers, and 30 percent of families
are, according to the Central Council for Financial Services Information, a
research group affiliated with Japan's central bank. A decade ago, the ratio for
both groups was about 10 percentage points lower.

Like the Japanese population as a whole, Kyoko Inadome is a former saver. During
college, she put away enough money from part-time jobs that she was able to move
to England, pay for a second diploma, then return home to Japan with a nest egg
worth 2 million yen, or about $17,000.

''My money went further than I thought,'' she recalled. ''I worked a lot and set
aside everything I could.''

A decade later, Ms. Inadome, 40, a music therapist, says her bank balance has
hardly changed. She moved out of her parents' house only last year.

Japan's drop in savings has coincided with an erosion in pay and job security
for many workers, especially younger ones.

On Wednesday a group of prominent companies, including Toyota and Panasonic,
announced their biggest pay increases in years. But they apply to an
increasingly rare kind of worker: unionized, full-time employees at blue-chip
corporations.

Many who don't belong to that privileged group aren't spending more; they just
have less to set aside. Now, there are growing fears about the ability of an
overburdened pension system to support them when they reach retirement age.

''A lot of people have vague worries about the future,'' said Mitsuaki Yokoyama,
a financial planner and author of a series of best-selling books on how to save
money.

Mr. Yokoyama's most popular books promise to help readers with low incomes
stabilize their finances. In the past, his core audience was people in their 50s
and 60s who were planning for retirement. ''Now there are more young people,''
he said. ''Their salaries aren't going up and they don't know what to do.''

Personal savings were a main ingredient in Japan's postwar economic miracle.
Through the 1970s and 1980s, the government encouraged people to save with tax
breaks and other incentives. The goal was to secure plentiful domestic funding
for the country's expanding industries.

''There were a lot of policies that promoted savings,'' said Arthur Alexander, a
professor at Georgetown University who follows Japan's economy closely.
''They're all gone.''

Japanese households saved nearly a quarter of their incomes in the mid-1970s.
While the savings rate declined after that, it remained persistently higher than
in other countries even through the 1990s.

The decline has accelerated recently, as baby boomers have retired and begun to
live off money they set aside during their working lives. It's a vast
demographic group -- a quarter of the population is now over 65.

Wages for those who are still working have been stuck at the levels of two
decades ago. And more workers are on temporary contracts that don't entitle them
to traditional bonuses -- paid twice a year and at retirement, a system that
helped past generations to save.

''Between my wife and I, we have two incomes, so I feel like we should be able
to save more,'' said Kozo Shimoda, 37, a contractor who manages the online
shopping site of an apparel company. ''But our savings isn't increasing, so I
don't feel satisfied or secure.''

The national household savings rate slipped to minus 1.3 percent in the last
fiscal year, according to a government report issued in December. The situation
adds an extra layer of complexity to the task facing Mr. Abe.

Japan isn't about to run out of spare cash soon. Thanks to the high savings
rates of the past, about 1,400 trillion yen, or $11.5 trillion, of household
financial assets remain tucked away.

And Japanese businesses have replaced households as avid hoarders of cash. In an
era of slow growth, they see few investment opportunities, so profits simply
pile up in the bank. Corporate cash reserves now amount to about 40 percent of
the Japanese stock market's value, twice the ratio in the United States.

One goal of Mr. Abe's economic program, known as Abenomics, is to get this idle
cash back into the hands of individuals -- and ultimately coursing through the
economy -- in the form of wage increases or higher returns to investors. The
prime minister has lobbied hard on the pay issue, brokering meetings between
executives and union leaders and dangling the prospect of corporate tax cuts as
a reward for wage increases.

Most experts say it would be a good thing if businesses hoarded less and spent
more. But Mr. Abe's aim is a delicate one, because the same pile of savings is
supporting Japan's huge government debt.

Naohiko Baba, the chief Japan economist at Goldman Sachs, worries what will
happen if both households and companies turn their backs on saving. At the
equivalent of two and a half years of economic output, Japan's debt load is the
heaviest in the world. Yet about 90 percent of the debt is held locally, meaning
that Japan is, in effect, lending to itself.

That is one reason, economists say, that Japan has avoided the kind of bond
market pressure that has sent less indebted countries like Greece into crisis.
Mr. Baba calculates that Japan could run short of the savings it needs to fund
the debt locally by about 2020. After that, it would need to turn to foreign
investors -- a potentially destabilizing shift.

''Once we have to rely on foreign investors to finance the debt,'' he said,
''that could be the beginning of a disaster for Japan.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/international/japans-recovery-is-comp
licated-by-a-decline-in-household-savings.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Takazumi Fukuoka says he saves none of his salary. That could
pose a problem in Japan as a previous generations of savers retire and tap their
nest eggs. (B1)
Mitsuaki Yokoyama, a financial planner, is the author of a series of
best-selling books on how to save money. He says his core audience is young
people. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHART: Breaking
the Piggy Bank: The savings rate in Japan has fallen to minus 1.3 percent, while
in contrast, the rate in the United States has been rising. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%);
BANKING & FINANCE (85%); FAMILY (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT
(77%); MUSIC (72%); MUSIC THERAPY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (68%); AGING TRENDS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); CENTRAL
BANKS (60%); AGING (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vonn Caps Comeback With Season Title to Tie a Record

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 473 words


Lindsey Vonn bought a house last year in her longtime home, Vail, Colo. After
moving in, she asked a contractor to build a trophy case above the fireplace for
her collection of World Cup crystal globes, the hefty decorative awards given to
the winners of season-long ski racing championships.

With many of her globes stored in trunks in a closet, Vonn wanted a central
display place. She was told that the trophy case, including lighting fixtures,
could be designed to hold either 17 or 23 crystal globes.

''I told them to go for 23,'' Vonn said Thursday. ''I think that will suffice,
and if I win more, then we'll make it bigger.''

At the pace Vonn has set this week, an expansion might be necessary before the
2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea, where Vonn also plans to race.

A day after she won the World Cup season-long downhill title, Vonn on Thursday
capped her comeback from two career-threatening knee injuries by claiming
another championship. Her first-place finish in the final super-G of the season
at Méribel, France, earned Vonn her fifth World Cup super-G title.

Vonn now has 19 World Cup crystal globes, 15 in specific events and four as the
overall champion. That ties her with Sweden's Ingemar Stenmark, who for more
than 30 years had been the only skier with 19 World Cup titles.

''Ingemar's records have always seemed so unattainable,'' Vonn said. ''He is an
amazing legend, and I never imagined I'd have this many globes. To tie him is
pretty incredible.''

Vonn, who won her 67th World Cup race Thursday by edging Austria's Anna
Fenninger by 49-hundredths of a second, can also now reasonably be considered in
the chase for one of ski racing's loftiest records: Stenmark's record of 86
World Cup victories, established from 1975 to 1989.

Vonn said Thursday that she had not set Stenmark's World Cup victory record as a
goal.

''Mathematically, it's definitely possible,'' said Vonn, who won eight times
this winter. ''But I do better when I am not focused on records. I want to get
as many wins as I can.''

Vonn will be 33 at the 2018 Winter Games. But after two major operations in the
last two years, Vonn said her knee survived the season without serious setbacks.

''I feel really good,'' she said. And for golf fans wondering about the health
of Vonn's sidelined boyfriend, Tiger Woods, Vonn also said this when asked about
her summer schedule: ''Hopefully, I'll be at some golf tournaments.''

Heading into Thursday's race, Vonn held a narrow 8-point lead over Fenninger in
the super-G standings. Skiing first, Fenninger took the early lead, knowing that
if she held that advantage she would win the season-long title.

Vonn pushed out of the start gate four racers after Fenninger.

Vonn has one race remaining, on Sunday in the giant slalom, but she is out of
contention for the event's championship.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/lindsey-vonn-wins-world-cup-super-g-tit
le-to-tie-career-record.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lindsey Vonn's first-place finish Thursday in the final super-G
of the season earned her a fifth World Cup super-G title. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GIOVANNI AULETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); GOLF (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS
(78%); ATHLETES (78%); WINTER OLYMPICS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); OLYMPICS (77%);
SPORTS FANS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%)

PERSON: LINDSEY VONN (93%); TIGER WOODS (51%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

City Identifies the Remains of a 9/11 Victim

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 312 words


Matthew David Yarnell, a 26-year-old employee of Fiduciary Trust Company
International, has been positively identified as a victim of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.

The announcement was made on Thursday by the New York City medical examiner's
office, which said the identification was made possible by the retesting of DNA
samples obtained from human remains that were recovered in 2001 and 2002.

Mr. Yarnell, who lived in Jersey City, had graduated in 1997 from the Heinz
College at Carnegie Mellon University. He worked on the 97th floor of the south
tower as a vice president and programmer analyst in technology and was one of 97
employees of Fiduciary Trust and its parent company, Franklin Templeton
Investments, who were killed when the twin towers were destroyed.

He is the 1,640th victim at the trade center to have been positively identified.
The most recent previous identification, in September, was of Patrice Braut, the
only Belgian citizen to die in the attack.

Forty percent of the victims -- or 1,113 persons -- have not been identified,
though the city presumptively issued death certificates.

In the profile of Mr. Yarnell that appeared in The New York Times's ''Portraits
of Grief'' series, he was recalled as a prankster, as someone who relished
having fun. Angela Tsuei described a blind date with him a few months earlier
that ended without an after-dinner plan.

''Well, the Duane Reade in the World Trade Center is open,'' Mr. Yarnell
suggested.

So off they went, splitting up in the store to buy gifts for one another. He
presented her with animal stickers for her nails. And she presented him with a
rubber duck.

He called Ms. Tsuei on the morning of the attack to let her know his building
was being evacuated, according to an account in The Star-Ledger of Newark. That
was the last anyone heard from him.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/victim-of-9-11-trade-center-attack-is
-positively-identified.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORISM (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%);
PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES
(72%); DNA (71%)

COMPANY: FIDUCIARY TRUST CO INTERNATIONAL (92%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (56%)

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523120
SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Uber Signs Financing Accord With Chinese Car Dealership

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 159 words


BEIJING -- Uber, the ride-hailing service, has struck a deal with China Yongda
Automobiles Services Holdings, a Chinese luxury auto dealer, to provide
discounts and financing for drivers of Uber cars.

Under the agreement, Yongda will provide Uber's partners -- transportation firms
and independent drivers -- discounts on new car purchases, finance and
after-sales service. Uber contracts with independent drivers and livery services
in 55 countries to provide transportation hailed via its smartphone app.

The deal comes as the fast-growing San Francisco-based company faces
intensifying competition in its efforts to expand in the potentially lucrative
Chinese market. Kuaidi Dache and Didi Dache -- two richly-funded startups that
share roughly 99 percent of the ride-hailing market in China -- recently merged
in a $6 billion tie-up.

Yongda said that the two companies have already rolled out purchase incentives
on models from Audis and Volkswagens.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/technology/uber-signs-financing-accord-with-ch
inese-car-dealership.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AGREEMENTS (88%)

COMPANY: CHINA YONGDA AUTOMOBILES SERVICES HOLDINGS LTD (91%)

TICKER: 3669 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (91%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW
AND USED) (91%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Friday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 719 words


11 P.M. (Pop) THE DESCENDANTS (2011) Matt King (George Clooney, in an
Oscar-nominated role), whose ancestors include the earliest white settlers in
Hawaii, struggles to make the right decision about his family's birthright, a
pristine tract on Kauai -- should it be sold to developers? -- while his wife,
Elizabeth (Patricia Hastie), lies in a coma after a boating accident. Not long
after Matt learns he is about to become a widower and a single father to unruly
daughters, Scottie (Amara Miller) and Alex (Shailene Woodley), he discovers that
his wife had an affair. And Elizabeth's father (Robert Forster) blames Matt for
his daughter's condition.

The director Alexander Payne, ''with a light touch and a keen sense of place --
this Hawaii is as real and peculiar as the Nebraska of 'About Schmidt' or the
California wine country of 'Sideways' -- has made a movie that, for all its
modesty, is as big as life,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. ''Its
heart is occupied by grief, pain and the haunting silence of Elizabeth, whose
version of events is the only one we never hear. And yet it is also full of
warmth, humor and the kind of grace that can result from our clumsy attempts to
make things better.''

1:30 P.M. (HBO) SOMETHING NEW (2006) Sanaa Lathan plays an executive at a Los
Angeles accounting firm whose backyard is in desperate need of an overhaul.
Simon Baker is the gardener who comes to her rescue. She's black, he's white,
and the result is a chemical combustion in this feature debut from Sanaa Hamri.
''Reader, he digs her -- and she digs him, this being a Hollywood fantasia,''
Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. ''First comes k-i-s-s-i-n-g, and then comes
some lightly steamed boudoir nuzzling, including the best toenail-polishing
since 'Lolita,' followed by the expected complications with family and
friends.'' Nevertheless, Ms. Dargis added, the film is ''a store-bought
valentine with real heart.''

7:30 P.M. (CUNY) SCIENCE GOES TO THE MOVIES Faith Salie, a pop culture
commentator; Heather Berlin, a neuroscientist; and Rosario Gennaro, a professor
of computer science at the City College of New York, dissect films and plays
about Alan Turing, the pioneering British computer scientist, including ''The
Imitation Game'' and ''Breaking the Code.''

8 P.M. (Fox) GLEE After six seasons, the series ends by flashing back to explain
how the original choristers (including Rachel, played by Lea Michele) found
their way into the ensemble, and reviewing where the road has taken them.

9 P.M. (MTV) 2015 MTVU WOODIE AWARDS SPECIAL Jack Antonoff of the band Bleachers
hosts this 11th annual ceremony, broadcast live from the South by Southwest
Music Festival in Austin, Tex., which honors students' favorite artists,
including Charli XCX, FKA twigs, J. Cole, Run the Jewels and Sam Smith.

10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER The sportscaster Bob Costas and Gerald
Posner, the author of ''God's Bankers: A History of Money and Power at the
Vatican,'' are the interview guests. Former Representative Jack Kingston,
Republican of Georgia; Mercedes Schlapp, a conservative political strategist;
and Christine C. Quinn, the former New York City Council speaker, are seated at
the round table.

1 A.M. (13) THEATER TALK Theodore S. Chapin, the president and executive
director of Rodgers & Hammerstein: An Imagem Company, and Tom Santopietro, the
author of ''The Sound of Music Story,'' look back at the 1959 musical and 1965
film adaptation. Also, the D.J. duo AndrewAndrew attends a rehearsal for the
coming musical ''Something Rotten!''

What's Streaming Now

IF YOU DON'T, I WILL (2014) Emmanuelle Devos and Mathieu Amalric portray Pomme
and Pierre, a French couple in their 40s whose strained marriage is on the brink
of collapse in this film directed by Sophie Fillières. Then Pomme ventures into
the woods and doesn't return, prompting Pierre to search for her -- a few days
later. '' 'If You Don't, I Will' is a dour, acutely observed comedy about
marital boredom that doesn't glamorize or overdramatize the characters' angst,''
Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. ''Its lived-in performances evoke an
excruciating stalemate that can be ended only by a radical break. But can a
weeklong vacation from each other refresh a marriage that has been going sour
for years?'' (iTunes)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/television/whats-on-tv-friday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIE WALLACE/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (87%); ACADEMY AWARDS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (72%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (63%); NEUROSCIENCE (60%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: SHAILENE WOODLEY (79%); GEORGE CLOONEY (73%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: In 'Tracers,' Taylor Lautner Joins a Shady Parkour Gang

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words


Part urban crime film, part romantic fantasy, ''Tracers'' begins by zipping
along with the street-level symbol of heedless New York motion, a bike
messenger. When this particular speed demon, Cam (Taylor Lautner), has an
accident, he slams into a young woman practicing another kind of perpetual
motion, parkour, an equipment-free sport that treats urban spaces as obstacle
courses. Corny twists and exchanges ensue in the wobbly story, but,
delightfully, Daniel Benmayor's film shows love not just for stunts but for the
dynamic surfaces of the city.

Fallen from the peak of the ''Twilight'' phenomenon, Mr. Lautner is game here
for playing a well-meaning joe who's deep in debt to a Chinese loan shark. Cam
tracks down the parkour whiz, Nikki (Marie Avgeropoulos), and, after proving
himself, joins her in a group of thieves for hire. But she and her fellow street
ninjas have a Fagin of sorts -- a slick leader named Miller (Adam Rayner) who
sends them on increasingly risky jobs and has Nikki in his clutches.

A dry-docked ship, construction sites and rooftops are the terrain for their
exploits, rather than the ritzy face-lifted side of New York. Cam and Nikki are
good at their jobs -- leaping and pilfering -- but they're corruptible
innocents, unlike the professionals of another notable parkour entry, ''District
B13,'' by Pierre Morel. These action sequences are more an underdog celebration
of physical freedom than brash showing off.

The story feels cut-rate, but Mr. Benmayor, a Spaniard, brings eager eyes to the
city, and a lot of crane shots to the endeavor.

Rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Some intense violence, sexual content
and gravity-defying methods of getting crosstown.

TRACERS

Opens on Friday

Directed by Daniel Benmayor

1 hour 33 minutes




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-tracers-taylor-lautner-joins-
a-shady-parkour-gang.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marie Avgeropoulos and  Taylor Lautner star in Daniel
Benmayor's ''Tracers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE DOUGAN/LIONSGATE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTREME SPORTS (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS
(78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SHIPBUILDING (71%)

PERSON: TAYLOR LAUTNER (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Theater

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 7347 words


Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless
otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings,
showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable,
critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.

Previews and Openings

'An American in Paris' (in previews; opens on April 12) The British
choreographer Christopher Wheeldon has been learning a foreign language --
Broadway -- as he directs an adaptation of this 1951 MGM film musical, with
songs by Ira and George Gershwin and a new book by Craig Lucas. The dancer
Robert Fairchild plays an expat painter, and Leanne Cope, of the Royal Ballet,
is the Frenchwoman he pursues. After a run at the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris,
the show arrives at the Palace Theater. 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street,
877-250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Alexis Soloski)

'Buzzer'  (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 8) Race, class and real
estate collide in this new drama from Tracey Scott Wilson (''The Story,'' ''The
Good Negro''), produced by the Public Theater. Jackson (Grantham Coleman), an
African-American lawyer, returns with his girlfriend and his prep school pal to
the once-squalid neighborhood of his youth. Anne Kauffman directs the
gentrification. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East
Village, 212-967-7555, publictheater.org. (Soloski)

'Cry, Trojans! (Troilus & Cressida)'  (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April
7) A play once considered so scandalous that it went unperformed for centuries,
''Troilus and Cressida'' centers on a love that blooms and withers in the
corrupting atmosphere of the Trojan War. But a little outrage has never bothered
the Wooster Group. After developing a version with the Royal Shakespeare
Company, it is offering a reworked adaptation, featuring the Wooster Group
regulars Scott Shepherd and Kate Valk. St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at
Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, 866-811-4111, stannswarehouse.org. (Soloski)

'Finding Neverland' (in previews; opens on April 15) Lost boys and girls can
make their way to the Lunt-Fontanne Theater, where the producer Harvey Weinstein
is spearheading a Broadway adaptation of this 2004 film about Peter Pan's
creator, J.M. Barrie. In this musical, directed by Diane Paulus, Matthew
Morrison plays Barrie, and Laura Michelle Kelly is the widow whose boys inspire
him. 205 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Soloski)

'Gigi' (in previews; opens on April 8) Thank heaven for little girls. And bigger
ones, too. Vanessa Hudgens, late of ''High School Musical'' and ''Spring
Breakers,'' stars in the Broadway revival of this Lerner and Loewe show. Based
on the novella by Colette, the story centers on a spirited girl groomed for life
as a courtesan, and the man who might want her for his mistress -- or more. Eric
Schaeffer directs, and Heidi Thomas (''Call the Midwife'') has written the book.
Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, 877-250-2929, gigionbroadway.com.
(Soloski)

'Hand to God' (in previews; opens on April 7) Tyrone is a malevolent,
potty-mouthed puppet with some serious psychokinetic abilities. But can he turn
Robert Askins's show into a Broadway hit? First seen at the Ensemble Studio
Theater and then at MCC, this play draws on the Christian puppetry workshop in
which a youthful Mr. Askins once participated. Steven Boyer reprises his roles,
playing Tyrone and his hapless puppeteer. Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street,
212-239-6200, handtogodbroadway.com. (Soloski)

'I'm Looking for Helen Twelvetrees'  (in previews; opens on Sunday) The writer
and performer David Greenspan can make Aristotle accessible and Gertrude Stein
interesting. For his latest play, he's taken on more approachable material,
reimagining the life of Helen Twelvetrees, a sad-eyed heroine of the early
talkies, now succumbed to summer stock. Leigh Silverman directs, and Brooke
Bloom and Keith Nobbs star. Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt
Street, Lower East Side, 212-352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Soloski)

'Iowa'  (previews start on Friday; opens on April 13) Todd Almond, the composer
of the recent ''Kansas City Choir Boy,'' is turning his attention from city to
state. He's teamed with the playwright Jenny Schwartz and the director Ken Rus
Schmoll for this Playwrights Horizons ''musical play'' in which a woman and her
daughter (Karyn Quackenbush and Jill Shackner) cross borders in search of love.
Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200,
playwrightshorizons.org. (Soloski)

'It Shoulda Been You' (in previews; opens on April 14) Something old, something
new, something borrowed and something Broadway: The veteran showman David Hyde
Pierce directs this new musical by Barbara Anselmi and Brian Hargrove, with a
plot seemingly assembled from every imaginable wedding day catastrophe. The Tony
winners Tyne Daly and Harriet Harris star as the bound-to-clash mothers of the
bride and groom. Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, 877-250-2929,
itshouldabeenyou.com. (Soloski)

'The King and I'  (in previews; opens on April 16) Fans of the midcentury
musical are most likely to be whistling a happy tune, with Lincoln Center's
revival of this Rodgers and Hammerstein show from 1951. Bartlett Sher directs
the luminous Kelli O'Hara as Anna, the British tutor to the children of the King
of Siam (Ken Watanabe). Ruthie Ann Miles and Conrad Ricamora, both featured in
''Here Lies Love,'' also star. Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center,
212-239-6200, lct.org. (Soloski)

'Living Here: A Map of Songs' (in previews; opens on March 29) Yes, these
theaters are smaller than average, and there may be quite a line for the single
bathroom, but don't let that deter you from this Foundry Theater show, which
will be performed in assorted living rooms throughout the city. The wandering
minstrel Gideon Irving will offer songs inspired by his travels amid sofas and
side tables. Various locations, 866-811-4111, thefoundrytheatre.org. (Soloski)

'New York Spring Spectacular'  (in previews; opens on Thursday) You could hop
aboard the Circle Line, step onto a double-decker bus or set out on foot. But if
you're feeling lazy -- or just love kick lines -- the Rockettes are offering a
whirlwind tour of New York in this new show, chockablock with dance and puppets.
Warren Carlyle directs and choreographs the capering, with assists from the
creative directors Diane Paulus and Randy Weiner and the playwright Joshua
Harmon. Radio City Music Hall, 866-858-0007, rockettes.com/spring. (Soloski)

'Skylight' (in previews; opens on April 2) Setups don't come much simpler than
the one in this 1995 David Hare play: three characters, one apartment, one
night, maybe some spaghetti. But there are complex emotions operating and
complex conflicts, too, as former lovers -- portrayed in this Broadway revival
by Bill Nighy and Carey Mulligan, reprising the roles they played last year in
London -- come together again. Stephen Daldry directs. John Golden Theater, 252
West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, skylightbwy.com. (Soloski)

'Small Mouth Sounds' (in previews; opens on Monday) Whatever the size of Bess
Wohl's mouth, she has a big, bright, compassionate voice, with a special
affection for life's also-rans. But this new piece, directed by Rachel Chavkin
(''Three Pianos,'' ''Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812''), may be a
little quieter than usual. It's about six urbanites attempting a silent retreat.
Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, 212-352-3101, arsnovanyc.com. (Soloski)

'Something Rotten'  (previews start on Monday; opens on April 22) Drop those
quartos and shelve those folios. Meet Nick and Nigel Bottom (Brian d'Arcy James
and John Cariani) a pair of playwrights who think they can best the Bard
(Christian Borle) -- by writing the world's first musical. Casey Nicholaw (''The
Book of Mormon,'' ''Avenue Q'') directs the Elizabethan proceedings. St. James
Theater, 246 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, rottenbroadway.com. (Soloski)

'The Tallest Tree in the Forest' (performances start on Sunday) An actor, a
singer, an athlete, an activist and a polarizing political figure, Paul Robeson
returns to the stage in the figure of the writer-performer Daniel Beaty, who
plays Robeson, as well as nearly 40 of his family members, colleagues and
antagonists. The Tectonic Theater Project's Moisés Kaufman, who knows a thing or
two about bringing historical figures to the stage, directs. Harvey Theater,
Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100,
bam.org. (Soloski)

'Twelfth Night (or What You Will)' and 'What You Will (or Twelfth Night)'  (in
previews; opens on Sunday) Expect lots of cakes and ale, though very few actors,
when Bedlam offers in repertory two versions of this Shakespearean comedy, both
directed by Eric Tucker. Five performers will appear in the two shows, which
will differ in theme, tone, design and actorly approach to character. Dorothy
Strelsin Theater at the Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street,
866-811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Soloski)

'The Undeniable Sound of Right Now' (in previews; opens on April 2) Rock 'n'
roll might be here to stay, but its venues come and go. In this new play from
Laura Eason (''Sex With Strangers''), produced by Rattlestick Playwrights
Theater and Women's Project Theater, a club owner works to keep his doors open,
even as his daughter marches to a different drum and bass. The director, Kirsten
Kelly, keeps the beat. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at
11th Street, Greenwich Village, 866-811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Soloski)

'The Visit' (previews start on Thursday; opens on April 23) Chita Rivera --
resplendent in jewels, fur and blood-red lipstick -- pays another call on
Broadway. She returns in a refurbished version of John Kander and Fred Ebb's
2001 musical, an adaptation by Terrence McNally of the Friedrich Dürrenmatt
play. The story centers on a woman (Ms. Rivera) who returns to the town and the
man (Roger Rees) who once rejected her. The director John Doyle oversees the
Lyceum Theater sojourn. 149 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, thevisitmusical.com.
(Soloski)

'Wolf Hall, Parts One & Two' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 9)
Affairs, annulments, incest, ardor, bastardy, treason and lutes. It sounds like
the fabric of fiction, but it's the stuff of history. Mostly. The director
Jeremy Herrin and the adapter Mike Poulton bring the Royal Shakespeare Company's
celebrated version of Hilary Mantel's meticulously researched historical novels
''Wolf Hall'' and ''Bring Up the Bodies'' to Broadway. Ben Miles plays the
crafty counselor Thomas Cromwell, and Nathaniel Parker is his sovereign. Winter
Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, 212-239-6200,
wolfhallbroadway.com. (Soloski)

Broadway

'Aladdin'  Casey Nicholaw (''The Book of Mormon'') directs and choreographs (and
choreographs, and choreographs) the latest Disney musical, adapted from the 1992
animated movie. While the familiar formulas are not entirely abandoned, Mr.
Nicholaw and the book writer, Chad Beguelin, stuff so much splashy, shticky
business into this show that the more syrupy bits hardly register. James Monroe
Iglehart stands out as the showboating, scene-stealing genie (2:20). New
Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, 866-870-2717, aladdinthemusical.com.
(Charles Isherwood)

'The Audience'  Helen Mirren is Queen Elizabeth II in Peter Morgan's
history-skimming chat show about a monarch and her prime ministers, and she is
compulsively watchable as she leapfrogs through the decades of a long royal
tenure. The play is a fond, formulaic and most respectful imagining of what
happens in private between her majesty and the likes of Winston Churchill,
Margaret Thatcher and David Cameron (2:20). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th
Street, 212-239-6200, theaudiencebroadway.com. (Ben Brantley)

'Cabaret'  Only a decade after it closed, Sam Mendes and Rob Marshall's popular,
audience-teasing reincarnation of this classic musical feels as if it never left
us. Alan Cumming seems to be having the time of his life reprising the creepy,
tragic M.C. The welcome new surprise is the bracing survivalist's grit that
Sienna Miller brings to the desperate Sally Bowles (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West
54th Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

? 'The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time'  Simon Stephens's
adaptation of Mark Haddon's best-selling novel, about an autistic boy's
coming-of-age, is one of the most fully immersive works ever to wallop Broadway.
Be prepared to have all your emotional and sensory buttons pushed. Marianne
Elliott (''War Horse'') directs the excellent cast, led by Alex Sharp, and the
dazzling technical team (2:25). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street,
212-239-6200, curiousonbroadway.com. (Brantley)

'Fish in the Dark' Larry David (''Curb Your Enthusiasm'') makes a pret-ty,
pret-ty predictable Broadway debut as the writer and star of a show about a
neurotic urinal salesman and his contentious family in crisis. Blue language
aside, this play, directed by Anna D. Shapiro, feels like a throwback to the
mid-1960s when Neil Simon was king of the punch line (2:00). Cort Theater, 138
West 48th Street, 212-239-6200, fishinthedark.com. (Brantley)

? 'Hedwig and the Angry Inch' As an ''internationally ignored song stylist'' of
uncertain gender, John Cameron Mitchell brings a new sense of mortal shadows and
rue that only deepens a role he created in 1998. His and Stephen Trask's rock
musical about love and loss now feels funnier, darker and more entertaining than
ever. Michael Mayer directs, with shrewd, crowd-charming razzmatazz (1:30).
Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, hedwigbroadway.com.
(Brantley)

? 'Honeymoon in Vegas'  Andrew Bergman's screwball musical asks New York to wake
up and smell the mai tais. Directed by Gary Griffin, with a swinging score by
Jason Robert Brown and a pricelessly deadpan star turn from Tony Danza, this
production presents Sin City as a little hip, a little square, a little
dangerous, a little kitschy and a lot of fun (2:30). Nederlander Theater, 208
West 41st Street, 877-250-2929, honeymoonbroadway.com. (Brantley)

'It's Only a Play'  Names drop like hailstones in this revised revival of
Terrence McNally's comedy about the anxious opening night of a Broadway turkey.
Celebrity performers (including Matthew Broderick, Stockard Channing and Martin
Short) sling a lot of mud at other celebrities, sometimes hilariously. Jack
O'Brien directs with gusto this fizzy, overlong work that eventually goes flat
(2:30). Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200,
itsonlyaplay.com. (Brantley)

'Les Misérables' It's back -- again. Capitalizing on the popular movie,
Claude-Michel Schönberg and Alain Boublil's musical, about the French fellow who
steals a loaf of bread and lives to regret it, storms Broadway in a new
production. Ramin Karimloo, as the long-suffering bread-stealer, and Will
Swenson, as his relentless foe, give sterling performances (2:50). Imperial
Theater, 249 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

? 'On the Town'  John Rando's take on this merry mating dance of a musical from
1944, about sailors on shore leave, feels as fresh as first sunlight. With
airborne choreography by Joshua Bergasse, the production presents a
parallel-universe New York where hectic urban life acquires the grace of a
storybook ballet. It's a bustling, jostling cartoon that floats like a swan
(2:35). Lyric Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, 800-982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
(Brantley)

? 'On the Twentieth Century' Playing a dueling pair of showbiz megalomaniacs on
a train in Scott Ellis's ripping revival of this 1978 musical, Kristin Chenoweth
and Peter Gallagher are surfing the stratosphere, reminding us that when it
comes to over-emoting, there's no people like show people. Other passengers on
this blissfully bumpy ride include a hilarious Andy Karl and Mary Louise Wilson
(2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, 212-719-1300,
roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

? 'Abundance'  A small tragedy in a comic key, Beth Henley's unconventional
Western about a pair of mail-order brides gets a satisfying revival, directed by
Jenn Thompson for the Actors Company Theater. Peopled with resilient oddballs
mangled by life, this is the sort of production that makes you realize how much
you've missed a playwright's voice (2:10). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410
West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, tactnyc.org. (Laura Collins-Hughes)

'Application Pending' The material is lightweight and full of stereotypes, but
Christina Bianco's performance in this one-woman play is something to see. She
portrays the admissions director at an elite Manhattan prep school. She also
plays an assortment of pushy parents, school staff members, children and federal
investigators, switching rapidly and seamlessly among dozens of voices and
expressions. It's great, if somewhat dumb and familiar, fun (1:30). Westside
Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
applicationpendingplay.com. (Neil Genzlinger)

? 'Brooklynite' An asteroid creates a squad of Brooklyn superheroes in this
goofily endearing musical with a perky pop score by Peter Lerman and a
Brooklyn-gag-filled book by Mr. Lerman and the director, Michael Mayer (2:00).
Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, 212-353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org.
(Isherwood)

'Brothers From the Bottom' Jackie Alexander's Billie Holiday Theater play about
family and gentrification is set in post-Katrina New Orleans. But it hits home,
too, as the brothers Trey (Wendell Franklin) and Chris (Wendell Pierce,
predictably terrific) argue the fate of their neighborhood. There are structural
problems, but Mr. Alexander is kindhearted and evenhanded and the acting stays
way above the flood line throughout (2:15). Brooklyn Music School Playhouse, 126
Saint Felix Street, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, 718-636-0918,
thebillieholiday.org. (Soloski)

'The Bullpen' Joe Assadourian, who served 12 years in prison for attempted
murder, wrote and stars in this very funny one-man show about the characters he
met while awaiting his trial (1:05). Playroom Theater, 151 West 46th Street,
212-967-8278, stepinthebullpen.com. (Ken Jaworowski)

'Churchill' A chatty, somewhat waggish Winston Churchill expounds on an
action-packed career in SoloChicago Theater's one-man show, adapted and
performed by Ronald Keaton. A biography in two acts, this is lecture as
entertainment, and not a play that particularly seeks contemporary resonance. In
recounting an anecdote-rich life, Mr. Keaton has opted for breadth rather than
depth (1:50). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
churchilltheplay.com. (Collins-Hughes)

'Da' The Irish Rep revives Hugh Leonard's semi-autobiographical comic drama from
1978, a memory play with a spectral turn. As the writer Charlie (an adept Ciaran
O'Reilly) sorts through the effects of his dead adoptive father, he's bothered
by a fright of ghosts. There's plenty of claptrap here, but less psychologizing
and sentimentalizing than you might expect. Fine acting, too (2:00). DR2
Theater, 103 East 15th Street, 212-375-1110, dr2theatre.com. (Soloski)

'Disenchanted!' In this musical comedy for grown-ups, Cinderella, Snow White and
Sleeping Beauty lead a fairy-tale-princess revue aimed at upending their popular
portrayals as damsels in distress. But this is feminism light, and when the
princesses rail against princes who expect them to do all the housework, the
show feels like a girls'-night-out retro rebellion for the suburban oppressed
(1:40). Westside Theater Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
disenchantedmusical.com. (Collins-Hughes)

? 'Every Brilliant Thing' A charming alternative to ''It's a Wonderful Life'' as
a seasonal catharsis for those who get weepy in the winter, Duncan Macmillan's
monologue of a play, performed by Jonny Donahoe, describes a boy trying to come
up with reasons to live for his suicidal mother. Directed by George Perrin, this
ingenious production offers sentimentality without shame (1:00). Barrow Street
Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, 212-868-4444,
barrowstreettheatre.com. (Brantley)

'Everything You Touch'  The work of the playwright Sheila Callaghan is not
exactly prêt-à-porter, but her newest play is pretty wearable, at least by the
end. This comedy-drama, directed by Jessica Kubzansky, hurtles between the
mid-1970s and the present, from Victor (Christian Coulson), a skinny and
self-destructive couturier, to Jess (Miriam Silverman), a fashion-allergic,
burrito-obsessed tech goddess (1:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street,
West Village, 866-811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Soloski)

'Fashions for Men'  At the center of this Ferenc Molnar romantic comedy, which
came to Broadway in 1922, is a shop owner so tenderhearted and trusting that he
has nearly run himself out of business. Molnar's script offers plenty of
opportunities for silliness and fun, but Davis McCallum's production misses lots
of them (2:40). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 866-811-4111,
minttheater.org. (Collins-Hughes)

? 'Ghost Quartet' Spirits rise in all sorts of ways in this rapturous little
show by Dave Malloy (''Natasha, Pierre, and the Great Comet of 1812''), a
four-person, happily haunted song cycle that has relocated to glamorously creepy
digs in Chelsea, with enhanced production values and one of the sexiest crowds
in town. ''Mash-up'' doesn't begin to describe this show's breadth of musical
styles or narrative sources, which ingeniously reinvent our favorite tales from
the crypt (1:30). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea,
866-811-4111, mckittrickhotel.com. (Brantley)

? 'Hamilton' You say you want a revolution? Lin-Manuel Miranda's vibrant,
independent-minded new musical for the masses transfers a thoroughly archived
past into an unconditional present tense. Directed by Thomas Kail, this
speeding, sung-through, hip-hop portrait of Alexander Hamilton (Mr. Miranda) and
his fellow founding fathers exudes the dizzying urgency of being caught up in
momentous events as they occur (2:45). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at
Astor Place, East Village, 212-967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)

'Hunter Gatherers' This dark comedy by Peter Sinn Nachtrieb looks in on a dinner
featuring four old friends and a recently slaughtered lamb. It seems as if it's
probably a pretty funny mix of reality and absurdity, but the production by
Playhouse Creatures Theater Company doesn't find a way to alternate between
those two and get the most out of the script (1:30). Duo Theater, 62 East Fourth
Street, second floor, East Village, 212-868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)

? 'Into the Woods'  The Fiasco Theater's truly enchanting production makes the
best case ever for Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's twisting revision of
fairy tales à la Grimm. By stripping the show of lavish and literal-minded
flourishes, the 11-member ensemble brings out this musical's full emotional and
psychological weight, putting the emphasis on the storytelling as a collective
and transporting process (2:40). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater,
111 West 46th Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

'John & Jen' In the title roles of Andrew Lippa and Tom Greenwald's sentimental
musical from 1995, Kate Baldwin and Conor Ryan find a beguiling grace in the
ungainly process of fast-forward maturation, morphing from toddler to young
adulthood. Limpidly directed by Jonathan Silverstein, this time-traveling
button-pusher about a fraying family provides a sturdy showcase for two charming
stars (1:45). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street,
212-239-6200, keencompany.org. (Brantley)

? 'Josephine and I'  Playing both title characters in this musical bio-drama
about the legacy of the international chanteuse Josephine Baker, Cush Jumbo
projects a five-alarm charm that threatens to set the room ablaze. Written by
Ms. Jumbo and directed by Phyllida Lloyd, this production offers an electric
demonstration of that unquantifiable force of hunger, drive and talent called
star power (1:40). Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East
Village, 212-967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)

? 'The Lion' The engaging singer-songwriter Benjamin Scheuer is the sole
performer in this autobiographical show, which focuses on his complicated
relationship with his father, who inspired his love of music but also left more
troubling legacies. Mr. Scheuer's winning personality and lively, well-turned
folk-pop songs brighten the often dark story of his turbulent life (1:10). Lynn
Redgrave Theater at Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street,
East Village, 866-811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Isherwood)

'The Liquid Plain'  Two runaway slaves (well played by Kristolyn Lloyd and Ito
Aghayere) dream of sailing to Africa in this ambitious but static drama from
Naomi Wallace (2:15). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street,
Clinton, 212-244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)

'Little Children Dream of God'  Jeff Augustin's fanciful play explores the
interlocking lives of a Haitian immigrant in Miami (Carra Patterson), a nursing
home worker with 11 children she believes were fathered by God (Deirdre
O'Connell) and the kindly landlord (Maurice Jones) of the building they both
inhabit (2:00). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th
Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)

? 'Lives of the Saints'  David Ives, a master of the tricky short-play form,
offers up a wonderfully various half-dozen in his latest collection. Ranging
from thoroughly goofy to stealthily moving, they are performed by a stellar
cast: Arnie Burton, Carson Elrod, Rick Holmes, Kelly Hutchinson and Liv Rooth,
under the canny direction of John Rando (2:00). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229
West 42nd Street, 646-223-3010, primarystages.org. (Isherwood)

'Long Story Short' This two-character, single-set, 90-minute musical by the
husband-and-wife composers Brendan Milburn and Valerie Vigoda follows Charles
(Bryce Ryness) and Hope (Pearl Sun) from first date to death. (Maybe.) But it
takes too many dramatic shortcuts along the way. Despite likable performances
and efficient direction by Kent Nicholson, the couple never feel fully alive.
(1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Soloski)

? 'The Mystery of Love & Sex' Bathsheba Doran's perfectly wonderful comedy-drama
is a tender and funny exploration of the evolving romantic lives of two
generations: Diane Lane and Tony Shalhoub as a middle-aged couple growing apart,
and Gayle Rankin and Mamoudou Athie as young adults in search of themselves. Sam
Gold directs this delicate charmer with his usual felicity (2:00). Mitzi E.
Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 212-239-6200, lct.org. (Isherwood)

? 'The Nether' Jennifer Haley's very cunning and equally creepy play about
alternative lives is set in a future around the corner, when the lines between
real and virtual have gone dangerously soft. Directed by Anne Kauffman, with an
excellent cast that includes Frank Wood and Peter Friedman, this tautly knotted
80-minute drama is as smart as it is disturbing (1:20). Lucille Lortel Theater,
121 Christopher Street, West Village, 866-811-4111, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)

'Nevermore: The Imaginary Life and Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe'
Exquisitely stylish and excessively bleak, the new musical by Jonathan
Christenson takes the sad facts of Poe's life and makes them gloomier still. The
text, largely sung-through, has a storybook feel. The recorded music borrows
from the creepier side of cabaret. But this is a more morose affair. Sepulchral,
really. It begins upon a midnight dreary and never lets up (2:20). New World
Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, nevermoreshow.com.
(Soloski)

? 'An Octoroon'  Branden Jacobs-Jenkins's coruscating comedy of unresolved
history, adapted from Dion Boucicault's 19th-century melodrama about interracial
love in the Old South, may turn out to be this decade's most eloquent theatrical
statement on race in America. Directed by Sarah Benson in a style that perfectly
matches its mutating content, this exhilarating play is propelled by a
wondrously fizzy self-consciousness (2:20). Polonsky Shakespeare Center, 262
Ashland Place, between Lafayette Avenue and Fulton Street, Fort Greene,
Brooklyn, 866-811-4111, tfana.org. (Brantley)

'Placebo'  In Melissa James Gibson's slight but diverting new play, a doctoral
candidate working on a sexual arousal drug for women (the gifted Carrie Coon)
finds herself in crisis when she finds herself drawn to a co-worker (Alex Hurt,
excellent) after her boyfriend (the broody William Jackson Harper) kicks her out
(1:35). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, 212-279-4200,
playwrightshorizons.org. (Isherwood)

'Posterity'  Doug Wright (''I Am My Own Wife'') wrote and directed this
well-informed but speechy bio-drama about Henrik Ibsen, played with moving
gravity by John Noble. Hamish Linklater also shines as the sculptor Gustav
Vigeland, but the life-likeness that was among Ibsen's legacies to modern drama
is missing in action (2:10). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea,
866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)

? 'Rap Guide to Religion' Baba Brinkman's solo show is like the best TED talk
ever, but with musical breaks. He delves into why religious belief exists at
all, what needs it fills, what its real effects are, and how Facebook and Uber
may save us all (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village,
212-691-1555, sohoplayhouse.com. (Anita Gates)

'Rocket to the Moon' In Clifford Odets's 1938 play, a middle-aged dentist and
confirmed milquetoast (Ned Eisenberg) dreams of a less soul-sucking life yet
lacks the courage to try to build one. But in this Peccadillo Theater Company
revival, a beautifully nuanced performance by Katie McClellan shifts the center
of gravity to the dentist's tenacious young secretary, who is also his
extramarital love interest (2:20). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th
Street, Clinton, 212-352-3101, thepeccadillo.com. (Collins-Hughes)

'The World of Extreme Happiness'  Frances Ya-Chu Cowhig's play depicts the grim
odyssey of a young woman in contemporary China. Jennifer Lim plays the
ironically named Sunny, who moves from the country to the city, where she toils
in a factory scrubbing toilets. It's a good primer on the pathologies of Chinese
culture, but has some blunt narrative edges (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131
West 55th Street, 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

? 'The Absolute Brightness of Leonard Pelkey'  In James Lecesne's thoroughly
enchanting solo show, the friends of a happily flamboyant 14-year-old New Jersey
boy turn to the police after he disappears. With great heart and humor, Mr.
Lecesne portrays more than a dozen characters in this sweet, sad, Dickensian
show (1:20). Dixon Place, 161A Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, 866-811-4111,
dixonplace.org. (Isherwood)

? 'The Evening' In this uncommon elegy for lives lost (which means all lives,
ever), Richard Maxwell makes good on his representation as the great American
experimental auteur of his generation. Written partly in response to the death
of his father, ''The Evening'' uses the classic losers-in-a-bar drama to take
inventory of choices for dealing with life in the face of its inevitable
extinction (1:05). The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-255-5793,
Ext. 11, thekitchen.org. (Brantley)

'Fabulous! The Queen of New Musical Comedies' This show about two drag queens
aboard a cruise ship, pretending to be real women, is a little ''Some Like It
Hot,'' a little ''Anything Goes'' and a lot of good-natured farce with a goofy
innocence (2:30). Times Square Arts Center, 300 West 43rd Street, 800-838-3006,
Ext. 1, brownpapertickets.com. (Gates)

'Five Times in One Night' A series of sketches with a winking title and a tender
heart, Chiara Atik's play offers sex-focused chats from five couples, all
played, with virtuosic timing, by Dylan Dawson and Darcy Fowler. Much of the
show is merely cute, but at her best, Ms. Atik combines bright comedy with
strong sympathies (1:20). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street,
866-811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Soloski)

'My Son the Waiter: A Jewish Tragedy' Brad Zimmerman's solo show about almost
three decades of working in restaurants while not becoming a famous actor and
his Jewish mother's shame is low-key, half-familiar, half-mordant and pretty
delicious (1:30). Stage 72, 158 West 72nd Street, 212-868-4444,
mysonthewaiter.com. (Gates)

'The Nomad'  A spirit of adventure fuels this lucid, fast-moving dream of a
musical, with book and lyrics by Elizabeth Swados and Erin Courtney, composed
and directed by Ms. Swados. Marrying Middle Eastern sounds with musical theater
tradition, it recounts the vagabond, quicksilver life of Isabelle Eberhardt, a
Swiss writer and a romantic who was 27 when she died in Algeria in 1904 (1:00).
Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, 866-811-4111, theflea.org.
(Collins-Hughes)

'Remote New York' This is a remarkably efficient exercise in crowd control from
the German arts collective Rimini Protokoll, which assembles a throng of paying
participants and then sends them onto the streets, in a meticulously plotted
exploration of urban life and their own herd mentality. Using computerized
technology, this interactive work gives precise and neutral voice to a city
dweller's darkest thoughts (2:00). Various sites; 888-611-8183, nyuskirball.org.
(Brantley)

Extravaganzas

'Fuerza Bruta: Wayra' The latest bit of sensory-overload brand extension from
the creators of ''De la Guarda'' is a shiny, ever-shifting kinetic spectacle
bent on disorientation. A high-volume, augmented remix of ''Fuerzabruta,'' this
energetic show is rife with not-especially-impressive acrobatics, throbbing
music, many-colored lights and high winds from machines set at storm speed
(1:20). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, 212-239-6200,
fuerzabrutanyc.com. (Collins-Hughes)

Long-Running Shows

'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages,
340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Bayside! The Musical' A bawdy parody of the harebrained sitcom ''Saved by the
Bell'' (2:00). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, 212-388-0388,
baysidethemusical.com.

'Beautiful: The Carole King Musical'  Becoming Carole King, song by song by song
(2:25). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' An adaptation of
three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books (:55). Saturdays and Sundays
at Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, 866-811-4111,
berenstainbearslive.com.

'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing
African-American pilots (2:30). (Saturdays only.) Actors Temple Theater, 339
West 47th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434
Lafayette Street, East Village, 800-258-3626, ticketmaster.com.

'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the
American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219
West 49th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210
West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'50 Shades! The Musical'  More satire, songs and bedroom peccadilloes than you
can shake a sex toy at (1:30). Elektra Theater, 300 West 43rd Street, Clinton,
212-352-3101, 50shadesthemusical.com.

'A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder'  A feast of murder, music and merriment
in Edwardian England (2:20). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'iLuminate' Technology dazzles in this dance-and-light spectacle (:55). New
World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, iluminate.com.

'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson
Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Kinky Boots' These boots are made for dancin' -- and stompin' out bigotry
(2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West
45th Street, 800-870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20).
Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, 212-639-6200, telecharge.com.

'Matilda the Musical'  The children's revolution, per Roald Dahl (2:35). Shubert
Theater, 225 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30).
Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway (2:30)? Majestic
Theater, 247 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Queen of the Night'  An ultra-lavish immersive theater piece with cocktails, a
meal and a circus-style show (2:45). Diamond Horseshoe at the Paramount Hotel,
235 West 46th Street, 866-811-4111, queenofthenightnyc.com.

'Sex Tips for Straight Women From a Gay Man' Part bachelorette party at
Chippendales, part embarrassing midnight show in Pigalle (1:20). Fridays and
Saturdays at 777 Theater, 777 Eighth Avenue, at 47th Street, 888-841-4111,
sextipsplay.com.

'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30).
(Saturdays and Sundays.) St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The
McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111,
sleepnomorenyc.com.

'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum
Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, 800-982-2787,
ticketmaster.com.

'Then She Fell' Go ask Alice (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195
Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-374-5196,
thenshefell.com.

'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street,
800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

Last Chance

? 'Bambi______/Kaffeehaus' (closes on Saturday) Woodland fauna, Austrian whores
and more collide in Little Lord's latest cultural smorgasbord. Also, there are
Pop-Tarts and Slim Jims for sale (1:20). The Brick, 579 Metropolitan Avenue, at
Lorimer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-285-3863, bricktheater.com. (Claudia
La Rocco)

? 'Between Riverside and Crazy' (closes on Sunday) Stephen Adly Guirgis's rich
play -- about a man of many grudges in a rent-controlled apartment -- resides
somewhere south of cozy and north of dangerous, and it's a dizzying and exciting
place to be. Stephen McKinley Henderson leads a superb cast in embodying
characters who are utterly believable and not to be believed. Austin Pendleton
directs this play, which has returned to the stage after a run at the Atlantic
Theater Company last summer (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street,
Clinton, 212-246-4422, 2st.com. (Brantley)

'Bright Half Life'  (closes on Sunday) Tanya Barfield's two-hander, directed by
Leigh Silverman for the Women's Project Theater, shows the volatility in a
long-term partnership, the joy and desolation, the hurt and help -- all
intermingled, all at once. It follows Vicky (Rachael Holmes) and Erica (Rebecca
Henderson) through four-and-a-half decades, flashing forward, falling back and
sometimes repeating the same scene twice (1:05). City Center Stage II, 131 West
55th Street, 212-581-1212, wptheater.org. (Soloski)

'C.O.A.L. (Confessions of a Liar)' (closes on Sunday) David Brian Colbert's
one-act drama about a West Virginia boy with a bad habit -- and eventually, a
major secret worth lying about -- offers four laudable performances and a worthy
theme. But it would feel a lot more truthful if it dropped some of its
affectations (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200,
59e59.org. (Gates)

? 'The Events'  (closes on Sunday) An agitated anguish beats against the walls
of ritual in David Greig's solemn, searching and very moving play about a
faith-shattering act of violence. Directed by Ramin Gray, this gutsy production
sets the restless pain of a mass-shooting survivor against the stolid, consoling
presence of a community choir, with a new local group recruited for each
performance (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East
Village, 212-279-4200, nytw.org. (Brantley)

'If/Then'  (closes on Sunday) This new musical from Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey
(''Next to Normal'') is a gleaming drawing board of a show, full of polished
surfaces and clearly drawn lines. The shiny-voiced Idina Menzel portrays a
conflicted urban planner pondering two different roads her life might have
taken. The show feels less like a variation on a theme than a dogged reiteration
of it (2:35). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929,
ifthenthemusical.com. (Brantley)

? 'The Man of the Hour' (closes on Sunday) Taut direction, a spirited cast and
marvelous turn-of-the-century costumes animate this revival of George H.
Broadhurst's 1906 drama about the temptation of an idealistic mayor, a story so
relevant it's hard to believe it was written more than a century ago (2:45).
Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, 800-838-3006,
metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Andy Webster)

'Pinocchio' (closes on Sunday) Overfamiliar elements (a mirror ball, a sometimes
blaring rock score) and a galloping pace sometimes threaten to undermine this
up-to-date, family-friendly adaptation of Carlo Collodi's 19th-century tale. But
the production design, blending sophistication with an endearing primitivism, is
charming, and Nathan O'Keefe, as Pinocchio, strikes the right balance between
innocence and rambunctiousness (2:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd
Street, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org. (Webster)

'Rasheeda Speaking'  (closes on Sunday) Joel Drake Johnson's improbable
hot-button drama about racism and antagonism in the workplace stars the equally
fine Tonya Pinkins and Dianne Wiest as friendly co-workers in a doctor's office
who find themselves at odds when one is charged with supervising the other.
Cynthia Nixon directs (1:35). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd
Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, thenewgroup.org. (Isherwood)

'Social Security'  (closes on Saturday) June, the newly widowed octogenarian
played by Elizabeth Dement, never stops talking in Christina Masciotti's
open-eared play, which mines heroic poetry from the banalities of everyday
chatter. Speaking is what keeps June alive, much as it does the heroine of
Samuel Beckett's ''Happy Days.'' Paul Lazar directs a fine cast rounded out by
Cynthia Hopkins and T. Ryder Smith (1:20). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street,
near Irving Avenue, Brooklyn, 866-811-4111, thebushwickstarr.org. (Brantley)

'Woyzeck, FJF' (closes on Saturday) It's a brave thing to take on a literary
heavyweight like Georg Büchner, even if the production scarcely lands a punch.
Jeremy Duncan Pape's adaptation of Büchner's famously fragmentary play sets the
action in the padded cell of the asylum, but the tone doesn't vary much between
reality and fantasy, and the script knocks out most of the performers (1:10).
New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West Village, 888-596-1027,
newohiotheatre.org. (Soloski)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/theater/theater-listings-for-march-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAKING THEIR FINAL BOWS: Among the critically acclaimed
productions closing soon are a musical about superheroes (''Brooklynite,'' top
left, with Matt Doyle, center, and Nicolette Robinson, center right), two
one-man shows (''Every Brilliant Thing,'' top right, with Jonny Donahoe, and
''Rap Guide to Religion,'' bottom left, with Baba Brinkman), and a play about
alternative lives in the near future (''The Nether,'' bottom right, with Ben
Rosenfield and Sophia Anne Caruso). More details about these shows are in the
listings on this page. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
IAN DOUGLAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUDY MILLER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (78%); BALLET (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); AFRICAN
AMERICANS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); DANCERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%);
MUSIC (75%); FILM GENRES (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); THEATER (58%); LANGUAGE
& LANGUAGES (56%)

PERSON: DIANE PAULUS (79%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%); VANESSA HUDGENS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tesla Says Its Model S Car Will Drive Itself This Summer

BYLINE: By AARON M. KESSLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words


For many drivers who commute long distances, the prospect of owning a
self-driving car -- where a driver takes his hands off the wheel and feet off
the gas -- has been an elusive dream.

But on Thursday, Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla, took a big step in that
direction when he announced that the maker of high-end electric cars would
introduce autonomous technology by this summer. The technology would allow
drivers to have their cars take control on what he called ''major roads'' like
highways.

Mr. Musk said that a software update -- not a repair performed by a mechanic --
would give Tesla's Model S sedans the ability to start driving themselves, at
least part of the time, in a hands-free mode that the company refers to as
autopilot.

But some industry experts said serious questions remain about whether such
autonomous driving is actually legal and are skeptical that Model S owners who
try to use autopilot would not run afoul of current regulations.

''There's a reason other automakers haven't gone there,'' said Karl Brauer, an
analyst with Kelley Blue Book. ''Best case scenario, it's unclear. If you're an
individual that starts doing it, you'd better hope nothing goes wrong.''

Mr. Brauer said while a handful of states had passed laws legalizing autonomous
vehicles, those laws were written to cover the testing of driverless cars, not
their use by consumers.

''It's not just a philosophical reason why automakers haven't allowed their
vehicles to drive themselves,'' he said. ''There's a legal reason, too.''

Alexis Georgeson, a spokesman for Tesla, said that there was ''nothing in our
autopilot system that is in conflict with current regulations.''

Ms. Georgeson said the system was designed to be used by an alert driver.
''We're not getting rid of the pilot. This is about releasing the driver from
tedious tasks so they can focus and provide better input,'' she said.

There are cars on the road today from the likes of Mercedes-Benz, Infiniti and
Honda that have the capability of driving themselves on the highway. But the
automakers have taken steps to prevent actual autonomous driving in such cars,
and instead require consumers to keep their hands on the wheel. A few seconds
without touching the wheel, for example, and a warning is sounded; the cars then
simply come to a stop.

What Mr. Musk said Tesla was planning for this summer, however, would be a
revolutionary step, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with Edmunds.com.

''Working through the legalities and the legislation continues to be an issue,''
she said. ''I'm not certain how Tesla would get around that.''

Tesla is not alone in pushing the envelope. Chris Urmson, director of
self-driving cars at Google, raised eyebrows at a January event in Detroit when
he said Google did not believe there was currently a ''regulatory block'' that
would prohibit self-driving cars, provided the vehicles themselves met
crash-test and other safety standards.

A spokesman for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration responded at
the time that ''any autonomous vehicle would need to meet applicable federal
motor vehicle safety standards.'' and that the agency ''will have the
appropriate policies and regulations in place to ensure the safety of these
types of vehicles.''

Other automakers are in fast pursuit of similar self-driving features. Cadillac,
for instance, said last year that it would make a so-called supercruise feature,
allowing hands-free highway driving, available in its 2017 model year cars.

But analysts say the industry is banking that new state or federal rules will be
in place by that time.

''A couple of years is a couple of years; that's a lot longer than two to three
months,'' Mr. Brauer said. ''Maybe Musk is hoping that by the summer he can get
one state like California to sign off -- but even that may be a stretch.''

Mr. Musk said on Thursday that Tesla had been testing its autopilot on a route
from San Francisco to Seattle, with company drivers letting the car navigate the
West Coast largely unassisted.

After the software update this summer, the cars can also be summoned by the
driver via smartphone and can park themselves in a garage or elsewhere, he said.
That feature, though, will be allowed only on private property for now, he said.

Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said the question of
liability for autonomous cars would have to be worked out, possibly through
court cases, as insurance companies, manufacturers and individuals fight over
who is responsible.

''If it's fully autonomous, who's responsible if there's a mistake? The driver
or the company who made it?'' Mr. Tobias said. ''I don't see how Tesla's going
to clear the hurdles. They may have to go to each state legislative body and
convince them, and that takes time.''

Mr. Musk also announced on Thursday that a software update within the next two
weeks would give Tesla owners a new set of active safety features, including
automatic emergency braking and blind-spot and side-collision warnings --
features that are now available on a broad range of cars.

Also to be added are tools to help drivers monitor the status of charging
stations and plot routes to ensure the ability to complete a trip without
running out of battery power.

''It's basically impossible to run out, unless you do so intentionally,'' Mr.
Musk said.

The move is intended to help reduce so-called range anxiety, the fear drivers
have that their battery will run out, prompting them to constantly calculate
distances and worry about being stranded.

The Model S sedan already has a range that starts at just over 200 miles for the
base model. Other automakers have plans to match those numbers in the coming
years. Nissan, whose Leaf currently has a range under 100 miles, has announced
intentions for a 250-mile-range electric car, and Volkswagen has said that it
will build a car that can go 300 miles on a charge by 2020.

General Motors unveiled its effort at a 200-mile range electric car, the Bolt,
this year at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, and in
February said it would begin building the car in late 2016, with a target price
of about $30,000, after zero-emissions tax breaks.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/elon-musk-says-self-driving-tesla-car
s-will-be-in-the-us-by-summer.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTONOMOUS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG
(89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS
(76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES
(73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FLIGHT CONTROL &
INSTRUMENTATION (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (92%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (55%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS
MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR
VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING &
BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: ELON MUSK (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ko in Four-Way Tie for Lead in Phoenix

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 43 words


Top-ranked Lydia Ko shot a six-under-par 66 for a share of the lead in the
suspended first round of the JTBC Founders Cup in Phoenix. Ko, 17, is tied with
Tiffany Joh, Sophia Popov and Kim Kaufman. The start was delayed for four hours
because of wet conditions.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/golf/lydia-ko-in-four-way-tie-for-lead-
in-phoenix.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: LYDIA KO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Djokovic to Face Murray in Semifinals

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | TENNIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 94 words


Novak Djokovic did not have to hit a ball on Thursday to advance to the
semifinals of the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., because Bernard
Tomic withdrew with a back injury. The top-ranked Djokovic will face
fourth-seeded Andy Murray, who defeated No. 12 seed Feliciano López, 6-3, 6-4,
for his 497th career victory. Murray overtook Tim Henman for the most wins by a
Briton in the Open era.

On the women's side, Jelena Jankovic reached the semifinals when the qualifier
Lesia Tsurenko retired in the second set with a foot injury while trailing, 6-1,
4-1.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/tennis/novak-djokovic-to-face-andy-murr
ay-in-semifinals.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Murray advanced to the semifinals of the BNP  Paribas Open
by defeating Feliciano López. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (87%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING
& SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ANDY MURRAY (93%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (90%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Charles N. Shaffer Jr., Lawyer Who Bolstered Case Against Nixon, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 944 words


Charles N. Shaffer Jr., a fastidious litigator whose painstaking defense of John
W. Dean III, the White House counsel, helped cost Richard M. Nixon the
presidency during the Watergate scandal, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbine,
Md. He was 82.

The cause was heart failure, his stepdaughter, Melissa C. Randolph, said.

''We lost a good one. :-(,'' Mr. Dean posted on Twitter this week.

Mr. Shaffer (pronounced SHAFF-er) also assisted in the successful prosecution of
James R. Hoffa in 1964 for jury tampering, the first time in five criminal
proceedings over seven years that Mr. Hoffa, the Teamsters union president, was
convicted.

In the Hoffa case, Mr. Shaffer served on a special Justice Department team
headed by James F. Neal. Mr. Neal became the Watergate special prosecutor with
whom Mr. Shaffer negotiated Mr. Dean's agreement to plead guilty to obstruction
of justice in 1973 for covering up the break-in at the Democratic National
Committee headquarters at the Watergate complex in Washington.

Mr. Dean's cooperation with the prosecutors and his riveting televised testimony
before the Senate Watergate Committee -- later corroborated faithfully by the
White House tapes -- helped seal the president's fate.

''Now, are you ready to go down there and lay out the facts?'' Mr. Shaffer
demanded of Mr. Dean, as recounted in ''Blind Ambition: The White House Years,''
Mr. Dean's 1976 best seller. ''You have to, unless you want to keep lying and
covering up.''

Mr. Dean, speaking of Mr. Shaffer in an interview on Wednesday, recalled that
while he had already decided to confess, ''Charlie gave me trust in Jim Neal.''
Mr. Shaffer proceeded to negotiate an agreement to testify that he believed
would spare Mr. Dean from prosecution. He and Mr. Shaffer also compiled a list
of 15 potential targets whom they considered vulnerable for indictment and sent
it initially to Nixon, to remind him of the scope of culpability.

In an interview on Wednesday, Richard Ben-Veniste, a leading Watergate
prosecutor, said: ''I would say that John Dean was the best-prepared witness I
have ever seen in my 40-plus years of practicing law, and Charlie Shaffer had a
lot to do with that. Was Dean a central factor in the evidence that brought down
the president, forcing him to choose between certain impeachment and conviction
and resignation? The answer is, yes.''

For all his professional fastidiousness, Mr. Shaffer also displayed a studied
flamboyance. For theatrical effect, when he broached Mr. Dean's deal with the
government, Mr. Shaffer called a prosecutor at 1 a.m. and revealed only that he
was coming over for coffee. An avid fox hunter, he showed up sporting jodhpurs
and brandishing a quirt.

He once defended a golfer accused of beating a goose to death with his putter on
the 17th hole at the Congressional Country Club in Maryland. (The golfer, a
doctor, insisted it was a mercy killing: The goose, he said, was in agony after
being struck by his approach shot.) Mr. Shaffer advertised, ''Lawyer -- Cheap
Will Do My Best.''

Charles Norman Shaffer Jr., the grandson of a seamstress from Hell's Kitchen in
Manhattan, was born in Westchester County, N.Y., on June 8, 1932. His father was
a lawyer. His mother, the former Lucy White, worked at home.

He graduated from Fordham College and Fordham University School of Law. His
marriage to Diana Dolan ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Randolph, he is
survived by his companion, Christine M. Pulford; his daughters, Monica Karo,
Leslie M. Shaffer and Camille Farnan; a son, C. Norman Shaffer; and nine
grandchildren.

After law school, Mr. Shaffer was an assistant United States attorney in the
Southern District of New York and served on the staff of the Warren Commission,
which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He opened a
private practice after the Hoffa prosecution.

When he hired Mr. Shaffer, Mr. Dean had broken ranks with the White House,
telling Nixon that the Watergate cover-up was ''a cancer on the presidency.''

Mr. Shaffer, while no stranger to politics -- he was a Kennedy Democrat -- had
never visited the White House and knew Mr. Dean only from a duck-hunting
expedition to Maryland's Eastern Shore. But he moved quickly to devise a
strategy.

''I didn't know what to do or how to do it,'' Mr. Dean said in the interview.

Mr. Shaffer insisted that Mr. Dean testify before the Senate only if he was
granted limited immunity from criminal charges. But the special prosecutor
insisted on holding him accountable for the cover-up. Mr. Shaffer argued that
any criminal charges could be successfully challenged, Mr. Dean said, ''but I
wanted to get it over with and be responsible for my conduct.''

He pleaded guilty and served four months in prison.

Mr. Shaffer's position, however, seemed to be validated in a similar case, in
the early 1990s, when Oliver North was granted limited immunity for his
congressional testimony in the Iran-contra arms-for-hostages controversy.
Charges against him were dismissed.

''Charlie was right,'' Mr. Dean said.

In his book, Mr. Dean recalled briefing Mr. Shaffer on May 1, 1973, the day
after Mr. Dean was fired. As he laid bare Nixon's complicity in illegal
wiretaps, mail openings and break-ins, Mr. Dean wrote, Mr. Shaffer was so
mesmerized that he did not notice his cigar had gone out.

When he was finished, Mr. Dean asked, ''What do you think?''

''Charlie stood up and walked across the room,'' Mr. Dean wrote. ''He stopped
and turned. His head was shaking and his lips were tight, as if they were
fighting to hold back the words: 'The president is a goddamn criminal, that's
what I think.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/charles-n-shaffer-jr-lawyer-who-bolstered-c
ase-against-nixon-dies-at-82.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
INTERVIEWS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); AGREEMENTS (88%); TESTIMONY (87%);
POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES
(78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (75%);
INDICTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); PLEA AGREEMENTS
(73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); GOLF (60%);
STEPPARENTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ryanair Retracts Trans-Atlantic Plans

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 336 words


PARIS --  In a surprising turnabout, the board of the Irish budget airline,
Ryanair, said that, in fact, it had not approved plans to offer ultracheap
flights between Europe and the United States.

Just days after Europe's largest low-cost carrier confirmed its ambition to
expand into trans-Atlantic travel as early as 2019, calling it ''a logical
development in the European market,'' the company's board issued a curt
statement to the London Stock Exchange saying that no concrete plans were -- or
ever had been -- in the works.

''The board of Ryanair Holdings P.L.C. wishes to clarify that it has not
considered or approved any trans-Atlantic project and does not intend to do
so,'' read the statement, which appeared late Thursday on the airline's website.

The reason for the airline's reversal was not immediately clear. Ryanair did not
respond to phone messages and emails requesting comment.

Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, has long made public his desire to
replicate the airline's success within Europe on the lucrative routes linking
Europe and North America, and he first dangled the notion of fares as low as $10
nearly a decade ago. But until its statement earlier this week, the carrier had
held off, saying that the cost of the long-range jets it would need for such an
operation was still too high.

In recent years, a number of airlines, including Norwegian Air Shuttle and
WestJet of Canada, have introduced limited budget services across the Atlantic.
But analysts say it is unclear how many of these inexpensive flights are -- or
ever can be -- sustainably profitable.

Ryanair is Europe's largest airline by number of passengers, having carried 89
million people over the last year to more than 180 destinations.

Despite average one-way fares of just 40 euros, or about $43, the airline is
also the region's most profitable. It has forecast a net profit of between ?840
million and ?850 million for the current financial year ending March 31, up from
?523 million a year earlier.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/ryanair-retracts-trans-atlantic-plans
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC
(78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES
(76%); AIR SERVICE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (56%);
EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (94%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (94%); RYA (LSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR
TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); NORWAY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);
CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Defends Efforts to Help Struggling Schools

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 701 words


Mayor Bill de Blasio defended his administration's efforts to fix New York
City's troubled schools on Thursday, describing those efforts as a cross between
a war and a policing operation -- ''the educational equivalent of house-to-house
combat.''

Speaking at Richmond Hill High School in Queens, which had a 52 percent
graduation rate last year, Mr. de Blasio talked about sending ''SWAT teams'' to
schools with poor leadership and empowering the ''general'' of his
struggling-schools program to convene a ''war room,'' where principals would be
grilled on their data like precinct commanders in the Police Department's
famously confrontational CompStat meetings.

It was quite a different tone from the one he and his schools chancellor, Carmen
Fariña, set when he took office, when Ms. Fariña promised to ''bring the joy
back'' into the schools and preached that ''fun is good.'' But Mr. de Blasio's
newly aggressive language comes as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is pushing an
alternative vision for dealing with the city's struggling schools that clashes
with the mayor's and chancellor's philosophy.

Mr. Cuomo, declaring that some schools have performed poorly for too long, is
proposing that the state be allowed to put them into receivership and hand them
over to new management -- in some cases, perhaps, by charter school companies.
He has also proposed increasing the cap on the number of charter schools in the
state.

Mr. de Blasio has said he thinks the current cap is sufficient and rejected the
receivership proposal. ''The notion of a group of bureaucrats 150 miles away
trying to determine the fate of our children sounds like a formula for
disaster,'' he said on Thursday.

His and Ms. Fariña's approach is not to rip these schools up; in most cases,
they are leaving the administration and staff largely in place. Instead, they
want to coach principals and pour in resources to increase staffing, add social
services and provide training for the teachers.

Their plans, announced in November, have gotten off to a slow start. This month,
the website Chalkbeat reported that a number of the 94 schools that are supposed
to be receiving the help have gotten little so far.

A principal whose school is one of those designated to receive support, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk, said
on Thursday that he had attended one meeting in December and received a visit in
early January from a former principal who is advising schools in the program.
Other than that, he said, nothing had happened.

''We don't know what's going on, as simple as that,'' he said.

His teachers had not received any training -- in fact, he did not know that was
part of the help he was supposed to be receiving. He said the teachers' and
principals' unions seemed to have different ideas of the program. And he was not
sure when the money to pay teachers to provide an extra hour of instruction to
each student every day -- one of the centerpieces of the program -- would come.

The Education Department said all schools in the program received additional
funding this year, but they were not all required to spend it on extra
instructional time. Aimee Horowitz, a former superintendent who was recently
named to oversee the struggling schools, said on Thursday that 54 of the 94
schools had begun the extra hour of instruction and that all schools would have
it in place when the next school year starts.

Charter school advocates have seized on the de Blasio administration's slowness,
sending out near-daily news releases accusing the mayor of making empty promises
and misleading the public about the failing schools' progress. On Thursday, the
mayor had barely finished speaking at Richmond Hill High School when yet another
missive arrived in reporters' inboxes using the mayor's policing metaphor to
accuse him of the ''crime'' of neglecting schools.

The United Federation of Teachers sent eight teachers from schools in the
program to Albany on Thursday to talk to legislators about the help their
schools have received and to argue that Mr. de Blasio's approach is better than
Mr. Cuomo's.

Mr. de Blasio said the state needed to back off and ''let us do our work.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/mayor-de-blasio-defends-efforts-to-he
lp-struggling-schools.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY
SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLICE FORCES
(79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); GRADUATION RATES
(73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (64%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Port Authority Agrees on the Need to Replace Its Bus Terminal, but Little Else

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 978 words


The commissioners of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey agreed on
Thursday that the 65-year-old bus terminal in Manhattan that their agency
operates is an overcrowded eyesore that cries out to be replaced. And there the
consensus ended.

A spirited discussion broke out at the board's monthly public meeting during a
presentation of five options for replacing the terminal, three of which were
projected to cost at least $10 billion and none of which could be completed
before 2027.

Some commissioners questioned the cost estimates; one suggested that ''some
genius'' might submit a better idea than those being considered; and the vice
chairman of the board wondered if the new bus terminal should be in New Jersey,
connected to New York City by an extension of a subway line.

For many years, the public rarely got an inkling of what the individual
commissioners, all appointed by a governor of one of the two states, were
thinking. These days, their disagreements are on full display, leaving observers
wondering how they will ever achieve consensus.

The short-term solution on Thursday was to create a subcommittee to study the
bus terminal problem, with the hope of settling on a solution by the end of the
year.

''I think we were all shocked by the numbers,'' said John J. Degnan, the
chairman of the board, after the meeting in Jersey City. But, like several other
commissioners, he said the terminal has to be replaced because it is already
overtaxed, and demand for bus service across the Hudson River is expected to
grow significantly over the next 25 years.

David Steiner, a commissioner from New Jersey, said the agency had little
choice. ''It doesn't matter if it's $9 billion or $10 billion,'' he said.
''We've got to do it or we're out of business.''

Still, Mr. Steiner said he thought the authority was ''on the wrong path'' and
should hold a design competition similar to the one that New York's governor,
Andrew M. Cuomo, has underway for the two major airports in New York City. Mr.
Steiner mused that ''some genius'' might come up with a new idea superior to
those that had been presented.

But, Mr. Degnan interjected, ''maybe not a Spanish architect.'' He was alluding
to Santiago Calatrava, who designed the Port Authority's PATH commuter train
station in Lower Manhattan that wound up costing $4 billion, double the original
estimate.

The bus terminal, which opened in 1950, is the second-busiest in the world,
after one in Tel Aviv, said Cedrick Fulton, director of the authority's bridges,
tunnels and terminals. More than 66 million people pass through it annually, he
said.

But, he added, the terminal's ramps and slabs are deteriorating and
''approaching the end of their useful life.'' They are not adequate, he said, to
support ''longer, taller, heavier modern buses.''

The Port Authority is spending about $90 million to repair leaking ceilings, fix
up bathrooms and make other improvements. But Mr. Fulton said a wholesale
rehabilitation of the existing building, which takes up two blocks along Eighth
Avenue south of 42nd Street, was ''just not practical.''

All of the options presented to the commissioners at the meeting involved
rebuilding the terminal, either in its current location or on property the
authority owns nearby, along Ninth Avenue. The estimated costs ranged from $7.5
billion to $10.5 billion, and the project would take 11 to 15 years to complete.

Those estimates drew skeptical responses from some of the commissioners. Kenneth
Lipper, a commissioner from New York, questioned the projected cost of
construction, as well as the estimated spending on consultants, architects and
other services.

''It seems this is more like a $5 billion to $6 billion project, rather than an
$11 to $12 billion project,'' Mr. Lipper said.

Mark Gladden, an executive of the Skanska construction firm, explained that the
cost of construction alone would be close to $4 billion because it would require
thousands of tons of the ''heaviest structural-steel pieces made in the world
today,'' to support the weight of constant bus traffic.

Mr. Gladden said it is common for people to experience ''sticker shock'' when
they first see the price tag on projects of this size and complexity. As a point
of comparison, he described the construction of a hub in Louisville, Ky., for
UPS. It cost $850 million to build 10 years ago, but would cost about $3.4
billion to replicate in Manhattan today, Mr. Gladden said.

Veronica Vanterpool, the executive director of the Tri-State Transportation
Campaign, encouraged the commissioners to reconsider the cost estimates. She
cited the ARC tunnel, a proposed rail tunnel between New York City and New
Jersey that Gov. Chris Christie canceled because, he said, he feared the costs
would rise billions of dollars beyond what New Jersey could afford.

Ms. Vanterpool said she had seen a ''troubling trend of inflating the costs of
these projects as a justification for killing them.'' She urged the
commissioners to move ahead with the plan to build a new bus terminal, but said
that project should not be pitted against another of the region's urgent
transportation needs: a new rail tunnel under the Hudson.

''They shouldn't be in competition,'' she said, to which Mr. Degnan replied,
''Amen.''

That rail tunnel, championed by Amtrak, has not been funded yet, nor has a new
bus terminal.

Mr. Lipper said he thought the Port Authority could raise enough money from
selling assets, including the World Trade Center and the container terminal in
Red Hook, Brooklyn, to pay for the bus terminal.

The agency should not count on getting financial help from a ''near-bankrupt New
Jersey Transit,'' or Amtrak, ''which is on life support,'' Mr. Lipper said. With
the possible exception of some grants from the federal government, he said,
''pretty much, we are on our own on this.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/port-authority-agrees-on-the-need-to-
replace-its-bus-terminal-but-little-else.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Replacing the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan, whose
ramps are not adequate to support taller, heavier modern buses, could cost at
least $10 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUS STATIONS &
TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); RAIL
STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL
CONSTRUCTION (78%); AIRPORTS (73%); TRAINS (73%); COMMUTING (73%); BRIDGES &
TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%);
SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Poll on Health Care Law Shows Increased Support After Smooth Enrollment Period

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 615 words


WASHINGTON --  The gap between Americans who view the Affordable Care Act
favorably and those who do not is smaller now than at any time since the fall of
2012, a year before the law's disastrous rollout, according to a monthly poll
that has tracked attitudes about the polarizing law since President Obama signed
it five years ago.

The latest Kaiser Health Tracking Poll, conducted in early March by the Kaiser
Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health policy research group, found that 43
percent of respondents had an unfavorable opinion of the law, while 41 percent
viewed it favorably. Though more Americans continue to reject the law than
embrace it, the margin has narrowed considerably even since last July, when 53
percent viewed it unfavorably in the Kaiser poll and 37 percent viewed it
favorably.

Drew Altman, the foundation's president, noted that the near closing of the gap
had happened after a three-month open enrollment period that involved few
technological problems, and at a time when the law is not being as bitterly
debated in Washington and in the states as it has been in the past.

''It reflects the fact that the last several months have not been a time when,
compared to the past, the Affordable Care Act has been under sharp political
attack,'' Mr. Altman said.

Forty percent of respondents said they would like to see Congress repeal or
scale back the law, while 46 percent said they would prefer that Congress move
forward with carrying out the law or expand what it does. Still, Mr. Altman
noted, most Republicans continue to oppose the law, and most Democrats continue
to favor it. ''Opinion on the A.C.A. is still stuck in an intractable partisan
divide,'' he said.

The poll also found that a majority of respondents were worried about the
potential impact of a case before the Supreme Court that could limit health
insurance subsidies available under the law to people in states that run their
own online marketplaces. Sixty-two percent said such a ruling would have a
negative impact on the country, while 23 percent said the impact would be
positive.

Nearly 80 percent said they were not confident that Republicans in Congress and
Mr. Obama could work together to resolve the issues created by a ruling against
the subsidies, which would block them for people in more than 30 states.
Regardless, 81 percent of Democrats and 67 percent of independents said that in
the event of such a ruling, Congress should pass a law allowing people in those
states to continue receiving subsidies. Most Republicans, 56 percent, said
Congress should take no action.

But in the potentially affected states, even Republicans said those states
should create their own marketplaces so that their residents could keep
receiving subsidies. About 60 percent of Republicans, 70 percent of independents
and 80 percent of Democrats in states that could be affected by the ruling said
they favored state action if the Supreme Court sided with the plaintiffs in the
case, King v. Burwell.

The poll also found that public awareness of the case remains dim, with more
than half of respondents saying they had heard nothing about it and another 25
percent saying they had heard only a little.

Still, Mr. Altman said, ''when we explain the issue to them, I think it's just a
matter of common sense or fairness: They don't get why people in some states
should get financial help from the government but people in other states would
not get it.''

The nationwide tracking poll of 1,503 adults was conducted March 6 to 12 using
cellphones and landlines. Interviews were in English and Spanish. The margin of
sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points for the full sample.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/poll-on-health-care-law-shows-increased-sup
port.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
(90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Order to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Federal Government

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 818 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama signed an executive order on Thursday to set new
goals for reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of federal agencies, his latest
use of his executive authority to address the root causes of climate change and
press private companies and foreign governments to follow suit.

Mr. Obama's directive orders federal agencies over the next decade to cut their
emissions by an average of 40 percent compared with their levels when he won
office in 2008, and to increase their use of electricity from renewable sources
by 30 percent.

The goals are in line with a commitment that he announced in November as part of
a climate agreement with China. In the deal, Mr. Obama said the United States
would reduce its emissions of the heat-trapping gases that are warming the
planet by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025.

They are also part of Mr. Obama's effort during his last two years in office to
use an expansive interpretation of his presidential authority to push ahead with
unilateral moves to combat climate change in the face of strong opposition from
the Republican-controlled Congress to advancing legislation that would do so.

''We're proving that it is possible to grow our economy robustly while at the
same time doing the right thing for our environment and tackling climate change
in a serious way,'' Mr. Obama said during a visit to the Energy Department on
Thursday to announce the order. ''America once again is going to be leading by
example.''

The federal government's share of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States
is minuscule -- less than 1 percent in 2013, the last year for which data is
available -- so the order by itself is unlikely to make a major dent in the
president's broader goals to cut emissions.

But because the federal government is the largest user of energy in the United
States economy -- encompassing 360,000 buildings, 650,000 fleet vehicles and
$445 billion in annual spending on goods and services -- it has the potential to
influence private companies to step up their emissions-cutting targets.

In conjunction with the executive order, the Obama administration released a new
scorecard to allow federal suppliers to disclose their emissions and track their
reductions. Several large companies that do business with the federal government
-- including I.B.M., General Electric, Honeywell and Northrop Grumman --
announced new emissions-cutting goals of their own.

''As we get economies of scale, and demand for solar and wind and other
renewable energies grows, obviously that can help drive down the overall price,
make it that much for efficient, and we start getting a virtuous cycle that is
good for the economy and creates jobs here in America,'' Mr. Obama said after
touring the Energy Department's solar-paneled rooftop.

At a round table with representatives of some of the private corporations taking
part, Mr. Obama praised the companies for stepping up with new or enhanced
emissions-cutting targets.

''You guys have done an outstanding job,'' he said. ''Because of the prominence
of many of the companies here, and the fact that they've got a whole bunch of
suppliers up and down the chain, what you do with respect to energy efficiency
is going to have a ripple effect throughout the economy.''

Mr. Obama's directive extends a goal he set during his first year in office,
when he signed an executive order to cut federal greenhouse gas emissions by 28
percent by 2020.

Since then, said Christy Goldfuss, the managing director at the White House
Council on Environmental Quality, federal agencies have reduced their emissions
by 17 percent, and increased, to 9 percent from 3 percent, the share of
electricity they consume from renewable sources.

White House officials, who are increasingly describing Mr. Obama's environmental
agenda in economic terms, estimated that the directive issued on Thursday could
save up to $18 billion over the next decade by cutting down on wasted energy.

''For federal agencies who are looking at how to cover their energy needs, this
is a very pragmatic dollars-and-cents issue,'' said Brian Deese, a senior
adviser to Mr. Obama. ''If they can consume less energy or they can consume
renewable energy that is cheaper, more reliable or more sustainable, then they
can achieve their environmental goals while they are saving money.''

Having failed during his first term to push a cap-and-trade bill through
Congress, Mr. Obama has undertaken a systematic effort to regulate pollution
through the existing Clean Air Act, advancing new rules on emissions from cars
and trucks, power plants and oil and gas wells.

Mr. Obama has also laid out an ambitious overall emissions-cutting goal for the
United States ahead of a United Nations climate conference in December in Paris,
and is expected by the end of the month to release his detailed plan for
reaching those targets.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/obama-order-to-cut-federal-greenho
use-gas-emissions.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama during a meeting on climate change policy at
the Department of Energy in Washington on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); US
PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATELY
HELD COMPANIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GLOBAL
WARMING (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGREEMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); WIND ENERGY (75%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (66%)

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE
(NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS336611
SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%);
NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL
SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES
(51%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL
SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (51%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC3721
AIRCRAFT (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

T-Mobile Policy Violated Labor Law, Judge Rules

BYLINE: By NOAM SCHEIBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words


A National Labor Relations Board judge ruled on Wednesday that the employment
policies of the wireless carrier T-Mobile violated United States labor law by
restricting workers' ability to organize and other rights, setting a potentially
important precedent for unions.

Some of the policies in question prevented workers from communicating with one
another about wages, from speaking to the news media about workplace conditions
and from speaking with co-workers to marshal evidence against disciplinary
charges.

Over all, Administrative Law Judge Christine E. Dibble found that 11 of the 13
policies subject to the litigation were illegal.

T-Mobile said the ruling was ''about a technical issue in the law that relates
to policies that are common to companies across the country.''

But labor experts argued that the ruling could have major ramifications because
of its sweeping nature. The case consolidated separate complaints from T-Mobile
facilities across the country, while the focus on policies devised at the
corporate level made it difficult for the company to elude responsibility.

''This is not the case of a rogue manager here or there,'' said Joseph A.
McCartin, a labor historian at Georgetown University. ''This is saying that the
company's handbook contained a number of prohibitions that clearly violate the
workers' rights.''

Another labor expert, Prof. Gary N. Chaison of Clark University in Worcester,
Mass., said the decision could prove particularly helpful in high-tech
industries, which are attractive to union organizers because of their growth,
but where employers frequently try to ''create an all-enveloping sense of
loyalty to the company.''

The complaints against T-Mobile arose from workers in Albuquerque; Wichita,
Kan.; Charleston, S.C.; and New York City.

Joshua A. Coleman, a former customer service representative in Wichita, said he
was a top-performing employee when a T-Mobile vice president saw him wearing a
union T-shirt in January 2012.

After the encounter, according to Mr. Coleman, the company rescinded a free trip
to Puerto Rico he had won for his job performance.

He was fired in May 2013 after publicly criticizing T-Mobile over its labor
policies. He says that the company destroyed a notebook in which he kept details
of his organizing activities.

When asked about Mr. Coleman's case, T-Mobile responded that ''there are no
allegations that any employee has been impacted by these policies.''

That is technically true, but incomplete: The individual complaints did not
appear before Judge Dibble because every T-Mobile employee who has filed a
complaint with the N.L.R.B., like Mr. Coleman, has settled with the company,
many of them for tens of thousands of dollars.

''It was not possible for the judge to look at any of those allegations,'' said
Guerino J. Calemine, general counsel of the Communications Workers of America,
which helped bring the complaints. ''She was only looking at the policies
themselves.''

Moreover, Professor McCartin said that even if the judge could not rule that any
specific employee was affected by the policies, she found that T-Mobile workers
as a class were affected.

T-Mobile must now decide whether or not to appeal the decision to the National
Labor Relations Board. If the company loses before the board, it could then
appeal in federal court.

But the decision for T-Mobile is perilous. Workers at Deutsche Telekom, the
company's principal owner, belong to an influential German labor union known as
Ver.di. Allowing a series of appeals to move forward could create public
relations problems for Deutsche Telekom in its backyard, a dynamic that the
Communications Workers of America president, Larry Cohen, seemed to relish.

''Bonn, the headquarters of D.T., no longer can hide behind the false statements
made by T-Mobile U.S. executives,'' Mr. Cohen said in a news release.

In the end, this campaign for German hearts and minds may hint at the biggest
legacy of Wednesday's ruling. Many labor experts argue that violations of worker
rights have proliferated as corporate chieftains have become more remote from
the rank and file. The decision may be an important step in reversing that
process.

''The onus is on the parent company to explain why it tolerates policies in the
United States that it wouldn't practice itself,'' Professor McCartin said.
''That are clearly illegal in the United States.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/t-mobile-policy-violated-labor-law-ju
dge-rules.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A T-Mobile sign in Bucharest, Romania. The wireless carrier was
found to have restricted workers' ability to organize in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROBERT GHEMENT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (92%); JUDGES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); DECISIONS
& RULINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS
(78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%);
DISMISSALS (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(66%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE
COMMUNICATIONS (90%)

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (92%); BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%);
ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (74%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%)

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH
CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Despite Stronger Dollar, Profit is Up 16% at Nike

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 280 words


Profit at Nike, the world's largest sportswear maker, beat market estimates as
sold more shoes and apparel at higher margins.

Nike also said on Thursday orders for shoes and apparel scheduled for delivery
from March through July 2015, a gauge of demand Nike calls ''futures orders,''
rose 11 percent globally, excluding the impact of currency exchange rate
fluctuations.

Analysts on average expected global futures orders to grow 9.9 percent,
excluding currency fluctuations, according to Consensus Metrix.

Demand for the company's Jordan, LeBron, Kobe and KD basketball shoe brands have
been strong in the United States. The company's running shoe brands, including
Free 5.0, Roshe Run, Huarache, and Max Air, have also been doing well.

The sports apparel and equipment retailer Foot Locker said earlier this month
Jordan and Nike's running shoe brands helped its fourth-quarter comparable
sales, which increased 10 percent.

Nike said on Thursday its gross margin expanded 1.4 percentage point to 45.9
percent in the third quarter ended Feb. 28.

Sales of footwear, the company's largest and most profitable business, rose 8
percent, while apparel sales rose 3 percent, Nike said.

Revenue from North America rose 6 percent in the quarter, while sales in western
Europe jumped 10 percent.

Sales jumped 15 percent in China, where Nike has grappled with excess inventory
and intense competition from rivals cutting prices in recent years.

Total revenue increased 7 percent to $7.46 billion. Net income rose 16 percent
to $791 million, or 89 cents per share.

Analysts on average expected a profit of 84 cents on revenue of $7.62 billion,
according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/despite-stronger-dollar-profit-is-up-
16-at-nike.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); FOOTWEAR
MFG (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%);
APPAREL MFG (78%); SHOE STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICES (78%);
CURRENCIES (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAILERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%);
PRICE CUTTING (71%); BASKETBALL (70%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (96%); FOOT LOCKER INC (84%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (53%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (96%); FL (NYSE) (84%); TRI (TSX) (53%); TRI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS'
& INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT
& SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (96%);
SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (96%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS'
OUTERWEAR, NEC (96%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (96%); NAICS448210
SHOE STORES (84%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (84%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION
SERVICES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (66%);
WESTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

McConnell Wants States' Help Against an Obama 'War on Coal'

BYLINE: By CORAL DAVENPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words


WASHINGTON --  Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky has begun an aggressive
campaign to block President Obama's climate change agenda in statehouses and
courtrooms across the country, arenas far beyond Mr. McConnell's official reach
and authority.

The campaign of Mr. McConnell, the Senate majority leader, is aimed at stopping
a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations requiring states to reduce
carbon pollution from coal-fired power plants, the nation's largest source of
greenhouse gas emissions.

Once enacted, the rules could shutter hundreds of coal-fired plants in what Mr.
Obama has promoted as a transformation of the nation's energy economy away from
fossil fuels and toward sources like wind and solar power. Mr. McConnell, whose
home state is one of the nation's largest coal producers, has vowed to fight the
rules.

Since Mr. McConnell is limited in how he can use his role in the Senate to block
regulations, he has taken the unusual step of reaching out to governors with a
legal blueprint for them to follow to stop the rules in their states. Mr.
McConnell's Senate staff, led by his longtime senior energy adviser, Neil
Chatterjee, is coordinating with lawyers and lobbying firms to try to ensure
that the state plans are tangled up in legal delays.

On Thursday, Mr. McConnell sent a detailed letter to every governor in the
United States laying out a carefully researched legal argument as to why states
should not comply with Mr. Obama's regulations. In the letter, Mr. McConnell
wrote that the president was ''allowing the E.P.A. to wrest control of a state's
energy policy.''

To make his case, Mr. McConnell is also relying on a network of powerful allies
with national influence and roots in Kentucky or the coal industry. Within that
network is Laurence H. Tribe, a highly regarded scholar of constitutional law at
Harvard Law School and a former mentor of Mr. Obama's. Mr. Tribe caught Mr.
McConnell's attention last winter when he was retained to write a legal brief
for Peabody Energy, the nation's largest coal producer, in a lawsuit against the
climate rules.

In the brief, Mr. Tribe argued that Mr. Obama's use of the existing Clean Air
Act to put forth the climate change regulations was unconstitutional. He then
echoed that position in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal. He argued
that in requiring states to cut carbon emissions, and thus to change their
energy supply from fossil fuels to renewable sources, the agency is asserting
executive power far beyond its lawful authority.

Peabody Energy has been the fourth-largest contributor to Mr. McConnell's
election campaigns over the course of his political career, and his office
maintains close and frequent communication with the company.

In addition to stopping state-level enactment of the climate rules, Mr.
McConnell's strategy is intended to undercut Mr. Obama's position
internationally as he tries to negotiate a global climate change treaty to be
signed in Paris in December. The idea is to create uncertainty in the minds of
other world leaders as to whether the United States can follow through on its
pledges to cut emissions.

''We've seen modern lobbying strategies that become a very large campaign,
coordinated with states and localities, but we've never seen a Senate majority
leader or House speaker in front of it,'' said James Thurber, director of the
Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University in
Washington. ''It's quite clever. It's sophisticated and unusual.''

As he campaigned across Kentucky's economically ravaged coal towns last fall,
Mr. McConnell frequently declared that he would do everything in his power to
battle what he calls Mr. Obama's ''war on coal.''

Although Republicans now control both chambers of Congress and could summon a
simple majority of votes for legislation to block or delay the climate
regulations, they do not have the majorities necessary to override a Democratic
filibuster or a presidential veto. Blocking Mr. Obama's climate policies is also
difficult for lawmakers because the regulations largely sidestepped Congress.

Using its existing authority, the E.P.A. will require each state to submit an
individual plan for cutting emissions from power plants. Ultimately, the success
or failure of the plan will depend on how -- and if -- states comply with the
rules. It will also depend on the courts. Coal-dependent states and coal mining
companies are already planning legal challenges to the regulations.

Those coal-dependent states are where Mr. McConnell has trained his fire.

Mr. McConnell opened his campaign on March 3 with an op-ed article published in
The Lexington Herald-Leader in Kentucky with the headline, ''States should
reject Obama mandate for clean-power regulations.'' Mr. McConnell urged
governors to refuse to submit climate change compliance plans to the E.P.A.,
citing the arguments of Mr. Tribe.

Mr. McConnell contends that the Obama administration has bypassed Congress and
stretched the boundaries of existing law to impose climate change regulations --
and that he intends to step outside of Congress and use creative legal methods
to push back.

''The E.P.A. is bypassing Congress and the American people by unilaterally
proposing these crippling regulations that would wreak havoc on our economy and
are clearly unprecedented,'' he said. ''I have used and will continue to use all
of the tools available to protect families and jobs, whether that be in
Congress, or outside of the legislative process.''

Advocates of Mr. Obama's climate change agenda called Mr. McConnell's actions
nearly unprecedented, and a spokesman for the White House assailed Mr.
McConnell's moves.

''Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges that we face, and
instead of offering solutions, Senator McConnell's alternative is an
inappropriate and unfounded attempt to dictate state decisions,'' said Frank
Benenati, the spokesman. ''E.P.A. is following the law by proposing clean-air
standards to tackle the largest sources of carbon pollution -- the power
sector,'' he said.

While some governors oppose the climate change plan, others are preparing to
comply. On Thursday, the National Governors Association announced that four
states -- Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania and Utah -- would take part in a
program to prepare to meet the climate-change regulations.

But longtime experts in the field of climate change law and policy say that Mr.
McConnell's unconventional efforts could prove formidable.

''The majority leader is a master tactician,'' said Scott Segal, a lobbyist with
the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani and the director of the Electric Reliability
Coordinating Council, which represents power companies. ''He understands the
legal vulnerabilities, and he's acutely aware that not all solutions go through
traditional legislative channels.''

Over the coming weeks and months, Mr. McConnell's office intends to continue to
push to undermine the climate regulations, using a host of legal, lobbying and
legislative tools.

Less than a week after Mr. McConnell's op-ed article citing Mr. Tribe, Mr.
McConnell's friend and fellow Republican, Representative Ed Whitfield of
Kentucky, was the chairman of a House hearing designed to highlight the legal
challenges to the climate change law. Mr. Whitfield called as his star witness
Mr. Tribe -- who in testimony likened Mr. Obama's climate change rules to
''burning the Constitution.''

In April, Mr. Tribe, representing Peabody Energy, is set to deliver oral
arguments in the first federal court case about Mr. Obama's climate change
rules.

Mr. McConnell's efforts come on top of an initial groundswell of efforts by
Republican governors from coal-dependent states to push back at the rules.
Twelve states have already filed suit against the rules.

In Washington, a coalition of nearly 200 industry and lobbying groups, led by
the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers, has been
working together for months on a set of legal and legislative tactics, both in
Washington and the states, to block the rules.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/mitch-mcconnell-urges-states-to-he
lp-thwart-obamas-war-on-coal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, urged the
nation's governors not to comply with President Obama's climate rules. (A1)
 Senator Mitch McConnell, center, wants to stop rules requiring a reduction in
carbon emissions from coal-fired plants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENERGY
& UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION
(89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%);
COAL INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); COAL MINING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY
(78%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL
DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%);
WIND ENERGY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); UTILITIES
INDUSTRY (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENERGY
REGULATION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL
RESOURCES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CONSERVATION (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%);
LAW SCHOOLS (67%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (85%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (85%); NAICS212112
BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (85%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE
SURFACE MINING (85%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Labor Rules for Public Sector Workers Don't Apply to All

BYLINE: By NOAM SCHEIBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words


In recent weeks, Gov. Bruce Rauner of Illinois has traveled the state promoting
his proposal for more than $2 billion in cuts to pensions for public employees.
All public employees, that is, except police officers and firefighters.

''Those who put their lives on the line in service to our state deserve to be
treated differently,'' Mr. Rauner said in his February budget address to the
state legislature.

By announcing the exemption, Mr. Rauner was following the lead of other
Republican governors in the Midwest who have imposed unwelcome changes on state
and local employees in the name of saving money and improving services.

In 2011, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin introduced a bill that would roll back
collective bargaining rights for government workers and require them to
contribute more toward their own pensions and health coverage. He excluded
police officers and firefighters from the legislation, known as Act 10, which he
signed the following month.

In 2012, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan signed a right-to-work bill, eliminating
the requirement that private and public sector workers contribute dues to the
unions that represent them, whether or not they are members. The bill included a
''carve-out'' for police officers and firefighters, which Mr. Snyder supported.

All these exemptions and carve-outs have a popular appeal. Who, after all, would
deny the heroism of police officers and firefighters? The hitch, labor experts
contend, is that the exemptions lack any substantive merit.

''When you get into structural differences, you're hard pressed to see why
anyone would argue that one group should be left out,'' said Robert Bruno, a
professor of labor relations at the University of Illinois. ''This has to have
more to do with the fact that it's politically dangerous to attack these
people.''

While no one would dismiss the risks that police officers and firefighters face
daily, they are not the only public employees whose work is dangerous.
Statistically, at least, there are far more dangerous public sector jobs.

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, on-the-job fatalities occur at a
significantly higher rate for ''refuse and recyclable material collectors'' --
sanitation workers -- than for police officers. The same is true for power line
installers and truck drivers. And fatality rates for these workers exceed those
for firefighters by a considerable margin, though firefighters have serious
health complications like cancer at relatively high rates in retirement.

But even granting that police officers and firefighters have a special claim on
the public's conscience, it is not clear why the most effective way to honor
that claim is through more generous pensions. It might make far more sense to
rein in their pensions while raising their salaries, said David Lewin, a
professor of management at the University of California, Los Angeles.

For one thing, police officers and firefighters can retire with full pensions at
younger ages than other state employees (beginning at age 50 in Illinois, often
younger in other states). That means they frequently spend many more years
drawing their pension benefits, even while receiving full-time salaries in the
private sector. This drives up long-term costs for municipalities and states.

The early retirement policies also deplete police and fire departments of
critical employees at precisely the time when they are most valuable.

''Why stay with a 130-year-old pension arrangement that came in when we thought
police and firefighter work was all brawn, no brain?'' said Professor Lewin.
''That forces folks out just when they're adding value and intellectual
capital.''

But few politicians are challenging these longstanding privileges or asking
police officers and firefighters to sacrifice along with other public employees.

In Wisconsin, for example, Mr. Walker and other Republicans argued that it was
important to insulate police officers and firefighters because the state relies
on them during emergencies and cannot afford unrest in their ranks. In Michigan,
Mr. Snyder worried that extending right-to-work provisions to police officers
and firefighters would hurt their cohesion.

That argument is hard to square, however, with statements by Republican
legislators and governors like Mr. Snyder that their proposals would be a boon
to employees -- one that police officers and firefighters should presumably want
to share in, not something they should want to avoid.

''This is all about taking care of the hard-working workers of Michigan, about
being pro-worker, about giving them the freedom to choose who they associate
with,'' Mr. Snyder said when announcing his support for a right-to-work law in
2012.

Glenn Grothman, a Wisconsin Republican who as a state senator strongly backed
Act 10 and now serves in Congress, said that by making it easier for supervisors
to lay off state and municipal workers, the law had actually improved worker
morale. ''I've heard compliments from public employees that are happy they don't
have to work with underperforming employees,'' he said.

Similarly, Mr. Grothman said that the real purpose of Act 10 was ''to improve
the quality of education and other government services.'' But if policing and
firefighting are the most critical services local governments provide, the
public would presumably be even more eager to improve them, not less.

James Macy, a labor lawyer who has represented dozens of municipalities in
Wisconsin, said that smaller towns would be well served by pooling their police
departments into larger units. He says he believes municipalities could improve
the productivity of their fire departments by rethinking the traditional
schedule of 24 hours on, followed by one or more days off.

But the existing arrangements are difficult to alter under the status quo. In
the case of firefighter schedules, Mr. Macy said, ''the only way to change that
is through bargaining.''

''And firefighters like that, they protect that,'' he said.

Some backers of right-to-work laws and curbs on collective bargaining for public
employees say they should be applied without exception.

A spokesman for Daniel Knodl, a Republican state legislator in Wisconsin, said:
''Representative Knodl's position on the Act 10 provisions is that all public
employees should be subject to the same provisions. This should include police
and firefighters.''

In Michigan, Gary Glenn, a freshman Republican state representative, has drafted
legislation that would extend the right-to-work provisions to these employees as
well.

But for all its consistency, many Republican leaders are reluctant to go along
with that view. For governors like Mr. Walker, Mr. Rauner and Mr. Snyder,
political considerations appear to trump everything else.

Co-opting public safety employees divides and weakens labor unions, according to
Harold Schaitberger, general president of the International Association of Fire
Fighters.

''Clearly part of what these governors are doing by treating cops and
firefighters differently is driving a wedge in labor,'' Mr. Schaitberger said.

Police officers and firefighters, Professor Bruno pointed out, are also much
more likely than other public employees to be white and male -- precisely the
demographics from which Republicans draw their electoral strength.

One of the few governors who did not exempt public safety employees from limits
on their bargaining rights, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, saw his efforts undone by
voters in a referendum within eight months.

While some anti-union measures, like right-to-work laws, poll well, the success
of many others appears to depend less on their underlying popularity than on the
unpopularity of the groups they target.

''People are happy to see us come to their door,'' Mr. Schaitberger said. ''That
gives us a face, a voice, an ability to not only push a narrative, but to
advance an agenda.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/economy/police-officers-and-firefight
ers-are-exceptions-to-new-public-sector-rules.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Detroit firefighters at a 2013  fire. A Michigan right-to-work
bill made an exception for police  officers and firefighters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) CHART: Where the Dangers Are: Logging workers
had the highest likelihood of being killed on the job in  2013. Police officers
and firefighters fell somewhere in the middle, in  terms of job fatalities.
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL SERVICES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT
SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); RIGHT TO
WORK LAWS (76%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); WAGES &
SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); HEALTH
INSURANCE (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); STATISTICS (66%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); TRUCK DRIVERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BRUCE RAUNER (92%); SCOTT WALKER (58%); RICK SNYDER (58%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA,
USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trillion Dollar Fraudsters

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 802 words


By now it's a Republican Party tradition: Every year the party produces a budget
that allegedly slashes deficits, but which turns out to contain a
trillion-dollar ''magic asterisk'' -- a line that promises huge spending cuts
and/or revenue increases, but without explaining where the money is supposed to
come from.

But the just-released budgets from the House and Senate majorities break new
ground. Each contains not one but two trillion-dollar magic asterisks: one on
spending, one on revenue. And that's actually an understatement. If either
budget were to become law, it would leave the federal government several
trillion dollars deeper in debt than claimed, and that's just in the first
decade.

You might be tempted to shrug this off, since these budgets will not, in fact,
become law. Or you might say that this is what all politicians do. But it isn't.
The modern G.O.P.'s raw fiscal dishonesty is something new in American politics.
And that's telling us something important about what has happened to half of our
political spectrum.

So, about those budgets: both claim drastic reductions in federal spending. Some
of those spending reductions are specified: There would be savage cuts in food
stamps, similarly savage cuts in Medicaid over and above reversing the recent
expansion, and an end to Obamacare's health insurance subsidies. Rough estimates
suggest that either plan would roughly double the number of Americans without
health insurance. But both also claim more than a trillion dollars in further
cuts to mandatory spending, which would almost surely have to come out of
Medicare or Social Security. What form would these further cuts take? We get no
hint.

Meanwhile, both budgets call for repeal of the Affordable Care Act, including
the taxes that pay for the insurance subsidies. That's $1 trillion of revenue.
Yet both claim to have no effect on tax receipts; somehow, the federal
government is supposed to make up for the lost Obamacare revenue. How, exactly?
We are, again, given no hint.

And there's more: The budgets also claim large reductions in spending on other
programs. How would these be achieved? You know the answer.

It's very important to realize that this isn't normal political behavior. The
George W. Bush administration was no slouch when it came to deceptive
presentation of tax plans, but it was never this blatant. And the Obama
administration has been remarkably scrupulous in its fiscal pronouncements.

O.K., I can already hear the snickering, but it's the simple truth. Remember all
the ridicule heaped on the spending projections in the Affordable Care Act?
Actual spending is coming in well below expectations, and the Congressional
Budget Office has marked its forecast for the next decade down by 20 percent.
Remember the jeering when President Obama declared that he would cut the deficit
in half by the end of his first term? Well, a sluggish economy delayed things,
but only by a year. The deficit in calendar 2013 was less than half its 2009
level, and it has continued to fall.

So, no, outrageous fiscal mendacity is neither historically normal nor
bipartisan. It's a modern Republican thing. And the question we should ask is
why.

One answer you sometimes hear is that what Republicans really believe is that
tax cuts for the rich would generate a huge boom and a surge in revenue, but
they're afraid that the public won't find such claims credible. So magic
asterisks are really stand-ins for their belief in the magic of supply-side
economics, a belief that remains intact even though proponents in that doctrine
have been wrong about everything for decades.

But I'm partial to a more cynical explanation. Think about what these budgets
would do if you ignore the mysterious trillions in unspecified spending cuts and
revenue enhancements. What you're left with is huge transfers of income from the
poor and the working class, who would see severe benefit cuts, to the rich, who
would see big tax cuts. And the simplest way to understand these budgets is
surely to suppose that they are intended to do what they would, in fact,
actually do: make the rich richer and ordinary families poorer.

But this is, of course, not a policy direction the public would support if it
were clearly explained. So the budgets must be sold as courageous efforts to
eliminate deficits and pay down debt -- which means that they must include
trillions in imaginary, unexplained savings.

Does this mean that all those politicians declaiming about the evils of budget
deficits and their determination to end the scourge of debt were never sincere?
Yes, it does.

Look, I know that it's hard to keep up the outrage after so many years of fiscal
fraudulence. But please try. We're looking at an enormous, destructive con job,
and you should be very, very angry.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%);
BUDGETS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); OBAMA
HEALTH CARE REFORM (86%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (86%);
HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%);
NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%);
MEDICARE (74%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (70%); MEDICAID (69%); US
PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swing-State Governor Could Enliven a Crowded Republican Field

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1376 words


COLUMBUS, Ohio --  Gov. John R. Kasich was sipping coffee in the sun-drenched
garden room of his official residence, boasting about his ''Ohio story'' of
economic recovery, when he was told that some Republicans thought a fellow
Midwestern governor, Scott Walker of Wisconsin, was more conservative. He bolted
upright.

''I think I have the right to define what conservatism is,'' Mr. Kasich roared,
launching into a breathless oration about tax cuts, the mentally ill, prison
reform, faith in American culture, unwed motherhood, welfare and why he hates
being called a ''compassionate conservative.'' He wrapped up 11 minutes later,
declaring: ''This is a big deal! This is about human life!''

The lecture was typical of Mr. Kasich -- voluble, impassioned, a little bit
scattered -- and his irritation at being compared with Mr. Walker was revealing.
As the 2016 presidential field takes shape, Mr. Walker is gaining traction. But
Mr. Kasich, too, is flirting with a bid.

Next week, Mr. Kasich (pronounced KAY-sick) will ratchet up his presidential
guessing game with visits to the first primary state, New Hampshire, on Tuesday
and to Manhattan on Wednesday to mingle at a dinner with Republican donors. In
April, he will address the Detroit Economic Club, which recently hosted Jeb
Bush, the former governor of Florida.

If he does jump in, both skeptics and admirers say, Mr. Kasich must find a way
to distinguish himself from an already crowded pack. But he will almost
certainly enliven the debate and gain a measure of instant credibility because
of Ohio's status as a key swing state.

''John Kasich is in some ways the most intuitively innovative person in the
Republican Party since Jack Kemp,'' said Newt Gingrich, the former House
speaker, who served with Mr. Kasich in the congressional leadership in the
1990s, referring to the party's 1996 vice-presidential nominee. ''He is very
conservative, but he is very unorthodox. So if he does run, it will be
interesting to watch him.''

At 62, Mr. Kasich -- a budget-cutting former congressman, onetime Fox News host
and Lehman Brothers investment banker -- is remembered on Capitol Hill as a
fiscal hawk. But here in Ohio, where he speaks often of his upbringing as a
mailman's son from working-class McKees Rocks, Pa., he has become increasingly
outspoken about his Christian faith and has attacked his party for waging ''war
on the poor.''

''He's almost like a multiple in terms of personalities,'' said Jerry Austin, a
Democratic strategist in Ohio, who has known Mr. Kasich for 40 years and said
his ''religious fervor'' could pull him to the left on poverty issues while he
tacks reliably right on most others. ''It's almost like you don't know which
John Kasich is going to show up.''

As chairman of the House Budget Committee when Mr. Gingrich was speaker and Bill
Clinton was president, Mr. Kasich drove legislation to balance the federal
budget. Recently, he wrapped up a six-week national tour, lobbying lawmakers in
states like South Dakota and Montana to adopt a constitutional amendment that
would require a balanced budget -- campaigning ''while not obviously
campaigning,'' said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform.

But Mr. Kasich delights in poking his own party. He enraged conservatives by
expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, and quoted the Bible in
explaining his decision. And he has run afoul of business leaders and tax
opponents by pushing for higher taxes on cigarettes and on oil and gas
producers, albeit with the ultimate goal of lowering income taxes.

Like Mr. Walker, Mr. Kasich pushed early in his first term to restrict
collective bargaining rights for public workers. But he backed off, chastened,
when voters passed a referendum in 2011 repealing the collective bargaining law.

''Where does he fit in?'' asked Amy Walter, national editor at the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report, assessing Mr. Kasich's presidential prospects. ''He's got
the Midwest big important state governor credential, but without the
conservative bona fides that Scott Walker has.''

Spending time with Mr. Kasich is a bit like being inside a pinball machine: He
zips from one topic to the next, asking questions, telling stories, dropping
names. He fidgets in his seat, fiddling with his flip phone -- ''You know why I
have this? Battery. I make a lot of calls, and I don't want to run out of
battery'' -- and does not stop talking unless interrupted.

In the garden room of the governor's residence, a 16,000-square-foot Tudor-style
house where he works but does not live, Mr. Kasich began by peppering his
interviewer with questions, then plunged into a riff on some of the interesting
people he has known, perhaps nodding at his foreign policy credentials in the
process.

On Vaclav Havel, the writer, dissident and former president of Czechoslovakia,
and later the Czech Republic: ''I loved my meeting with Vaclav Havel, because
I'm a big fan of his. And he wrote a book called 'The Art of the Impossible.'
Did you ever read that book?''

On Natan Sharansky, the Soviet dissident turned Israeli politician: ''I know
Sharansky. You know him? What a guy he is. Met him, I've talked to him, carried
on conversations with him. He was another great one.''

On Elie Wiesel, the Holocaust survivor and author: ''And I've met Elie Wiesel. I
interviewed him on television back when I was in the media.''

That kind of intensity can be off-putting, and questions about Mr. Kasich's
temperament have dogged him throughout his career. One Republican strategist,
speaking anonymously to be candid, said Mr. Kasich could ''walk into a room full
of supporters, and by the end of the conversation, they all think he's against
them.''

Part of the case for Mr. Kasich is his record as governor. He won a second term
in November over a weak Democratic opponent by a two-to-one ratio, taking 86 of
88 counties. On his watch, Ohio's $8 billion budget shortfall has turned into a
$1.5 billion surplus. He has increased funding for mental health services and
takes credit for 352,000 new private sector jobs.

''He's proven the Republican philosophy that lower taxes and reduction in
spending levels lead to private sector job creation, which puts more money in
the state bank account, which allows you to do more for the poor and the less
fortunate,'' said David Avella, chairman of Gopac, which trains Republicans to
run for office.

That is the ''Ohio story'' Mr. Kasich says he will tell in New Hampshire. But
Ohio Democrats say it does not match the reality of life on the ground here in
the nation's seventh most populous state.

''He talks about how we're having all these successes and it's a new day in the
state of Ohio,'' said State Senator Joe Schiavoni, the Democratic leader, who
supported Mr. Kasich on Medicaid expansion. ''But nearly half of Ohio households
are getting by paycheck to paycheck, and 43 percent of students in public
schools are on free or reduced lunch.''

This would not be the first time Mr. Kasich ran for president: He tried in 1999,
as he was retiring from Congress, and was quickly eclipsed by George W. Bush,
then the governor of Texas. Some, like Mr. Austin, the Democratic strategist,
wonder if he is waiting this time for Jeb Bush or Mr. Walker to stumble, or if
vice president is a more likely goal than president.

Mr. Kasich insists he has not made up his mind. If he does enter the 2016 race,
his confidants say, he will most likely do so in time to be included in the
first scheduled Republican debate, which will be in Cleveland this August. And
he dismisses pundits who say his window is closing because candidates like Mr.
Bush and Mr. Walker are lining up donors around the nation and snapping up
operatives in early primary and caucus states like Iowa, which Mr. Kasich has
yet to visit.

''I'm the governor of Ohio, O.K.?'' Mr. Kasich declared with his trademark blend
of self-confidence and impatience. ''If I decide to do it -- I mean, there are
time constraints and certain realities -- I think I can raise enough money to
get out there and get my plane off the aircraft carrier and fly it around.
There's plenty of good people to hire, if that's what you need to do. And if I
don't do it, I like being governor.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/kasich-looks-to-republican-primaries-ohio-s
tory-in-hand.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, center, with former Gov. William
F. Weld of Massachusetts, right, at the governor's residence in Columbus last
week. (A16)
The governor on his flip phone. ''You know why I have this? Battery. I make a
lot of calls, and I don't want to run out of battery.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MADDIE
McGARVEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Congressman and speaker: John R. Kasich, then chairman of  the House Budget
Committee, with Newt Gingrich in 1995. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS PAQUIN/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2016 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSERVATISM
(90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RELIGION
(75%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%);
TAX LAW (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (56%); PRISONS (55%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING
(52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (93%); JEB BUSH (79%); SCOTT WALKER (78%); NEWT GINGRICH
(57%)

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA
(79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Murder Intrigue, a Chechen Strongman Fiercely Loyal to Putin

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Alexandra Odynova contributed reporting from
Grozny, and Neil MacFarquhar from Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words


GROZNY, Russia --  Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the strongman leader of Chechnya, has been
at the center of intrigue surrounding the murder of Boris Y. Nemtsov, a
prominent critic of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. So before a busy
weekend that included a night out with the boys to watch cage fighting, Mr.
Kadyrov wanted to clear something up. ''I am utterly devoted to Vladimir Putin
and ready until the end of my life to resist the enemies of Russia,'' he wrote
on Instagram.

The question these days is not so much Mr. Kadyrov's fealty to Mr. Putin, his
political patron, but whether Mr. Putin's Faustian bargain to gain stability in
Chechnya, where Russia fought two grisly wars to suppress Muslim separatists,
has backfired, unleashing a violent and unpredictable despot.

Critics of Mr. Putin have warned that he has allowed Mr. Kadyrov, 38, to
effectively create the Islamic republic that Chechen separatists had dreamed of
-- albeit one entirely reliant on Moscow for financial support and where Shariah
law is selective, not absolute. And, they say, Mr. Kadyrov may now be seeking
power and relevance far beyond his base in the jagged hills of the North
Caucasus.

Unlike in other regions, where local security forces are subordinate to federal
authorities, Mr. Kadyrov controls his own internal security troops, known as
Kadyrovtsy. He is known for ruthlessly eliminating critics at home and abroad.
And in Moscow, he is widely resented by the security services for being allowed
to operate with impunity.

''The F.S.B. hate Ramzan because they are unable to control him,'' Alexey
Malashenko, an expert on the Caucasus at the Carnegie Moscow Center, said of the
successor intelligence agency to the K.G.B. ''He does whatever he wants,
including in Moscow. Nobody can arrest members of his team if there is no
agreement with Putin.''

Mr. Nemtsov had recently called attention to the dangers inherent in such a
security arrangement. ''I cannot understand what Putin expects when arming
20,000 Kadyrovtsy gathered today in the stadium in Grozny,'' Mr. Nemtsov wrote
in a Facebook post in December, after Mr. Kadyrov led his troops in chants of
''God is great!'' at a rally in the Chechen capital's new soccer arena.

''What will happen next?'' Mr. Nemtsov wrote. ''The country is entering a
crisis. There is not enough money for anything, including the support of
regions. And the unspoken contract between Putin and Kadyrov -- money in
exchange for loyalty -- ends. And where will 20,000 Kadyrovtsy go? What will
they demand? How will they behave? When will they come to Moscow?''

While the authorities have produced no evidence that Mr. Kadyrov or anyone close
to him ordered the Nemtsov killing, investigators have arrested five Chechen
suspects, including a former deputy commander of one of Mr. Kadyrov's security
battalions.

Even allies of Mr. Nemtsov who believe the Kremlin is behind his death say the
investigation so far has exposed a dangerous rift between the chiefs of the
security services in Moscow and the brash Chechen leader.

The rift is of Mr. Putin's making. For eight years, he has sanctioned Mr.
Kadyrov's iron-fisted rule while seemingly turning a blind eye to
assassinations, torture and other human rights abuses. At the same time, the
Kremlin bankrolled an expensive rebuilding effort that has transformed Grozny
into a glittering Caucasian oasis, and allowed Mr. Kadyrov to amass his heavily
armed personal militia.

The result, admirers and detractors agree, is an over-the-top political persona
the likes of which Russia has never seen: Islamist warlord, Russian nationalist
and fierce Putin loyalist -- at least for now.

Long tied to the killings of his personal rivals and critics, Mr. Kadyrov has
emerged in recent months as one of the strongest backers of Mr. Putin's policies
in Ukraine, allowing fighters and weapons to flow from Chechnya to support the
pro-Russian separatists.

He was a leader of a huge ''anti-Maidan'' rally in Moscow to protest Ukraine's
shift toward Europe, and in January he led a mass demonstration in Grozny after
the shootings at the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, a satirical French
newspaper, denouncing the publication as anti-Muslim.

Posters proclaiming ''We Love the Prophet Muhammad'' now hang on buildings
throughout the city.

On Saturday evening, Mr. Kadyrov was in his element, lounging on a plush
high-backed sofa in the V.I.P. section of Grozny's main sports arena, watching
mixed martial arts fighters bloody one another in a metal cage.

Wearing a red baseball cap and a jersey from the local Akhmat Fight Club, Mr.
Kadyrov sat next to Aleksandr S. Zaldostanov, nicknamed the Surgeon, who is the
leader of the Night Wolves, a pro-Putin biker gang in Russia. At times flashing
thumbs up, and at other times thrusting his arm in the air triumphantly, Mr.
Kadyrov yelled encouragement to the young local athletes battling international
challengers.

''Hold him!'' Mr. Kadyrov screamed in Chechen. ''Be more confident!'' ''Go
forward!'' ''Attack!''

Mr. Kadyrov does not go in much for mercy. He has been linked to some of
Russia's most jarring, politically charged killings, including that of a
prominent investigative journalist, Anna Politkovskaya, in 2006 and of a human
rights advocate, Natalya Estemirova, whose colleagues said Mr. Kadyrov
personally threatened her months before she was abducted outside her Grozny
apartment in 2009.

Two of Mr. Kadyrov's bitter rivals in Chechnya's notorious tribal politics were
eliminated in public killings. Ruslan B. Yamadayev was shot to death while
sitting in a car in central Moscow in 2008, while his brother, Sulim B.
Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, in 2009. The Dubai
authorities issued an arrest warrant for Adam Delimkhanov, a close adviser to
Mr. Kadyrov.

A former bodyguard of Mr. Kadyrov, Umar Israilov, who had documented gruesome
torture and other human rights abuses by Mr. Kadyrov and his associates, was
killed in 2009 in Vienna, where he had fled with his family.

Mr. Kadyrov has generally waved off past accusations, and he was similarly
dismissive when asked about Mr. Nemtsov, a pro-democracy crusader and dogged
critic of Mr. Putin, who was assassinated just outside the Kremlin walls.

''What? Am I an investigator?'' Mr. Kadyrov snapped to a reporter as he strode
out of the Grozny Coliseum at 1:30 a.m. into a brisk night, surrounded by his
phalanx of heavily armed guards.

''Heh!'' he said, exaggerating a laugh. ''This is a question for the
Investigative Committee, for the prosecutor's office, for the F.S.B. I don't
know. I am head of the Chechen Republic. I am not a Muscovite.''

The uncomfortable questions are not likely to go away anytime soon.

Speculation about Mr. Kadyrov's role began immediately after the authorities
announced that they had arrested the five Chechen suspects, including Zaur
Dadayev, who served in one of Mr. Kadyrov's security battalions. In a curious
posting on Instagram, Mr. Kadyrov said he knew Mr. Dadayev personally as a
''true Russian patriot.''

Questions mounted when just a few days later Mr. Putin gave a state award to Mr.
Kadyrov (and to Andrei K. Lugovoi, who was charged by Britain with killing the
fugitive Russian intelligence officer, Aleksandr V. Litvinenko, by poisoning his
tea with polonium).

In Chechnya, Mr. Nemtsov was perhaps best known for leading a petition drive in
1996 that gathered one million signatures to protest the first Chechen war. And
given the republic's history and reputation for violence, skeptics of the
government's investigation say that charging Chechens with his murder is simply
too convenient.

Supporters of Mr. Kadyrov say that his enemies in Moscow are trying to undermine
his relationship with Mr. Putin. Mr. Kadyrov, in his post on Instagram, accused
the United States of trying ''to cause chaos and instability in Russia.''

Relatives of the suspects insist that they are innocent.

''I know they are not guilty; I know my sons,'' Zulai A. Gubasheva, the mother
of two of the suspects, Anzor and Shagid Gubashev, said in an interview at her
home in the town of Malgobek, in Ingushetia, a region bordering Chechnya. Ms.
Gubasheva is also an aunt of Mr. Dadayev, the suspect whom Mr. Kadyrov called a
patriot.

Human rights monitors in Moscow who visited the suspects in prison say there are
signs they may have been tortured, and despite early reports of confessions all
now seem to be denying the charges.

Though there are sporadic flare-ups in violence, Chechnya, with a population of
more than 1.3 million, has enjoyed relative calm in recent years, a result of
Mr. Kadyrov's authoritarian rule and a sustained crackdown on jihadists that has
driven many to neighboring Dagestan and Ingushetia, to Syria, or to support the
Islamic state.

Portraits of Mr. Putin hang on buildings throughout the rebuilt Chechen capital,
often alongside similar portraits of Mr. Kadyrov's father, Akhmad, who became
president in 2003 and was assassinated in 2004.

Islam Saidayev, who works in the Chechen government counseling youths against
extremism, rejected the idea that Chechens had killed Mr. Nemtsov. The
opposition leader had invited his own death, Mr. Saidayev said, by taking on a
system that could not be defeated.

''The Russian Federation is a big train,'' he said. ''Maybe it's going in the
wrong direction, but no one can stop it. Nemtsov stood on the tracks and tried
to stop it. Of course, it ran over him.''

The arrested men, he said, were being framed: ''It's just settled opinion that
anything bad is done by Chechens.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/chechens-ties-to-putin-are-questi
oned-amid-nemtsov-murder-case.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chechnya's leader, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, left, at a mixed martial
arts competition in Grozny. (A1)
A portrait of President Vladimir V. Putin in an arena in Grozny, Russia. Mr.
Putin recently gave Ramzan A. Kadyrov, Chechnya's leader, a state award.
 Zulai A.  Gubasheva,  the mother of  two suspects in  the killing of  Boris Y.
Nemtsov. Ms.  Gubasheva,  who lives in  Ingushetia,  says they are  innocent.
Mr.  Nemtsov was a  leading critic  of Mr. Putin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY
PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MURDER (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SEPARATISM &
SECESSION (78%); RELIGION (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES
(65%); SOCCER (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(52%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (94%); BORIS NEMTSOV (93%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Japan and China Inch Toward Mending Ties

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 324 words


TOKYO --  In a small step toward a possible thaw in relations, officials from
Japan and China on Thursday held their first meeting on security issues in four
years, discussing the creation of a hotline to ease tensions in the East China
Sea.

It was the first meeting since January 2011 between defense officials and
diplomats from the two Asian powers, which have been divided in recent years by
emotional disputes over history and territory.

According to officials, a priority in the Tokyo talks was to find ways -- like a
hotline or a similar phone connection -- to communicate with each other on short
notice to avoid clashes at sea, or at least to prevent them from spiraling into
a bigger conflict.

Preventing an accidental war has become a pressing issue as Chinese and Japanese
armed ships and aircraft have frequently challenged each other near uninhabited
islands in the East China Sea that are claimed by both nations. So far, these
encounters have remained peaceful, but experts have warned that a single
miscalculation could escalate into a military confrontation.

The officials also said they hoped that the meeting would help improve relations
by getting both sides talking, and possibly opening the way for higher-level
meetings like one in November between Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and
President Xi Jinping of China.

They said increased dialogue may also help dispel anxiety in Japan about China's
fast-growing military spending, which will rise by 10.1 percent this year. It
may also allay concern in China about Mr. Abe's commitment to 1990s apologies by
Japan for its World War II-era invasion of China.

''It can be said that Japan-China relations appear to be advancing gradually
through events'' such as the summit meeting in November, Japan's deputy foreign
minister, Shinsuke Sugiyama, said Thursday.

''But it is a fact that Japan and China have concern about their respective
security policies,'' he added.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/japan-china-security-meeting.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%);
FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%);
DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); XI JINPING (58%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%)

STATE: EAST CHINA SEA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Video, Obama Appeals to Iranian Youth on Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 662 words


WASHINGTON -- Two weeks after Senate Republicans issued a letter to the Iranian
leadership warning that any nuclear agreement Iran signs with the administration
may be temporary, President Obama has issued a missive of his own: A video
directed at Iran's young people, urging them to pressure their leaders to accept
the deal on the table.

The ostensible reason for the video was a greeting for Nowruz, the Persian New
Year celebration that Mr. Obama has used before to deliver messages to the
Iranian populace. But after mentioning a celebration held at the White House, he
wasted no time making his case that an agreement that freezes Iran's nuclear
program could open the way to a far larger relationship.

He describes such a relationship in terms meant to appeal to a young Iranian
population that the White House believes cares little about Iran's nuclear
capability and desperately wants access to the West, its culture and its
universities.

''Iran's leaders have a choice between two paths,'' Mr. Obama says in the video.
''If they cannot agree to a reasonable deal, they will keep Iran on the path
it's on today -- a path that has isolated Iran, and the Iranian people, from so
much of the world, caused so much hardship for Iranian families, and deprived so
many young Iranians of the jobs and opportunities they deserve.''

[Video: Ù¾ÛOEØ§Ù... Ù+Ù[#x2c6]Ø±Ù[#x2c6]Ø²ÛOE Ù¾Ø±Ø²ÛOEØ¯Ù+Øª
Ø§Ù[#x2c6]Ø¨Ø§Ù...Ø§ Ø¨Ù++ Ù...Ø±Ø¯Ù... Ø§ÛOEØ±Ø§Ù+ (ÙØ§Ø±Ø³ÛOE) Watch on
YouTube.]

But a ''reasonable deal,'' he argues, would lead to ''more foreign investment
and jobs, including for young Iranians. More cultural exchanges and chances for
Iranian students to travel abroad. More partnerships in areas like science and
technology and innovation. In other words, a nuclear deal now can help open the
door to a brighter future for you -- the Iranian people, who, as heirs to a
great civilization, have so much to give to the world.''

By releasing the message as a YouTube video, with Persian subtitles, Mr. Obama's
diplomatic team appears to be betting that the message could go viral in Iran,
and widely exchanged over cellphones. It was unclear if Iranian officials would
attempt to block it; the country's censors have often been unpredictable when it
comes to nuclear topics.

Mr. Obama alluded only obliquely to the Republican letter, saying that ''there
are people, in both our countries and beyond, who oppose a diplomatic
resolution. My message to you -- the people of Iran -- is that, together, we
have to speak up for the future we seek.'' He stayed clear of the arguments over
whether the accord, which he is terming an executive agreement, will carry the
lasting force of law, or would be a nonbinding political accord.

Nor did the president go into the substance of the remaining differences in the
negotiation, though he referred to the role of scientists -- a reference to
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz and Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of the Iranian
atomic agency -- in what appeared to be an effort to defuse the ideological
issues and portray the talks as more technical in nature. But he cites, as he
has before, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's ''fatwa against the development of nuclear
weapons,'' and argues that with ''meaningful, verifiable steps'' Iran could
easily prove that ''its nuclear program is, in fact, for peaceful purposes
only.''

He tried to convey a sense of urgency, a reflection of fears of American
officials that the complex Iranian political system might make any consensus on
an agreement impossible, and that even if a deal was reached in Switzerland it
face obstacles in Washington or Tehran.

''This moment may not come again soon,'' he says. ''I believe that our nations
have a historic opportunity to resolve this issue peacefully -- an opportunity
we should not miss.''

He quotes the 14th-century poet Hafez, whose work is taught to every Iranian
schoolchild, citing him writing ''be joyful in spring,'' for ''many a flower
will bloom while you will be in clay.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/in-video-obama-appeals-to-ira
nian-youth-on-nuclear-deal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama used a Persian  New Year video to make  the case
for a nuclear deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%);
AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); US
PRESIDENTS (77%); VIRAL VIDEOS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%);
INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dystopic Heroine, Fashionably Tougher

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1189 words


Tighter, tougher and every bit as witless as its predecessor, ''The Divergent
Series: Insurgent'' -- the second segment in the cycle -- arrives with a yawn
and ends with a bang. In between, bodies run, leap and fall amid nuzzling lips,
blasting bullets and periodic story turns that make the movie a modest cultural
artifact if one largely devoid of aesthetic interest. At this point, the
heroine, Tris Prior (Shailene Woodley), can easily lock and load, having been
trained by a thuggishly stylish faction, Dauntless, whose members wear the usual
blah-blah black, tats and piercings and guard this dystopian world. ''They're
our protectors, our soldiers, our police,'' Tris says of them in the first
movie, if also ''crazy.''

For Tris, the filmmakers and those who have embraced this franchise, that's
probably, you know, cool. As the Wachowskis proved in the ''Matrix'' trilogy and
as copycat moviemakers have been affirming since, jackboot fashion and heroic
hyperviolence go together in movies like guns and ammunition. And while guns may
be a hot-button topic off-screen, they remain blandly par for the action-movie
course, including in PG-13-rated movies like this. So much so that
''Insurgent,'' based on the young-adult series by Veronica Roth, features not
one but two scenes in which a nominal villain is executed point blank with a
bullet to the head by a nominally righteous character.

The director Robert Schwentke, whose credits include ''Flightplan'' and junkier
diversions like ''R.I.P.D.,'' takes on this franchise with generic competence.
If you didn't know that the first movie's director, Neil Burger, had bowed out
of the sequels, you might not even notice the change in personnel. True, Ms.
Woodley looks more comfortable with her action-heroine duties than she did in
''Divergent,'' though this may have more to do with her rising stardom than
anything else, including her new director. She looks at ease running and gunning
now, and also shows off some impressive upper-body strength along with some
feeling. Like Mr. Schwentke, she hits all the requisite marks in a story that,
like so many middle chapters, feels distinctly interstitial.

The story takes place in a post-apocalypse walled Chicago largely peopled by
five multiracial factions. At 16, its citizens partake in an initiation ritual,
the Choosing Ceremony, in which, like Harry Potter and his wizardly kin, they
choose their group for life. Born into Abnegation, which values selflessness,
Tris signed up with Team Dauntless in the inaugural movie. As their names
suggest, the remaining factions -- Amity, Candor and Erudite -- serve specific
needs. They were also created by shortsighted ancestors who believed that human
personality was the root of a ''warring world,'' instead of ''political
ideology, religious belief, race or nationalism,'' as Ms. Roth puts it in the
first book. The last time, the know-it-alls in Erudite were looking to take
over; they're still trying.

The idea that life comes down to personality is a reassuring fantasy, perhaps
especially for readers struggling to find their own paths and selves amid the
confusions of adolescence. Ms. Roth's stated interest in psychology may partly
account for why her factions evoke the five-factor model of personality, a.k.a.
the Big Five: agreeableness, conscientiousness, extraversion, neuroticism and
openness. Tris, who is actually an outlier type called Divergent, transcends
these classifications, which makes her a danger to power and assures her the
widest possible audience appeal. She doesn't fit in, not really, except as a
distinctly familiar narrative figure whose radical innocence (to borrow a term
from the literary theorist Ihab Hassan) will help redeem a fallen world step by
anguished step.

That said, Tris still isn't all that engaging, even if she remains an effective
empathy generator despite her occasional need to shoot to kill. She feels bad
about that, mind you, shedding tears now and then amid the mayhem and exegesis.
In broad strokes, Tris is the classic odd girl out and compulsory self-reliant
heroine who leads with her brains instead of her inevitable good looks, the
protagonist who struggles to feel she belongs even though she was born to lead.
Sometimes she's called Joan as in Arc; in ''The Hunger Games,'' the obvious
model for the ''Divergent'' book series, she's called Katniss Everdeen. Although
Tris isn't Katniss, not exactly, the characters face similar hurdles, including
securing the future of their people and negotiating the attention of their
romantic foils.

There's a little smooching in ''Insurgent,'' most conspicuously when Tris unzips
to get down and tastefully dirty with her boyfriend, Four (Theo James). Like
Tris, Four is a renegade with a secret that's revealed in this installment and
leads to the introduction of a new character, Evelyn, played by the always
welcome Naomi Watts. Like most big-ticket screen franchises, this one comes with
some actual acting talent that gives the movie tang and legitimacy and may also
help broaden its appeal along with its marketing and publicity opportunities.
Performers like Ms. Watts and her co-star, Kate Winslet, who plays Jeanine, one
of the baddies in the series, also provide a much-needed counterweight for the
interchangeable young lovelies floating in the background.

The standout among the younger performers is Miles Teller, whose
to-the-screen-born poise and controlled nervous energy make a jolting contrast
to the pouts and droopiness of some of the other secondary male leads. Mr.
Teller plays Peter, a Dauntless member who turns up every so often to help push
the story forward and throw some barbs at Tris. Mr. James has obvious charms,
but together he and Ms. Woodley work like a palliative on the movie. A somewhat
appealingly diffident presence, Ms. Woodley has a talent for carving out a
little pocket of intimacy on-screen, which is why she's good at bringing you
into a character's head space. She too has appeal, though it's clear that, even
after two movies, she isn't as much driving this franchise as catching a ride.

''The Divergent Series: Insurgent'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned).
Extreme if generally bloodless, gutless violence.

The Divergent Series

Insurgent

Opens on Friday

Directed by Robert Schwentke; written by Brian Duffield, Akiva Goldsman and Mark
Bomback, based on the novel by Veronica Roth; director of photography, Florian
Ballhaus; edited by Nancy Richardson and Stuart Levy; music by Josep Trapanese;
production design by Alec Hammond; costumes by Louise Mingenbach; produced by
Douglas Wick, Lucy Fisher and Pouya Shahbazian; released by Summit
Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 58 minutes.

WITH: Shailene Woodley (Tris), Theo James (Four), Octavia Spencer (Johanna), Jai
Courtney (Eric), Ray Stevenson (Marcus), Zoë Kravitz (Christina), Miles Teller
(Peter), Ansel Elgort (Caleb), Maggie Q (Tori), Mekhi Phifer (Max), Daniel Dae
Kim (Jack Kang), Naomi Watts (Evelyn), Kate Winslet (Jeanine), Emjay Anthony
(Hector), Keiynan Lonsdale (Uriah), Suki Waterhouse (Marlene) and Ashley Judd
(Natalie).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-insurgent-brandishes-a-tougher-s
hailene-woodley.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Theo James, Miles Teller and Shailene Woodley in
''The Divergent Series: Insurgent,'' directed by Robert Schwentke. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ANDREW COOPER/LIONSGATE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE
FILMS (76%); MOVIE RATINGS (76%); FILM (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%);
CONTENT RATINGS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(71%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (64%)

PERSON: SHAILENE WOODLEY (92%); VERONICA ROTH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sales by Sotheby's, Music by Drake

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART;
Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1094 words



Sotheby's is teaming up with the rapper Drake in an exhibition of contemporary
works by black American artists on sale at this auction house's New York
headquarters from April 28 to June 12.

The hope is that Drake, whom Sotheby's calls one of today's ''foremost cultural
tastemakers,'' will lend some of his aura to bolster its budding private sales
business.

Unlike some of his fellow rapper royalty, particularly Jay Z and Kanye West,
Drake is not known as an art collector. But, according to a Drake spokeswoman,
he ''draws a lot of inspiration from visual artists.''

Drake's contribution is choosing music to preview some of the art, roughly 20
works by artists including Rashid Johnson, Nick Cave, Glenn Ligon, Kara Walker,
Wangechi Mutu and Jean-Michel Basquiat.

Visitors can experience his picks at listening stations in the Sotheby's
gallery.

Sotheby's, like other auction houses, views private direct sales away from the
glare of the auction hall as a juicy new marketplace. They are attractive for
those buyers and sellers who appreciate the discretion, want to avoid bidding
wars, and prefer to shop and sell year round rather than wait for auctions.

Sotheby's has built special exhibition spaces for private sales in London and
New York under the brand S2. The business stumbled a bit last year, and with
annual sales of $624 million, it provides only about a tenth of the company's
overall sales.

(Christie's has a similar program. It opened its 11,000-square-foot West
Galleries in New York last year for auction previews and private sales and in
May will show ''Colombia Recounted: Contemporary Colombian Art.'')

The idea for the Drake collaboration came through a personal connection within
Sotheby's contemporary art department, and he is not being paid, Sotheby's said.

BIG WIN FOR PHILLIPS

This spring and summer, Phillips will sell about 140 paintings, sculptures and
photographs from a private American collection, estimated to be worth about $35
million.

It is the kind of consignment that might once have gone to its two bigger
rivals, but that Phillips has vowed it would start winning under its new chief
executive, Edward Dolman.

While Phillips's sales are still dwarfed by the multimillion-dollar bonanzas at
Sotheby's and Christie's, the consignment is the first big single-owner
collection won under Mr. Dolman's leadership. If all goes as expected, it will
also be the highest valued collection it has offered since Mercury Group, a
Russian real estate and retail conglomerate, took over Phillips at the end of
2008. Highlights include Brice Marden's ''Elements (Hydra) 1999-2000/2001,''
estimated at $8 million to $12 million; ''Porch Crop'' by Ed Ruscha, estimated
at $2 million to $3 million; John Chamberlain sculptures; and Wolfgang Tillmans
photographs.

Most of the works will be sold at Phillips's contemporary evening sale in New
York on May 14, but some items will be available at a photography auction on
April 1 and 2 in New York.

Allan Schwartzman, co-founder of Art Agency, Partners, an art advisory firm,
helped build the private collection with its owners over more than 10 years.

''They were interested in art of their time,'' he said of the collectors.
''There is a lot of abstract work and work where the imaging is involved with
the natural world.''

Phillips put up a financial guarantee, backed by a third party, to win the
consignment.

Neither Phillips nor Art Agency, Partners will identify the owners, but a number
of art world experts said they are the financier Laurence Lebowitz and his wife
Naomi Aberly, a Democratic fund-raiser.

NEW DIA TRUSTEES

In her new job as director, Jessica Morgan has only just begun her task of
reviving the Dia Art Foundation, but she is already making a few changes. She is
announcing four new trustees to Dia's board: the Greek shipping magnate George
Economou; Ra Hee Hong Lee, director general of South Korea's Leeum Samsung
Museum of Art; Irene Panagopoulos, a Greek businesswoman and collector; and
George Condo, who becomes an artist trustee replacing Brice Marden (who becomes
trustee emeritus).

Ms. Morgan says their appointments reflect her wish to bring a broader
international focus to Dia, which still has no exhibition space in New York
City, though it hopes one day to have one. New programs at its Dia:Beacon
outpost in upstate New York include the Walter De Maria installations ''Equal
Area Series'' ''Silver Meters'' and ''Gold Meters,'' which open April 3. In
June, visitors there will be able to see for the first time 45 Richard Serra
models or maquettes for ''Torqued Ellipses.''

CRYSTAL BRIDGES ADDS ART

The Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Ark., which has
attracted nearly 1.6 million visitors since opening in 2011, has always had
sparse holding in postwar art. But it has been steadily filling the gaps. And on
Friday, the museum -- financed largely by the Walmart heir Alice Walton -- is to
announce the addition of 16 works acquired in 2014, including an important
''combine'' by Robert Rauschenberg. Most will go on view this month in what Chad
Alligood, a curator at the museum, called a ''radical restructuring'' of the
postwar galleries that will provide a better narrative of the development of art
in the second half of the 20th century.

For example, Rauschenberg's ''The Tower,'' a 1957 assemblage of tin cans, a
broom, fabric, light bulbs and an umbrella, set in a wooden structure, will
stand near a 1963 Rauschenberg painting. Once owned by the collectors Victor and
Sally Ganz, ''The Tower'' went on the auction block at Christie's in 2011,
estimated at $12 million to $18 million, but failed to sell. Crystal Bridges
bought the piece privately at an undisclosed price.

To illustrate the bridge between Abstract Expressionism and color field painting
created by Helen Frankenthaler, Crystal Bridges is hanging her ''Seven Types of
Ambiguity'' from 1957, one of three paintings and two works on paper just
purchased from the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation.

Among other new works are Mark Tansey's ''Landscape'' (1994), which sold last
fall at Sotheby's for $3.7 million (with buyer's premium); Vija Celmins's
''Untitled (Ham Hock)'' from 1964, which Mr. Alligood said captured ''a moment
in Pop Art that was once called 'the new realism,' '' and two gifts: Brice
Marden's ''For Carl Andre'' and Nancy Graves's ''Fayum-Re,'' the latter from the
New York collector Agnes Gund.

The new works are estimated to be worth about $20 million, but the museum
declined to comment. JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/sothebys-to-team-up-with-drake.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Nick Cave's ''Soundsuit'' (2009), which will be included
in a selling exhibition in Sotheby's S2 Gallery from April 28 to June 12. Below,
the rapper Drake, who will choose music to preview some of the art at the sale.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ARTIST AND JACK SHAINMAN GALLERY, NEW YORK
 CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL
ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ART DEALERS (89%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%);
PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES
FIGURES (76%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (75%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT
SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

PERSON: DRAKE (93%); JAY-Z (58%); KANYE WEST (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

The Gains From Ukraine

BYLINE: By RYAN EVANS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 846 words


WASHINGTON --  No doubt the war in Ukraine, which has claimed more than 6,000
lives and internally displaced more than one million people, is a large-scale
human tragedy. Yet President Vladimir Putin of Russia's adventurism and
President Obama's restrained response are not, as some commentators have
suggested, evidence that the world's security architecture is collapsing.

Should the crisis in Ukraine remain in Ukraine, this entire episode would
actually signal victory for the international order that the United States has
underwritten since World War II.

Much of Europe is more united on security issues today than it has been in
years. Germany is finding its feet as the Continent's foreign policy leader.
Although many European countries' defense budgets fall short of their
commitments to NATO, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Norway, the Netherlands and
Romania have announced that they will increase their defense spending. More
needs to be done, but that Europe is taking its defense more seriously is
undeniably a good thing for the United States.

In another notable victory for American leadership, just years after rallying
support for an international sanctions regime against Iran over its nuclear
program, Washington has repeated that diplomatic feat against Russia. It was
partly at its behest that the European Union enacted firm sanctions against
Moscow. And those, combined with plummeting world oil prices, have left the
Russian economy in tatters.

In January, the ratings agency Standard & Poor's cut Russia's sovereign credit
rating to junk status. Wealthy Russians are leaving the country in droves.
Capital flight more than doubled in 2014, to about $151 billion that year alone.
Consumer prices are skyrocketing. The International Monetary Fund estimates that
Russia's economy will shrink by 3 percent in 2015.

Mr. Putin, in other words, has bitten off much more than his country can chew.
Russia may still be a nuclear-armed regional power with military forces mightier
than all its neighbors except China, but it is a shadow of the Soviet Union in
terms of power projection. Seizing Crimea and waging war in Ukraine's eastern
provinces has taxed Russia's armed forces and its treasury, leaving this United
States rival weakened, if not chastened.

The Russian government protests that it has no troops operating in Ukraine. This
claim is ridiculous, but also significant: It is a bow to international law. If
Mr. Putin really was flipping over the geopolitical chessboard, he would not be
so dogged about making transparent attempts at obfuscation.

All of this has repercussions well beyond Europe. Some commentators fear that
Washington's failure to react more robustly to Russia's aggression in Ukraine
might encourage China to seize territory from its neighbors in Asia. In fact,
the crisis in Ukraine has demonstrated that America's commitments to its allies
remain sacrosanct, and that sends an important deterrent signal to China.

The Chinese Communist Party should be wondering if it would trigger severe
reprisals in East Asia should it ever secure disputed reefs or islands in the
South or East China Seas. China makes much of its wealth by exporting
manufactured goods, and is at least as vulnerable as Russia to international
sanctions and other more assertive countermeasures, such as a naval blockade.

For China's neighbors, too, the crisis in Ukraine should both justify and
strengthen the current American-led international order. Ukraine had made itself
vulnerable by tolerating corruption and failing to modernize its military
forces; Asian states beware. Especially for those not formally allied with the
United States, the risks of remaining outside regional security arrangements
have become plain. It is no coincidence that Vietnam and Malaysia have been
trying to forge stronger relations with the United States.

Ukraine's fate as a united entity is uncertain, and the ongoing suffering of its
people should not be minimized. But as grave as these issues are, they do not
threaten the vital strategic interests of the United States. If anything,
Russia's war in Ukraine means net benefits for Washington: NATO allies are
recognizing the importance of strengthening their defense capabilities; the
states of Europe have drawn closer together; and countries elsewhere are seeing
the need to offset regional powers by strengthening their own military forces
and forging alliances.

This is a point well worth underlining to the hawks in Washington. Indeed,
people in both main parties are insisting that the United States arm Ukraine,
even though that course of action risks escalating the conflict into a larger
and deadlier war, while undermining the unexpected gains it has brought to date.
Mr. Putin's gambit in Ukraine was a bid to boost Russia's strength and world
standing, but it is only bolstering the American-sponsored world order. Don't
interrupt the enemy while he makes the wrong move.

Ryan Evans  is the editor in chief of War on the Rocks, a digital platform on
strategy, defense and foreign affairs.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/the-gains-from-ukraine.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); 2014 UKRAINIAN
PROTESTS & UPRISING (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (88%); PRICES (88%); FINANCIAL
RATINGS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BUDGETS
(78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%);
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%);
EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT
(69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); CREDIT RATINGS (64%);
SOVEREIGN RISK (64%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE
(94%); UKRAINE (93%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORWAY (79%); LITHUANIA
(79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%);
POLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Honda Expands U.S. Recall for Airbags, Adding '08 Pilot

BYLINE: By DANIELLE IVORY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 309 words


Honda Motor is expanding a national recall of vehicles with Takata-made airbags
to include more than 104,000 cars, including one model that had not been
included in previous recalls for the defect. Takata airbags can deploy violently
and send metal fragments at passengers.

On Thursday, the automaker said it would recall certain 2008 Pilots, 2004 Civics
and 2001 Accords. No 2008 Pilots had been recalled before for the defect.

The company said in a regulatory filing that all of the vehicles had been
identified on March 5 through a process of matching Takata airbag inflater part
numbers to individual vehicle identification numbers, or VINs. Honda discovered
that the more than 88,000 Pilots should have been included last year's
Takata-related recall, a limited regional action that was expanded nationally in
December after pressure from federal regulators.

Chris Martin, a Honda spokesman, said the company had no reason to believe that
further expansions of the recall would be necessary. Mr. Martin said that about
6.2 million Honda and Acura vehicles in the United States had now been subject
to safety campaigns related to airbag ruptures.

He said that Honda had not been able to estimate the number of vehicles affected
worldwide, but that about 14.3 million Takata airbag inflaters in Honda and
Acura cars globally have been subject to recalls.

More than 18 million vehicles with the faulty airbags, including cars produced
by Honda, Chrysler, Ford and other major automakers, have been recalled in the
United States, and at least six deaths worldwide have been linked to the defect.
Last month, safety regulators began to fine Takata $14,000 a day for not fully
cooperating with its investigation into the Japanese supplier's hazardous
airbags.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/honda-expands-takata-airbag-related-r
ecalls.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (91%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%);
AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); AVIATION
REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (59%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%);
NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111
AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: In 'Hierba Mala Nunca Muere,' Castro Rails Against Change

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 325 words


The old bird is understandably confused. When he was a boy, Havana was sometimes
called the Paris of the Caribbean. He thought he had put an end to that
capitalist decadence, but now that he's in his late 80s, some guy is suddenly
trying to open Cuba back up again. And the guy is black.

That is just one of the threads that make up the antic ''Hierba Mala Nunca
Muere'' (''Weeds Just Won't Die''), a topical deathbed farce receiving its world
premiere at Repertorio Español. The old bird is Fidel Castro, and the thorn in
his increasingly feeble side is President Obama, whose efforts to normalize
relations have his head spinning.

It's spinning so much, in fact, that he barely realizes two people in his
hospital room are debating how best to kill him.

Mr. Castro's health is of course a constant subject of speculation among Cuba
watchers; in this play, by Juan Claudio Lechín, he is frail and vacillating
between lucidity and delusion. Germán Jaramillo gives a bravura performance in
the role, managing to generate sympathy even while running through a laundry
list of the man's misdeeds and prejudices.

Nataly (Idalmis García), an assassin disguised as a nurse, and Patín (Sandor
Juan), her assistant, gain access to his room but can't decide how or even
whether to kill him. Is smothering the way to go? How about getting him so riled
up that he has a heart attack? It's a recipe for broad comedy that works pretty
well and gives Mr. Lechín a forum for airing all sorts of grievances against Mr.
Castro. Racism is among the main ones; the Castro we see holds offensive views
about Cuba's black population.

The play is performed in Spanish, with English subtitles available. Subtle
comedy sometimes has a difficult time crossing a language barrier, but the
slapstick humor here translates easily.

''Hierba Mala Nunca Muere'' runs through June 21 at Repertorio Español, 138 East
27th Street, Manhattan; 212-225-9999, repertorio.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/theater/review-in-hierba-mala-nunca-muere-cast
ro-rails-against-change.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (89%); RACE & RACISM (76%); NURSES & NURSING (68%);
RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%)

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (92%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Age-Old Angst: How to Have It All

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words


Do the responsibilities that come with age inevitably erode the ideals of youth?
Can women achieve the most in their careers while enjoying a fully satisfying
family life? Is sadness a natural -- as opposed to pathological -- response to
the realization that life will not bring us everything we had hoped it would?

These questions resonate today as strongly, and at times as painfully, as they
did when Wendy Wasserstein's most celebrated play, ''The Heidi Chronicles,''
stormed Broadway in 1989, going on to win the best play Tony Award and the
Pulitzer Prize the next year. They are being posed once again, with the same
bright humor and reflective intelligence, in the vibrant revival that opened at
the Music Box Theater on Thursday night, led by a softly radiant Elisabeth Moss
in the title role.

Ms. Moss, a superb actor who possesses an unusual ability to project innocence
and smarts at the same time, inherits a role played by many since Joan Allen
originated it when the play had its premiere at Playwrights Horizons Off
Broadway. (I saw Mary McDonnell, one of several who succeeded Ms. Allen during
the play's long Broadway run; Jamie Lee Curtis played the role in a television
movie.) Known for her demure but ambitious Peggy in ''Mad Men,'' Ms. Moss puts
her own distinctive stamp on the part. As Heidi Holland grows from a burgeoning
feminist in the 1960s to a high-achieving but emotionally fragile art historian
in the 1970s and '80s, Ms. Moss is constantly questioning both her own choices
and those of the circle of friends and lovers who surround her.

Ms. Moss's affecting Heidi may lack the confidence that others possess or
project. But loyalty to her intelligence and her authenticity of feeling --
including the right to feel both ''worthless'' and ''superior'' at the same time
-- are the lodestars that keep her from succumbing to debilitating doubt as she
watches relationships wither or evolve.

I'll admit to some anxiety on the question of the play's durability. Much of its
humor is grounded in gentle satire of the specific experiences and obsessions of
the baby boom generation -- matters that might seem to have sprung from a time
capsule today. (Um, Bert Lance -- who he?) Would gags about radical feminism
still land in the age of Sheryl Sandberg's ''Lean In''?

Fortunately, under the direction of Pam MacKinnon and in the hands of a fine
supporting cast, notably Jason Biggs and Bryce Pinkham as the men in (and
largely out) of Heidi's life, the play's humor retains its buoyancy, even when
the specific matters at hand -- the politics of the Vietnam era, or the
consciousness-raising mania that fed the women's rights movement in the 1970s --
have acquired the distancing patina of textbook history. Projections by Peter
Nigrini, John Lee Beatty's detailed sets and a nifty retro-pop soundtrack help
to vividly evoke the passing decades. And the immense popularity of ''Lean In''
and books about the motherhood-vs.-career debate attest to how germane the
play's questions remain, notwithstanding the strides women have made since its
premiere.

We first meet Heidi in high school, evincing the insecurity about engaging with
the opposite sex that will remain a nagging problem, one that her best friend,
Susan (a tartly funny Ali Ahn), doesn't possess, as she hitches up her skirt and
goes on the prowl. Fortunately, the fragrance of the wallflower has an allure
for Peter Patrone (Mr. Pinkham), who rescues Heidi from her abandonment by
making witty repartee that signals -- perhaps a little too archly, in Mr.
Pinkham's boisterous reading -- that he will not be the romantic answer to
Heidi's dreams. (Happily, Mr. Pinkham's performance grows much more nuanced, and
ultimately very moving, as Peter matures into a doctor running a children's
ward.)

Both Susan and Peter remain touchstones in Heidi's life, as does Scoop Rosenbaum
(Mr. Biggs), the man she meets a few years later, at a dance for Eugene McCarthy
in New Hampshire, where Heidi feels almost as awkward as she did in high school.
He pours on the glib charm -- Mr. Biggs comes by it naturally -- and casually
suggests they sleep together. Despite his strong attraction to her intelligence
and independence, Scoop has an eye on the main chance, meaning his own, and
eventually marries a less smart but more accommodating woman, Lisa (Leighton
Bryan).

As she moves through life, Heidi instinctively resists simple dichotomies,
whether they are promulgated by the radical feminist Fran (played with
sensationally funny zest by Tracee Chimo), whose mantra is ''Either you shave
your legs or you don't,'' or by Scoop, who believes that a man and woman who
marry and both seek self-fulfillment will be ''competing with each other.'' But
Heidi's faithfulness to her fundamental beliefs -- among them that ''all people
deserve to fulfill their potential'' -- ultimately leaves her feeling adrift as
the moat of middle age approaches.

Wasserstein, who died at 55 in 2006, structured the play as an animated tableau
of the turning points in Heidi's life, an episodic style that can be tricky,
leading to surface-skimming or blunt point-making. But the writing is, for the
most part, so sharp and precisely observed, despite its wide scope, that we
rarely feel any shortcuts are being taken.

On occasion the jokes can be a little stretched, even when, as in the
(implausible) talk show scene, they are hilariously handled by the cast. Nor
does Wasserstein always avoid cliché, as when Scoop tells Heidi, in
soap-opera-ese, ''I never meant to hurt you.'' But throughout the play her keen
ear for comic absurdity grounded in truth is matched by a probing compassion for
her characters, even when they are viewed through a sardonic lens.

For me, the moving heart of ''The Heidi Chronicles'' remains the wonderful
monologue in the second act. Heidi is speaking at a gathering of her high school
alumnae, but instead of the usual manicured, upbeat speech, she delivers an
off-the-cuff, emotionally exposed anecdote. It's really a play in itself, about
the sense of alienation she felt that day from other women in a gym locker room:
women she respects and admires, in some senses, but whose choices to pursue
life's more superficial rewards leave her feeling ''stranded.''

Ms. Moss, her eyes moistening even as her voice remains strong, delivers this
beautiful speech with a grace that grows stronger as Heidi's peppery, self-aware
humor gives way to lacerating honesty. Those are, as it happens, key notes in
Wasserstein's durable play, and Ms. Moss and her collaborators in this sterling
production sing them forth with a revitalizing warmth.

The Heidi Chronicles

By Wendy Wasserstein; directed by Pam MacKinnon; sets by John Lee Beatty;
costumes by Jessica Pabst; lighting by Japhy Weideman; sound by Jill B C Du
Boff; projections by Peter Nigrini; hair and makeup design by Leah J. Loukas;
technical supervision by Hudson Theatrical Associates; production stage manager,
Charles M. Turner III; associate producers, Kathy Henderson and Steven Strauss;
general manager, Bespoke Theatricals. Presented by Jeffrey Richards, Jerry
Frankel, Susan Gallin, Mary Lu Roffe, Eagle Productions, Stacy Jacobs, LTPS
Productions, Gabrielle Palitz, Sally Horchow, Rebecca Gold, Ken Greiner,
Grimaldi & WSProductions, Jamie deRoy & friends, Amy Kaissar, Suzanne Friedman,
Ed Goldstone, Jessica Genick and Will Trice. At the Music Box Theater, 239 West
45th Street, Manhattan; 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. Running time: 2 hours 35
minutes.

WITH: Elisabeth Moss (Heidi Holland), Jason Biggs (Scoop Rosenbaum), Bryce
Pinkham (Peter Patrone), Ali Ahn (Susan Johnston), Leighton Bryan
(Jill/Debbie/Lisa/Hostess), Elise Kibler (Becky/Clara/Denise), Andy Truschinski
(Chris Boxer/Mark/Waiter/Ray) and Tracee Chimo (Fran/Molly/Betsy/April).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/theater/review-the-heidi-chronicles-with-elisa
beth-moss-opens-on-broadway.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Heidi Chronicles: Elisabeth Moss and Bryce Pinkham in a
revival of this Wendy Wasserstein play that opened on Thursday at the Music Box.
(C1)
 From left, Tracee Chimo, Elise Kibler and Elisabeth Moss, who portrays the
title character, Heidi Holland, in this play directed by Pam MacKinnon.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FAMILY (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%);
ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TONY AWARDS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%);
WRITERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); HISTORY (64%); THEATER (56%);
TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); ART HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: ELISABETH MOSS (93%); SHERYL SANDBERG (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Arthur A. Hartman, U.S. Ambassador to Soviet Union, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 866 words


Arthur A. Hartman, who was Washington's longest-serving ambassador to the Soviet
Union and the Reagan administration's point man in Moscow during a succession of
delicate Cold War crises, died on Monday in Washington. He was 89.

The cause was complications after surgery for a leg he broke in a fall, his
daughter Lise Hartman de Fouchier said.

For nearly four decades after quitting Harvard Law School in 1948, Mr. Hartman
filled a dozen or so economic and diplomatic Foreign Service posts under both
Republican and Democratic administrations. President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat,
named him ambassador to France in 1977 -- he was only the second career diplomat
since World War II, after Charles E. Bohlen, to hold the Paris post -- and
Ronald Reagan, a Republican, appointed him envoy to the Soviet Union in 1981.

His tenure in Moscow bridged the tense aftermath of the Soviet invasion of
Afghanistan, the shooting down of a Korean airliner by the Russian Air Force,
the arrest of an American journalist as a spy, the Chernobyl nuclear disaster,
the abandonment of the unfinished eight-story United States embassy in Moscow
after electronic listening devices were discovered, and the beginnings of
glasnost, or transparency, under Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the waning years of
Soviet Communism.

In France, without mincing words, he managed not only to get along with Valéry
Giscard d'Estaing, a centrist, and François Mitterrand, a Socialist; he also
captivated normally unimpressible Parisians. One week, Le Nouvel Observateur
even chose Mr. Hartman as the arbiter of local cultural events.

''That the newspaper, a pillar of the French left, should pick the American
ambassador to tell Parisian intellectuals what to go see or hear was nothing
short of remarkable,'' The New York Times said in a profile of him. ''Not since
Benjamin Franklin has an American envoy to France been given such public
recognition for his culture.''

Arthur Adair Hartman was born on March 12, 1926, in Flushing, Queens, to Joel
Hartman, who owned a paper mill, and the former May Weinstein. He graduated from
Flushing High School, served in the Army Air Corps in Asia in World War II,
returned to graduate from Harvard University and left law school to join the
Marshall Plan administration in Europe. His next step was the Foreign Service,
and he served in Saigon in the 1950s.

Before being posted to Paris, among his posts were under secretary of state for
economic affairs in the 1960s and assistant secretary of state for European
affairs under Henry A. Kissinger.

Elegant and intellectual, Mr. Hartman was described in the Times profile as
''silver-haired, tall, and with a slight stoop that is more purposeful -- it is,
after all, necessary to communicate with shorter people -- than deferential.''

In an email, Leslie Gelb, a former assistant secretary of state, said of Mr.
Hartman, ''Instead of taking on direct fights, he'd often ask questions designed
to show the silliness or unworkability of what was being discussed.''

In Moscow he dealt with four successive Soviet leaders. Even before he formally
presented his credentials, he had to assure the Soviets that President Reagan
had misspoken when he suggested that a limited nuclear war could be waged in
Europe without spreading to the United States. He later defended trade sanctions
imposed by Washington to punish human rights abuses and rebuked American
businessmen for balking at them.

He left Moscow in 1987 and was succeeded by Jack F. Matlock Jr., another career
diplomat.

Besides his daughter Lise, Mr. Hartman is survived by his wife, the former Donna
Van Dyke Ford, whom he married in 1949; four other children, David, John, Ben
and Sarah Hartman; 15 grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren. The couple
lived in Washington. He died in a hospital there.

In Moscow, the Hartmans transformed the ambassador's residence, Spaso House,
into a gathering place for intellectuals, dissidents and artists. Some of them,
including the pianist Vladimir Feltsman, were allowed to emigrate at the
couple's behest. Vladimir Horowitz, the Russian-born pianist, stayed there when
he returned to his homeland for the first time in six decades.

Mrs. Hartman organized the gatherings, a task made more challenging when the
Kremlin barred 260 Soviet nationals from working for the embassy in response to
accusations of security breaches there. She had to do the cooking. He drove
himself to work.

The allegations prompted an American investigation, which criticized the
ambassador for failing to correct lapses that led to the bugging of typewriters
and the seduction of Marines stationed at the embassy. Mr. Hartman said the
criticism was unfair. American officials did not offer any evidence that secrets
had been compromised.

Years later, according to a former colleague, David Kenney, Mr. Hartman
remembered telling the investigators that while it would have been disturbing if
Soviet agents had indeed penetrated the old embassy and intercepted messages
between Washington and Moscow, there might have been a bright side.

''At least,'' he was said to have remarked, ''they would have learned that we
were telling them the truth.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/us/arthur-a-hartman-us-ambassador-to-soviet-un
ion-dies-at-89.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FRENCH PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); DIPLOMATIC
SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WORLD
WAR II (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); WRITERS
(72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR
DISASTER (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); PAPER MILLS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY,
VIETNAM (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE
(92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); VIETNAM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Take Google to Court, Staff Report Urged F.T.C.

BYLINE: By REBECCA R. RUIZ and CONOR DOUGHERTY.

James B. Stewart, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is
away.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words


The Federal Trade Commission on Thursday faced renewed questions about its
handling of its antitrust investigation into Google, after documents revealed
that an internal report had recommended stronger action.

The 2012 report, from the agency's bureau of competition, said that the agency
should sue the Internet search company for anticompetitive practices, according
to several people who saw the report but would speak about it only under the
condition of anonymity. At least one other staff report, they said, recommended
not to pursue a lawsuit. In early 2013, the agency unanimously voted not to
bring charges after an investigation.

Google's critics and competitors on Thursday jumped on the news, first reported
by The Wall Street Journal, arguing that the F.T.C. had failed to take
appropriate action. They called on Europe, which is now looking into the
company's practices, to pursue tough regulations.

Yelp, which is a top Google competitor for consumers searching for local
businesses, has long accused Google of abusing its dominant search position to
elbow out competitors and push its own products instead. On Thursday, Yelp
doubled down on those assertions.

''This shows the F.T.C. had direct evidence of intentional search bias by
Google,'' said Luther Lowe, Yelp's vice president for public policy. ''With the
F.T.C. agreeing to a weak settlement against the recommendation of professional
staff, this anti-consumer behavior has been effectively greenlighted in the
United States.''

Matthew J. Reilly, a partner at Simpson Thacher who worked for 13 years in the
F.T.C.'s bureau of competition until 2012, said it was rare for all five
commissioners to vote against a recommendation from that division.

''It's really remarkable the staff recommended issuing a complaint, and the
commission not only disagreed but allowed Google to issue a letter saying 'we
won't do it again,' rather than enter into a consent decree,'' said Mr. Reilly,
who later served as counsel for Fair Search, a group funded by Microsoft and
other Google competitors.

Sections of the document were mistakenly released to The Wall Street Journal by
the agency as part of a Freedom of Information request. A spokesman for the
agency called the release of the documents unfortunate, but declined to respond
about their contents. Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the F.T.C. at the time,
also declined to comment.

''Speculation about potential consumer and competitor harm turned out to be
entirely wrong,'' Kent Walker, Google's general counsel, said in a statement.
''Since the investigation closed two years ago, the ways people access
information online have increased dramatically, giving consumers more choice
than ever before.''

In 2013, the agency said that the company updated its search results to benefit
users, not to thwart rising competitors, though the agency did also have the
company agree to make some changes to how it ran some of its search advertising.
Mr. Leibowitz said at the time: ''While not everything Google did was
beneficial, on balance we did not believe that the evidence supported an F.T.C.
challenge to this aspect of Google's business under American law.''

The report could raise questions about the current agency leadership. Three of
the five commissioners from that time are still at the agency, including Edith
Ramirez, who is now chairwoman.

After the F.T.C. made its decision on Google, Microsoft, one of Google's top
rivals, called it ''a missed opportunity'' that was ''weak and -- frankly --
unusual.''

Internet search is one of the most lucrative businesses in the history of
technology and is the main gateway to the Internet. Search advertising is
expected to bring in $26 billion this year, close to half of the entire digital
ad market, according to eMarketer.

Google is expected to claim about 72 percent of that pie, but its contention
that competitors are ''only a click away'' is starting to look truer now than
when the F.T.C. made its decision. Its share will drop to 66.7 percent by 2016,
eMarketer projects.

Still, Google's dominance has put American technology companies in the strange
position of being envious about Europe's much tougher regulators. A long-running
antitrust inquiry in Europe is looking into accusations by rivals like Microsoft
that Google has used its dominant position in the search market to throttle
competition. The inquiry has expanded from examining just Google's search
business to include Android, the company's mobile phone operating system.

And on Thursday, Mr. Lowe, from Yelp, said the F.T.C.'s weaker stance on Google
''is why Europe's investigation of Google has so many U.S. companies' support
and why an unprecedented coalition of U.S. and European companies came together
with civil society organizations to launch Focus on the User.''

Focus on the User is a website that analyzes Google's search results to try to
show that Google stacks its search results to favor its own products.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/technology/take-google-to-court-staff-report-u
rged-ftc.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS
(89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY
(78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (77%);
INTERNET & WWW (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (73%); EVIDENCE
(72%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); MAJOR US
LAW FIRMS (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT
LLP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (95%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%);
NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Schneiderman Remedy for Sleaze

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 400 words


Calling for an end to ''a golden age of graft'' in Albany, Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman of New York laid out a series of adventurous ethics proposals in a
speech to Citizens Union on Monday. Though in some cases his ideas will need
further exploration and debate, they represent a challenge to Gov. Andrew
Cuomo's promised reforms.

The attorney general's speech also warned that for all Mr. Cuomo's talk of
reform, his ideas are likely to be no more meaningful than the ethics reforms
approved in 2005, 2007, 2011 and 2014 -- all of which merely tinkered at the
edges while allowing corruption in Albany to remain largely undisturbed. Mr.
Schneiderman called them ''one charade after another.''

For instance, Mr. Cuomo wants legislators to disclose more about their outside
incomes. Mr. Schneiderman would ban private employment for legislators
altogether.

He argues that private jobs can lead only to public conflicts -- or the
appearance of conflicts -- and that a legislator's job should be full-time. He
proposes raising legislative salaries from the present base pay of $79,500 to
somewhere between $112,500, the base pay for a New York City Council member, and
$174,000, the base pay for a member of Congress.

Mr. Schneiderman would end unaccountable per diem allowances, which have been
widely abused in recent years, and require legislators to submit receipts to get
expense reimbursements, up to a reasonable daily cap. But incontestably the most
important item on his list was a proposal for the public financing of campaigns,
an essential ingredient in any meaningful system of campaign finance reform.

Public financing would not only help remove special interest money from politics
but encourage competition for legislative jobs, especially if two established
Albany fund-raising practices were eliminated -- donations from limited
liability companies that have been abused to skirt contribution limits, and
so-called housekeeping accounts that are really slush funds for party leaders.

Mr. Schneiderman also called for four-year terms, instead of the current two
years, but such a change would require a constitutional amendment, a heavy lift.

Mr. Schneiderman's rare blast is a reminder to Mr. Cuomo that while legislators
are whining about having to change the status quo, others are pushing for a real
cleanup of Albany. Tinkering at the edges will no longer be enough.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/the-schneiderman-remedy-for-sleaze.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CORRUPTION (73%); WAGES &
SALARIES (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING
(68%); POLITICS (68%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (67%); FUNDRAISING (66%);
CITIES (51%); CITY GOVERNMENT (51%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Allies, Lured by China's Bank

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 615 words


The Obama administration, to its embarrassment, has been spurned by Western
allies flocking to a China-led Asian development bank, defying White House pleas
to stand back. In a surprise announcement last week, Britain said it would
become the first Western nation to join the Asian Infrastructure Investment
Bank, a potential rival to the American-led World Bank.

On Tuesday, Germany, France and Italy announced that they would also join the
bank, and Australia and South Korea are expected to follow.

Their decisions were proof that even Europe's biggest economies, founders with
the United States of the postwar global economic order, cannot resist the newest
gold rush -- into China, the world's second-largest economy and a major export
and investment market.

Funding the new bank is another effort by China to become an even more dominant
influence in the region. The Americans worry that China could establish a
parallel economic order that could weaken the World Bank and its affiliates and
erode already strained international lending standards of transparency,
creditworthiness, environmental sustainability, and concern for labor and human
rights that took decades to put in place.

The British decision, in particular, is an affront to the United States. Britain
has said the decision is in its national interest. With Russian money drying up
because of Ukraine-related sanctions and a drop in oil revenue, the chancellor
of the Exchequer, George Osborne, has courted Chinese investment in nuclear
power plants in Britain. He said the City of London, a world financial center
known for loose regulations, would become the base for the first clearinghouse
for the yuan outside Asia, The Guardian reported.

By rushing to partner with China, which has one of the most opaque, most
state-driven and least regulated economies, Prime Minister David Cameron of
Britain may hope to resist an American push for controls on speculative trading
and preserve London's freewheeling ways despite the risk to global financial
stability. He faces re-election on May 7 and is making economic growth the
centerpiece of the campaign.

There is also no doubt about Asia's need for more roads, bridges and other
projects that the new bank is intended to underwrite. China has the world's
largest foreign reserves (an estimated $4 trillion) and is eager to invest it
overseas. However, Washington and its allies should have handled the challenge
better.

In significant ways, this is a problem of America's own making. The United
States has urged China to exercise more leadership, but the top posts at the
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have
been restricted to Europeans, Americans and the Japanese. Congress bears
considerable blame for refusing to pass legislation to shift voting power more
fairly among I.M.F. member states, including China. China's move to create the
new development bank is part of the price being paid for that obstruction.

President Obama has also mishandled the issue. The American position of opposing
the new bank until China accepts certain principles of governance and lending
would have been more effective if the administration had worked with its allies
to produce a set of common principles that could then be negotiated with the
Chinese.

Instead, it seems to have no coherent plan for dealing with the new bank.
American and European officials say they are still pushing China to adopt
international standards, with Britain and Germany demanding senior positions on
the bank's board. But achieving that goal will most likely be harder when the
Western allies are in a free-for-all dash to join China's new venture.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
(78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC
FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); 2015
UK GENERAL ELECTION (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%);
LEGISLATION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%);
ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%);
FOREIGN LENDING (67%); CREDITWORTHINESS (67%); POWER PLANTS (64%); NUCLEAR
ENERGY (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF
FOREIGN BANKS (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); DAVID CAMERON (58%); GEORGE OSBORNE (57%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%);
EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Nuclear Talks Lag, With Status of New Centrifuges Another Hurdle

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and DAVID E. SANGER; Michael R. Gordon reported
from Lausanne, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 993 words


LAUSANNE, Switzerland --  A dispute over what limits should be placed on the
development of new types of centrifuges has emerged as a major obstacle as
negotiators try to work out an initial accord on Iran's nuclear program, Western
officials said on Thursday.

The negotiators' goal has been to agree on the outlines of an accord by the end
of March that would limit Iran's nuclear program. A detailed and comprehensive
agreement is to be completed by the end of June.

Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters on Thursday that while some
progress had been made, the negotiators were still ''pushing some tough
issues.''

A European negotiator, who asked not to be named while discussing closed talks,
was more skeptical, stressing that an accord would not be possible unless the
Iranians showed significantly more flexibility over the coming days.

''We are not close to an agreement,'' the official said. ''We are not there at
all.''

Western officials have suggested in recent weeks that the agreement six world
powers are negotiating with Iran could allow it to retain and operate about
6,000 centrifuges.

In return for being allowed to keep such a substantial nuclear infrastructure,
Iran would be required to take some offsetting steps, like shipping a large
portion of its stockpile of uranium to Russia. (The idea of making the
centrifuges less efficient by removing some piping that connects them appears to
have been dropped, some diplomats say.)

Though Mr. Kerry declined to describe the major barriers, the issues that have
not been settled include the pace at which sanctions on Iran would be removed or
suspended, how many years an agreement would be in effect and what monitoring
would be put into place when it expired.

France, for example, wants the agreement to last for 15 years and then be
followed by 10 years of stringent monitoring measures, a Western official said.

The question of what limits should be set on the research and development of new
types of centrifuges is also a major sticking point.

Iran, which insists its nuclear program is for civilian uses only, has
complained that a prohibition on the development of advanced centrifuges would
force it to make do with antiquated technology.

Yet the United States and some of its negotiating partners have been worried
that allowing the Iranians to perfect more sophisticated centrifuges would make
it far easier for Iran to make a dash for a nuclear bomb if it decided to break
out of an agreement or tried to do so after the accord expired.

The ideas the Iranians have presented to bridge the gap between the two sides,
some Western officials said, do not go nearly far enough. Iranian negotiators,
an official said, had proposed that some advanced centrifuges it has produced be
stored instead of dismantled or destroyed.

Iranian officials have also suggested that constraints on the research and
development of some sophisticated centrifuges be removed after an initial phase.
For example, if an accord is reached for 15 years, the restrictions might be
eliminated after five years.

The dispute is especially significant because the Iranians had told the United
States that the second generation centrifuges they have developed but are not
operating are about three to five times more efficient than the first generation
models they are using. Iran has also designed third generation models that are
even more efficient.

The negotiating sessions on Thursday began in the morning when the United States
energy secretary, Ernest J. Moniz, met alone with Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of
Iran's Atomic Energy Organization.

That was followed by two meetings that included Mr. Kerry; Mohammad Javad Zarif,
Iran's foreign minister; and Helga Schmid, the European Union's political
director.

Iranian officials have spoken optimistically in recent days about the chances of
sealing an initial accord, in an apparent move to build public pressure on the
United States and its allies to make concessions and possibly to play to their
public at home.

But Iranian officials expressed little optimism on Thursday. Mr. Zarif and Mr.
Salehi were photographed engaging in an animated conversation during a break in
the talks.

Still, meeting the March-end deadline remains a high priority for the White
House, which is trying to hold off congressional efforts to impose stricter
sanctions, and for Iran, which is seeking relief from existing sanctions.

In heated testimony on Thursday about the negotiations at the House Committee on
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kerry's deputy, Antony J. Blinken, told the committee that,
''like it or not,'' Iran now knows how to enrich uranium and ''we can't bomb
that away, we can't sanction that away and, unfortunately, we probably can't
negotiate that away.''

The only option, he said, is to limit Iran's capabilities through an accord. Mr.
Blinken also said that the inspections regime now being negotiated would be one
of the most intrusive in history, seeming to suggest that it would go beyond the
requirements of the ''additional protocol,'' a series of enhanced inspections
standards set by the International Atomic Energy Agency.

Yet Mr. Blinken ran into sharp skepticism from the chairman of the committee,
Representative Ed Royce, who objected to the administration's assertion that
even after the agreement expired Iran would be banned from building a weapon
''in perpetuity.''

That statement is based on the assumption that Iran remains a signatory of the
Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and does not exit the treaty as North Korea did
a decade ago.

Mr. Royce, a California Republican, complained that Congress was being
deliberately sidelined by the administration, even though it would eventually
have to vote on whether to end American sanctions on Iran.

''Suggesting that Congress has a role to play by voting on sanctions relief
years from now once a deal has run its course, that to me is disingenuous,'' Mr.
Royce said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/kerry-says-difficult-issues-p
ersist-in-nuclear-talks-with-iran.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iran's foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, center left, in
a  face-to-face discussion with Ali Akbar Salehi, head of Iran's  atomic agency,
during a break in Switzerland. Secretary of State  John Kerry said officials
were ''pushing some tough issues.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN SNYDER/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRIFUGES (92%); AGREEMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); RESEARCH &
DEVELOPMENT (78%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS
(63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (74%)

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES
(79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

View of Activists

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 456 words


NEW ORLEANS -- For several years, much of the debate at the big deal maker
conference here has been whether shareholder activism is a blight on the
corporate landscape.

According to the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, not
necessarily.

In a speech at the Tulane Corporate Law Institute, the S.E.C. chief, Mary Jo
White, said that the agency did not necessarily look unkindly on investors who
buy stakes in companies and then push for changes in corporate strategy.

''Reflexively painting all activism negatively is, in my view, using too broad a
brush and indeed is counterproductive,'' she said. Activist tactics, she added,
''can be compatible with the kind of engagement that I hope companies and
shareholders can foster.''

That's in contrast to the arguments of several prominent deal makers, notably
Martin Lipton, the well-known mergers lawyer, who told the conference last year
that he believed that many of these agitators had short-term investment goals
that could harm a company.

Ms. White acknowledged the debate: ''I did say this was a lively topic with many
different views.''

Many mergers advisers have publicly bemoaned the lack of action by the S.E.C. to
address what they believe is a glaring hole in securities laws: tightening the
10-day window in which an investor can quietly and quickly build a stake of at
least 5 percent in a company before disclosing it publicly.

Several activist investors have used derivatives to quickly build their
positions without setting off the securities law requirements, to the
consternation of many. No less than Leo E. Strine Jr., the chief justice of
Delaware's Supreme Court -- wearing a jaunty trilby hat at the conference this
year -- argued on a panel in favor of a more sensitive tripwire that involved
disclosure within 24 hours.

The S.E.C. has recognized disclosure as an issue, noting that last week it
brought civil charges against several individuals for failing to update
regulatory disclosures in a timely manner.

But the commission has no plans at the moment to change that window, Michele
Anderson, the agency's chief of mergers and acquisitions, said.

Regardless, the S.E.C. is aware of the principles that it intended to protect --
and which parts of the activism discussion in which it would not weigh.

''It is an interesting and important debate, but our role at the S.E.C. is not
to determine whether activist campaigns are beneficial or detrimental in any
given circumstance,'' Ms. White said. ''Rather, the agency's central focus is
making sure that shareholders are provided with the information they need and
that all play by the rules.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/sec-chief-sees-virtue-in-act
ivist-investors.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING &
FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BUSINESS & CORPORATE ENTITIES LAW (78%); BANKING &
FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%);
COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME
COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

GoDaddy Plans

BYLINE: By DEALBOOK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 224 words


GoDaddy, the Internet services provider known for its provocative television
commercials, said on Thursday that it planned to sell shares in its initial
public offering priced between $17 and $19 a share.

At the midpoint of that range, the I.P.O would value the company at $2.72
billion.

GoDaddy is planning to sell 22 million Class A shares in the offering. The stock
would trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol GDDY. The
holders of the Class B shares will have voting control over the company.

Founded in 1997 as Jomax Technologies, GoDaddy has taken a long road to the
public markets. The company first sought to go public in 2006, but an I.P.O.
never came off. In December 2011, the private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Company and Silver Lake Partners and the venture capital firm
Technology Crossover Ventures acquired GoDaddy in a $2.25 billion deal. The
company filed again to go public last June.

Based in Scottsdale, Ariz., GoDaddy helps people and businesses set up Internet
domains. It also offers website building, hosting and security and other
services. Last year, it lost $143.3 million on revenue of $1.4 billion.

Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup are leading the underwriting of the
I.P.O.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/godaddy-sets-price-range-for
-ipo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); DOMAIN NAMES
(79%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%);
PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%)

COMPANY: GO DADDY GROUP INC (90%); TECHNOLOGY CROSSOVER VENTURES (83%); KKR & CO
LP (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%);
CITIGROUP INC (57%); SILVER LAKE PARTNERS LTD (56%)

TICKER: GDDY (NYSE) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%);
C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210
SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7371
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION
(83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%);
NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%);
NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS
FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%);
NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bank of New York Mellon Will Settle Currency Trade Case for $714 Million

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words


The Bank of New York Mellon will pay $714 million to settle accusations that it
cheated government pension funds and other investors for more than a decade,
federal and state authorities announced on Thursday. It is part of a deal
requiring the bank to dismiss some employees and make fuller public disclosures
of its foreign exchange operation.

The settlement resolves lawsuits filed in 2011 by Preet Bharara, the United
States attorney in Manhattan, and Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney
general.

The authorities accused the bank of assuring clients that they would receive the
best possible rate when executing a currency trade. In reality, the authorities
said, the bank did just the opposite: It provided clients ''prices that were at
or near the worst interbank rates,'' enabling the bank to make extra cash during
the 2008 financial crisis.

The victims included New York City pension funds and prominent private
investors, the authorities said. City investors included teachers and police
officers, while the private investment funds belonged to the likes of Duke
University and the Walt Disney Company.

In a statement, Mr. Bharara noted that clients ''trusted the bank to be honest
about the financial services it was providing and to deal with them fairly.''
But instead, he said, the bank ''and its executives, motivated by outsized
profits and bonuses, breached this trust.''

Mr. Schneiderman said, ''Investors count on financial institutions to tell them
the truth about how their investments are being managed.'' He added, ''Today's
settlement shows that institutions and individuals responsible for defrauding
investors will be held accountable and face serious consequences for their
wrongdoing.''

Still, the $714 million settlement amounts to a fraction of the roughly $2
billion in suspected ill-gotten gains that Mr. Schneiderman's office initially
sought as a penalty. And the facts that the bank admitted to were narrower than
the accusations prosecutors first leveled in 2011.

The settlement, which requires the approval of a federal judge, accounts for
only one of the dozens of government investigations currently sweeping Wall
Street. The case against the Bank of New York Mellon, for example, is separate
from a wider investigation into whether some of the world's biggest banks,
including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, colluded to manipulate the foreign
exchange market.

Under the terms of the Bank of New York Mellon settlement, the bank must ''end
the employment of certain executives involved in the fraud,'' including David
Nichols, a managing director at the bank whom Mr. Bharara's office sued in 2012.
The bank must also improve its disclosures to clients, an effort that traces to
2012, when it struck a ''partial settlement'' with Mr. Bharara's office that
required an overhaul of certain disclosure practices.

Mr. Bharara on Thursday also announced a settlement with Mr. Nichols, 60. The
settlement requires the bank to ''effectuate the separation'' of Mr. Nichols,
but it does not say when he must leave the bank nor does it require him to pay
any financial penalty to the government. A lawyer for Mr. Nichols, Stephen
Fishbein, declined to comment.

The Bank of New York Mellon -- one of the world's largest so-called custodial
banks, which holds and safeguards financial assets for other banks and investors
-- said in a statement that ''we are pleased to put these legacy FX matters
behind us, which is in the best interest of our company and our constituents.''

The settlement represents an about-face for the bank, which fought the case for
years as it attacked what it called ''prosecutorial overreach.'' That stance
eased recently as the bank sought to put the case to rest, years after it
resolved similar actions from authorities in Florida and Virginia.

The New York case stemmed from a whistle-blower complaint filed with the New
York attorney general's office in 2009. The whistle-blowers included Harry M.
Markopolos, who first sounded the alarm about Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme.

The case demonstrates the long arm of both the federal government and New York
prosecutors.

Mr. Schneiderman relied on the Martin Act, a 1921 law that is among the most
feared on Wall Street. Mr. Bharara's office invoked the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, or Firrea, a once-obscure statute
that requires a lower burden of proof than criminal charges and empowers
prosecutors to demand large financial penalties.

The $714 million penalty will be split among the many agencies and investors who
investigated the bank. Mr. Bharara's office and Mr. Schneiderman's office will
each collect roughly $167 million, while $30 million is earmarked for the
Securities and Exchange Commission and $14 million will go to the Department of
Labor. The remaining sum, $335 million, will go to resolving private
class-action lawsuits filed by the bank's clients. Mr. Schneiderman said he
would direct his office's share of the money ''to a fund that will compensate
B.N.Y.M.'s customers.''

The lawsuits outlined the extent to which the scheme, which operated from 2000
to 2011, harmed the bank's clients. After misleading clients into thinking that
they earned close to the best price on a currency trade, the bank would wait
until the end of the day to price the trades and routinely chose one of the
worst rates of that day. The bank, however, would find more favorable prices for
itself, and then set about ''reaping large profits on the price differential.''

When State Street Bank faced a lawsuit in 2009 for similar misconduct, it
unnerved Bank of New York Mellon employees. After seeing an article about the
State Street lawsuit, a Bank of New York Mellon managing director emailed the
report to colleagues under the subject heading, ''Oh No.''

One employee who has left the bank asked his former colleagues in an email
whether it was ''time to retire after raping the custodial accounts.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/bank-of-new-york-mellon-to-p
ay-714-million-in-foreign-exchange-settlement.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Preet Bharara, United States attorney for Manhattan. The case
involved deceitful pricing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE
(90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (86%); PRICES (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (77%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); LAWYERS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (72%); JUDGES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERBANK LENDING (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WALT
DISNEY CO (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (69%); C
(NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE
COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112
RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%);
NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES
BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

British I.P.O.

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347 words


LONDON -- Auto Trader Group, the British website for buying and selling used
cars, said on Thursday that it had priced its initial public offering, valuing
the company at 2.35 billion pounds, or about $3.5 billion.

Funds advised by the European private-equity firm Apax Partners bought out their
joint venture partner in Trader Media Group last year and renamed the company
after its most popular online brand, Auto Trader.

Auto Trader priced its offering at £2.35 a share. The company sold about 59
percent of its capital in the offering of 590 million shares, according to the
pricing announcement.

Shares in Auto Trader jumped 13 percent to £2.66 in conditional trading on the
London Stock Exchange early on Thursday. The stock will begin unconditional
trading on Tuesday.

Auto Trader, which operates primarily in Britain and Ireland, announced plans to
pursue an I.P.O. in February.

Auto Trader raised net proceeds of £437 million in the offering, which it will
use to reduce its debt, and the Apax funds received £926.2 million in gross
proceeds from selling shares.

In 2007, the Apax funds originally acquired a 49.9 percent stake in the company,
in a deal that valued Auto Trader at £1.35 billion at the time.

Last year, the Apax funds acquired the 50.1 percent stake in Auto Trader they
did not own from the Guardian Media Group, publisher of The Guardian and The
Observer newspapers in London.

The company began in 1977 as Thames Valley Trader, a magazine offering listings
to buy and sell used cars, household and other items. The company's regional
magazines were renamed Auto Trader in 1988 and stopped publishing in 2013, as
the company focused exclusively on digital listings.

Auto Trader said that 65 percent of used-car transactions in Britain were listed
on its website and that it had continuing revenue of £237.7 million through the
52-week period ended March 20, 2014.

Deutsche Bank and Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as joint global
coordinators on the I.P.O.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/auto-trader-group-is-valued-
at-3-5-billion-in-london-ipo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING
(89%); USED CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS
(78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING
(78%); PRICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); PRIVATE
EQUITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); JOINT
VENTURES (77%); PUBLISHING (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%)

COMPANY: AUTO TRADER GROUP PLC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); APAX
PARTNERS LTD (58%); GUARDIAN MEDIA GROUP PLC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: AUTO (LSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%);
DBETN (JSE) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(90%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%);
NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT
ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%);
NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING
COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES &
AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor's Son a State Debate Champion

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 547 words


In a classroom in Lower Manhattan, two pairs of debaters fired off a rapid
rat-tat-tat-tat-tat of ideas, battling it out before a panel of judges for the
mantle of state champion in varsity policy debate.

Marshaling their argument for environmental preservation, and swatting away
counterpunches about colonialism, a pair of young men from Brooklyn Technical
High School rode to victory on Sunday. One of them, a tall fellow from Park
Slope now residing on the Upper East Side, might strike New Yorkers as familiar.

The state champions were Samuel Eluto and Dante de Blasio, the mayor's son.

''I felt really satisfied,'' Dante said in an interview this week. ''I felt like
all the work I had done up until this point had really been worth something.''

He and his parents celebrated with dinner at Bogota, a Colombian restaurant in
Park Slope. His debate partner, Samuel, a junior at Brooklyn Tech, celebrated by
finishing his precalculus homework.

Dante played a prominent role in the campaign when his father, Bill de Blasio,
ran for mayor. But for the past year and a half, he has stayed largely out of
public view, focusing on school -- he is a senior -- applying to college and
concentrating on debate.

Dante said he joined the debate team in his sophomore year because he ''liked
arguing.'' But, he added, he came to appreciate it as a way to learn, exchange
ideas and polish his rhetorical skills. This year, he has competed in
tournaments about twice a month and filed away hundreds of pages of notes and
research on his silver laptop.

In policy debates, Dante's chosen specialty, arguments are delivered at an
extraordinarily rapid clip, punctuated by deep gasps for breath, which can make
the students sound more like powerful lawn mowers than chatty humans. To the
untrained ear, it can be difficult to follow.

Dante's parents, the mayor and his wife, Chirlane McCray, came out on Saturday
to watch some of the preliminary rounds of the tournament, held at Stuyvesant
High School by the New York State Debate Coaches Association. They perched at
the back of classrooms to watch their son hold forth speedily on ocean
exploitation and metaphysics, though they could not always keep up with the pace
of what was being argued, Dante said.

At the tournament, the proposal up for debate was that the United States
government should increase its exploration and development of the oceans. After
losing a coin toss on Sunday to decide who would go first (they lost every coin
toss that day), Dante and Samuel argued that people should stop viewing the
ocean as only a resource to be exploited. To make their case, they leaned
heavily on ontology, a branch of metaphysics, as high schoolers will do. Though
their argument was far too deep to be encapsulated in a newspaper article,
suffice it to say that the judges, unlike some parents, followed it just fine.

Samuel and Dante were declared the winners in the final on Sunday by a 3-to-0
vote, over a pair from the Bronx High School of Science.

Dante's shiny trophy, weighing about eight pounds and standing perhaps two feet
tall, will reside at Brooklyn Tech for the time being. But at the end of the
year, Dante said, he can take it home. It might later decorate a college dorm
room, or perhaps a mantel at Gracie Mansion.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/dante-de-blasio-mayors-fast-talking-s
on-is-a-new-debate-champion.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dante de Blasio and his Brooklyn Technical High School debate
partner argued last weekend for environmental preservation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(89%); TOURNAMENTS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL
TRAINING (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); METAPHYSICS (64%); OCEANS
(60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (57%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (77%); RICK PERRY (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Self-Loathing and Second Chances in a Singer's Twilight Years

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 853 words


In ''Danny Collins,'' Al Pacino injects a zany charge of adrenaline into the
title role of a rich, dissolute pop star belatedly seeking redemption for four
decades of excess and wasted talent. This bogus character, introduced in a
prologue set in 1971 as an intense, hungry young folk singer with a resemblance
to the young Bob Dylan, is the latest in a lengthening Hollywood roster of
rambunctious old goats.

Isn't 70 supposed to be the new 50? In the age of Viagra and testosterone
supplements, grumpy old men shuffling into senescence are a vanishing species.
Or so Hollywood would like to imagine. Thrice married and divorced, Danny, who
lives with a much younger babe, is the second lion in winter that Mr. Pacino has
played this year, after his aging actor in ''The Humbling.'' For all the quirks
he brings to the role, Danny is less a character than a type. He could have been
just as comfortable a fit for Jack Nicholson, Robert De Niro or Michael Douglas.

Flash forward from 1971 to the present. Danny, his hair dyed and his nose full
of cocaine, has turned into a Neil Diamond-like entertainer serenading hordes of
swaying middle-aged women who sing along with him on his signature hit, ''Hey,
Baby Doll,'' at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles. The song is identical in feel
to ''Sweet Caroline.'' And Mr. Pacino does a nifty job of portraying a jaded,
drink- and drug-addled pop star exhibiting a palpable self-disgust as he
cynically goes through the motions.

Danny is jolted by a birthday present from his longtime manager, Frank Grubman
(a gravely miscast Christopher Plummer), who presents him with a framed personal
letter written in 1971 by John Lennon, Danny's original idol. The hand-scrawled
missive, which offers sage advice about avoiding the pitfalls of fame and wealth
and staying true to his art, was never received and wound up in the hands of a
private collector. (Danny is fictional, but the letter and the incident really
happened -- to another singer.)

It prompts Danny to wonder how it might have changed his life had he received it
40 years earlier. In the throes of an existential crisis, Danny suspends his
tour and flies to New Jersey in search of his estranged grown-up son, Tom (Bobby
Cannavale). A 40-year-old construction worker with a wife, Samantha (Jennifer
Garner), and a young daughter, Hope (Giselle Eisenberg), who has A.D.H.D. Tom
despises his father. In the first of several father-son skirmishes, Tom bitterly
declares he grew up wanting to be ''everything you're not.''

The directorial debut of the screenwriter Dan Fogelman (''Last Vegas,'' ''The
Guilt Trip,'' ''Crazy, Stupid, Love''), ''Danny Collins'' embraces the
sentimental notion that Danny is a good guy at heart whose buried songwriting
gift is waiting to be excavated. Danny sets about using his money and
connections to make amends and buy his son's love. He secures Hope an interview
at an elite Manhattan school for children with learning disabilities and showers
her with toys.

All too conveniently, we learn that Tom has been silently fighting a grave
illness. His vulnerability gives Danny the chance to ''be there'' for his stoic,
manly son. Meanwhile Samantha is pregnant with their second child.

What was the name of that Beatles song -- ''Can't Buy Me Love''? That was a hit
in 1964, when decent schooling and health care were more affordable and the
song's title seemed like a proud declaration of resistance to materialism. Once
Danny turns into Santa Claus and smothers Tom's family with his largess, the
only protest you hear from Tom is a whimper of gratitude.

The movie throws in a half-baked screwball plot about Danny's flirtation with
Mary Sinclair (Annette Bening), the ever-chipper manager of the Hilton hotel in
New Jersey where he stays. What authenticity Mr. Cannavale and Ms. Bening bring
to their roles is the sense of groundedness and integrity for one-note
characters in a movie whose screenplay is little more than an efficiently
executed outline.

''Danny Collins'' gets a nostalgic boost from regular infusions to the
soundtrack of John Lennon songs, including ''Imagine'' and ''Working Class
Hero.'' Its reverence for St. John no doubt adds to the appeal of this shameless
piece of boomer bait, which peddles the highly questionable notion that it's
never too late to get back to where you once belonged.

''Danny Collins'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). For language, drug use and some nudity.

Danny Collins

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Dan Fogelman; director of photography, Steve Yedlin;
edited by Julie Monroe; music by Theodore Shapiro and Ryan Adams; production
design by Dan Bishop; costumes by Sophie de Rakoff; produced by Jessie Nelson
and Nimitt Mankad; released by Bleecker Street. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.

WITH: Al Pacino (Danny Collins), Annette Bening (Mary Sinclair), Bobby Cannavale
(Tom Donnelly), Jennifer Garner (Samantha Leigh Donnelly), Christopher Plummer
(Frank Grubman), Katarina Cas (Sophie), Giselle Eisenberg (Hope Donnelly),
Melissa Benoist (Jamie) and Josh Peck (Nicky Ernst).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-al-pacino-in-danny-collins-plays
-a-dissolute-pop-star.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In ''Danny Collins,'' Al Pacino's character receives a letter
from John Lennon 40 years late. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOPPER STONE/BLEECKER STREET
MEDIA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); ACTORS
& ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ADULTS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE
(73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); WOMEN (69%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (68%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%); WRITERS (67%); COCAINE (66%)

PERSON: AL PACINO (91%); MICHAEL DOUGLAS (79%); JENNIFER GARNER (79%); BOBBY
CANNAVALE (79%); ROBERT DE NIRO (76%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Must Step Up Capacity for Cyberattacks, Chief Argues

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 621 words


WASHINGTON --  The admiral who directs American cyberforces told a Senate
committee on Thursday that the United States was ''at a tipping point'' where it
needed to increase its ability to conduct cyberattacks, to create a deterrent
against other countries that are attacking it.

The growing American capabilities in cyberweapons are hardly a secret: They were
critical to a yearslong American and Israeli cyberattack on Iran's nuclear
facilities, and descriptions of the placement of ''implants'' in foreign
computer systems -- for surveillance and potential offensive action -- run
through thousands of pages of documents released by Edward J. Snowden, the
former National Security Agency contractor.

But the willingness of Adm. Michael S. Rogers to discuss purely offensive
cyberweapons in his appearance before the Armed Services Committee comes at a
moment when the Obama administration is reluctantly experimenting with how to
discuss the subject in public, much as it gradually began to talk about drone
strikes a few years ago.

Admiral Rogers, who heads both the National Security Agency and its military
cousin, United States Cyber Command, was answering questions about how the
United States could deter attacks like the kind that struck Sony Pictures
Entertainment. President Obama has said publicly that the attack originated in
North Korea.

When pressed, Admiral Rogers said that erecting ever-higher digital fences would
never be enough, and that ''we have got to broaden our capabilities to provide
policy makers and operational commanders with a broader range of options.
Because in the end, a purely defensive reactive strategy will be both late'' and
would become ''incredibly resource-intense.''

''So, I have been an advocate of, we also need to think about how can we
increase our capacity on the offensive side here, to get to that point of
deterrence.''

In interviews as he came into office last year, Admiral Rogers identified
creating some form of deterrence as his highest priority. At the time, he said,
Chinese and other attackers who steal data from American companies ''pay no
price.''

In the case of North Korea, the United States imposed some modest economic
sanctions, and it is unclear whether an attack that slowed the North's Internet
connections was the result of American action or some other kind of action. In
any event, the response was weak enough that many in the Obama administration
question whether the North paid a high enough price.

But as Admiral Rogers attempted to describe to the committee, deterrence in the
digital realm is a complex business; most comparisons to the nuclear age fail.
There are so many different kinds of cyberattackers -- states, businesses,
hackers, teenagers, angry ideologues -- that it would be nearly impossible to
deter them with traditional means, most experts say.

Admiral Rogers himself seemed to be struggling with the analogies at times,
comparing the decisions that national leaders will have to make with those faced
by the Bush administration on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. At that time the
question was whether the United States would be willing to make ''the decision
that we were going to shoot down, potentially, a civilian airliner that we
thought had potentially become a weapon.''

''I think we need to have that same discussion now,'' Admiral Rogers said.
''We've got to increase our decision makers' comfort and level of knowledge with
what capabilities we have and what we can do.''

The committee chairman, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has argued for a
robust offensive cybercapability, jumped in to say, ''But right now, the level
of deterrence is not deterring.

''That is true,'' Admiral Rogers responded.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/us-must-step-up-capacity-for-cyberattacks-c
hief-argues.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (90%); CYBERCRIME
(90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POWER
PLANTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); COMPUTER
CRIME (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INTERNET &
WWW (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7822 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%);
IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey's $225 Million Settlement With Exxon Was Years in the Making

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER and KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1718 words


In summer 2012, lawyers for Exxon Mobil Corporation gathered in a state office
building in Trenton, ready to hear what the State of New Jersey might be willing
to accept in exchange for making a long-running environmental pollution case go
away.

By then, a judge had held Exxon liable for potential damages in the
contamination of more than 1,000 acres of land at refinery sites in Bayonne and
Linden. In court, the state was seeking $8.9 billion, including more than $2
billion for the primary restoration of the properties.

But the state's proposal at the meeting in Trenton fell far short of that. The
administration of Gov. Chris Christie, in its first formal settlement offer,
said it would accept $325 million, according to a senior administration official
and a representative of Exxon.

Exxon rejected the offer. The meeting, which has not previously been disclosed,
shows that the Christie administration had pushed for over two years to settle
the case for much less than the state was seeking in court.

New Jersey agreed last month to settle the litigation for $225 million,
prompting broad criticism that the Christie administration had taken pennies on
the dollar to end the hard-fought case. Not only was the sum less than what the
state offered to accept in 2012, but it also came at an odd moment: A ruling on
damages was believed to be imminent, after an eight-month trial last year at
which the state sought to prove its damages claim.

Environmental advocates and some lawmakers have accused Mr. Christie, a
Republican, of sacrificing the environment to help the state address more
immediate shortfalls in its budget, allegations the Christie administration has
vigorously rejected. On Thursday, the Assembly Judiciary Committee held a
hearing on the proposed settlement, which still requires a judge's approval.

Records of the settlement proposals are not public; the state official and
others interviewed for this article who had knowledge of the talks spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks were also not public. Whatever the
political and legal analysis that led to the $225 million deal, the seeds of an
agreement were planted years earlier.

Familiar to drivers on the New Jersey Turnpike, the Linden refinery, known as
Bayway, has reinforced the image of the state as almost irretrievably toxic.
There, marshland adjacent to a creek was ''now mostly covered with a tar of
petroleum products or filled with other hazardous constituents and debris,''
according to a state environmental official quoted in a 2006 affidavit. He also
cited 45 acres of ''sludge lagoons,'' former tidal marshes that had been used as
hazardous-waste disposal facilities.

Exxon agreed in 1991 to clean up both the Bayway and Bayonne sites, subject to
state approval, with ''no cap'' on what it would pay, as Mr. Christie recently
pointed out. The company says that to date, it has spent about $260 million on
those efforts.

But the 1991 agreement did not block the state from suing for the loss of
natural resources, which it did in 2004. A news release issued at the time said
Exxon had ''balked at the opportunity'' to reach ''a reasonable settlement'' to
resolve liability for the natural resource damage at the sites.

The release added that the state's environmental commissioner, Bradley M.
Campbell, had issued an administrative subpoena for information from Exxon about
its ''hundreds of potentially contaminated sites to ensure that the public is
fully compensated for natural resource damage claims.'' The release cited nearly
1,000 gas stations and other sites.

As the case proceeded, Exxon was held strictly liable, that is, regardless of
fault, for potential restoration costs and damages to compensate for the
public's ''loss of use'' of the natural resources. Exxon argued that no damages
should be awarded.

In spring 2008, the administration of Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who was
Mr. Christie's predecessor, made Exxon a settlement offer that the state valued
at roughly $550 million (about $150 million in cash and $400 million in land
restoration projects), according to the senior Christie administration official.
Exxon rejected the proposal.

The senior official said the 2008 offer served as a ''framework'' for how New
Jersey officials would arrive at their 2012 settlement demand of $325 million.

The Corzine administration proposal, however, was made before a ruling that
bolstered the state's position on potential damages. In 2009, a judge rejected
Exxon's arguments that New Jersey could only seek damages for contamination that
had occurred after the 1970s-era law that authorized such suits was enacted.

That meant the state could seek damages dating to when it claimed the
contamination had begun: in the 1870s at Bayonne, and the early 1900s at Bayway.

Exxon did win a ruling in 2009 that said it was not responsible for natural
resource damages linked to physical modifications at the refinery properties.

A few years would pass before the possibility of a settlement was broached
again. During that time, the attorney general's office lost the only two natural
resource damages cases it had taken to trial, strengthening Exxon's argument for
New Jersey to settle.

In April 2012, Exxon's lead lawyer, Theodore V. Wells Jr., met with Christopher
S. Porrino, then an official in the attorney general's office, to lay out the
company's position.

Mr. Wells, co-chairman of the litigation department of the Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison law firm, had been hired in 2006. His argument was that any
deal should fall significantly below $100 million, roughly the aggregate value
of all of the state's natural resource damage settlements from 2004 to that
point.

He and his team offered data showing that the largest settlement reached by the
state in such a case was $17 million, while the average of the 10 highest such
deals was $6.3 million.

At the meeting in August 2012, Exxon's team, which had litigated the case
through three Democratic administrations, included a new face: George Gilmore, a
lawyer and influential fixture of state Republican politics who had served on
Mr. Christie's transition team. Mr. Gilmore had been retained by Exxon after the
governor's election to assist in the case. He ended his relationship with the
company before the trial began in 2014.

The state's legal team included Mr. Porrino and John J. Hoffman, another top
official in the attorney general's office. Both would later fill even more
senior posts: Mr. Porrino as the governor's chief counsel and Mr. Hoffman as the
acting attorney general.

Mr. Wells said in the meeting that he considered the $325 million offer
''outrageous,'' a person with knowledge of the discussions recalled. Mr. Wells
largely repeated the arguments he had made before and said the company did not
feel it was being treated fairly or consistently with how other major
corporations had been treated in such cases.

During these early talks, Exxon also indicated that it wanted any deal to
resolve potential natural resource liability claims related to the gas stations
and other sites, where, it asserted, contamination had been minimal. If that
assertion proved to be true, state officials said, such claims could be included
in a deal.

The Christie administration lawyers also made it clear that any settlement had
to exceed $100 million for the state to take it seriously. Exxon countered later
in 2012 with an offer of $20 million, which the state rejected.

In January 2013, at a court hearing in Elizabeth, N.J., Allan Kanner, an outside
lawyer retained by the state, told a judge that the parties had made offers, and
that Mr. Porrino, who was present in court, had attended all of the meetings.
''We just are at an impasse,'' Mr. Kanner said.

In December 2013, Exxon raised its offer to $66 million, in cash and land,
according to one person with knowledge of the settlement talks. The state
countered with an offer of about $290 million, which also included land.

In January 2014, as the damages trial was beginning, Mr. Porrino became Mr.
Christie's counsel.

In April, during the trial, Exxon raised its offer to $100 million. In August,
with the trial nearing completion, the state made what was characterized by the
person familiar with the talks as a ''drop dead'' offer of $225 million,

Exxon then raised its offer to $200 million, and as Mr. Wells and Mr. Kanner and
their teams continued to fight in court, the settlement was negotiated by other
lawyers.

The final deal, under which Exxon agreed to pay $225 million, would also resolve
New Jersey's claims related to the service stations and other facilities, which
the state was now describing as ''relatively minor,'' according to a news
release from the attorney general's office. The state has not released a list of
those sites.

Mr. Hoffman said last week that had the state not settled the litigation, the
matter would have been ''litigated for many years to come with an uncertain
outcome that could threaten the state's recovery in this case'' and potentially
jeopardize other significant natural resource damage recoveries the state was
pursuing.

Recently, Mr. Campbell, the former environmental commissioner, wrote an Op-Ed
article in The New York Times that was critical of Mr. Porrino's role, saying
the governor's counsel ''inserted himself into the case, elbowed aside the
attorney general and career employees who had developed and prosecuted the
litigation and cut the deal favorable to Exxon.''

In response, the senior state official said last week that Mr. Porrino, while in
the attorney general's office, had ''significant involvement in trying to force
Exxon Mobil into meaningful settlement talks.'' Later, the official said, Mr.
Porrino, as Mr. Christie's counsel and working with others, ''appropriately
continued those efforts in his new role.''

At the Assembly hearing on Thursday, Mr. Hoffman and Bob Martin, the
environmental commissioner, were absent: They had declined an invitation to
testify, the committee chairman, John F. McKeon, said. One witness, Debbie Mans,
executive director of NY/NJ Baykeeper, questioned Exxon's cleanup efforts.
''Anyone who thinks that Exxon Mobil will complete a comprehensive cleanup of
these sites is dreaming,'' she testified.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/christie-administration-deal-with-exx
on-was-years-in-the-making.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Bayway refinery in Linden, one of two sites at issue in
long-running pollution suits the State  of New Jersey filed against Exxon Mobil.
An agreement to settle the suits has drawn criticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD
PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE
(90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (89%);
LAWYERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOXIC
TORTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL
RESOURCES (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); HAZARDOUS
WASTE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (75%);
BUDGETS (75%); AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (72%);
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (63%); TOLL ROADS &
TURNPIKES (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (60%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%); RICK PERRY (54%)

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Charges 2 Associates of Ex-Chief

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FORSYTHE; Chris Buckley contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 510 words


HONG KONG --  The Chinese Communist Party's push to extinguish the political
network of a man who was once one of its most powerful officials entered a new
phase on Thursday when the government announced that two of his associates would
soon face trial on charges of bribery.

The two, Li Chuncheng, a former deputy party secretary of the southwestern
province of Sichuan, and Jiang Jiemin, a former chairman of the China National
Petroleum Corporation, will face trial in Hubei Province, the office of the
country's chief prosecutor said.

They had worked under Zhou Yongkang, the former head of the country's internal
security forces, who was expelled from the Communist Party last year in the
highest-level corruption case since the founding of the People's Republic in
1949. Mr. Zhou faces a barrage of charges, from accepting bribes to leaking
state secrets.

The announcement came a day after the Supreme People's Court of China suggested
that the offenses of Mr. Zhou, 72, might have gone beyond corruption and
extended to political plotting.

The court made that suggestion in a report on its work in 2014 that was
published Wednesday. It said that Mr. Zhou had, like Bo Xilai, the disgraced
Politburo member who was convicted and sentenced to life in prison in September
2013, ''trampled on rule by law, wrecked party unity and engaged in
nonorganizational political activities.''

The document did not say whether Mr. Bo and Mr. Zhou engaged in those activities
together, but by mentioning the two in the same sentence, it added fuel to
speculation that the two men, as well as other top leaders such as Xu Caihou, a
former general whose death was reported Sunday, had formed a faction.

This month, Zhou Ruijin, a former deputy editor in chief of the Communist
Party's flagship newspaper, People's Daily, said in a commentary that the cases
of Mr. Zhou, Mr. Bo, General Xu and another former top official, Ling Jihua,
were ''deeply entwined.''

According to the Beijing Youth Daily, Zhuang Deshui from Peking University, an
expert on corruption, said the words of the Supreme People's Court implied that
Mr. Zhou and other officials had ''done something like the Gang of Four,
creating small collectivities of interests, attempting to win power and
influencing the political attitudes of the public.''

That historical analogy is powerful for anyone in China. The Gang of Four, a
group that included Mao's widow, Jiang Qing, was tried in 1981 over its role in
grabbing political power during the latter stages of the 1966-76 Cultural
Revolution.

Ms. Jiang later committed suicide in prison.

Mr. Bo fell from power on March 15, 2012, when he was removed from his post. Mr.
Zhou's disgrace came last December, as party investigators moved first to remove
his associates from positions of influence.

The first to fall, only weeks after Xi Jinping took control of the Communist
Party in late 2012, was Li Chuncheng, who served under Mr. Zhou when the latter
was Sichuan's top official, between 1999 and 2002. Mr. Jiang fell from power on
Sept. 1, 2013.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/china-bribery-trial-li-chuncheng-ji
ang-jiemin.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); BRIBERY (90%); PRISONS
(89%); POLITICS (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS
(77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%);
OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (56%); SUICIDE (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (72%); SIC1389
OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (72%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%)

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); SICHUAN, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI,
CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israel Result Reverberates for Clinton

BYLINE: By JASON HOROWITZ; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words


WASHINGTON --  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's victory in this week's
Israeli elections has reverberated through American politics, reinforcing
Republican faith in the political wisdom of a hawkish foreign policy, worsening
his relationship with President Obama, and energizing liberal critics of
Israel's government. But mostly it has complicated the life of Hillary Rodham
Clinton.

As she moves closer to making her campaign for president official, Mrs. Clinton
now faces a deepening polarization among Jewish Democrats over Mr. Netanyahu and
how the United States should deal with his government.

Mrs. Clinton, the former secretary of state who has long advocated a two-state
solution and once took credit for starting what were then secret talks for an
Iran nuclear deal that Mr. Netanyahu vehemently opposes, is now likely to be
under increased pressure from her own party to speak up against a government
that is openly hostile to Mr. Obama. But if she criticizes Israel, she risks
prompting an influential segment of more conservative Jewish Democrats to
withhold their support from her presidential campaign, or even to defect to a
Republican candidate in 2016.

''Everyone is now going to have to pick a side,'' said Jeremy Ben-Ami, the
president of J Street, a liberal Jewish lobby that has supported Mr. Obama's
positions on Israel and is hosting its annual conference this weekend. That
included the woman at ''the forefront'' of the Democratic Party, he said, who
would undergo ''more and more pressure.''

In contrast to virtually the entire field of prospective Republican candidates
who heaped praise on Mr. Netanyahu, Mrs. Clinton has declined to comment on the
Israeli election. Reporters on Thursday were kept away from the car that took
her to Atlantic City for a paid speech to the American Camp Association.

Until this point, Mrs. Clinton has essentially shrugged off the anguish of
liberal supporters of Israel who are appalled by Mr. Netanyahu's right-wing
government, and ignored the emboldened fringe of progressive Jews who have
advocated boycotting Israel to protest its settlement growth and wars in Gaza.

Last summer she made light of her time as Mr. Obama's ''designated yeller'' at
the State Department, a title she earned in part by upbraiding Mr. Netanyahu in
2010 after he announced new settlements during a visit by Vice President Joseph
R. Biden Jr.

She then articulated a vigorous defense of Israel during last summer's war in
Gaza and since then has generally avoided public displays of empathy for the
Palestinian losses that upset her liberal Jewish supporters. ''If I were the
prime minister of Israel, you're damn right I would expect to have control over
security'' on the West Bank, she told The Atlantic in August.

Such muscular remarks about the defense of Israel are standard procedure for a
Democratic presidential candidate. The overwhelming percentage of Jewish voters,
and donors, are liberal and will never vote for a Republican. The progressives
who are bothered by Israel's conservative government care a lot more about other
issues, such as the economy and social issues. Support for the government is
strong among what people close to Mrs. Clinton estimate to be about a 10 percent
sliver of wealthy and influential moderate Democratic Jews for whom Israel is a
priority, and could be a reason to withhold their financial backing, if not
support a Republican candidate.

But the anger generated by Mr. Netanyahu's appearance before Congress and the
other events that led up to his re-election will probably mean that more
Democrats will be less willing to bite their tongues when it comes to
criticizing his government. A statement on Thursday by the Conservative
movement's Rabbinical Assembly, which is traditionally a reliable defender of
the Israeli government, condemned the prime minister's campaign position. That
suggests an expanded space, and perhaps tolerance, for criticism of Israel and
another consideration for Mrs. Clinton as she formulates her response. ''This
isn't going away,'' acknowledged one person close to Mrs. Clinton.

Not everyone subscribed to the notion that Jewish Democrats were torn over Mr.
Netanyahu. Josh Block, president of the Israel Project, a pro-Israeli education
group in Washington, blamed the Obama administration for manufacturing the
tension to distract from the nuclear negotiations and accused progressive
partisans of trying to ''exploit and exaggerate the tensions for their own
political gains.''

Still, Jewish elected officials in the Democratic Party describe a nightmare
scenario in which traditional supporters of Israel will receive primary
challenges from candidates now openly critical of the Israeli government. Polls
show that Israel is increasingly unpopular with African-American, Latino and
young voters -- a key portion of the Democratic base. Officials fear that an
erosion of support for Israel in the party could cause insecurity among Jewish
voters, forcing them to seek comfort in the eager embrace of the Republican
Party.

This is the stuff of dreams for Republicans. For them, and especially the
party's neoconservatives, Mr. Netanyahu's victory was a good omen.

''It will strengthen the hawkish types in the Republican Party,'' said William
Kristol, the editor of the Weekly Standard, who said that Mr. Netanyahu would
win the party's nomination, if he could run, because ''Republican primary voters
are at least as hawkish as the Israeli public.''

Would-be candidates responded accordingly.

In a statement released after Mr. Netanyahu's victory, Gov. Scott Walker of
Wisconsin congratulated the prime minister on a victory that was ''especially
remarkable in light of the Obama administration's attempts to undermine him.''

Former Gov. Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida paid lip service to the
two-state solution, only to argue that its pursuit should be put off. ''The
conditions don't exist right now for that solution to truly take hold,'' Mr.
Rubio said.

Potential candidates appealing to right-wing Jewish Republican megadonors like
Sheldon Adelson or a base of conservative evangelicals, many of whom believe
Israel has a biblically rooted right to the occupied territories, did not
mention the two-state solution. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, for example, praised
Mr. Netanyahu for defeating ''the full force of the Obama political team.''

And he happily exploited the bind in which Mr. Netanyahu's rejection of the
two-state solution and apparent race-baiting on the campaign trail had put Mrs.
Clinton.

''When it comes to Israel, the time for her to stand up is now,'' he said,
adding that if Mrs. Clinton disagreed with Mr. Obama's Iran nuclear
negotiations, ''she needs to state so clearly and unequivocally right now.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/israel-election-result-complicates
-life-for-hillary-rodham-clinton.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, in
Jerusalem in 2012. She has long advocated a two-state solution. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%);
POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012
(90%); LIBERALISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%);
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (77%);
BOYCOTTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA
(79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED
(79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Zero-Sum Moment

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 837 words


National elections take place within a specific global moment. In the 1990s,
there was a presumption that we were living in an age of rapid progress.
Democracy was spreading. Tyranny was receding. Asia was booming. The European
Union was building. Conflict in the Middle East was lessening. The world was
cumulatively heading toward greater pluralism, individualism, prosperity and
freedom.

Today it's harder to have faith in rapid progress. Democracy is receding.
Autocrats like Vladimir Putin of Russia are marching. The European project is
decaying. Economies are struggling. Reactionary forces like the Islamic State
and Iran are winning. The Middle East is deteriorating.

In this climate, the tone and focus of politics changes. Politics is less about
win-win situations and more about zero-sum situations. It is less about reforms
that will improve all lives and more about unadorned struggles for power. Who
will control the ground in places like Ukraine and Syria? Will Iran get the
bomb? Will the White House or Congress grab power over treaties and immigration
policy?

At these moments, tough guys do well. Cooperative skills are less valued while
confrontational skills are more valued. Benjamin Netanyahu wins re-election in
Israel. The pugnacious Nicolas Sarkozy, of all people, is staging a comeback in
France. Putin is in his element.

Barack Obama started out as a hope-and-change idealist, but he has had to
toughen to fit the times. Angela Merkel is the paradigmatic leader of the age:
shrewd, unemotional, nonidealistic, austere and interested in power. As the
former U.S. ambassador to Germany John Kornblum told George Packer of The New
Yorker: ''If you cross her you end up dead. ... There's a whole list of alpha
males who thought they would get her out of the way, and they're all now in
other walks of life.''

In these moments, right-leaning parties tend to do well and have a stronger
story to tell on national security. They speak the language of nationalism and
cultural cohesion. People who are economically insecure (and more likely to lean
left) drop out of the political process.

Both parties, though, change shape to fit the zero-sum contours of the moment.
Progressives emphasize compassion less and redistribution more. Conservatives
emphasize entrepreneurial dynamism less and the threat of government elites
more. Electorates get a little uglier when faith in progress declines. Voters
across the spectrum get more cynical and distrustful. They are quicker to
perceive threats from The Other.

For example, anti-Semitism is a good barometer of a worsening public mood.
According to the Pew Research Center, acts of hostility toward Jews are now
rampant in 39 percent of countries, up from 26 percent in 2007. The U.K.
Community Security Trust registered 1,168 anti-Semitic incidents in Britain in
2014, more than double the number from the previous year.

It's rare to have major realignments at a moment like this. Everybody is
hunkered down and risk averse. Voters in this battened-down frame of mind are
willing to elect familiar faces (better the devil you know). The Israeli,
American and European electorates have been remarkably stable over the past
decade. In Israel, for example, the overall vote that went to right-wing parties
was stable from this election to last; it's just that the Likud Party grabbed a
big share of the nationalist electorate.

Still, you do see some shifts. Extreme parties rise, especially the ones that
repel supposed interlopers and oppose elite global projects. We're seeing that
across the globe with the Tea Party, UKIP in Britain, National Front on the
right in France and Syriza on the left in Greece.

Extreme parties rarely take power, but they do influence politics because
mainstream politicians have to co-opt them. Mainstream politicians have to fight
two-front wars: the official one against their ideological opponents and the
unofficial one to silence, co-opt and crush the extremists on their own side.

This is what Netanyahu did in Israel. He didn't literally renounce the idea of a
two-state solution forevermore. He just said that it would be too dangerous in
the near term as long as Islamist-style radicalism is on the march. (A
defensible proposition.) Still, these comments and the ones on Israeli Arabs
were blatant panders. He took Knesset seats away from parties to his right by
becoming more like them.

These conditions will influence the 2016 American election, too. I'd guess that
the cultural moment favors Scott Walker and Chris Christie, who have records of
confrontation, over Jeb Bush, who hasn't won election in this era and has a
softer mien. I'd also say they strengthen Hillary Clinton. She has a Merkel-like
toughness and may actually benefit from the familiar-face phenomenon.

In general, the power of the cultural moment shapes the candidates. But
occasionally there is a leader who can turn a negative popular mood into a
positive one. F.D.R. and Reagan did this. But you have to be very, very good.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); POLITICS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%);
PUBLIC POLICY (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); RELIGION
(76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); ANTISEMITISM (71%);
FRENCH PRESIDENTS (71%); GERMAN CHANCELLORS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%);
EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); IMMIGRATION (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); FRANCE (79%);
UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; Egypt: Ex-Official Is Cleared of Corruption Charges

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 79 words


The top security official under former President Hosni Mubarak was acquitted of
corruption charges on Thursday by the Giza Criminal Court. The former official,
Habib el-Adly, was the interior minister and oversaw the police force, known for
its human rights abuses. The case was linked to his years in power when he was
accused of illegally amassing about $25 million. He was also acquitted last year
of killing protesters during the 2011 uprising that ousted Mr. Mubarak.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/egypt-ex-official-is-cleared-
of-corruption-charges.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); ACQUITTAL (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); POLICE
FORCES (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (85%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (88%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yahoo Closing Research Center in China, Ending Effort There

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words


Yahoo is closing its research and development center in China as its chief,
Marissa Mayer, tries to placate shareholders who are pressuring the company to
cut costs. The Beijing operation's responsibilities will be shifted to other
Yahoo offices, a statement released late Wednesday said. Yahoo, the Internet
company, did not specify how many people would lose their jobs. With the
closure, Yahoo will leave China, where it has been winding down since turning
over its operations to the Alibaba Group in 2005.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/technology/yahoo-closing-research-center-in-ch
ina-ending-effort-there.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (88%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (58%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); BABA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%);
NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (74%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: Arrest Powers for Alcohol Agents Questioned

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 159 words


An arrest that left a University of Virginia student bloodied and shouting
allegations of racism has prompted some lawmakers to question whether state
liquor control agents should have arrest power. Gov. Terry McAuliffe ordered the
Virginia State Police to investigate the arrest early Wednesday of Martese
Johnson, who needed 10 stitches to close a gash on his head after his
altercation with Alcoholic Beverage Control agents outside a Charlottesville
bar. Since his arrest, and an incident two years ago in which beverage control
agents swarmed the car of another student, mistaking a container of sparkling
water for beer in her car, some legislators are suggesting the agents cannot
handle having the same arrest powers as police. ''Given what happened yesterday
and what happened a couple of years ago, it raises some serious questions in my
mind whether they should have arrest powers,'' State Senator Donald McEachin of
Henrico County said Thursday.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/virginia-arrest-powers-for-alcohol-agents-q
uestioned.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BEER & ALE (88%); US
STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

PERSON: TERRY MCAULIFFE (92%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hostility From U.S. as China Lures Allies to New Bank

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1079 words


BEIJING --  When Xi Jinping, then the newly minted Chinese leader, first
broached the idea of a new Asian development bank in a public speech in 2013,
few in Washington paid it much heed.

But as Beijing systematically recruited longtime American allies to help fund
and oversee the new bank, it became clear that the push was more than a public
relations gesture to China's Asian neighbors. It was also a direct threat to the
post-World War II financial institutions led primarily by the United States, and
to President Obama's pledges to make a ''pivot'' to Asia in American foreign
policy.

Now with Britain, France, Germany and Italy signing up to join the new bank,
despite direct pleas from Washington to steer clear, the question is whether the
Obama administration mishandled a significant challenge from China, and what it
might have done differently.

''The administration made a major mistake in its opposition. It was a very
shortsighted,'' said Paul Haenle, director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center in
Beijing. ''The bank was going to go ahead whether we supported it or not.''

The United States would have been wiser, he and others said, to temper its
resentment of China's efforts to raise its international profile and play a
bigger role in global financial affairs. Some argue it may also have sought to
play a role in an Asia-focused bank led by China, just as Washington expects
China to contribute more to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
the Washington-based lending agencies for development and monetary stability.

The willingness of Britain to join the China bank over American objections was
an especially clear sign of China's sophisticated strategy for winning friends,
and Washington's failure to respond effectively.

The British chancellor, George Osborne, had made clear his desire to change
Britain's attitude toward China. The Chinese knew that he wanted to make London
a platform for overseas business transacted in Chinese currency, a first step to
the convertibility of the renminbi. Just two weeks after Mr. Xi's speech on the
bank, which the Chinese leader delivered in Indonesia, Mr. Osborne visited
Beijing, where the courting began.

The confluence of Chinese and British interests led to Mr. Osborne's
announcement last week that Britain would become a founding member of the bank,
the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. American opposition was made clear,
but most likely came late in the process.

The British decision cleared the way for other European allies that China had
courted to go Beijing's way, as well. Australia is expected to sign up in the
next week, according to government officials, and South Korea is likely to
follow.

Speaking of Britain, an angry senior administration official told The Financial
Times that the decision to join the bank was one more sign of ''constant
accommodation'' of China.

One problem is that Washington did not offer much of an alternative to China's
call to inject far more funding into building roads, railroads and pipelines
around Asia, much of which remains underdeveloped. There is little dispute, Mr.
Haenle said, that the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank have been unable
to fulfill the infrastructure needs in the region.

''But there is a strain in Washington that if the U.S. is not in the lead, then
the U.S. should not be part of it,'' he said.

Early on, the United States should have realized that China was determined to
create the bank, and that Washington should have tried to influence its creation
rather than block it, analysts in Washington and Asia said.

China was upset that after the 2008 financial crisis, Congress rebuffed
legislation intended to increase Beijing's voice in the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. Now that China was sitting on more than $3 trillion
in foreign exchange reserves, Beijing could easily afford to finance an entirely
new institution that would have a majority Chinese stake with other countries as
minority shareholders, they said.

Moreover, China had decided that it wanted to use its excess capacity in steel,
concrete and pipes to build up neighboring economies and benefit the Chinese
economy, said Laurence J. Brahm, an American who worked with Prime Minister Zhu
Rongji on China's entry to the World Trade Organization in 2001.

''China's economy will benefit from the export of its own labor to build the
infrastructure in the region,'' he said.

That China would use the bank for its own pet projects in Asia and try to knit
together the poorer countries of Southeast and Central Asia into an economic
sphere of influence was one of the main worries in Washington.

Even so, the administration could have adopted a positive approach. It had the
option of agreeing that investing in infrastructure was needed in Asia, and that
China, flush with cash, had the ability to fill the gap, said Matthew Goodman,
senior adviser on Asian economics at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies.

From that more supportive position, Washington would have been in a better
position to try to shape the new bank's rules on lending, the environment and
transparency, he said.

China's Finance Ministry has told prospective members that it will strive to
make the new bank a first-class operation that will manage to deliver projects
more efficiently than the World Bank or the Asian Development Bank.

To that end, the Chinese have asked a lawyer who worked at the World Bank for
over 30 years, Natalie Lichtenstein, to help prepare the bank's charter. Such
people are important to the bank's success, said Fred Hu, the founder of
Primavera Capital, a private equity firm in Beijing, who early in his career
worked at the World Bank.

''The last thing China and A.I.I.B. needs is that some of the fears expressed by
Washington are validated,'' he said. ''Attracting world-class talent is
absolutely crucial.''

And mindful of reputation, the Finance Ministry has deflected an interest in
bank membership from Iran, saying it might consider Iran in a second round, but
not as a founding member.

No matter how the bank shaped up, it was highly unlikely that the United States
would be a member. That was an unfortunate situation, said an Asian diplomat
whose country is a founding member.

''The truth is no one in the region wants to choose between the United States
and China,'' he said. But Washington's hostility to the bank, he said, made
countries choose in China's favor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/hostility-from-us-as-china-lures-al
lies-to-new-bank.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China.  China has a sophisticated
strategy for winning friends. (POOL PHOTO BY DAVID ROWLAND)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); CURRENCIES (69%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (91%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF
FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE OSBORNE (73%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ASIA (94%);
EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (76%); GERMANY (71%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Argentine Prosecutor Urges Reopening of Case Against President

BYLINE: By JONATHAN GILBERT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 362 words


BUENOS AIRES  -- An Argentine prosecutor asked an appellate court on Thursday to
overturn a judge's decision to dismiss allegations filed against President
Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and her political supporters by another
prosecutor, Alberto Nisman, days before his mysterious death from a gunshot
wound to the head.

The prosecutor, Germán Moldes, said the investigation into Mrs. Kirchner,
Foreign Minister Héctor Timerman and others should resume, according to the
local news media.

Mr. Nisman, whose death two months ago exposed deep rifts here, had accused Mrs.
Kirchner of conspiring to shield Iranians from charges that they planned a
deadly attack on a Jewish community center in 1994. Describing a complex web of
back-channel negotiations, he said the government had sought trade benefits in
return.

The official investigation into Mr. Nisman's death has not established whether
he was killed or committed suicide.

In an emphatic rebuke of Mr. Nisman's complaint, which had been revived by a
second prosecutor, Judge Daniel Rafecas ruled last month that there was no
evidence to support the accusations against Mrs. Kirchner.

Mr. Moldes said Thursday that Judge Rafecas had been ''unusually hasty'' in his
deliberations, the local news media reported. He added that while judicial
sluggishness was exasperating, precipitous decisions could ''confuse the guilty
with the innocent.''

Previously, Gerardo Pollicita, the prosecutor who revived the case, said Judge
Rafecas's dismissal had been ''premature'' because he had not followed up on
scores of suggested leads. Mr. Moldes said these leads should be pursued to
eliminate any uncertainty regarding the case.

Mr. Pollicita also said that Judge Rafecas had not sufficiently verified the
authenticity of an email sent by the former secretary general of Interpol to Mr.
Timerman, which said that the Argentine government had never lobbied to lift
Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranians.

The appellate court was also expected to receive written arguments from lawyers
representing parties who supported Judge Rafecas's decision to dismiss the case.
It is unclear when the court will issue its ruling.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/americas/argentine-prosecutor-urges-reop
ening-of-case-against-president.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%);
APPEALS COURTS (89%); ARRESTS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); HEAD INJURIES (72%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(71%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (57%); JEWS & JUDAISM (55%); SUICIDE (53%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (92%)

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%)

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Amgen Loses Bid to Block Biosimilar Drug by Novartis

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 286 words


A U.S. judge on Thursday denied Amgen's bid to block the sale of Novartis's
recently approved biosimilar form of Neupogen, a blockbuster drug used to
prevent infections in cancer patients.

Novartis's drug, Zarxio, contains the same active ingredient as Amgen's $1.2
billion-a-year Neupogen, and once released would become the first biosimilar in
the United States.

Kristen Davis, a spokeswoman for Amgen, said in an emailed statement that the
company planned to appeal the decision, which was by U.S. District Judge Richard
Seeborg of San Francisco federal court.

Because biosimilars are made in living cells, they are not considered exact
duplicates of original brands. Insurers are hoping that biosimilars will be sold
for discounts of 40 to 50 percent from the cost of original brands in the United
States, but Novartis has not yet disclosed the intended U.S. price for Zarxio.

The judge denied Amgen's request for a preliminary injunction. Novartis had
agreed to delay its U.S. release until the court's decision, or until April 10,
whichever came first.

It was not immediately clear how long Amgen's appeal would take, or whether
Novartis might release its biosimilar before an appeals court decision is
rendered. If Novartis were to initiate such an ''at-risk'' release, it might
later have to pay costly damages in the event that Amgen's patent is declared
valid and enforceable.

Biosimilars have been on the market since 2006 in Europe.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March approved Zarxio for the same five
conditions for which Neupogen is used -- among cancer patients undergoing
various treatments.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/judge-rejects-bid-by-amgen-to-block-b
iosimilar-drug-by-novartis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%);
CANCER (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); US FDA
APPROVALS (73%); INJUNCTIONS (73%); APPEALS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (96%); AMGEN INC (92%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (96%); NOVN (SWX) (96%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (96%);
SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT
(EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT
DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Luring Commuters to Part-Time M.B.A. Programs

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 925 words


PHILADELPHIA --  The Conshohocken Curve, a bend in Interstate 76 west of
Philadelphia, is one of those traffic-report designations with a plethora of
nightmare rush-hour delays. Through much of the winter, nearby St. Joseph's
University took advantage of the inevitable delays to place a billboard
promoting its executive M.B.A. program along the curve.

Similarly, there are billboards for Elon University's part-time M.B.A. program
on the I-40/85 commuter corridor near its North Carolina campus and one for the
Villanova executive M.B.A. near the Tacony-Palmyra Bridge crossing the Delaware
River from New Jersey into Pennsylvania.

While it may seem unusual to market something as sophisticated as a master's of
business administration degree on a mundane format like highway billboards,
schools that offer nontraditional M.B.A. programs know their market: commuters.

''The average E.-M.B.A. student is 37 years old with 14 years of work experience
and still working,'' said Michael Desiderio, executive director of the Executive
M.B.A. Council, a trade group. ''They look a lot different than someone pursuing
a day M.B.A., who is not employed, lives on campus and doesn't work full time.''

In addition to its billboards, Elon runs sponsor messages about its program on
WUNC-FM, the nearest affiliate of NPR, the public radio network, while Temple
University's Fox School of Business has ads on KYW-AM, the Philadelphia all-news
station. Drexel University's LeBow College of Business advertises in commuter
train stations, and Rutgers-Camden buys spots on Bloomberg radio.

''That has worked for us,'' said Jaishankar Ganesh, dean of the Rutgers-Camden
School of Business. ''Our target audience is commuting between home and work in
New Jersey.''

St. Joseph's University places advertisements on the exteriors of buses to take
advantage of the city's mass-transit orientation. And it advertises on the
Internet radio service Pandora. ''You can segment different demographics on
Pandora, so we can really target,'' said Carolyn Steigleman, the school's senior
director of marketing communications. ''Women tend to be a larger group for the
executive M.B.A. than the regular one because of the usual at-home issues, so we
try to target them.''

The executive M.B.A. has grown in the last several decades as companies and
workers require more advanced business knowledge to move up, and potential
entrepreneurs seek more education toward their goals. Two hundred thirty-two
universities offer the degree, says the council, enrolling about 26,000 students
annually. About 126,000 full- or part-time M.B.A.s were conferred in 2011,
according to the Education Department.

Executive M.B.A. classes generally convene one or two intensive weekends a month
and typically take a few months' less time to complete than a regular two-year
M.B.A., although the cost is about the same within the same school (Temple:
$92,000; the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania: $181,000)

The typical executive M.B.A. student is less worried about grades than about
practical education, said Linda A. Livingstone, dean of the George Washington
University Business School and chairwoman of the accrediting organization the
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.

''Executive education is almost the opposite of regular education in that
students don't compete with one another but want to collaborate,'' she said.
''The programs want to dig down to find those people, which is harder than the
normal group.''

The Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon, which Bloomberg Businessweek
rated No. 1 among part-time M.B.A. programs, still markets in traditional spots,
like M.B.A. fairs and web seminars, said Deb Lantz, Tepper's executive director
of marketing and communications.

''We want to show the students they are not getting an M.B.A. Lite, that we have
the same professors and same education as a regular M.B.A.,'' she said.

Social media and other digital methods are used widely to attract students.
According to Mr. Desiderio of the E.M.B.A. Council, 82 percent of his members
used Facebook to market programs in 2014, compared with 52 percent in 2010. And
last year, 91 percent used LinkedIn, while only 58 percent did in 2010.

''LinkedIn especially can really allow you to target people with the right kind
of experience,'' said Kristy Irwin, a marketer at Villanova's School of Business
and a 2013 Villanova executive M.B.A. graduate.

While most executive M.B.A. programs focus on local residents, the Wharton
School programs -- one at the main Philadelphia campus and one in San Francisco
-- market globally. Peggy Bishop Lane, vice dean of the program, said only 20
percent of the students in the Philadelphia program and 50 percent of those in
the San Francisco program were local residents. The rest come twice a month from
as far away as Europe.

''We depend on digital advertising,'' she said. In San Francisco, though,
Wharton has banners on street lamps and advertisements on local news radio ''so
there is an awareness that Wharton is in San Francisco, too,'' she said.

In the end there is no better marketing than results. Schools ask graduates to
encourage others to look at the program.

''This is not an inexpensive degree. Even here at a public school, it is close
to $100,000,'' said Michael Rivera, the academic director of Temple's executive
M.B.A. program. ''We depend on graduates to tell prospects how we have helped
them. Even in the digital age, there is nothing better than word of mouth.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/luring-working-executives-to-mba-pro
grams.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUTING (91%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (85%); SPONSORSHIP
(77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); URBAN TRANSIT
SYSTEMS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); STUDENT
HOUSING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRAINS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); PUBLIC
RADIO (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); RAIL
STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (64%); INTERNET AUDIO (64%);
ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: PANDORA MEDIA INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY (58%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: P (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(83%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

That's Edutainment

BYLINE: By GREG BEATO

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2423 words


In a 2013 episode of ''60 Minutes,'' Charlie Rose visits Bill Gates's office to
get a sense of where the billionaire philanthropist draws intellectual
inspiration. First, Mr. Gates shows Mr. Rose the Codex Leicester, a 500-year-old
Leonardo da Vinci manuscript that Mr. Gates bought in 1994 for $30 million.

Then, with just as much as enthusiasm and nearly as much reverence, Mr. Gates
leads Mr. Rose to a bookcase filled with DVDs from the Great Courses. As the
camera pans across various titles, Mr. Rose notes that Mr. Gates, a Harvard
dropout, has now watched ''hundreds of hours of college lectures'' through these
DVDs, which feature professors discussing, say, the search for the Higgs boson.

Still, at just 200 or so volumes, Mr. Gates's collection was not nearly big
enough to establish him as the world's greatest Great Courses collector.

''We just had somebody last month who bought the entire library,'' says Ed Leon,
chief brand officer of the Great Courses. ''It's someone who seems to have made
a lot of money in finance and retired to a tropical island. That's where we
shipped the entire library -- over 500 courses.''

What does it mean when people who can afford to spend their time however they
please hunker down in front of their flat screens to watch theoretical
physicists or experts on other subjects lecture for hours?

Entertainment values have come to dominate many aspects of life, but another
trend has been playing out, too. Call it the academization of leisure. It can be
found in the live-streaming TED Talks lectures, the Great Courses, learning
vacations, podcasts, science centers, brain-training games and retirement
communities like Lasell Village in Newton, Mass., whose residents must complete
''a minimum of 450 hours of learning and fitness activity each calendar year,''
its website says.

These days, examples of what is often called edutainment are everywhere. As the
word suggests, edutainment combines aspects of education and entertainment into
products and experiences that seek to improve learning by making it not just
painless but also pleasurable.

And while consumers will often pay prices that would please any Ivy League
bursar, this kind of education is generally pursued on an elective basis, with
no credits or certification at stake.

Learning through entertainment dates at least to Ben Franklin's Poor Richard's
Almanack, which amused and instructed colonists with its mix of maxims, weather
forecasts, math lessons and puzzles.

But traditionally, edutainment resulted from the kinds of things Neil Postman, a
New York University professor and media theorist, criticized in his 1985 book,
''Amusing Ourselves to Death.'' In it, he argued that culture's primary mode of
discourse was shifting from print to TV, and that as a result, ''politics,
religion, news, athletics, education and commerce'' had all been ''transformed
into congenial adjuncts of show business.''

In Mr. Postman's formulation of the world, show business alone did the
encroaching. Lessons about multiplication were put to music. Local TV news
anchors adopted the mindless patter of variety-show M.C.s.

But what is most notable about the current edutainment boom is how often it uses
formats and techniques from education and academia to invade domains that were
once primarily recreational -- or at least nonacademic.

In the old days, business people networked over martinis. Now they prepare to
mingle by consuming multiple TED Talks lectures (TED stands for technology,
entertainment, design). Likewise, it sometimes seems as if no luxury vacation is
complete without a concierge biologist on hand to decipher the mating habits of
the mantled howler monkey. And thanks to farmers markets, picking up milk and
eggs has turned into a chance for informal symposiums on pasture management.

Finally, there is fare like the Great Courses and online learning sites like
Lynda.com, CreativeLive.com and EdX.org. Such material is hardly fodder for
channel surfers. The Great Courses (which also come in audio formats) feature a
college professor lecturing from 12 to 24 hours on topics like ancient
Mesoamerica or behavioral economics. The living room couch in front of the
television now functions as a site for in-depth learning.

Many factors underlie the ascent of such learning products. An aging population
has leisure time and money to spend. Digital distribution lets content creators
focus on smaller audiences with more specialized interests, and it gives users
access to these products anywhere and anytime. The proliferation of media that
results has in turn created a market for live events like TED Talks, the music
and multimedia gathering SXSW and the Comic-Con fan conventions, all of which
offer lectures and symposiums that can turn up online later.

As long-established companies and personalities look for new sources of revenue
in a rapidly shifting media market, they turn to educational offerings as well.

''I think like everyone else, we're looking for new opportunities that bring in
revenue and keep in line with our mission,'' says Linda St. Thomas, chief
spokeswoman for the Smithsonian Institution.

To this end, the Smithsonian has begun offering classes through the Great
Courses line, as have National Geographic, the Culinary Institute of America and
the Mayo Clinic. The Smithsonian, through its Journeys program, and National
Geographic, through its Expeditions program, also offer more than 200 learning
vacations a year, charging travelers thousands of dollars to forsake drinks by
the pool for in-the-field instruction from art historians and volcanologists.
The New York Times has ventured into this territory with its Times Journeys
program, and it sells tickets to question-and-answer sessions with figures from
the film and music industries, among others.

In ''Amusing Ourselves to Death,'' Mr. Postman lamented that a former Hollywood
actor could be president. Now, former presidents are replacing professional
entertainers as the top-billed stars on cruise ship vacations. Lech Walesa,
former president of Poland, will visit with Smithsonian Journeys participants in
Gdansk this summer. César Gaviria, former president of Colombia, will be on hand
on a National Geographic Expeditions cruise off South America this fall.

While lunching with celebrity politicians on luxury cruises may seem frivolous,
what has actually happened is that a purely recreational activity has acquired
new intellectual ambition.

''There's an increasing demand for meaningful experiences,'' says Lynn Cutter,
National Geographic's executive vice president for travel and licensing. ''When
people have choices on how to spend their money, they're valuing experiences
more than material things.''

And learning is often a crucial part of these experiences, partly because
Americans today are much more educated than their predecessors. In 1940,
according to United States census data, only 25 percent of American citizens
ages 25 or above had high school diplomas or their equivalents. And only 5
percent of American citizens 25 or above had a bachelor's degree or higher. By
2009, 87 percent of this demographic had a high school diploma, and 30 percent
had a bachelor's degree or higher.

Not that education ends with a bachelor's degree these days, or even a Ph.D. In
the fast-paced knowledge economy, lifelong earning requires lifelong learning.
To keep their skills sharp and maximize income or employability, people turn to
sites like CreativeLive.com to fine-tune their Photoshop expertise or learn how
to use Instagram as a sales channel.

''We've served up more than two billion minutes of free education to every
country on the planet,'' says Chase Jarvis, the site's chief executive and one
of its founders.

Most of CreativeLive's classes, which are clustered into categories like ''Photo
and Video'' and ''Art and Design'' and streamed live from the company's
broadcast studios in Seattle and San Francisco, are intended to help people
develop skills to put to professional use. ''What we're trying to do is create
the most vibrant learning experience we can,'' Mr. Jarvis says. ''When we do a
podcasting class, we get Alex Blumberg, a former producer for 'This American
Life,' to teach it. And since he's the best in the world at what he does, he
puts on an amazing show.''

The surest way to dazzle today's lifelong learners is through expertise and
instruction, not gimmicky and tacked-on showbiz elements. And yet because there
is a sizable paying market for educational media -- CreativeLive.com offers the
initial live broadcasts of its classes free, then charges $24 to $299 for
on-demand access to them -- producers are investing more in this material. As a
result, the teaching talent becomes better, the production values improve and
educational courseware can be just as engaging as any other form of media.

It often has to be, says Nick Macey, chief product officer of Rosetta Stone, a
language-learning software company. Mr. Macey has to develop products that
people enjoy enough to use regularly and intensively, because that is what it
takes to learn a new language. ''So whether it's through highly entertaining
content or live experiences with native speakers, we're always looking for ways
to engage our customers,'' Mr. Macey says.

As material becomes more enjoyable, ultimately some people begin to approach
even difficult and sustained feats of learning, like achieving conversational
fluency in Mandarin, as a way to unwind at the end of the day.

''Educated people love to learn,'' notes Randy White, chief executive of the
White Hutchinson Leisure and Learning Group, a company based in Kansas City,
Mo., that helps develop things like children's play centers and farmers markets
that combine education and entertainment.

These new educational approaches offer a more structured and productive
experience than watching a situation comedy or a reality show. But the
experience can also be as informal as you want it to be. ''There are no exams,''
the Great Courses website reassures. ''No homework assignments. No
prerequisites.''

Still, people accustomed to a steady stream of likes, retweets and other soft
forms of assessment often view exams and quizzes as good things. Rouxbe.com is
an online cooking school whose curriculum is so comprehensive that restaurants
and culinary academies use it as a training tool. But according to Joe Girard,
its chief executive, 80 percent of its customers are home cooks. And they want
feedback.

''Not everyone thought that our customers would do quizzes,'' Mr. Girard says.
''But in the first six months that we introduced them, we had 500,000 quizzes
completed. People love affirmation. They love to see that because they watched a
video, they now know something they didn't previously know.''

People also recognize that the Internet puts answers, experts and detailed
instruction at their fingertips. And that increases their curiosity and
willingness to tackle new subjects.

''Today, people learn online first,'' says Jen Long, co-founder of
GardenTribe.com, a California producer of online instruction for home gardeners.
''There's no driving to the nursery. It's go to Google and type in, 'What should
I plant in my garden?' ''

That is how it worked for one GardenTribe.com customer, Odessa Criales-Smith.
''I did a Google search because I wanted to learn more about succulents,'' she
says. ''I didn't know what I'd find. I was just searching for any information at
all.''

A software reseller who works from home in Lovettsville, Va., Ms. Criales-Smith
often used online courses to obtain certifications for the various lines of
software she sells. So when GardenTribe.com came up in her search results, she
bought access to one of its classes.

''I was just looking for a hobby to chill on,'' Ms. Criales-Smith says.
''Succulents was a great relaxing thing to do.'' After viewing the first video,
Ms. Criales-Smith bought additional classes and watched them at night in bed,
projecting them from her tablet onto her large-screen TV using Google's
Chromecast device.

Over time, she says, she turned into a ''succulents fanatic.'' And eventually,
she began attending antiques shows and flea markets to sell arrangements that
she makes of succulent plants. ''Taking that class gave me the confidence to go
ahead and start something,'' she says.

That first GardenTribe.com class that Ms. Criales-Smith took now goes for $39.
The DVD version of the Great Courses class ''The Higgs Boson and Beyond'' sells
for $199.95. ''Changing Tides of History: Cruising the Baltic Sea,'' the
Smithsonian Journeys vacation where you can talk about globalization with Lech
Walesa, starts at $6,995.

It is not always clear if a product or event is being used as entertainment or,
say, corporate training. So creditable estimates of the size of the edutainment
industry are hard to come by. What is clear is that its target consumers are
willing to pay for the experiences it can deliver.

''The most educated have the least amount of time,'' Mr. White observes. ''So
when they spend their leisure time, they want it as productive and high quality
as possible. They're looking for experiences that can permanently change
themselves -- going to a fitness facility, gaining new knowledge. They don't
want to waste their leisure time.''

At the Great Courses, there is a rigorous process to make sure that doesn't
happen.

''First, we write up a synopsis of what we want a title to be,'' Mr. Leon says.
''Then we poll that with our customer basis.'' If it performs well, the company
starts looking for professors to teach the course. ''I have a recruiting team
that scours the country for just the right person.''

Candidates travel to the Great Courses studio in Chantilly, Va., and record a
lecture. ''We have a variety of people test for the same course,'' Mr. Leon
says. The samples are market-tested as well. ''Our customers are going to spend
12 to 24 hours of screen time with this person, so it has to be someone who
resonates with them.''

Once a professor is chosen, a course goes into full production. In 2015, the
Great Courses will release about 40 new classes.

''This year, we've got 550 hours of content coming out of our studio,'' Mr. Leon
says. Because of all of that exposure to subjects like data analytics or world's
greatest churches, Mr. Leon says, ''My production team is turning into
semi-geniuses.'' On an unnamed tropical island, a mysterious retired polymath
may be, too.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/turning-to-education-for-fun.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAPTURING A CLASS:   Jonathon Leven of Great  Courses during
the  filming of ''Redefining  Reality: The Intellectual  Implications of Modern
Science,'' taught by Steven  Gimbel, a philosophy  professor at Gettysburg
College. Bottom, Odessa  Criales-Smith took an  online course about  succulent
plants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VANESSA VICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F6) DRAWING
(DRAWING BY POST TYPOGRAPHY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); PHYSICS (74%);
HIGGS BOSON (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%);
RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); PRICES (71%); TRENDS (69%); STREAMING MEDIA (68%);
INTERNET BROADCASTING (68%); WEATHER (64%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%); PODCASTING
(63%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (92%); CHARLIE ROSE (89%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Skirmishing Continues in 'Blurred Lines' Case

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


The ''Blurred Lines'' case has resulted in one of the biggest jury verdicts in
the history of music copyright, and it's not closed yet.

In the first signs of what may be a protracted post-trial battle, lawyers for
both sides have filed documents with the court raising questions about the
verdict. Last week, a jury found that Robin Thicke's ''Blurred Lines,'' a top
hit in 2013, had copied elements of Marvin Gaye's 1977 song ''Got to Give It
Up'' without permission, and awarded the Gaye family nearly $7.4 million.

Late Tuesday, lawyers representing the Gaye family -- who inherited Mr. Gaye's
copyright in the song after his death in 1984 -- asked the court to ''correct
the jury's verdict'' by holding more than just Mr. Thicke and Pharrell Williams
liable.

According to the jury's decision, only Mr. Thicke and Mr. Williams -- two of the
song's three credited writers -- were found to have infringed on the Gayes'
copyright. The third writer, the rapper T.I. (whose real name is Clifford Harris
Jr.), was not found to be liable, and neither were the record labels that
released ''Blurred Lines'': Star Trak, Mr. Williams's label, and Interscope, a
division of the giant Universal Music, which distributed it.

In their motion, the Gaye family members asked the judge in the case, John A.
Kronstadt of United States District Court in Los Angeles, to add Mr. Harris and
the labels to the verdict, arguing that ''as a matter of law, all members of the
distribution chain are liable for infringement.'' Such a change could affect who
is responsible for paying the damages.

In a separate motion, the Gayes also asked the judge for an injunction to
prevent further distribution of ''Blurred Lines,'' calling that a step in the
negotiations over future royalties and credit.

After the verdict was delivered, Howard E. King, the lawyer representing Mr.
Thicke's side, said publicly that he expected to fight it in post-trial motions.
In a document filed with the court on Monday, Mr. King asked for more time to
file a motion for declarative relief, ''due to the inconsistent jury verdict and
complexity of issues arising therefrom.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/business/media/both-sides-in-blurred-lines-cop
yright-suit-signal-a-continuing-battle.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (93%); JURY TRIALS (92%); MUSIC (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%);
LAWYERS (89%); RAP MUSIC (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%);
JUDGES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); WRITERS
(72%); INJUNCTIONS (71%)

PERSON: PHARRELL WILLIAMS (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HARWOOD, LOWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 597 words


HARWOOD--Lowell. 85, of Short Hills passed away on March 18, 2015. Born in
Newark and raised in Jersey City, Harwood returned to Hudson County after
graduating from Kent State University and serving in the United States Army
during the Korean War to work in the family parking business that began in 1920.
Harwood built and grew the business, breaking into the competitive New York
market with a shrewd business model of choosing the right locations and charging
reasonable prices. The company went public in 1969, with Harwood becoming chair
of Square Industries, Inc., headquartered at 921 Bergen Avenue in Jersey City
where Harwood was raised. By the time the company was sold in 1997, the family
operation had grown to a $100 million business with 135 locations across the
United States.

During Harwood's leadership of Square Industries, the company managed parking at
the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, NY, one of Harwood's proudest
achievements. After selling the company, Harwood continued running Harwood
Properties LLC, a private parking and property management company that continues
to be managed by the Harwood family in Jersey City. Harwood was a pillar of the
Jersey City business community, serving on the board of the Jersey City Chamber
of Commerce, and served as the Chamber's president in 1958. In 1997, the Harwood
Family purchased the site of the former State Theater and created the first, new
residential development in Journal Square in more than 50 years, helping to
transform the area into the pride of Jersey City. Harwood was also involved in
numerous parking business associations, serving on the Board of Directors for
the National Parking Association, the Metropolitan Parking Association and the
New York Parking Association. A philanthropist in Jersey City and throughout his
home state, Harwood was a dedicated supporter of Christ Hospital serving on the
Board of Trustees, the Executive Board and the Christ Hospital Foundation Board
for 40 years. While serving on the Foundation Board, Harwood donated funds to
establish the Harwood Heart Center, a state-of-the-art coronary-care unit, which
continues to bear Lowell's name. Harwood's philanthropy included more than 10
years of service as a Kean University Trustee and Trustee Emeritus. As Trustee,
Harwood implemented numerous campus improvement projects and donated a beautiful
stained-glass window that remains the centerpiece of the Kean Hall Conference
Center. Harwood also founded the Kean University Gala Event in 1997, which
raised more than $1.4 million over seven years for the school's scholarship
fund, a cause for which Lowell was very passionate. In recognition of his
dedicated service to Kean, he was named the University's "Man of the Year" at
the University's sixth annual gala in 2003. The Harwood Arena at Kean University
is named after Harwood in honor of his leadership and generosity for the
University. The Harwoods were members of Temple Beth El in Jersey City for more
than 50 years, and Lowell Harwood was a member of the American Israel Public
Affairs Committee (AIPAC). Lowell Harwood is survived by his loving wife, Toby;
his brother, Sanford; his children, Leslie and Craig; his grandchildren,
Jonathan, David and Laura Ehrlich; and his nephews Brett and Scott Harwood. The
funeral service will be held on Friday, March 20, 2015 at 10am at Bernheim Apter
Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel (973-422-0600) at 68 Old Short Hills Road in
Livingston. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made to Kean
University or the charity of your choice. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COLLEGES &
UNIVERSITIES (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (88%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); PHILANTHROPY (86%); US
ARMY (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE (77%); PARKING LOT
OPERATORS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); PRICES
(76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); ARMIES (73%); KOREAN WAR (72%); RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); OLYMPICS (68%); RELIGION (67%);
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (67%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (62%); HOSPITALS (62%); WINTER
OLYMPICS (53%)

COMPANY: CENTRAL PARKING SYSTEM INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: KENT STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812930 PARKING LOTS & GARAGES (92%); SIC7521 AUTOMOBILE PARKING
(92%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

So Close You Can Almost Taste It

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1373 words


IT'S official. April is no longer the cruelest month. February moves into the
top spot. Any nay votes? I thought not. And March has been no bargain, either,
up to and including the first day of spring.

The past six weeks have brought snow, sleet and ice, borne by gale-force winds,
and a whole new vocabulary of weather terror. ''Siberian Express,'' the worst
two words in the English language, led the pack, followed closely by ''frozen
air mass'' and ''Arctic blast.''

This is the winter that has made New Yorkers grateful for a windchill
temperature above 15 and almost delirious when the thermometer rises above the
freezing mark. Never has the hunger for spring been so acute and so palpable. In
a city that has been iced-in like Murmansk, residents are prepared to seize on
any evidence of a warming trend, even water dripping from the tip of an icicle.

Across the five boroughs, Mister Softee trucks are straining at the leash. Ice
cream cones are getting early licks. Weather scofflaws, risking chapped knees,
have put on shorts and stroll the sidewalks, clutching their iced coffees with
numb fingers.

These are the symptoms of extreme weather abuse. New Yorkers, pushed to the
breaking point, have begun to crack. But there is hope. The first signs of
spring are all around.

At the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, clusters of snowdrops, their ivory-white petals
drooping like little lampshades, have pushed through to the surface of the shade
garden, just past the entrance. On the garden's website, the ''Plants in Bloom''
feature duly notes their first appearance on Saturday, in tandem with the bright
yellow cups of winter aconite.

Lavender crocuses have opened, spreading their spiky petals. Magnolia blossoms
are poised to burst. Bluebells, daffodils and tulips have broken the soil and
are shooting upward fast, just about ready to roll.

The first spring birds, weighing the risks, are returning, although you have to
look. Out on the North Forty, a wilderness area at Floyd Bennett Field in
Brooklyn, all was silence a few days ago when I walked the trails. The only
sightings were jets on their final approach to Kennedy International Airport. Up
the shoreline a few miles, at the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, Canada geese and
sea gulls still held sway. A birding logbook at the trailhead to West Pond
showed one entry -- an osprey.

''The birds are just beginning to migrate,'' said Don Riepe, a Jamaica Bay
guardian who conducts nature tours, and who swears that the last chunks of ice
in the bay have melted. ''You might see an osprey or an oystercatcher, and in a
couple of weeks there will be Eastern phoebes and pine warblers.''

''The woodcocks should be starting to display now,'' Mr. Riepe said. ''They fly
up in the air in a big arc, dive down, and emit a twittering noise -- sort of an
insect sound.'' Imagine a door buzzer that says ''meep.''

Further inland, red-winged blackbirds have been spotted in Central Park. They
have company. ''The robins came en masse on March 10,'' said Elizabeth Kaledin,
a spokeswoman for the Central Park Conservancy, after canvassing her troops in
the field. There have been reports of brown creepers, too. Look for Carolina
wrens, northern flickers and cedar waxwings in the coming weeks.

Spring isn't just visible, it's edible. With the season's turn, the earth will
give forth peas, asparagus, artichokes and ramps. Spring lamb with mint shimmers
on the near horizon. At spring's debut on Friday, if the weather and the
greenmarket oblige, the Iberian restaurant Aldea in Chelsea will bring back a
spring signature, seared ramps with crispy pig ears and cumin yogurt. Park
Avenue Winter, a seasonal restaurant, will become Park Avenue Spring at the end
of the month.

Ellary's Greens, in Greenwich Village, could not wait. The spring menu went into
effect a week ago, in very green surroundings. The interior of the restaurant
has a pergolalike structure topped by a sheet of green metal perforated with
leaf shapes, and potted green snake plants line the walls. A special last week
was spring incarnate: a tartine of grilled asparagus, pea shoots and peas on
grilled bread smeared with fresh ricotta and topped with shavings of Parmesan.
It was earthy. It was fresh. Above all, it was green. The only thing greener was
the ''detox'' juice: liquid jade made from kale, spinach, celery, cucumber,
green apple, parsley and lemon.

On sidewalks only recently cleared of snow, the first outdoor tables have
already appeared. New Yorkers have proved that they can accept bus exhaust and
gawking with their steak frites. Now, like tourists checking into a Norwegian
ice hotel, they flash can-do smiles as they dine alfresco, swaddled in down
jackets, lips blue with cold.

It's the hunger for romance, as much as food, that drives them to it. This is an
area where Paris holds a monopoly, although it must be noted that the song
''April in Paris'' was written in New York by Vernon Duke and E. Y. Harburg
during a harsh spring. Still, a little of the French flavor wafts this way, when
the musical version of ''An American in Paris'' opens at the Palace Theater on
Broadway in April, timed to spring's reawakened pulse. Radio City Music Hall has
already occupied the seasonal high ground: For the first time since 1997, it is
offering a Spring Spectacular, now in previews and opening on Thursday, with the
Easter bunny in a cameo role.

There is a soundtrack to spring in New York. It starts with ''Easter Parade,''
the sunniest of the seasonal melodies, but Tony Bennett's ''Spring in
Manhattan'' has a sultry romanticism, and Jonathan Richman's ''Springtime in New
York'' at least faces the meteorological realities in its first line: ''On Canal
Street in April when it's 60 and the snow is melting fast.''

The spring themes of regeneration and rebirth carry heavy weight in cold
climates. Russians, jumping the gun egregiously, celebrated the ancient festival
Maslenitsa in February, with round blinis drenched in butter (maslo) standing in
for the sun.

At the Ukrainian Museum in the East Village, March means Easter eggs, which
Ukrainians have decorated in intricate patterns since time immemorial.
''Pysanka: Guardian of Life,'' which just opened there, shows off the eggs
(pysanky in Ukrainian) in the museum's permanent collection, with a special
section devoted to work by the folk artist Iryna Bilianska, who developed a
distinctive floral pattern in the 1920s and '30s.

The eggs were originally thought of as magic talismans, with the power to
protect the home and bring good luck. In time, artists added Christian symbols,
like crosses and fish, to a repertoire of sun symbols, animals and geometric
forms, in the same way that folk tales gradually incorporated Christian
elements. In one Ukrainian legend, Mary, the mother of Jesus, approached Pontius
Pilate with a basket of decorated eggs as a gift, begging him to give her the
body of her son for burial. She fainted, spilling her eggs, which rolled all
over the world -- as far as New York, thanks to the folklorist Damian
Horniatkewych, who spirited a collection of her eggs out of Ukraine at the
beginning of World War II.

Early humans prayed for the return of the sun. We, their descendants, find
spiritual renewal in the new television season. The first two Sundays in April
are big days. ''Mad Men'' begins marching toward its final episode after seven
seasons on the air, and ''Game of Thrones'' begins Season 5 (Winter is going!).

The end of ''Mad Men'' will be bittersweet, but the show's impassioned fans can
find solace at the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens. ''Matthew
Weiner's Mad Men,'' which runs through June 14, provides plenty of nourishment
for ''Mad Men'' pedants. It includes production notes from the pen of Mr.
Weiner, the show's creator, that run from the banal (''Betty: don't raise your
voice'') to cosmic thoughts on the era (''cultural aspirations lowered,''
''self-esteem replaces knowledge''). Reconstructions of Don Draper's office and
Don and Betty's kitchen make it possible to travel back to the heady days when
Salem ads carried the slogan, ''You get Springtime freshness in every puff!''

Inhale deeply. The calendar promises spring today. It could happen.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/spring-is-so-close-you-can-almost-tas
te-it.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Kazmira Stetz, Zinnia Stetz and Cal Quinlan enjoying
the moment outside the Queens Zoo. (C21)
Signs of spring in New York include joggers in Central Park, right
the return of birds, like a robin, above, at Prospect Park in Brooklyn
and seasonal menus, including an asparagus tartine, left, at Ellary's Greens, in
Greenwich Village.
Lavender crocuses, above, at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden
and snowdrops, below left, in Central Park, are blooming. At the Queens Zoo, a
Flemish Giant rabbit, right
and Addison Dove, 2, below, meets an alpaca.
 Bouquets are back at store stoops, and while the weather continues to numb
fingers and paws, New Yorkers are venturing outdoors, including Mancha, above, a
Dalmatian at Prospect Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (C28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); BIRDS (87%); SEVERE WINTER WEATHER (77%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (74%); SEVERE WIND (72%); SEVERE WEATHER (72%); THERMAL SENSORS
(69%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%); WILDLIFE (68%); BIRDING (66%); WILDERNESS (61%);
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (61%); AIRPORTS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boundaries Crossed, Dangerously, in Pursuit of Intimacy

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 499 words


''She's Lost Control,'' Anja Marquardt's chilly portrait of a behavioral
psychologist who works as a sexual surrogate, is so studiedly bleak it will pour
ice water on anyone's fantasies of earning a living as an erotic healer.

Its central character, Ronah (Brooke Bloom), is a graduate student in New York
City whose clients, referred to her by a therapist (Dennis Boutsikaris), have
serious intimacy issues. Patients visit her drab New York apartment, which has
persistent plumbing problems, in a building whose walls are so thin that there
is no shutting out neighbors' racket. Her uncomfortable living situation is not
conducive to therapy. And Ronah, although articulate and professionally
welcoming, is not a warm and fuzzy person like Cheryl Cohen Greene (Helen Hunt),
the empathic surrogate who helps a survivor of polio lose his virginity in the
2012 movie ''The Sessions.''

The movie observes Ronah working with several clients, who, after a test for
sexually transmitted diseases, must sign an agreement asserting that their
sessions are ''not for sexual gratification or for entertainment.'' It focuses
on a new case in which the boundaries between her feelings and professional
detachment are tested and begin to blur. Johnny (Marc Menchaca) is a handsome,
red-bearded anesthesiologist whose aversion to intimate physical contact
coincides with a drinking problem. His trust in Ronah is slow to develop, but as
they go through the exercises involving eye contact and delicate, gentle touch,
he begins to warm up and shed his defenses, although each advance is followed by
a backlash.

Because Ronah is evasive about her occupation outside the office, there is
plenty of reason to suspect she harbors deep ambivalence and perhaps even some
shame about it.

It also becomes increasingly apparent that Ronah, who is freezing her eggs in
case she decides one day to have a child, is an isolated single woman whose only
nonprofessional contact is her brother in upstate New York. They converse via
Skype, and he cares for their mentally unstable mother.

Ronah, against her will, begins developing romantic feelings for Johnny, and
surreptitiously visits the hospital where he works to check up on him.
Eventually, he responds violently.

Before this outburst, the camera follows Ronah around the streets of Manhattan,
whose architecture reflects her loneliness. ''She's Lost Control'' sustains a
mood of deepening alienation, but the attitude of the movie is too detached for
it to be emotionally gripping, and its ending is botched.

She's Lost Control

Opens on Friday

Written, directed and edited by Anja Marquardt; director of photography, Zachary
Galler; music by Simon Taufique; production design by David Meyer; costumes by
Andrea Sundt; produced by Kiara C. Jones, Mollye Asher and Ms. Marquardt;
released by Monument Releasing. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is
not rated.

WITH: Brooke Bloom (Ronah), Marc Menchaca (Johnny) and Dennis Boutsikaris (Dr.
Alan Cassidy).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-shes-lost-control-crossing-bo
undaries-in-pursuit-of-intimacy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brooke Bloom  as a sexual surrogate  and Marc  Menchaca as an
anesthesiologist  with an aversion  to intimate  physical contact  in this movie
directed by Anja  Marquardt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VISIT FILMS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%);
PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); SEXUALLY
TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS
SCREENING & TESTING (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Secrets Trickle Out, a Family Idyll Is Upended

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words


At first glance, ''Bloodline'' looks ominously like a poignant family drama:
Members of a close-knit Southern clan gather at a gracious seaside retreat to
celebrate their formidable but aging patriarch. There are anniversary cookouts
and multigenerational beach volleyball, and it looks awful.

But appearances, like children, can be deceiving.

This Netflix series isn't a sensitive portrait of the richness of family ties.
''Bloodline'' is a sneaky, dissembling film noir account of a sneaky,
dissembling family. The Rayburns lie to one another. The show's creators lie to
viewers -- or at least veil the truth. The story of a prodigal son's return is
enticingly sheathed in layers of duplicity, private demons and mistrust --
almost as if Pat Conroy had collaborated on a screenplay with James M. Cain.

Todd A. Kessler, Daniel Zelman and Glenn Kessler are the creators of
''Bloodline,'' and they are also the team that came up with ''Damages.'' That
provenance is more of a giveaway than any of the clues in the first episode. But
''Damages,'' which began on FX in 2007, was a legal thriller.

This first season, to be streamed in its entirety starting Friday, presents a
more oblique kind of mystery, with murder only part of a larger puzzle of family
resentment and suppressed grievances. Those unfold ''Damages'' style, in jagged,
artfully sequenced fragments that withhold as much as they reveal.

Glenn Close was the star of ''Damages,'' and that alone was a tip-off that her
series was more sinister and complicated than the usual legal whodunit. As Patty
Hewes, Ms. Close had a sunny smile so sinister it all but withered flowers and
shattered glass.

The setting in a Florida Keys hotel has a faint echo of the classic Humphrey
Bogart movie ''Key Largo,'' but the stars of ''Bloodline'' don't instantly
project a sense of menace.

Kyle Chandler (''Friday Night Lights'') is John Rayburn, a detective in the
local sheriff's office and the family anchor. Sam Shepard plays the gruff,
hardworking father, Robert, known as Bob, who with his loving wife, Sally (Sissy
Spacek), runs the family hotel business. Another son, Kevin, (Norbert Leo Butz)
works at the hotel, and a daughter, Meg (Linda Cardellini), a lawyer, pitches in
with legal work and other tasks.

The Rayburns seem like an unusually companionable, affectionate and easygoing
group. Of course, the Keys also seem dreamily balmy and serene. It's paradise
until the first tropical storm blackens the sky and drenches the landscape.

There's another son, Danny (Ben Mendelsohn), the eldest, and his return after
some time away almost instantly darkens the mood. Danny is a classic
ne'er-do-well, a flâneur who can't hold a job and stay out of trouble with
drugs, women or the law. John has always protected and looked out for his older
brother, but even he is worried about Danny's behavior and prospects. And he
should be worried.

''Bloodline'' is cleverly constructed, but a lot of the mystery hinges on Danny.
Mr. Mendelsohn (who made his name in the United States in the Australian crime
drama ''Animal Kingdom'') is suitably inscrutable -- his character is a
quicksilver manipulator who can seem benign one second and malevolent the next.
His good looks are bleached out by bad behavior, and only his smile, wryly sweet
but fleeting, restores his boyhood charm. At his best, Danny seems well-meaning
and misunderstood; at his worst, he looks a little like a middle-aged Robert
Durst.

Danny wants to come back and help out with the family business, or says he does.
Only his mother thinks that is likely or a good idea. But Danny is not the only
scion with mixed motives and a murky agenda. It takes a while to see it, but all
of the Rayburn children have secrets and buried wounds that are hinted at in
blurry flashbacks.

Television is offering so many drawn-out series that tantalize the viewer with
half-truths and partial answers. ''Broadchurch'' on BBC America has fudged the
guilt of an accused child killer to fill a second season. ''Secrets and Lies''
on ABC is a new elliptical thriller about the murder of a child. On A&E, ''The
Returned'' doesn't explain why dead people keep coming back to life.

At the outset, ''Bloodline'' doesn't even make clear if anyone has been
murdered, let alone who might be missing. But it does establish that it may be
well worth waiting to find out.

Bloodline

Available for streaming on Netflix.

Produced by Sony Pictures Television in association with KZK Productions for
Netflix. Todd A. Kessler, Daniel Zelman and Glenn Kessler, executive producers.

WITH: Kyle Chandler (John Rayburn), Ben Mendelsohn (Danny Rayburn), Linda
Cardellini (Meg Rayburn), Norbert Leo Butz (Kevin Rayburn), Jacinda Barrett
(Diana Rayburn), Jamie McShane (Eric O'Bannon), Enrique Murciano (Marco Diaz),
Sam Shepard (Robert Rayburn) and Sissy Spacek (Sally Raburn).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/television/review-bloodline-on-netflix-de
picts-a-family-with-nasty-secrets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bloodline: Kyle Chandler as a sheriff trying to keep it
together, in this Netflix series starting Friday. (C1)
 Veiled resentment: Ben Mendelsohn, left, and Kyle Chandler as brothers in
''Bloodline.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAEED ADYANI/NETFLIX) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (75%); WEATHER
(72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); FILM (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); HOTEL STAFF
(62%); VOLLEYBALL (57%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(57%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Lost and Love' ('Shu Gi') Stars Andy Lau as a Man Searching for His
Lost Son

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words


Peng Sanyuan's ''Lost and Love'' could ably serve as a travelogue of China:
glowingly verdant trees, winding roads, fishing shacks, ribbonlike bridges,
cafes and grubby city intersections, all shot by Mark Lee Ping Bin, the
cinematographer who has helped the great director Hou Hsiao-hsien sculpt time in
images.

But this is unhappy sightseeing: Ms. Peng's film centers on a man on a
decade-plus search for his lost son, a victim of the scourge of child
trafficking in China. What results is ample fodder for a stop-and-go tear-jerker
featuring the Hong Kong star Andy Lau, suitably rumpled like a piece of
distressed clothing, as the poor, bereft father, Lei.

On a mountain leg of his province-by-province dragnet, Lei is joined by a young
mechanic, Zeng (Boran Jing), after repairs on his bike, which flies a flag of
his missing child. When the younger, well-coiffed man reveals he was kidnapped
as a child, the film begins a potentially poignant drama of two people in need,
both clinging to grief.

Their bond feels awkwardly developed, as typified by a shouting match over the
bike and a playful car-washing scene. Ms. Peng, a novelist and screenwriter,
keeps lurching into wide shot to show off the landscape (especially the bridges
that tap into Zeng's vague memories of childhood) and cutting away to wispy
stories about a baby trafficker and a distraught mother.

''Lost and Love'' (''Lost Orphan'' in the original Chinese title) confronts
serious problems but is too busy reaching for epic sweep and soaring moments to
nail the fine detail of main characters' fraught give-and-take.

LOST AND LOVE (SHI GU)

Opens on Friday

Directed by Peng Sanyuan

In Mandarin, with English subtitles

1 hour 49 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-lost-and-love-shu-gi-stars-andy-
lau-as-a-man-searching-for-his-lost-son.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Lau, right, and Boran  Jing star in this film, directed  by
Peng Sanyuan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA LION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MISSING PERSONS (76%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (76%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (75%); ORPHANS (75%); CINEMATOGRAPHY
(72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION
(70%); WRITERS (70%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%);
FICTION LITERATURE (65%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arab Alliance in Israeli Legislature Sees Unity as Vehicle for Progress

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN and DIAA HADID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1240 words


JERUSALEM -- Leaders of Israel's newly united, newly empowered Arab political
faction have some demands:

They want seats on the interior, finance, education, legal, employment and
social-affairs committees of Parliament. They hope to gain influence over the
curriculum in Arab-sector schools and increase the budgets for Arab towns.

Perhaps most important, they seek to sustain their alliance despite deep
ideological differences after emerging from Tuesday's election as the
third-largest block in Parliament. As the faction faces a fourth term of Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is likely to be leading a more conservative
government, they say, unity is essential to having any chance of fighting
inequality inside Israel and protesting the nation's occupation of the West
Bank.

''The fact of unity gives more weight to each individual member than if we were
alone,'' Haneen Zoabi, a lawmaker since 2009, said in an interview on Thursday.
''It has a weight and a presence that is different from being from individual
parties that were on the margins of the parliamentary map.''

Threatened with extinction by a law that demanded a higher percentage of votes
than in the past for entry into the legislature, four disparate Arab-dominated
parties acceded to public pressure and joined forces in late January. On
Tuesday, their combined list succeeded in increasing Arab turnout -- and, in
Arab communities, increasing its votes versus those for so-called Zionist
parties.

This yielded 13 of Parliament's 120 seats, according to the final tally released
Thursday, up from 11 in the last election. (One of the list's members is Jewish;
four other Arabs were elected from other parties.)

But the list's lawmakers, like their predecessors, will sit in the opposition,
where Arabs have historically been even more sidelined from policy making than
their Jewish counterparts. There may be more of them, but they will most likely
be laboring alongside a narrow, conservative coalition under a prime minister
who in the final hours of the campaign tried to frighten his right-wing
supporters with the prospect of Arabs' flocking to polling places ''in droves.''

''In a right-wing government, the numbers don't make any difference -- 11 versus
13, I don't have many expectations,'' said Mohammad Darawshe, an Arab-Israeli
political analyst who works at a coexistence group. ''It's a victory feeling
that you won the battle but you lost the war.''

Arabs make up a fifth of Israel's population, and they have sent politicians to
Parliament -- called the Knesset -- since it first convened in 1949. But their
parties have never been part of a governing coalition. When an Arab lawmaker sat
on the Foreign Affairs Committee, its chairman moved much of its important
business to a subcommittee he was barred from.

If Israel's 1.4 million Arab citizens -- including Druse, Bedouin, Christians
and Muslims -- often encounter discrimination and marginalization, their Knesset
representatives deal daily with ridicule and recrimination. Last year, a bill
was introduced -- with Mr. Netanyahu's support -- aimed at ousting Ms. Zoabi for
saying that the Palestinians who kidnapped and killed three Israeli teenagers
hitchhiking in the West Bank were not terrorists.

The larger, united bloc will see some automatic benefits. Opposition party
members get to serve as deputy speakers, who rotate time at the rostrum based on
the size of the faction, so the list's designee will be holding the gavel more
often. Committee seats, too, are proportional. Ahmad Tibi, a Knesset member
since 1999, said the Economic Committee, for example, ''always had one Arab
member; now there will be at least two.''

''The change won't be dramatic, but it will be more representation,'' Mr. Tibi
said. ''It's going to be difficult -- I want to be clear,'' he added. ''There's
a difference, unfortunately, working in the shade of a center or leftist
government, or a right government. It's more difficult, and the challenge is
bigger.''

The lawmakers and other Arab leaders took pride that turnout in their
communities rose Tuesday to 63 percent from 56 percent in 2013, though it still
paled compared with the 72 percent over all. Mr. Darawshe said about 86 percent
of Arab voters chose the joint list, compared with 77 percent who supported its
four component parts last time.

Several analysts also said that the moderate tone of the alliance's leader,
Ayman Odeh, who advocated bridge-building with Jews during the campaign,
presented a different path forward after years in which Mr. Tibi, Ms. Zoabi and
others mostly made headlines with provocative comments about Israel's treatment
of Palestinians.

''They have to find ways to speak with the Jewish left to create an alternative
government,'' said Asad Ghanem, a political scientist at Haifa University.
''It's clear that the Jewish left can't form a government without the Arabs. If
the Jewish left will be ready to have a new, some kind of joint front with the
Arabs, in the future,'' he added, there could be ''joint efforts in order to
contribute to a change of who governs in Israel.''

For decades, left-leaning Zionist parties have shown no more interest in
including Arabs in coalitions they headed than the Arabs did in being part of an
Israeli government whose policies they prefer to protest.

During the last campaign, Mr. Netanyahu's prime challenger, Isaac Herzog, did
indicate he would cooperate with the Arab list in other ways and appoint an Arab
minister or two if he were at the helm.

For now, though, there are those committees, where the Arab members plan to
press to improve daily life in their cities and villages. They spoke Thursday of
the need to retroactively legalize thousands of homes built without permits and
to expand areas slated for development in Arab areas; of adding industrial zones
in hopes of reducing unemployment and poverty; and of ridding their streets of
illegal guns.

''We need more security. There's mafias in our community and the police should
crack down on them,'' said Masoud Ghanayem, a member of the alliance from the
Islamist movement. ''The violence, it isn't a cause, it's a result, because of
the poor economic situation, the poor social and educational situation.''

Aida Touma-Sliman, a feminist from the alliance's communist wing who will be
serving in the Knesset for the first time, echoed many of Mr. Ghanayem's
concerns and said the diverse group would be able to stick together because
''what we agree on is more than what we differ on.''

''Yes, it is an Islamic movement, but it is moderate and pragmatic,'' she said
of her unlikely comrades. ''They signed on to a work program that called for the
full equality of women, and liberating women from oppression.''

Amal Jamal, a professor at Tel Aviv University who specializes in the politics
of Israel's Palestinian minority, said the unification ''did not create a
massive revolutionary change'' but ''a gradual change.'' Now, if it does not
deliver and ''manage to change the policy of the Israeli government vis-à-vis
the Palestinian community,'' he added, ''I think the frustration and mistrust in
the entire system will grow rapidly.''

''People are saying: 'We played our best card, a united list. We gave our
support to this united list; we gave it the full credit,' '' Professor Jamal
explained. ''If it doesn't have an influence on the decision-making process,
then why go vote?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/arab-alliance-in-israeli-legi
slature-sees-unity-as-vehicle-for-progress.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ayman Odeh, third from right, with members of the coalition of
Arab-dominated parties that he leads, on election night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMMAR
AWAD/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%);
CURRICULA (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); BUDGETS (73%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Pop

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2256 words


For full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music. A searchable guide to
these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

? Ellen Allien  (Saturday) One of the most prominent D.J.-producers on the
Berlin techno scene, Ms. Allien is a shrewd, accessible dance floor favorite who
keeps her audience members' pulses raised while she dips quickly into
electroclash experimentation. Another testament to her fame: She has her own
minimalist streetwear line. With DJ Qu and Lauren Ritter. At 10 p.m., Output, 74
Wythe Avenue, at North 12th Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, outputclub.com.
(Stacey Anderson)

? Björk  (Sunday, Wednesday, March 28 and April 1) It is startling to hear Björk
-- an artist who specializes in mercurial, brilliant electro-symphonics and
opaquely cerebral lyrics -- expose her heart so thoroughly on her morose new
album, ''Vulnicura.'' Yet when this Icelandic star poses the devastating
question, ''Did I love you too much?/Devotion bent me broken,'' on the song
''Black Lake'' -- over heavy, elegiac strings, warped voices and fractured synth
production from the upstart talent Arca -- she creates her finest art in a
decade. Her sorrow is terrible and gorgeous. Sunday at 3 p.m., Kings Theater,
1027 Flatbush Avenue, near Tilden Avenue, Brooklyn, ticketmaster.com. Wednesday
and April 1 at 8 p.m., March 28 at noon, City Center, 131 West 55th Street,
Manhattan, 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Anderson)

Action Bronson  (Tuesday and Wednesday) This professional chef-cum-rapper from
Queens redirects his voracity toward the fleet rhyme composition of the Wu-Tang
Clan and the foodie jargon (not to mention the irascibility) of Anthony
Bourdain. His full-length 2011 debut, ''Dr. Lecter,'' shows where his heart is
in the tracks ''Brunch,'' ''Shiraz'' and ''Jerk Chicken.'' He is touring in
support of the album ''Mr. Wonderful,'' which will be released on Tuesday. At 8
p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton, 800-745-3000, terminal5nyc.com.
(Anderson)

Neil Diamond  (Thursday) This ''Sweet Caroline'' crooner's easygoing humor has
informed his career for the past 50-odd years, and he continues to be a youthful
presence onstage. His most recent studio album, ''Melody Road,'' released last
year, was a sunny, soft-rock ode to matrimony from this newly remarried artist.
At 8 p.m., Barclays Center, 620 Atlantic Avenue, at Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn,
800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Anderson)

Fifth Harmony  (Monday) A girl group forged by the ''X Factor'' impresario Simon
Cowell, Fifth Harmony has drawn many early comparisons to One Direction, which
sprang from the same origins. The surefooted R&B, pop effervescence and satiny
harmonies on ''Reflection,'' the group's debut studio album, indicate a
globe-trotting future success all its own. With Jacob Whitesides, Jasmine V and
Mahogany LOX. At 7 p.m., Best Buy Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street,
888-929-7849, bestbuytheater.com. (Anderson)

Brandon Flowers  (Tuesday) Before this erstwhile frontman of the Killers
releases his second solo album, ''The Desired Effect,'' in May -- which, from
its short first trailers, suggests that Mr. Flowers, a longtime New Wave
enthusiast, will also be indulging arena-rock predilections -- he will perform
this one-off gig at Webster Hall. On March 30, he will duet with Brian Wilson at
the Fonda Theater in Los Angeles as part of ''Brian Fest,'' a celebration of Mr.
Wilson's music. With Donald Cumming. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th
Street, East Village, 212-353-1600, websterhall.com/events. (Anderson)

Ariana Grande  (Friday and Saturday) This young pop singer leapt from
Nickelodeon into full, unfettered pop stardom last year with the release of her
second album, ''My Everything.'' She deserved it after her white-knuckle job in
2013: opening for Justin Bieber. Expect her to flip her formidable ponytail
through peppy, melismatic renditions of her Top 10 hits ''Break Free,''
''Problem'' and ''Love Me Harder.'' At 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden,
866-858-0008, thegarden.com. (Anderson)

? Debbie Harry  (Fridays, Saturdays, and Tuesdays through Thursdays, through
April 4) In the 1970s, when Ms. Harry and her band Blondie first trod CBGB's
sticky boards, she was the prototype of the glamorous punk: a woman full of
righteous conviction who also radiated poise. Now, one year after the band
celebrated its 40th anniversary and released the album ''Ghosts of Download,''
she takes to the regal Café Carlyle on the Upper East Side for a short
residency. It's a long way from the East Village, but a fitting place for a rock
eminence. Fridays at 8:45 p.m. and 10:45 p.m.; Saturdays, and Tuesdays through
Thursdays, at 8:45 p.m.; Café Carlyle, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan,
212-744-1600, thecarlyle.com. (Anderson)

Ms. Lauryn Hill  (Friday, Saturday and Wednesday) Ms. Hill seems to be warming
to local showmanship; in recent years, she has had a handful of concerts at
small clubs. Now she'll perform a few acoustic sets at City Winery and Highline
Ballroom, which may be more ideal settings for this talented singer and rapper:
In his review of one of her outings last year, Jon Pareles lamented that she
''was often buried in the mix of her band's hyperactive funk.'' Friday and
Saturday at 9 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th Street, Chelsea,
212-414-5994, highlineballroom.com. Wednesday at 8 p.m., City Winery, 155 Varick
Street, near Spring Street, South Village, 212-608-0555, citywinery.com.
(Anderson)

Hozier (Sunday) Something's in the air in Ireland: two of its musical
representatives have blatant religious fixations. The brooding singer Hozier,
whose real name is Andrew Hozier-Byrne, broke into American radio and graced the
stage of ''Saturday Night Live'' with his first single, ''Take Me to Church,'' a
sultry, bracing appraisal of love and the hypocrisy of religion. The song
shouldn't be confused with his countrywoman Sinead O'Connor's identically titled
track, a yearning for redemptive love. With George Ezra. At 8 p.m., Hammerstein
Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
(Anderson)

? Ibeyi (Wednesday) These 20-year-old French-Cuban twins are the daughters of
Angá Díaz, a prominent percussionist in Cuba who performed with the Buena Vista
Social Club. Their music is an ecstatic whirl of Yoruba chants, French and
English purrs, sparse electronic beats, Cajón drums and a lot of preternatural
tenacity. The duo's self-titled debut album, which was recently released on XL,
is a remarkable first outing. With Flo Morrissey. At 8:30 p.m., Music Hall of
Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, 718-486-5400,
musichallofwilliamsburg.com. (Anderson)

Tobias Jesso Jr.  (Thursday) Another member of the current '70s-inflected
folk-pop surge, along with Father John Misty and Patrick Watson, Mr. Jesso is
capturing national attention fast for ''Goon,'' his debut solo album. On it,
this Canadian singer-songwriter bemoans his lovelorn state over tastefully
morose piano riffs, sounding like a perfectly sincere contemporary ringer for
James Taylor. With Okay Kaya. At 6:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston
Street, Lower East Side, 800-745-3000, mercuryloungenyc.com. (Anderson)

Marina & The Diamonds  (Thursday) Much like Time Magazine, which ceremoniously
anointed You, the reader, as the Person of the Year in 2006, the Welsh
singer-songwriter Marina Diamandis maintains that the Diamonds in her act are
not the backing band but, instead, her fans. The discordant dance-pop of her
2012 album, ''Electra Heart,'' hit No. 1 in Britain; the follow-up, ''Froot,''
landed this month. At 9 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the
Bowery, Lower East Side, 800-745-3000, boweryballroom.com. (Anderson)

Laura Marling  (Monday) This nu-folk singer-songwriter and 2011 Brit
Award-winner for best female solo artist is an old, serene soul: her intricate
guitar strums and flinty intonation meld contemporary influences with the
hearth-warmed acoustics of Britain's 1960s and '70s folk revival. Her new album,
''Short Movie,'' will be released in Britain on the day of this show, and the
following day in the States. At 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford
Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 866-777-8932, warsawconcerts.com. (Anderson)

The Month in Cabaret (through April 4) The most anticipated event of cabaret's
high season is Debbie Harry's already sold-out engagement at Café Carlyle, from
Tuesday through April 4. On the heels of Buster Poindexter's run there, it is
proof positive that downtown has crashed the gates of uptown and that the
punk-rock revolution, absorbed by the mainstream, now qualifies as rock
nostalgia. Before that, Herb Alpert and Lani Hall are at the Café through
Saturday with a mixture of light pop-jazz built around Mr. Alpert's burbling
trumpet and Ms. Hall's sultry voice. (Friday at 8:45 p.m. and Saturday at 8:45
and 10:45 p.m., 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, 212-744-1600, thecarlyle.com.)
At 54 Below, Melissa Manchester opens a three-evening engagement on Thursday at
7 p.m., and the unstoppable Ben Vereen revives his high-spirited show ''Steppin'
Out,'' running through Saturday at 7 p.m. (Stephen Holden)

The Music of David Byrne and Talking Heads (Monday) The New Wave eccentrics of
Talking Heads and their endlessly inventive frontman, David Byrne, will be
celebrated in a series of lavish covers during this installment of the
11-years-strong concert series for music education programs. The shows in this
series, founded by City Winery's Michael Dorf, have been devoted to the music of
Prince, Paul Simon and Joni Mitchell. This evening includes performances from
the Roots, Bebel Gilberto, Alexis Krauss of Sleigh Bells, Steve Earle and
others. At 8 p.m., Isaac Stern Auditorium, Carnegie Hall, 212-247-7800,
carnegiehall.org. (Anderson)

? Shakey Graves  (Thursday) Although he is occasionally given the artless ''hobo
folk'' handle for his scraped howl and twangy guitar fingerpicking, the
singer-songwriter Alejandro Rose-Garcia transcends that label with his lo-fi
Americana. Performing under the name Shakey Graves, this musician and actor from
Austin, Tex., is worldly but not jaded for his 20-something years, energetic yet
minimally produced with many aching riffs. His most recent album, ''And the War
Came,'' has freak-folk moments that beg for further exploration. With Nikki
Lane. At 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan,
212-777-6800, irvingplaza.com. (Anderson)

Songhoy Blues  (Monday) The Malian desert blues band is making a snazzy debut in
America this month with several shows in New York City. When it opened for
Alabama Shakes at the Beacon Theater, the band was joined by one of the
producers of its album, Nick Zinner of Yeah Yeah Yeahs. In praising the band in
his review in The New York Times, Jon Pareles wrote, ''Circling through their
modal guitar lines and galloping along on their drumbeats, the songs were
insistent and determined but also headed for the ecstatic.'' At 7 p.m., Rockwood
Music Hall, 196 Allen Street, between Stanton and Houston Streets, Lower East
Side, 212-477-4155, rockwoodmusichall.com. (Anderson)

Kate Tempest  (Tuesday and Wednesday) Over ripping electropop beats -- and in a
thick South London accent that conveys bleakness and hope -- Ms. Tempest paints
a brutal picture of the working-class grind on her sharp debut album,
''Everybody Down.'' After a breakout year in her native Britain, this poet,
playwright and rapper is making inroads stateside; her play ''Brand New
Ancients,'' which reinterpreted Greek gods as everyday Londoners, received rave
reviews when it was staged at St. Ann's Warehouse last winter. Tuesday at 6:30
p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East
Side, 800-745-3000, mercuryloungenyc.com. Wednesday at 9 p.m., Rough Trade NYC,
64 North Ninth Street, at Kent Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn,
roughtradenyc.com. (Anderson)

Marques Toliver  (Thursday) Mr. Toliver, a classically trained violinist from
Florida, has shifted his considerable gifts to the unusual hybrid of baroque
R&B. In his hands, it is fascinating: He croons fitfully about spirituality over
intricate string solos, joking between songs. This young talent released his
lovely first full-length album, ''Land of CanAan,'' in 2013. His monthlong
Rockwood Music Hall residency concludes on Thursday. At 10 p.m., Rockwood Music
Hall, 196 Allen Street, Lower East Side, 212-477-4155, rockwoodmusichall.com.
(Anderson)

Tove Lo  (Wednesday) This young electropop singer has been called ''the Swedish
Kesha'' for her party-hearty, debauched lyrics. Her debut album, ''Queen of the
Clouds,'' is broken into three groups of tracks -- ''The Sex,'' ''The Love'' and
''The Pain'' -- and has some sharp hook writing, similar to her contributions to
works by Icona Pop and Lea Michele. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th
Street, Chelsea, 212-414-5994, highlineballroom.com. (Anderson)

Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons  (Friday) A short trek up Broadway from West
52nd Street, where ''Jersey Boys'' continues to print money and delight
tourists, Mr. Valli and his vocal group, the subjects of that peppy musical,
perform in the flesh. Perhaps Mr. Valli, a powerful and charismatic falsetto
crooner, will sing ''Walk Like a Man'' and ''Big Girls Don't Cry'' exactly when
his Great White Way counterpart does. Now that's entertainment. At 8 p.m.,
Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, 800-745-3000,
beacontheatrenyc.com. (Anderson)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/music/pop-rock-cabaret-listings-for-march
-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES SYKES/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); RAP
MUSIC (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%);
FOODIES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law Schools Weigh Alternatives to Bar Exam

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words


For decades, law school graduates have endured a stressful rite of passage,
spending the first 10 weeks after classes end taking cram courses in the arcane
details of the law before sitting down for the grueling, days-long bar exam.
Those who do not pass cannot practice law, at least in nearly all the states and
the District of Columbia that consider the exam the professional standard.

But that standard, so long unquestioned, is facing a new round of scrutiny --
not just from the test takers but from law school deans and some state legal
establishments. Some states, including Arizona, Iowa and New Hampshire, are
exploring or have adopted other options, questioning the wisdom of relying on a
single written test as the gateway to legal practice.

The debate over the exam is not new, but it broke out in the open after the
results of last summer's exam were released in the fall, showing that the 51,005
test takers had the poorest results in nearly a decade.

Many law school deans, bristling from criticism that they are replenishing their
ranks with less academically qualified students as the number of law school
applicants has fallen sharply, began to openly question the mechanics of the bar
exam.

About 80 law school deans last November jointly asked, for the first time anyone
remembers, for details on how test questions were chosen and scored. The
situation was already touchy after remarks made the previous month by a top bar
exam official, who defended the results as indisputably correct, and then, in
what the deans viewed as verbal dynamite, labeled the test takers as ''less
able'' than their predecessors.

Indicators ''all point to the fact that the group that sat in July 2014 was less
able than the group that sat in July 2013,'' said Erica Moeser, president of the
National Conference of Bar Examiners, the nonprofit organization in Madison,
Wis., that constructs and scores the professional entrance exam.

Stephen C. Ferruolo, dean of the University of San Diego School of Law, said
that it was the test, not the students. He asked the bar testing agency in
December for details about the test to assure that it was fair and reliable.

Otherwise, he maintained, the exam ''is an unpredictable and unacceptable
impediment for accessibility to the legal profession.''

Ms. Moeser has denied requests for additional information.

The exam is an indispensable safeguard against unqualified practitioners, she
said in a telephone interview, noting that ''it is a basic test of
fundamentals'' that has ''no justification other than protecting the consumer.''

But critics have long questioned not only the expense and time devoted to taking
the exam but also whether clients benefit from an admissions standard that is
largely based on rote memorization.

The bar exam ''does nothing to measure lawyering skills,'' said Kristin Booth
Glen, a law professor and former dean of the City University of New York School
of Law, which trains public interest lawyers, ''and only shores up the guild
mentality that there should be a barrier to prevent the legal market from being
flooded during times when fewer jobs are available.''

All states but one, Wisconsin, require passing the bar exam to become a licensed
lawyer, but bar associations in states including Arizona and Iowa have been
exploring alternatives. The Iowa State Bar Association proposed an in-state
''diploma privilege,'' similar to neighboring Wisconsin's, that would allow
graduates of local law schools to skip the bar exam and begin practicing
immediately.

The bar exam does not test Iowa-specific law, and almost all graduates pass it
on the first try anyway, said Guy R. Cook, a personal injury lawyer and former
president of the state bar association who headed a commission recommending the
changes. Studying for the exam heaps more debt on graduates already mired in law
school loans, the commission found, and deters them from practicing in
lower-paying rural areas.

The Iowa Supreme Court rejected the proposal last year, but asked for
recommendations, due at the end of March, for more efficient and economical ways
to handle the exam and the admissions process.

''Innovation is always hard,'' Mr. Cook said of the initial defeat.

One reason that change is hard is the differing interests in the legal industry.
The state bar controls the admissions process, in part by using the testing
tools, which include a lengthy multiple choice test, that they buy from the bar
examiners conference. The conference, which has scored the exam since the early
1970s, reported almost $20 million in annual revenue, nearly 85 percent of which
came from exam sales, according to its most recent tax filing in June 2013.
Outside lawyers and legal academics can earn extra money by helping prepare exam
questions.

Eliminating or curtailing the current bar exam would give law schools more
leeway to create programs and conduct testing that determines who becomes a
lawyer. The schools say the exam's outsize importance forces them to devote more
resources, including bar-specific courses, to prepare graduates for the crucial
test rather than focusing on legal principles or hands-on law practice.

At the University of San Diego, Professor Ferruolo said that the academic gap
between last year's test takers and their predecessors was so small that the
school was trying to figure out what went wrong so it could help its students
more effectively. Last summer, 73 percent of students passed the bar exam, down
from 75 percent the previous year. They had admissions scores only one
percentage point lower than the previous class, he said.

On the other side of the country, Nicholas W. Allard, the dean of Brooklyn Law
School, took exception to the testing agency's hands-off response after the
school's bar passage rate fell nine percentage points last year among graduates
with the same law school entry scores as those who took the test in 2013.

The testing agency is ''tone deaf,'' he said, and compared it to Lily Tomlin's
comedic telephone operator Ernestine, who ''blithely dismissed any complaints
about service saying: 'We don't care. We don't have to. We're the phone
company.' ''

The bar examiners conference, he recently said, ''is the phone company of
Ernestine's time -- powerful, inscrutable and resistant to change.''

State legal establishments, too, have expressed concern that an all-or-nothing
test helps narrow the lawyer pipeline. About one-third of states allowed diploma
waivers for decades before the bar exam became standard, and some are
re-exploring their options.

Arizona, for example, has decided to allow students to take the bar exam in
their final year of law school so, as with Iowa's proposal, they will not need
to spend as much time and money on test preparation.

California tests students enrolled in unaccredited law schools after their first
year of studies. Students must pass the ''baby bar,'' which measures their
knowledge in contracts, criminal law and torts, before they can continue their
legal education. Last month, the New York City Bar Association urged
establishing a committee to explore allowing bar admission based, at least in
part, on supervised learning.

New Hampshire has such an alternative licensing model. Its University of New
Hampshire School of Law allows second- and third-year students to participate in
a kind of apprenticeship where they learn basics like taking depositions. Those
accepted to the Daniel Webster Scholar Honors Program create portfolios of their
written work and record their oral performances, which are reviewed by state bar
examiners after each semester. Those who pass the review can skip the bar exam
and go directly into practice.

The program, which was supported by the state's legal community, was not put in
place quickly, though, said John B. Garvey, the program's director. Exploring
alternatives began in 1992 and, including several years as a pilot, the program
took 17 years to be fully adopted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/bar-exam-the-standard-to-bec
ome-a-lawyer-comes-under-fire.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, a bar exam underway. At right, Matthew Holland, a law
student, with his residency supervisor, Cassie Devine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZACH
BOYDEN-HOLMES/ST. PETERSBURG TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Matthew Holland, a third-year student, presenting a case in court in New
Hampshire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%);
PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (78%); SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAMS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS
(69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); ACADEMIC
ADMISSIONS (58%)

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Anti-Semitism in Hungary

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

Re ''A Holocaust Survivor Tells of Auschwitz at 18 and, Again, at 90'' (The
Saturday Profile, March 14):

Eva Fahidi's story of survival, resilience and forgiveness is poignant,
especially given the ominous rise of anti-Semitism in Hungary today.

Despite the fact that under Hungarian law Holocaust denial is a crime, the
country's right-wing politicians embolden their constituents to persecute and
attack Jews, portending a time when a death knell echoed from the closing of
boxcars headed to Auschwitz.

In 2013, Laszlo Csatary, a 98-year-old Hungarian who allegedly served as a Nazi
concentration camp commander, died while awaiting his trial for Holocaust
crimes. If he had survived and been found guilty, his conviction would have
provided some justice for the nearly 600,000 Hungarian Jews who died in the
Holocaust.

Rather than listening to the poisonous rhetoric reverberating through their
streets once again, Hungarians must heed Ms. Fahidi's words: ''Much repeats in
history, and if you don't know what happened ... then it can happen very quickly
again.''

FRANK J. PEREZ

Hollister, Calif.


The writer is a high school world history teacher.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (92%); ANTISEMITISM (91%); GENOCIDE (90%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JEWS &
JUDAISM (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS
(73%); VERDICTS (73%); HISTORY (65%)

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping the Victims in Syria and Iraq

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 547 words


To the Editor:

''Despite Good Intentions, Vacancies in Refugee Camp for Syrians'' (news
article, March 16) rightly highlighted how the international refugee protection
system designed after World War II has broken down.

With donor and resettlement states failing to step up to the plate and share
responsibility for addressing the largest refugee crisis since World War II,
Syria's neighbors are closing escape routes for refugees fleeing violence.

But this is not, as one official of the International Organization for Migration
appears to indicate, simply a ''hard choice'' between providing refuge to
fleeing Syrians and protecting national security. States faced with major
security challenges can both protect refugees and exclude those who present
legitimate threats.

By making fair individualized assessments, with access for the United Nations
Refugee Agency, countries can identify those who should be excluded from
protection.

The United States and other donor countries should champion access for refugees
at borders and significantly increase resettlement and aid commitments to show
Syria's neighbors that they will be supported if they don't slam their doors on
refugees.

Silence, in the face of policies that leave people to face the violence, torture
and death raging inside Syria, is not an option.

ELEANOR ACER

Senior Director, Refugee Protection

Human Rights First

New York

To the Editor:

Re ''The Kurds' Heroic Stand Against ISIS,'' by Scott Atran and Douglas M. Stone
(Op-Ed, March 16):

We must support efforts to fight the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. We must
also remember the other enemy Iraqis and Syrians are facing: hunger.

There are more than 10 million people in Iraq and Syria who are suffering from
severe hunger because of war. In fact, Kurdistan is hosting displaced Iraqis and
Syrians.

The United Nations World Food Program and its partners are preventing mass
starvation through their efforts. But there are still Iraqis and Syrians who are
blocked off from food aid by the conflict. Dina El-Kassaby, the World Food
Program's Syria officer, warns, ''They are desperate, out of W.F.P.'s reach and
falling victim to hunger.''

The international community needs to rally to demand humanitarian access to
those in need. Food aid for Iraqis and Syrians also needs increased funding.
There cannot be ration cuts again.

We must support and feed the innocent victims of the Syrian and Iraq wars. No
peace can be built on empty stomachs.

WILLIAM LAMBERS

Cincinnati


The writer collaborated with the United Nations World Food Program on the book
''Ending World Hunger.''

To the Editor:

Re ''United Nations' Reputation Slips as Four-Year War in Syria Drags On'' (news
article, March 13):

Seventy years of history have shown that the United Nations is not able to stop
wars until both parties to a conflict are ready to put down their weapons and
discuss peace, or until the member states of the Security Council agree to send
in troops to stop the bloodshed.

This clearly has not been true in either case in Syria. Let's stop disparaging
the body for the failures of others.

STEPHEN SCHLESINGER

New York


The writer, a fellow at the Century Foundation, is the author of ''Act of
Creation,'' about the founding of the United Nations.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/helping-the-victims-in-syria-and-iraq.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (97%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
(89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); HUNGER IN
SOCIETY (89%); FOOD ASSISTANCE (87%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); STARVATION
(78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); SYRIAN CRISIS (78%); WRITERS
(78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); TORTURE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (55%)

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Federal Policy on the Use of Ethanol

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 591 words



To the Editor:

Re ''End the Ethanol Rip-Off,'' by Robert Bryce (Op-Ed, March 10):

The notion that the Renewable Fuel Standard is somehow a hidden tax is a strange
assessment for a policy that is reducing costs for taxpayers and consumers. The
fuel standard has lowered gas prices and reduced the enormous costs borne by
relying on a single, volatile fuel source -- petroleum.

Contrary to Mr. Bryce's claims, blending 10 percent ethanol into gasoline has
saved consumers roughly six cents per gallon since the bipartisan law passed in
2005. And thanks to the fuel standard, at least $47.2 billion worth of imported
crude was displaced by clean, homegrown fuel in 2012, according to the Energy
Department. With domestically produced ethanol in our fuel supply, America has
significantly reduced the overall demand, and the corresponding cost of
gasoline.

Far from a rip-off for motorists and taxpayers, the fuel standard is an economic
payoff.

JERAMY SHAYS

Washington


The writer is the director of transportation at the American Council on
Renewable Energy.

To the Editor:

Robert Bryce wrote a superb article on the ethanol rip-off of the motoring
public, but I was very surprised that he didn't say anything about E85 and E15.

Blends of 85 percent ethanol, called E85, are already on the market in areas of
the country, meant to be used by ''flex fuel'' vehicles that are specially built
to use such fuel. That means that the hidden tax is even more egregious for
those owners who choose to avail themselves of this fuel.

However, plans for the widespread sale of E15 (50 percent higher ethanol
concentration than the currently ubiquitous E10) for ordinary vehicles are also
in the works. Beyond what Mr. Bryce noted for E10 as damaging to small engines,
research by the Environmental Protection Agency and others has shown that E15
can cause severe detrimental effects on older vehicles as well as power boats.

Most damning about these ethanol blends is that their production from corn uses
more fuel than they save, despite the false initial premise that it was meant to
make us less dependent on foreign oil.

Other countries (such as Brazil) use sugar cane, a plant that grows fast and can
be converted to ethanol easier and therefore with less energy than the ethanol
provides, providing an energy profit. But here in the United States we have
chosen corn, for dubious reasons, which has a negative energy profit. So why are
we still using corn-based ethanol blends, except for the profit of our corn
industry?

KENNETH CROSSNER

Somerset, N.J.

To the Editor:

Robert Bryce's calculations of the ''cost'' of the Renewable Fuel Standard are
at odds with the fact that even without the standard, approximately the same
amount of ethanol would be blended into the fuel supply to meet octane
requirements.

Eliminating the fuel standard won't save consumers money, and it won't address
problems caused by corn ethanol. Without the standard, though, we'd see a real
risk to investment in advanced biofuels -- cleaner, nonfood alternatives coming
on line now that address the shortcomings not just of corn ethanol, but more
significantly of oil itself.

As the new Oil Climate Index released by the Carnegie Endowment highlights, we
need to move quickly to tomorrow's fuels. Oil is getting dirtier every year, and
the country will not be well served by complacency bred of a temporary dip in
gas prices.

JEREMY MARTIN

Washington


The writer is a senior scientist with the Clean Vehicles Program of the Union of
Concerned Scientists.




URL:

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE MCQUADE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); ALCOHOLS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES
(90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); GASOLINE
(90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%);
ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); LEGISLATION
(70%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: In 'Zombeavers,' the Flesheaters Have Overbites

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 285 words


Great careers have begun with flesh-eating creatures. Take the writer-director
John Sayles (''Lone Star''), who got his start in movies writing trash classics
like ''Piranha'' and ''Alligator.'' Now the director Jordan Rubin, a former
writer for Comedy Central's ''Crank Yankers,'' and Evan Astrowsky, a producer of
Eli Roth's horror film ''Cabin Fever,'' pool their talents for ''Zombeavers,''
an intermittently diverting stew of low-budget effects and potty-mouth humor.
Unsurprisingly, its writers and soundtrack composers, the brothers Jon and Al
Kaplan, wrote the music for Syfy's ''Piranhaconda'' and ''Dinocroc vs.
Supergator.'' (More intriguingly, they also created ''Silence!,'' the stage
parody of ''The Silence of the Lambs.'')

Also unsurprising is the premise: Six young, attractive archetypes -- sensitive
Sam (Hutch Dano); brainy Mary (Rachel Melvin); randy Zoe (Cortney Palm); goofy
Buck (Peter Gilroy); sexy Jenn (Lexi Atkins); and alpha male Tommy (Jake Weary)
-- take up residence in (not again!) a cabin in the woods. A nearby chemical
spill from a truck has seeped into the local ecosystem, resulting in a legion of
white-eyed, bucktoothed, flat-tailed undead. These ravenous critters chew
through everything: walls, floorboards and body limbs, this last giving birth to
human variations on the same.

Abundant but cheesy gore, a frenetic pace and a self-amused air from the
filmmakers pervade the proceedings. As for the actors, are they superstars of
tomorrow? Let's just say it's early yet.

''Zombeavers'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). Profanity, nudity, viscera, gnawing.

ZOMBEAVERS

Opens on Friday

Directed by Jordan Rubin

1 hour 25 minutes




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-zombeavers-the-flesheaters-ha
ve-overbites.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Hutch Dano, Jake Weary, Rachel Melvin, Cortney  Palm
and Peter Gilroy in Jordan Rubin's ''Zombeavers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREESTYLE
RELEASING)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM
(90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%);
CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (77%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (77%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CONTENT RATINGS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); HORROR FILMS
(72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Over Airport Leaves 3 Dead in Yemen

BYLINE: By SAEED AL BATATI and KAREEM FAHIM; Saeed Al Batati reported from Al
Mukalla, and Kareem Fahim from Cairo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 706 words


AL MUKALLA, Yemen --  In a major escalation of Yemen's civil conflict, rival
factions in the southern city of Aden fought for control of the international
airport and a security base, leaving at least three people dead, according to
Yemeni officials.

Explosions could be heard throughout the city on Thursday, and at one point,
warplanes conducted bombing raids on the compound of Yemen's president, Abdu
Rabbu Mansour Hadi, who was unharmed.

Violence has flared repeatedly in Yemen since the Zaydi Shiite rebel militia,
known as the Houthis, took control of the capital, Sana, in September, setting
off a power struggle between political factions and militias that has brought
the country closer to civil war.

But outbreaks of large-scale fighting in the port city of Aden have been rare.
The clashes on Thursday quickly raised fears of a widening conflagration in the
south, a stronghold for a separatist movement as well as a powerful affiliate of
Al Qaeda.

Tensions in the city had been building for some time, mirroring a broader
political crisis that has essentially divided the country between rival seats of
power in Sana and Aden.

As the Houthis have consolidated their control of northern Yemen, Mr. Hadi, who
was all but forced from office by the Houthis and fled to Aden last month, has
sought to re-establish his authority in the south.

Foreign powers have become more and more actively involved in the power
struggle, with Iran backing the Houthis and Mr. Hadi drawing support from
neighboring Persian Gulf nations fearful of Iranian influence, led by Saudi
Arabia.

Armed men have been streaming into Aden for months. Mr. Hadi has been gathering
his own force, composed of military units and tribesmen, intended to counter the
strength of the Houthis and their allies -- among them Yemen's former president,
Ali Abdullah Saleh, who still commands the loyalty of some security forces in
southern Yemen.

Mr. Hadi, in an attempt to solidify his control of Aden, had tried
unsuccessfully to dismiss the commander of the Special Security Forces, one of
the units loyal to Mr. Saleh and feared in Aden for its crackdown on southern
protesters.

The unit was said to have set off the fighting on Thursday by storming the
airport, drawing a response from Mr. Hadi's loyalists.

Hours of intense fighting with heavy weapons forced passengers on a plane
preparing to depart to Cairo to disembark, and damaged one of Mr. Hadi's
presidential planes, according to an Associated Press reporter who was at the
scene.

After receiving military reinforcements, Mr. Hadi's forces were able to regain
control of the airport, and later overran the Special Security Forces base,
according to a senior government official.

As residents celebrated the storming of the base, air force jets, apparently
acting on orders of either the Houthis or Mr. Saleh, bombed Mr. Hadi's compound
in Aden, striking a building there, the official said.

As the fighting subsided, the Houthis released a statement from Sana, calling
for dialogue and a restoration of calm. The day's events appeared, at least
momentarily, to strengthen the hand of Mr. Hadi, once considered a weak,
caretaker president who has enjoyed an unlikely resurgence after fleeing house
arrest by the Houthis.

Beyond simply surviving the day's fighting, Mr. Hadi could count on greater
support in Aden, including southern separatists, for taking on the Special
Security Forces, according to Yasser al-Yafae, the editor of a local news
website.

''They murdered many leading activists,'' he said of the security unit.

It remained to be seen how Mr. Saleh would respond, after the humiliating rout
of many of his loyalists in Aden at the hands of Mr. Hadi, his main adversary.
Mr. Saleh, who was removed from power in 2012 as part of a deal brokered by the
Persian Gulf nations, has remained one of Yemen's most influential political
figures -- and, critics say, a disruptive force, willing to consider any
alliance, including with extremists, to further his interests.

''Saleh was militarily defeated today in Aden, and we are worried,'' said an
army officer loyal to Mr. Hadi who requested anonymity because he was not
authorized to speak to the media. ''He may use his cards.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/yemen-aden-airport-battle.htm
l

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi of Yemen has sought to
re-establish his authority in Aden with the help of tribal militiamen.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) MAP: As rival factions battled for
control in Aden, Yemen, the international  airport was forced to shut down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%);
MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); AIR FORCES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS
(69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

CITY: HADHRAMAUT, YEMEN (92%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF
STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pinstripes May Be Slimming, but a Nutritionist Helps

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1365 words


TAMPA, Fla. --  The most famous player in Yankees history had the most infamous
diet. Babe Ruth was said to subsist, at least in part, on hot dogs and beer, the
fuel that added to his legendary persona as a charismatic, fun-loving superstar.

But if the Babe played for the Yankees today and ambled into their cafeteria
looking for sausages and suds, he would instead find sweet potatoes, avocados,
quinoa and dark chocolate.

As teams in every sport try to upgrade players' nutrition for a competitive
advantage, the Yankees have joined the fray. This winter they hired Cynthia
Sass, a nutritionist, and gave her a mission to recommend the finest and
healthiest food spread in baseball and persuade the players to eat it.

''We're trying to build a more perfect beast,'' Yankees General Manager Brian
Cashman said.

There is no evidence that ingesting brown rice, kale and grilled skinless
chicken breast will contribute to even one win. After all, Ruth did pretty well
without them. But he was not competing against opponents who were consuming kale
smoothies and doing yoga, as more athletes are today.

Most teams are providing healthier foods to their players than in years past.
The Baltimore Orioles took their chef on the road during the playoffs last year
to maintain their standards. Many other teams, like the Boston Red Sox and the
Los Angeles Angels, are also seeking competitive advantage through nutrition.

The belief is that certain foods can reduce players' inflammation, encourage
healing and boost their immune systems, while unhealthy foods do the opposite.
If the right foods can keep one player in the lineup for one extra day, and that
player helps win a game, then why not?

''People really accept now the adage 'You are what you eat,' '' Sass said in a
telephone interview. ''So every time you eat or drink, it's an opportunity to
make your body stronger and healthier.''

In recent years, Cashman grew increasingly unhappy with the food that the
Yankees were serving to the players, believing it was not in line with the
latest research. So at the recommendation of the trainer Steve Donohue, Cashman
hired Sass (and another nutritionist to oversee minor league players) to upgrade
the Yankees' health and performance through a better diet.

He also hired the former Yankees minor league pitcher John Kremer as a high
performance science director to coordinate the departments that have an impact
on player performance: food preparation, medical staff, coaches, scouts and the
players themselves. Kremer's task is to streamline communication and create
language common for all the departments.

Sass is a big part of that process. She said she had 20 years of experience
working in nutrition, including three with the Philadelphia Phillies and the
last eight with the Tampa Bay Rays. She has also been working with the Rangers
of the N.H.L.

After the Yankees hired her away from the Rays this winter, Sass met with the
chefs at Yankee Stadium and at the team's spring training complex here to learn
what they served to the players and how it was prepared. She made general
recommendations, but did not turn the Yankees' cafeteria into an East Village
vegan cafe, at least not yet.

The idea is to add healthy alternatives, educate the players about them, see
what they like and then make adjustments. As a general rule, teams provide
players with two meals per day: breakfast and lunch for day games and lunch and
dinner for night games. On the road, opposing teams provide the food, and Sass
said she might make general requests to those teams. For example: Always provide
produce.

She said that at Yankee Stadium, there would always be a lean meat protein like
grilled fish or chicken breast; lots of fruits and vegetables, which she said
were paramount for athletes; and an easy-to-digest, nutrient-rich carbohydrate
like brown rice.

Nothing would be prohibited, but the unhealthy foods would not be on display. If
someone desperately wanted a bacon cheeseburger and a strawberry milkshake, they
could ask for it. Perhaps they would grow self-conscious, like a teenager trying
to buy beer, and give in to the grilled salmon, quinoa and nuts.

''I'm not there to shove it down their throat,'' Sass said. ''It's not going to
happen overnight. The goal is to make the best foods for athletes always
available. If they want more of it, we'll provide it.''

The Yankees have had nutritional experts in the past, including one that the
former owner George Steinbrenner borrowed from the United States Olympic
Committee. But this time they seem to be making a more concerted push, and
players who are more interested in prolonging their careers applaud the effort.

''Baseball in general is way behind the times when it comes to nutrition,''
first baseman Mark Teixeira said. ''But most teams over the last couple of years
have put some effort into it, which is nice to see.''

Early in spring training, Sass spoke to the players and provided a video of best
practices. They also heard an expert discuss the merits of sleep.

Sass got their attention by pointing out how certain foods could enhance their
performance. For example, carrots really do improve night vision. And research
from the University of Georgia shows that green vegetables can improve contrast
vision, or the ability to see a white ball with red laces against a night sky.
What hitter would not want that edge?

She also explained how sweet potatoes helped support the immune system,
something vital for players facing extensive travel and a grueling schedule.
Some players knew that, and most said the changes to the menu in Tampa this
spring had been minimal.

''Grilled chicken breast and a sweet potato is fine for me,'' said Teixeira, who
came to spring training with a new gluten-free diet of his own and eats avocado
almost every day.

Sass said she helped players find a personal chef, if they wanted one, or with
anything else to do with food. For a typical game day, she recommends eggs (the
so-called perfect protein) with lots of vegetables in them, oatmeal and fruit
for breakfast. Lunch should include a lean meat protein, a quinoa grain bowl or
a salad with olive oil vinaigrette and avocados. For dinner, grilled salmon,
baked sweet potato, lots of grilled vegetables and fruit on the side.

She also promotes the virtues of avocado and organic dark chocolate, which she
says has natural substances that relax blood vessels and open up circulation.
The small amount of caffeine is nice, too.

''I noticed they don't have bagels or fried chicken out anymore, and that makes
sense,'' pitcher Adam Warren said. ''I try to eat better, and I feel it. I had a
pizza the other night, and I felt really sluggish the next day.''

Oh, goodness, not pizza. An athlete might as well guzzle a bucket of lard.
According to Sass, the worst foods are ones that combine several unhealthy
elements. A pepperoni pizza, for example, is made of three no-nos: refined flour
stripped of most of its nutritional value and fiber, fatty meat and gooey
cheese. Don't even mention soda.

But players are human. Many spent years in the minor leagues devouring fast food
and peanut butter and jelly by the barrel. Outfielder Carlos Beltran described
his minor league road routine: He would buy eight tacos from Taco Bell, eating
four before the game and four after it. Brett Gardner said that during long bus
rides the team would stop at a gas station and players would grab a bag of chips
and a soda.

''That would hold you over,'' he said, ''until you got to the stadium for the
peanut butter and jelly.''

Those are old habits, and even young players are increasingly aware of their
diet. Now the hope for the Yankees is to go the next step, with seven helpings
of produce per day and perhaps a treat of avocado ice cream and dark chocolate.

''We're not the food police,'' Cashman said. ''We can't force them to eat it. We
will provide healthy alternatives and help them understand why those options are
good. The rest is up to them.''

(Full disclosure: This article was written during the consumption of peanut
butter and Marshmallow Fluff on white bread with iced coffee, not exactly the
new Yankee diet.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/baseball/yankees-opt-for-a-performance-
enhancer-a-good-diet.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Yankees' new nutritionist, Cynthia Sass, is encouraging
players to eat foods like, clockwise from far left, avocados, sweet potatoes,
dark chocolate and quinoa to help their performance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENDRICK
BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
THEO COULOMBE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ ASSOCIATED PRESS
STEPHAN SAVOIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (91%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%);
INTERVIEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (70%); YOGA (66%)

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); BOSTON RED SOX
(54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (65%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL
PRODUCTS (65%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Xavier, Big and Quick, Beats a Tired Ole Miss Squad

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST: XAVIER 76, MISSISSIPPI 57; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 357 words


JACKSONVILLE, Fla. --  Xavier's inside-out duo was too much for worn-down
Mississippi to handle.

Matt Stainbrook scored 20 points, Dee Davis added 17, and the sixth-seeded
Musketeers beat the 11th-seeded Rebels, 76-57, in the West Regional of the
N.C.A.A. tournament on Thursday.

The 6-foot-10 Stainbrook took advantage of his size in the post, making 8 of 10
shots in the paint and adding nine rebounds and five assists.

Davis was nearly as good from the outside, hitting 4 of 9 shots from 3-point
range. Coach Chris Mack pulled them to a rousing ovation with 1 minute 51
seconds remaining and the game in hand.

Xavier (22-13) advanced to face 14th-seeded Georgia State on Saturday.

Xavier's duo was considerably better than Mississippi's two-man guard tandem.
Stefan Moody and Jarvis Summers finished a combined 5 of 26 from the field.
Moody led the Rebels (21-13) with 14 points.

Maybe they had tired legs. The Rebels exerted significant energy in overcoming a
17-point deficit to beat Brigham Young in a play-in game in Dayton, Ohio, about
43 hours earlier.

Ole Miss scored 62 points in the second half Tuesday night, boarded a flight to
Jacksonville, got to bed about 5 a.m. Wednesday and spent the next 30 hours
playing catch-up.

The Rebels looked like a tired team against the Musketeers, who notched their
first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in two years.

Ole Miss missed 18 of its first 27 shots, with most of those by Moody and
Summers.

The Rebels showed signs of life in the second half, even cutting an 18-point
deficit to 60-50 with about seven minutes to play. Xavier -- no surprise --
responded by going inside to Stainbrook. He backed down Dwight Colby and got an
easy basket near the rim. Myles Davis followed with a 3-pointer that pushed
Xavier's lead back to 15 points.

Mississippi spent much of the game complaining about fouls -- what should and
should not have been called.

The referees let the teams play. But the Musketeers built a double-digit early
behind five 3-pointers and a 9-1 advantage at the free-throw line.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/xavier-big-and-quick-bea
ts-a-tired-ole-miss-squad.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (94%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); BRIGHAM
YOUNG UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (55%)

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (89%); DAYTON, OH, USA (54%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (89%); OHIO, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Instrumental to a Sport

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1263 words


Susan Mueller, a flutist and the chairwoman of the Nevada-Las Vegas music
department, examined the referee's whistle in her hand. She closed her office
door after warning those outside that she was about to make a loud noise. She
put the whistle to her lips and blew.

The instrument shrieked. Mueller looked surprised.

''You really have to blow,'' she said. She did it again, eliciting a shrill
blast of about 115 decibels.

She examined the whistle again, then blew again. She played a note on a nearby
recorder. She hummed a note.

''I think it's a high G,'' Mueller said.

For sports fans, there may be no noise as familiar yet unconsidered as that of
the referee's whistle. The noise is familiar, in part, because most of the
whistles used in major sports organizations, including the N.B.A., the N.F.L.
and the N.C.A.A., are the same model: the Fox 40.

The same whistle has been heard at the Olympics and the World Cup soccer
tournament, but it was designed with basketball in mind. Starting this week, Fox
40 whistles are expected to be blown about 85 times a game during the N.C.A.A.
men's basketball tournament -- roughly 6,000 times in all.

And for the first time, the whistle -- not a scoreboard operator on the sideline
-- will automatically stop the game clock during the tournament, through a
Precision Time System carried by every on-court official.

Ron Foxcroft, a former N.C.A.A. referee who lives in Ontario, knows just about
everything there is to know about the whistle. He invented it. He knows how it
works (three chambers, no pea) and how many are produced (11,000 a day).

But he does not know what note it produces. ''No one has ever asked me that,''
he said.

Four conference tournaments took place in Las Vegas last week. One, the Mountain
West tournament, was held on U.N.L.V.'s campus. A referee offered a whistle,
still in the package, to be tested at the music department. The whistle, after
all, is an instrument, at least for the roughly 100 referees working the
N.C.A.A. tournament.

''It all depends on the listener,'' Mueller said. ''To some people, this might
be their instrument of choice. It wouldn't be mine. But if you find you can best
express yourself using this whistle as your instrument, who's to say it isn't?''

Basketball referees express themselves mostly with a whistle. It makes the
action stop (a foul, a ball out of bounds, a timeout), though it occasionally
foretells that action is about to start (the end of a timeout or a ball about to
be inbounded). The sound usually comes in one blast, about a second long. As
with a car horn, a different message can be sent with multiple toots. A couple
of quick ones might signal a substitution; four full-blown ones might be to try
to break up a fight.

''It's our most important piece of equipment,'' Foxcroft said, referring to
officials.

Before the Fox 40, games were conducted with a familiar whistle, like Acme's
Thunderer or one of its imitators -- a tapered snout protruding from a round end
that contained a pea, a small ball of cork, that vibrated inside against an
opening to provide sound.

''There is not a major league sport that has not been graced by this whistle,''
Acme's website declares.

But whistles with a pea can be inconsistent noisemakers. The pea can get stuck
when blown too hard, or it can be affected by elements, including saliva.
Foxcroft officiated the 1976 Olympic gold medal game between the United States
and Yugoslavia, when the American Adrian Dantley took an elbow to the face.
Foxcroft blew the whistle, but no noise came out. It finally bleated after a few
attempts.

Every official knew the feeling. After many more tootless episodes, Foxcroft
began a long attempt to reinvent the pealess whistle.

Acme, based in England, already had one, from the 1880s -- the Metropolitan,
made for Scotland Yard and London's Metropolitan Police, a tube-shaped
attention-getter to replace the rattle or clapper. About a year later, in 1884,
Acme launched the Thunderer, which it says was the world's first pea whistle.

Foxcroft wanted a combination: a pealess whistle that looked like a sports
whistle.

The owner of a Canadian trucking company called Fluke (motto: ''If it's on time,
it's a Fluke''), Foxcroft said he had accumulated $150,000 in debt trying to
create the whistle over more than three years. Early prototypes were too big or
looked like miniature trumpets.

''It's got to look like a whistle, and it has to feel like a whistle,'' Foxcroft
said.

The winning result was the Fox 40. Its three chambers vary by 13-thousandths of
an inch to provide three tones -- low, medium, high -- that combine to create
one steady noise that rises to 123 decibels.

''And it will not fail,'' Foxcroft said. ''The harder you blow, the louder it
gets.''

He took the Fox 40 to the 1987 Pan American Games in Indianapolis. Referees
ordered them. Soon, the whistles were all over the N.C.A.A. and the N.B.A.

''Many, many, many times before, my partner blew a whistle and I never heard
it,'' said Bobby Dibler, whose 20-year career as an N.C.A.A. referee bridged the
change in whistles.

Dibler, the coordinator of officials for the Pac-12, Mountain West and Western
Athletic Conferences, added, ''We have some of the loudest arenas here in the
West, and I've never not heard this whistle.''

A Fox 40 Classic will be in the mouth of every official at the N.C.A.A.
tournament. Most use one or two each season, identified by their teeth prints
gnawed onto the tip. Fox 40 now comes in a version with a rubber mouth cushion.

Each whistle hangs on a lanyard. And just below the whistle is a clip that holds
a black wire with a tiny microphone. The wire is wrapped around the lanyard,
tucked inside the collar of the official's striped shirt, and plugs into a box
clipped to the belt.

It is the Precision Time System, invented in the 1990s by the former N.B.A.
referee Mike Costabile. Each time the referee blows the whistle, the game clock,
if it is running, stops. To start the clock, the referee reaches to the box on
the belt and pushes a button.

It is choreography that few fans notice. But eliminating the reaction time of a
clock operator on the sideline -- who pushes a button after hearing the whistle
-- saves at least 30 seconds of action in a 40-minute college game, tests
showed. A clock operator is still there to serve as a backup and to handle clock
problems that crop up, especially at the end of the game.

The N.B.A. and most college conferences have used the system since the late
1990s. This year, the N.C.A.A. is using it throughout the tournament for the
first time.

When Costabile designed it, he needed a consistent noise from the whistle.
(These days, any repeatable noise can be programmed into the system.)

''At the beginning, we couldn't have gotten it to work with an old pea
whistle,'' Costabile said.

In Las Vegas last week, the Mountain West men's and women's basketball
tournaments took place on the U.N.L.V. campus. Three other conferences held
tournaments in town, too. Whistles were blown thousands of times.

At the university's music department, Mueller wanted to double-check her trained
musical ear. She found two electronic tuners, set them on her desk and blew the
whistle. The whistle's three tones, distinguishable from close range, burst into
a single shrill pitch. She blew again and again.

The tuners waffled between G and A. A few more tries, and Mueller made the
official call: The Fox 40 is a high A, she said, but not a pretty one.

''Like a bad soprano vibrato,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/shrill-to-ncaa-tournamen
t-referees-its-symphonic.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Fox 40 whistle will be heard throughout the tournament.
Referees will use it to stop the game clock through a timing device (inset).
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8)
 Left, unassembled whistle parts. Right, Ron Foxcroft, a former N.C.A.A.
referee, is the inventor  of the Fox 40, which is used by major sports
organizations. Eleven thousand are produced a day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. ADAM
HUGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
SPORTS OFFICIATING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); REFEREES
& UMPIRES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%);
BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); SPORTS FANS (69%); SOCCER (67%); FIFA WORLD CUP
(67%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: PRECISION TIME SYSTEMS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the F 015, Mercedes's Self-Driving Car

BYLINE: By MOLLY WOOD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1049 words


ALAMEDA, Calif. -- AUTONOMOUS car technology is now so far along that some auto
executives have said they expect a completely self-driving car -- one that
requires no human intervention -- to appear in public use within five years.

But what kind of car will we want once no manual driving is necessary? At a
defunct naval base here this week, the luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz put on a
display of how it sees that future, in 2030 and beyond, with test runs of its F
015 concept car.

With the F 015, Mercedes-Benz isn't preoccupied with the technology required to
make the car drive itself -- technology that Elon Musk, the Tesla Motors chief,
recently described as a ''solved problem.''

Mercedes-Benz has already demonstrated slightly more down-to-earth self-driving
prototypes like the S 500 Intelligent Drive concept, which in 2013 autonomously
completed a 62-mile route involving complex urban driving situations like
traffic lights and roundabouts. The company has also offered a vision of
commercial trucks that drive themselves.

The F 015 it demonstrated this week wasn't even equipped with self-driving
technology, like the lasers and computers the car would need to be actually
autonomous. It drove passengers on a preprogrammed route, framed by San
Francisco in the distance and towering cranes at the Port of Oakland.

Instead, the focus was on the experience of riding in an autonomous car.
Mercedes thinks that experience centers on a living space shielded from the
distractions and the masses of the outside world.

And yes, it is luxurious.

The vehicle's carriage-style design features saloon doors that open wide to
reveal an interior that's more like a living room than the inside of a car.
There are no side pillars or center obstructions. The two front seats swivel
around completely so the driver and front-seat passenger can face the rear of
the car.

The interior features a mix of wood, carpet and touch-enabled panels that blend
together into an environment Mercedes-Benz rightly describes as a ''cocoon.''
When both front seats are turned around, back-seat passengers can activate a
touch-screen table that extends into the middle of the cabin and can be used by
all passengers.

Still, the effect of being driven by a car is slightly disorienting. Since you
can't see any steering mechanisms, you can't anticipate which way the car is
going to move next, and each speed change comes as a mild surprise. For some, it
could well lead to car sickness.

Somehow, though, having a person in the driver's seat face you while the car is
moving is slightly less disturbing than watching someone refuse to put his hands
on the wheel.

In this concept vehicle, any passenger could theoretically drive. When in manual
mode, the car is operated with pedals and a steering wheel, just like a
traditional car. But in autonomous mode, it's meant to be controlled with touch
interfaces -- there are few physical buttons -- gestures and even eye-tracking.

The touch-screen panels let any passenger request control of the car and then
adjust the car's speed and dynamics (sort of like switching from standard to
''sport'' mode) by dragging a little image of the car to speed up or slow down.

The screens also display features like points of interest along your route, or
location-based information about your friends. The future vehicle has access to
your contacts, and if your contacts are sharing their locations, a friend's face
might pop up in the interior display if they're near where you're driving.

You can project any image you like onto the screens, and then rotate it using
touch. Mercedes designers sketched a vision of a long, boring commute where you
could entertain yourself with pictures of your family, a nicer landscape or
photos of a recent vacation.

Seems pleasant enough. Ultimately, though, the F 015's vision is a bit confused.

The vehicle might be perfect as a high-end taxi or a shared vehicle. One of the
predictions for a future shaped by self-driving cars is that we will require far
fewer of them, because the cars can autonomously pick up passengers, like a
giant robotic fleet.

The F 015, if not designed to be a personal car, fits the bill. It's extremely
large, although the sloping roof of the car is low. Our German tour guide, who
stood well over 6 feet, was jammed uncomfortably against the ceiling. And many
details, like the table in the center and the shareable display panels, seemed
designed for transporting multiple people.

But its message of privileged privacy was equally strong. A concept video showed
a well-turned-out white male summoning the car from his smartwatch, and then
riding alone in it through a mostly deserted but beautiful city. This seems like
way too much car for that sort of use.

As for its exterior design concept, it's actually a bit too futuristic. Many of
the technologies Mercedes-Benz imagines inside the F 015 either exist already or
aren't far away. Yet the vehicle itself looks like a set piece from a sci-fi
thriller like ''I, Robot,'' and its extreme design makes it hard to take
seriously.

The front and rear panels of the car are lighted with multicolored LEDs -- in
the front, they glow blue when the car is in autonomous mode, and they are
programmed to signal to pedestrians at crosswalks. The car will even speak aloud
to a pedestrian to say it's safe to cross.

And the vehicle is cast in the shiniest of silver aluminum, so shiny it causes
physical pain when the sun glances off it. The narrow windows are coated with
mottled silver screens, so no one can see inside (privacy is a luxury, after
all). Those narrow windows limit the views out of the car, too, though.

Over all, the effect of the exterior design is alien, and gives the impression
that Mercedes-Benz might be looking too far ahead. The company has always had a
far-reaching technological vision, pioneering technologies like anti-lock
brakes, electronic stability controls and the ''crumple zone'' that protects
passengers in accidents.

But with the F 015, the company presents an interesting technology and design
showcase that doesn't feel connected to the real world, which already holds
exciting promise for self-driving cars. The company described the car as a
vision for ''the day after tomorrow.'' But what about today?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/automobiles/video-feature-inside-the-f-015-mer
cedess-self-driving-car.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mercedes-Benz's  autonomous  concept car is  made of silver
aluminum, with  saloon doors that  open to an interior  that looks  more like a
living  room than a car  interior. The  heads-up display  above what  might be
called a  dashboard, left,  uses augmented  reality technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MERCEDES-BENZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTONOMOUS MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(78%); HAPTIC TECHNOLOGY (76%); SEDANS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE
TECHNOLOGY (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (56%); PORT OF OAKLAND (54%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS
MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR
VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%)

PERSON: ELON MUSK (56%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%);
OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Case for Free-Range Parenting

BYLINE: By CLEMENS WERGIN.

Clemens Wergin is the Washington bureau chief for the newspaper Die Welt.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 881 words


BETHESDA, Md. -- ON her first morning in America, last summer, my daughter went
out to explore her new neighborhood -- alone, without even telling my wife or
me.

Of course we were worried; we had just moved from Berlin, and she was just 8.
But when she came home, we realized we had no reason to panic. Beaming with
pride, she told us and her older sister how she had discovered the little park
around the corner, and had made friends with a few local dog owners. She had
taken possession of her new environment, and was keen to teach us things we
didn't know.

When this story comes up in conversations with American friends, we are usually
met with polite disbelief. Most are horrified by the idea that their children
might roam around without adult supervision. In Berlin, where we lived in the
center of town, our girls would ride the Metro on their own -- a no-no in
Washington. Or they'd go alone to the playground, or walk a mile to a piano
lesson. Here in quiet and traffic-safe suburban Washington, they don't even find
other kids on the street to play with. On Halloween, when everybody was out to
trick or treat, we were surprised by how many children actually lived here whom
we had never seen.

A study by the University of California, Los Angeles, has found that American
kids spend 90 percent of their leisure time at home, often in front of the TV or
playing video games. Even when kids are physically active, they are watched
closely by adults, either in school, at home, at afternoon activities or in the
car, shuttling them from place to place.

Such narrowing of the child's world has happened across the developed world. But
Germany is generally much more accepting of letting children take some risks. To
this German parent, it seems that America's middle class has taken
overprotective parenting to a new level, with the government acting as a super
nanny.

Just take the case of 10-year-old Rafi and 6-year-old Dvora Meitiv, siblings in
Silver Spring, Md., who were picked up in December by the police because their
parents had dared to allow them to walk home from the park alone. For trying to
make them more independent, their parents were found guilty by the state's Child
Protective Services of ''unsubstantiated child neglect.'' What had been the norm
a generation ago, that kids would enjoy a measure of autonomy after school, is
now seen as almost a crime.

Today's parents enjoyed a completely different American childhood. Recently,
researchers at the University of Virginia conducted interviews with 100 parents.
''Nearly all respondents remember childhoods of nearly unlimited freedom, when
they could ride bicycles and wander through woods, streets, parks, unmonitored
by their parents,'' writes Jeffrey Dill, one of the researchers.

But when it comes to their own children, the same respondents were terrified by
the idea of giving them only a fraction of the freedom they once enjoyed. Many
cited fear of abduction, even though crime rates have declined significantly.
The most recent in-depth study found that, in 1999, only 115 children nationwide
were victims of a ''stereotypical kidnapping'' by a stranger; the overwhelming
majority were abducted by a family member. That same year, 2,931 children under
15 died as passengers in car accidents. Driving children around is statistically
more dangerous than letting them roam freely.

Motor development suffers when most of a child's leisure time is spent sitting
at home instead of running outside. Emotional development suffers, too.

''We are depriving them of opportunities to learn how to take control of their
own lives,'' writes Peter Gray, a research professor at Boston College. He
argues that this increases ''the chance that they will suffer from anxiety,
depression, and various other mental disorders,'' which have gone up
dramatically in recent decades. He sees risky, outside play of children among
themselves without adult supervision as a way of learning to control strong
emotions like anger and fear.

I am no psychologist like Professor Gray, but I know I won't be around forever
to protect my girls from the challenges life holds in store for them, so the
earlier they develop the intellectual maturity to navigate the world, the
better. And by giving kids more control over their lives, they learn to have
more confidence in their own capabilities.

It is hard for parents to balance the desire to protect their children against
the desire to make them more self-reliant. And every one of us has to decide for
himself what level of risk he is ready to accept. But parents who prefer to keep
their children always in sight and under their thumbs should consider what sort
of trade-offs are involved in that choice.

At a minimum, parents who want to give their children more room to roam
shouldn't be penalized by an overprotective state. Cases like the Meitivs'
reinforce the idea that children are fragile objects to be protected at all
times, and that parents who believe otherwise are irresponsible, if not
criminally negligent.

Besides overriding our natural protective impulses in order to loosen the reins
of our kids, my wife and I now also have to ponder the possibility of running
afoul of the authorities. And we thought we had come to the land of the free.




URL:

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY REBEKKA DUNLAP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PARENTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILD
ABUSE (73%); MUSIC EDUCATION (72%); DOGS (70%); CHILD WELFARE (68%); HALLOWEEN
(66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia Just Can't Win With Critics of Its Style

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 792 words


GREENSBORO, N.C. --  On the way to winning 29 games and a second consecutive
Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season crown, Virginia has managed to help
provoke one of the more fascinating academic discussions on the state of college
basketball as we know it.

The question: What's wrong with the game today? The answer: Virginia -- that's
what's wrong.

Apparently, the Cavaliers' maniacal devotion to defense along with an
excruciatingly deliberate offense are apocalyptic signs of doom for a sport that
is seeing an overall decline in scoring. Among the insults hurled at Virginia's
plotting, plodding style this season, one notable writer actually referred to
the Cavaliers as the ''Cadavers.''

''Nobody wants to see us succeed,'' forward Anthony Gill said last week during
the A.C.C. tournament. ''Everybody hates our style of basketball. That's just
part of it. People don't like to see a slow pace. They don't like to see a great
defense that we like to play; they want to see people getting up and down.
That's where the underdog comes in. Nobody wants to see us succeed, and that's
what we have to go out there and do.''

That was a pep talk of sorts after Virginia (29-3) lost to North Carolina in the
A.C.C. tournament semifinals last Friday night, a reminder that the Cavaliers
need to double down on their so-called boring style and play a far less
interesting game than the 71-67 loss to the Tar Heels if Virginia wants to have
a shot at winning an N.C.A.A. championship this year.

And at least one publication believes Virginia belongs in that discussion.
Sports Illustrated put the Cavaliers on one of its covers because they are among
the few teams with the kind of game that could challenge another defensive
stalwart: Kentucky. That is if Virginia can get back to its roots after dropping
a pair of games last week that cost the Cavaliers what seemed like a sure No. 1
seeding in the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Instead, after a regular-season loss to Louisville followed by the A.C.C.
tournament defeat to North Carolina, Virginia arrives in Charlotte, N.C., as the
No. 2 seed in the East Region with a game against No. 15 Belmont on Friday.

''Not much doubt, just a wake-up call -- two wake-up calls in succession,'' the
junior guard Malcolm Brogdon said of the two losses, ''so we've got to gear up
and get ready.''

Particularly with the possibility that Virginia could face No. 7 Michigan State
in the third round if both teams advance in Charlotte. The Spartans knocked off
Virginia in the round of 16 in last year's N.C.A.A. tournament when the
Cavaliers were a No. 1 seed.

But Virginia figures it is a better team for having gone through that last
season. ''I think it's really about maturity and experience,'' Brogdon said.

Add that experience to a scoring defense that remained the best in the country
going into the tournament despite that North Carolina setback. The Cavaliers
allow an average of 50.7 points per game. San Diego State was second at 53.1
with Kentucky third, allowing an average of 53.7.

On the flip side, Virginia averages 65.3 points per game. That ranks 221st in
N.C.A.A. Division I basketball. No wonder the Cavaliers focus on defense.

''There's a lot of teams that are struggling to score,'' Coach Tony Bennett
said. ''There's not as much scoring going on. I don't know the exact reasons
why.

''Teams are getting better and better defensively and it's hard to score. We
really try to pride ourselves on being as good as we can offensively and
defensively.''

Instead of arguing whether Virginia's defense is bad for the game, perhaps the
more pressing question is whether that defense can win a championship for the
Cavaliers. Bennett will tell you it is Virginia's only hope.

''I just believe you look at your team and say, what's the best way to play and
that gives us a chance to be good?'' Bennett said. ''You work as hard as you can
to move the ball to get good shots and take care of it; defensively you work to
make people earn to get shots and if that lowers our score, so be it, but it
still comes down to being as successful as you can.''

But even with that defense and a newfound perch among the leaders of one of the
toughest basketball conferences in the country, Virginia is uncertain it belongs
in the conversation with Kentucky right now.

Or maybe the players simply know better than to talk about it.

''I think only time will tell with us,'' Brogdon said. ''I think we have a
system that can travel well on the road in terms of our defense and how we
execute on the offensive end. But there are very talented teams. I don't know. I
hope we can continue our run, that's all I can say.''

And if the Cavaliers do make a run at the title? Expect the hand-wringing to
continue.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/virginia-just-cant-win-w
ith-critics-of-its-style.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Coach Tony Bennett. Right, Virginia's Anthony Gill
battling North Carolina's Joel James last week in the A.C.C. tournament
semifinals, in which the Cavaliers fell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRANT HALVERSON/GETTY
IMAGES
 GERRY BROOME/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%)

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA
(78%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Villanova Overwhelms Lafayette

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; EAST: VILLANOVA 93, LAFAYETTE 52; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 526 words


PITTSBURGH --  By halftime, seven Villanova players had each scored at least 5
points. The only starter who had not, Ryan Arcidiacono, was the Big East player
of the year.

This is how the Wildcats earned the top seed in the East Region, and this is how
they hope to dash through the N.C.A.A. tournament, overwhelming teams with
perhaps the most balanced squad of Coach Jay Wright's tenure.

Villanova throttled No. 16 seed Lafayette by outmuscling the Leopards inside and
outshooting them outside and outplaying them everywhere else. The Wildcats
cruised, 93-52, at Consol Energy Center, where they will play No. 8 North
Carolina State on Saturday.

Either of those teams could trouble Villanova (33-2), but a loss would be
unexpected, and devastating, for a program that considers itself a strong
contender for the national title. As well it should, if the Wildcats can come
close to replicating their success against Lafayette (20-13) -- 63.2 percent
field-goal shooting, eight turnovers committed (most in the waning minutes), six
players in double figures -- or at least adjust when the quality of the
opposition improves.

In the meantime, Villanova can savor a performance as diversified as it was
dominant. The Wildcats' low-post tandem of JayVaughn Pinkston and Daniel Ochefu
combined for 26 points, on 9-of-10 shooting from the field, and 15 rebounds.
Complementing them were Dylan Ennis, a slashing guard who made three 3-pointers
en route to leading Villanova with 16 points, and the long-range shooting of
Arcidiacono (3 for 4) and the reserve Phil Booth (2 for 2).

''On the scouting report, usually I'm going to circle the really good shooters
on the other team and you get two or three that you circle,'' said Lafayette
Coach Fran O'Hanlon, a former guard at Villanova. ''When we were doing the
scouting report on Villanova, I circled two that don't shoot 3s.''

Villanova led by at least 10 points for the final 29 minutes; by 49-26 at
halftime; and by 39 points, at 73-34, with 12 minutes 34 seconds remaining.
Lafayette, the second-best 3-point shooting team in Division I, made only 4 of
18.

''We knew if we didn't come in and kind of play defense the way we were supposed
to, it could be an easy, closer game,'' guard Darrun Hilliard said. ''It was
great to come out and kind of jump on them from the start.''

The scope of the Wildcats' victory was surprising given how tough the Patriot
League, including Lafayette, tends to play them. Just last year, at home in the
season opener, Villanova trailed the Leopards by 2 points at halftime.

''So it was very easy for us to be motivated and very easy for us to really
respect how they play,'' Wright said. ''It was easy to get these guys ready to
play.''

The last time they faced a Patriot League team in the first round, American in
2009, the Wildcats advanced to the Final Four, so perhaps this could be an omen.
For this is the best -- and toughest, Arcidiacono said -- Villanova team Wright
has overseen in some time, and soon enough the Wildcats will know just how good
they really are.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/villanova-overwhelms-laf
ayette.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); TOURNAMENTS
(77%)

COMPANY: CONSOL ENERGY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (99%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: CNX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%); SIC1221
BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Accusations of Assaults Unnerve High School

BYLINE: By RICK ROJAS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1203 words


LOS ANGELES --  Since the arrests of a dozen students here on suspicion of
sex-related crimes, members of the Venice High School community have been doing
some soul-searching about what they could have done to prevent the assaults --
some of which the police said took place on campus -- and what they can do to
try to ensure that nothing similar happens again.

''We're trying to determine how much of this, if any of this, could have been
prevented with more security,'' said Steve Zimmer, the Los Angeles school board
member whose district includes Venice High School. ''That's really unclear right
now.''

According to the Los Angeles Police Department, 14 boys from Venice High School,
ages 14 through 17, were involved in the sex acts with two girls from the school
described as in their midteens, beginning in December 2013, and continuing until
as recently as this month. Twelve of the boys have been arrested -- eight of
them on campus during the school day last Friday. The police say they have been
unable to find the other two.

Some of the sex acts were consensual and some were not, the police said, but
consensual sex with a minor is also a crime in California, and the boys could be
charged with various offenses.

Investigators have uncovered enough physical evidence to be certain that ''there
was forced sexual activity against the will of the victims in this case,'' said
Cmdr. Andrew Smith of the Los Angeles police.

School officials have brought in crisis counselors and are evaluating security
on the campus, which more than 2,000 students attend. Mr. Zimmer said he was
committed to finding some more substantive and longer term solutions, such as
teaching students about having safe and healthy relationships.

''This is something that can change young lives forever,'' Mr. Zimmer said.
''It's about the destruction of young lives.''

While college campuses have been grappling with sexual assaults and how to
handle them, this case is an example of the issue trickling down to the high
school level, which people who work on women's rights issues say is an emerging
problem. Some of those experts argue for more education, so that high school
students know how to identify and respond to sexual assault -- and also how to
help prevent it.

The accusations at Venice High School highlight ''a real problem that schools
need to address and communities need to address, too,'' said Neena Chaudhry,
senior counsel for the National Women's Law Center. ''Students need to know and
feel safe about being able to report these things. Schools have to make that
clear.''

Bernadette Morales, whose son is a sophomore at the school, said the arrests had
served as ''a wake-up call.'' She said she was troubled by a school
administration that might be allowing students too much freedom. ''This is
jaw-dropping,'' she said. ''I don't know how this went on for so long without
being noticed.''

School officials said they learned of the accusations from students on March 10,
and went immediately to the police. Within days, police detectives had
identified 14 boys, and the majority of the arrests were made last Friday during
second period.

''We're not the school sex police, but when we believe teenage girls are being
sexually assaulted on and off campus, we take immediate action,'' Commander
Smith said. ''We feared there may be other female students that may fall victim
to these young men if we did not act quickly.''

Most of the boys have been released to their parents and removed from the
school, the police said. Commander Smith said that certain boys involved had
been ''much more egregious in their assaults of these girls'' than others, but
declined to elaborate. None of the children's names have been released, because
of their ages.

Prosecutors have 60 days from the date of citation to decide whether to pursue
criminal charges, said Greg Risling, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County
district attorney's office. One case presented to prosecutors has already been
declined, he said, but he declined to comment further.

Separately from the criminal proceedings, the Los Angeles Unified School
District, the nation's second-largest public school system, has started the
process ''to determine whether or not a recommendation for expulsion will be
sought,'' said Gayle Pollard-Terry, a district spokeswoman.

The authorities have shared limited details about the suspected crimes, but
students interviewed outside the school said that in the halls and after class,
classmates pass along rumors and photographs, including explicit images spread
by Snapchat, a messaging service in which photos vanish in seconds.

''It's distracting people from most of our work,'' Mason Castro, 18, a senior,
said after school this week, a skateboard in hand and a deep scrape across his
forearm. ''In some classes, everyone talks about that instead of doing what they
would normally do.'' He added: ''It's one more bit of gossip for everyone to
choke down.''

Students said that athletes on the school's football and basketball teams were
among those involved, although the authorities declined to confirm that. The
accusations have incited a range of fears, with students expressing concern over
tarnished reputations and fractured relationships.

''It's messed up a lot,'' said Jesus Miranda, a junior. ''It just made this
school really awkward. Now the girls who would kick it with the football players
probably won't hang out with them anymore.''

The picture-perfect campus, frequently used as a film backdrop -- including
standing in as Rydell High in ''Grease'' -- has a diverse student body, with
two-thirds of the students Latino. Parents and students described Venice High
School as a ''family school,'' one that their mothers and fathers, aunts and
uncles and older siblings attended before them. Ms. Morales, 42, said she had
six cousins in her graduating class, and her son has three cousins in his grade
alone.

''It's friendly,'' Kihaku Sato, a freshman, said of the student body, ''just
like all the people you meet on the boardwalk.''

Other students said that the school was rich with pride, especially for its
football and softball teams, and had a reputation for being more spirited than
other high schools. ''It's more turnt,'' said Elizabeth Alvarez, a freshman,
using a slang term for fun.

But victims' rights activists and others said the allegations that sexual
assaults had taken place on campus was deeply troubling.

''We assume that when our children go to school, it's a safe place, and that's
what for the most part children think -- it's a safe place,'' said Jennifer
Marsh, vice president of victim services for the Rape, Abuse and Incest National
Network. ''To have that notion really destroyed by such a crime, that can be
detrimental to the learning process, detrimental to a community and how they
think they are protecting their children.''

Days after the arrests, some students said they had been able to avoid talking
about the situation. Others wished they could, saying they were tired of the
gossip and the disruption.

''We try to put it away and not keep talking about it,'' said Raymond Sadeghi, a
sophomore. ''We're done. We want to make it stop.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/venice-high-school-unnerved-by-accusations-
of-sex-crimes.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The police say sex acts involving boys and girls from Venice
High School began in December 2013 and continued until as recently as this
month.
BERNADETTE MORALES, a graduate of Venice High School and the mother of a
sophomore (A16)
 School police officers at Venice High School. Some of the sex  acts alleged are
said to have taken place on campus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%);
SEX OFFENSES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); WOMEN (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%);
POLICE FORCES (78%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); EVIDENCE (73%);
EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S
RIGHTS (68%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

D'Angelo Russell and Ohio State Squeak Past Virginia Commonwealth

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST: OHIO STATE 75, V.C.U. 72; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 588 words


PORTLAND, Ore. --  D'Angelo Russell's supporting cast at Ohio State did just
enough Thursday to help him push the Buckeyes past Virginia Commonwealth with a
75-72 overtime victory.

Keita Bates-Diop swished a 3-pointer from the right wing to break a tie midway
through overtime. V.C.U. had a chance to tie the score with its final
possession, but Treveon Graham's 3-point attempt with about 10 seconds left
bounced off the rim.

Russell, an all-American, made two free throws to seal the victory for the
Buckeyes. He finished with a game-high 28 points.

Ohio State (24-10), seeded 10th in the West Region, lost four of its final eight
games before the tournament, raising questions about its postseason prospects.
Now the Buckeyes play second-seeded Arizona on Saturday for a berth in the round
of 16.

The game against seventh-seeded V.C.U. (26-10) promised an intriguing matchup
between Russell, the smooth 6-foot-5 guard who is a likely N.B.A. first-round
draft choice this spring, and V.C.U.'s high-pressure ''havoc'' defense.

Russell averaged 19.3 points, 5.6 rebounds and 5.1 assists per game during the
season. Against V.C.U., he added six rebounds and an assist. Shannon Scott, the
senior point guard, had 10 of Ohio State's 16 assists.

V.C.U. guarded Russell mostly with a single defender, sending help when Ohio
State tried to free him with picks, and the tactic worked for a while. Russell
missed four of his first five shots, and V.C.U. led by as many as 12 in the
first half.

But V.C.U.'s best defender, Doug Brooks, sat for much of the first half with
foul trouble, and a 3-pointer built Russell's confidence. He finished the half
with 12 points on 5-of-10 shooting, sparking Ohio State on a 16-5 run that pared
V.C.U.'s lead to 30-29 at the intermission.

V.C.U. shot just 29 percent from the field in the first half and 38 percent for
the game. Ohio State, wanting to slow the fast-paced Rams, played patches in a
zone defense. V.C.U.'s effort to quicken the pace in the second half backfired,
as Ohio State turned short possessions into fast-break points.

More 3-pointers from Russell in the opening minutes of the second half -- one
after he inadvertently bumped a teammate who was shooting, grabbed the loose
ball and shot -- gave Ohio State a 6-point lead.

''If you create some angles for him, and give him a half second, he's so good at
making the right read,'' Ohio State Coach Thad Matta said of Russell.

The game slowed and tightened in the final 10 minutes. With 4 minutes 56 seconds
remaining, after Russell caught an opposing elbow in the left eye that led to
trickles of blood down his cheek, the teams were tied at 58-58.

Russell returned with a black bandage on the corner of his eyebrow. Ohio State
built a 4-point lead that V.C.U.'s Melvin Johnson erased with back-to-back
3-pointers. He finished with a team-high 17 points.

The game entered the final minute of regulation tied, 66-66. Graham drove down
the lane in the final seconds, but his shot missed.

''Our best player, it's a shot he's made before,'' V.C.U. Coach Shaka Smart
said. ''We'll take that again all day. He just didn't make it, and Ohio State
was able to capitalize in overtime.''

The game was a matchup between programs familiar with deep tournament runs.
V.C.U., making its fifth straight appearance in the tournament under Smart,
reached the Final Four in 2011. Matta's Ohio State team was in the Final Four in
2012.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/dangelo-russell-and-ohio
-state-squeak-past-virginia-commonwealth.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (77%); ATHLETES (75%); TOURNAMENTS (74%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah Holds Off Stephen F. Austin's Upset Bid

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SOUTH: UTAH 57, STEPHEN F. AUSTIN 50;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 480 words


PORTLAND, Ore. --  Utah, one of the country's best defensive teams, clamped down
high-scoring Stephen F. Austin, staving off an upset bid and advancing to the
round of 32.

The fifth-seeded Utes held Stephen F. Austin 30 points below its season average,
suffocating the No. 12 Lumberjacks for a 57-50 victory in the South Region.

Utah advanced to play No. 4 Georgetown on Saturday.

During the season, Utah's defense allowed an average of 56.9 points per game,
11th-best in the nation. Its field-goal defense, 38.2 percent, was ranked
seventh.

It brought that tenacity to its first N.C.A.A. tournament appearance since 2009.
Stephen F. Austin averaged nearly 80 points per game during the regular season,
but Utah limited the Lumberjacks to just 17 field goals in 51 attempts (33.3
percent), including 5 of 26 (19.2 percent) from behind the 3-point line.

''Our defense was as good as it's been all year to hold that team,'' Utah Coach
Larry Krystkowiak said. He added, ''That's what won the game for us, our
defensive intensity.''

Still, the game was not decided until a series of oddities in the final minutes.

Utah's freshman center Jacob Poeltl, a 43.8 percent free-throw shooter, made two
to give Utah a 52-46 lead.

Stephen F. Austin's Ty Charles, who led the team with 14 points, banked in a
3-pointer from the top of the key, pulling the Lumberjacks within 3 points with
fewer than 90 seconds remaining. The teams traded missed shots and free-throw
attempts before Utah escaped with victory.

Utah (25-8) looked ripe for an upset from the time the bracket was announced.
Ranked in the top 10 a month ago, the Utes lost four of their final seven games.
And Stephen F. Austin (29-5), winners of 28 of its previous 29 games, was seeded
12th a year ago when it surprised No. 5 Virginia Commonwealth for the first
N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the college's history.

Utah had a 26-19 halftime lead, but Stephen F. Austin's trapping defense
discombobulated the Utes early in the second half, as the Lumberjacks scored the
period's first six points, part of a 10-0 run that bridged intermission.

But 26-25 was as close as Stephen F. Austin would get, as Utah stretched its
lead to 12 before the Lumberjacks crept back.

Thomas Walkup and Jacob Parker, the past two players of the year in the
Southland Conference, combined to average nearly 30 points per game during the
season. Utah held Walkup to 12 points, Parker to 6.

Poeltl led Utah with 18 points, making all seven of his field-goal attempts, and
8 rebounds. The senior Delon Wright, a rangy 6-foot-5 all-Pacific-12 Conference
guard, had 11 points.

''It was their ability to score at the rim, our inability to score
offensively,'' Stephen F. Austin coach Brad Underwood said. ''That made it a
difficult challenge.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/utah-holds-off-stephen-f
-austins-upset-bid.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); RANKINGS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%)

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

N. Carolina Survives Scare by Harvard

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST: NORTH CAROLINA 67, HARVARD 65;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 606 words


JACKSONVILLE, Fla. --  North Carolina was supposed to be too big, too talented
and too versatile, and at times the Tar Heels lived up to their pregame billing.

It was just enough to squeak by Harvard, one tough out on Thursday night in the
N.C.A.A. tournament.

Justin Jackson hit a tying jumper in the final minute and then had a fast-break
dunk to help the fourth-seeded Tar Heels edge Harvard, 67-65.

''It's the luckiest I've ever felt after a basketball game in my entire life,''
North Carolina Coach Roy Williams said. ''In saying that, I'm thrilled that
we're still here and we're still playing.''

The Tar Heels (25-11) wasted a 16-point lead in the second half and briefly
trailed before Jackson came to the rescue.

Siyani Chambers's 4-point play put 13th-seeded Harvard ahead, 65-63, with 1
minute 15 seconds remaining. It was the only lead of the game for the Crimson,
the Ivy League champions.

Jackson finished with 14 points, and Marcus Paige had 10.

''Marcus made two big shots, and Justin made two big shots,'' Williams said.
''If we had played a little bit better, it may not have required that. But
you've got to give Harvard credit for driving me whacko.''

Chambers misfired on two 3-point attempts in the closing seconds, and the
Crimson's final chance for victory -- Wesley Saunders's shot from beyond the arc
-- bounced off the back of the rim.

Saunders led Harvard (22-8) with 26 points. Chambers had 13.

''Can't say enough about the effort that our kids put forth, the battle to get
back in it,'' Harvard Coach Tommy Amaker said. ''I thought we played with great
poise. Wesley Saunders and Siyani, these guys are the two main guys that do
everything for our ball club, carried us to put us in a position to have a
chance.

''I thought we did exactly what we tried to do from a game plan standpoint, but
they're certainly talented and worthy of victory.''

North Carolina will play fifth-seeded Arkansas on Saturday.

The Tar Heels lost six of 10 games down the stretch, but have played
considerably better in the postseason, beginning with three wins on the way to
the championship game of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament, where they
lost to Notre Dame.

Isiah Hicks, a reserve, played some key minutes in the first half for the Tar
Heels, making all four of his shots and grabbing three rebounds in the first 20
minutes. His 3-point play restored a double-digit lead after Harvard trimmed
what was once a 14-point deficit to 26-23.

North Carolina led, 36-25, at halftime, and Jackson made a 3-pointer coming out
of the break. It looked as if the Tar Heels might run away when they built a
16-point lead with under 17 minutes to go.

But the Crimson kept their poise and clawed back into the game.

Two free throws from Steve Moundou-Missi cut North Carolina's lead to 1 with
3:39 left. Paige gave the Tar Heels some breathing room with a 3-pointer, but
Harvard refused to crack.

Saunders, a junior guard, hit a jumper and, with the clock winding down and
Harvard fans urging Chambers to stop dribbling and shoot, he made a 3 and was
fouled.

Jackson answered on the other end with a jumper, and then scored the go-ahead
basket with 22 seconds remaining after North Carolina rebounded Chambers's miss.

''I've got a guy that made his last two shots and should be on top of the world,
and I was screaming at him and the whole bit,'' Williams said.

''I feel like I've won the lottery because Tommy Amaker did a much better job
with his team than I did with mine,'' Williams added. ''We were extremely
lucky.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/north-carolina-edges-har
vard.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (75%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%)

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (89%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (89%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Militants, ISIS Included, Claim Attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Reporting was contributed by Mayy El Sheikh
from Cairo, Carlotta Gall and Farah Samti from Tunis, Elisabetta Povoledo from
Rome, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1542 words


CAIRO --  The Islamic State and other extremists on Thursday sought to claim
responsibility for the deadly attack that killed at least 21 people at the
National Bardo Museum in Tunis. The authorities there arrested at least nine
people suspected of being accomplices as major cruise lines indefinitely
suspended stops in Tunisia, a sign of the looming toll on the crucial tourist
industry.

The assault was the latest evidence that the extremist victories and cruelties
in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere are emboldening like-minded militants to acts of
violence around the world -- including recent attacks in Paris, Ottawa and
Sydney, Australia.

The eagerness of the Islamic State and other jihadists to associate themselves
with the killings in Tunis underscored the looseness of their proliferating
networks, recalling the distant ties to both the Qaeda and Islamic State
networks among the assailants who attacked the magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris
two months ago.

The massacre of tourists on Wednesday, scholars said, was in some ways a
throwback to the tactics that older militant groups had relied on in the 1980s
and '90s. But the attack also comes at a time when some Islamist militants
elsewhere, most notably in Egypt, are gravitating to the idea that economic
interests may be a vulnerable point they can exploit to destabilize governments.

A statement about the attack posted by the Afriqiyah Media, a jihadi forum often
used by Uqba bin Nafa, a Tunisian group linked to Al Qaeda, even included graphs
and price charts to show the economic pain the museum assault had already
inflicted.

Celebrating ''the sharp collapse of the Tunisian markets after a simple
operation involving only two individuals,'' the statement asked: ''What do you
think would happen if an organized attack happened, and simultaneously on
several military, vital, and tourist targets?''

Some analysts said they saw an ominous trend. ''The shooting spree tactic is
really catching on, and that is going to be a huge headache for security
services around the world,'' said Will McCants, a scholar of Islamist militancy
at the Brookings Institution, noting the similarities with recent attacks on the
Canadian Parliament and Charlie Hebdo.

Brian Fishman, a researcher at the New America Foundation in Washington, said
he, too, foresaw more low-tech assaults, ''because these attacks are easy.''

Tunisian officials said Thursday that they had not yet found evidence tying
either of the two gunmen to any known terrorist group. Both men were killed by
security forces in a gunfight at the museum, and the authorities identified them
as Yassine Laabidi and Hatem Khachnaoui, both Tunisian.

Prime Minister Habib Essid said in an interview with the French radio network
RTL that Mr. Laabidi had caught the attention of the country's intelligence
agencies in the past, but not for ''anything special.''

The Tunisian authorities were working with other governments to learn more about
the men's backgrounds and motives, he said, adding at a news conference later
that Tunisia was obtaining military equipment from allies, including eight
helicopters equipped for nighttime surveillance, to aid its hunt for militants.
Mr. Essid did not specify which countries, but the United States has already
approved the sale to Tunisia of a number of UH-60M Black Hawk helicopters.

''Such operations take place in the U.S., in France, in Egypt,'' Mr. Essid said
of the attack.

The authorities said the Tunisian Army would be deployed to cities to bolster
the police, and Mr. Essid asked Tunisians for their forbearance regarding
searches and checkpoints.

''We are now in a phase of chasing after some terrorists who contributed
indirectly to yesterday's operation in the Bardo Museum,'' he said. ''The
citizens must deal with this process with the utmost good will.''

President Beji Caid Essebsi said in a statement that four of the nine suspects
under arrest had direct connections to the attack. He did not specify the exact
reasons leading to the arrest of the other five. News reports indicated that the
police had also arrested members of the family of one of the gunmen.

Separately, two Spanish tourists emerged Thursday from a hiding place inside the
museum, according to news reports citing the Spanish Foreign Ministry. Tunisian
health officials said that at least two people who were wounded in the attack
died overnight, raising the death toll to at least 21, not including the two
gunmen.

Tunisia, the Arab Spring's lone success, is seeking to consolidate its
transition to democracy after the uprising four years ago that removed the
longtime strongman Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali.

The government has struggled to defeat Islamist militant groups, based mainly in
the area around Mount Chaambi near the Algerian border. At the same time, the
simmering frustrations of many young men with a sputtering economy and police
abuses, which continued after decades of autocracy, have helped make Tunisia a
leading source of foreign fighters for the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or
ISIL, in its battles in Syria and Iraq.

Supporters of the Islamic State on Thursday circulated a terse audio statement
from one of its media outlets claiming responsibility and naming the gunmen
under the aliases Zakaria al-Tunisi and Abu Anas al-Tunisi.

''We tell the apostates who sit on the chest of Muslim Tunisia: Wait for the
glad tidings of what will harm you, impure ones, for what you have seen today is
the first drop of the rain, God willing,'' the group said in the audio
statement, according to a translation provided by the SITE Intelligence Group,
an organization that tracks extremist groups.

''You will not enjoy security, nor be pleased with peace, while the Islamic
State has men like these,'' the statement said.

The statement offered no evidence that the group had played a role in the
attack, and its claims could not be confirmed.

The Islamic State was not the only group to seek to associate itself with the
attack. Afriqiyah Media posted a more detailed message recounting the
chronology. Yet much of what it listed could have been gleaned from news media
reports, and some of its assertions contradicted the accounts of witnesses and
Tunisian officials.

Its message rendered the names of the gunmen as Yassin al-Obeidi and Sabr
al-Khachnaoui, according to a translation by the SITE Intelligence Group.
Photographs included in the message appeared to show the bodies of the attackers
-- young men with assault rifles, each lying in a pool of blood and wearing
running shoes and casual clothes. Tunisian officials had said the attackers wore
military uniforms.

Instead of claiming responsibility, Afriqiyah Media at times appeared to tease
the authorities. ''We will not answer this now, in order to listen to more of
your ridiculous analysis and your weeping and crying on television and radio,
and to laugh more at the inefficiency of your apostate masters,'' it said.

Most of all, the message reveled in the damage done to the Tunisian economy at
such a bargain price. ''Just 2 Kalashnikovs, 4 hand grenades, and some
bullets,'' Afriqiyah Media's statement said. ''The total price did not exceed
four thousand dinars.''

''Instead of spending three thousand dinars to enter Libya via smuggling for the
pursuit of martyrdom, you can purchase a weapon and attack in the heart of the
state of the tyrant and kill its police and soldiers,'' the statement
encouraged.

Scholars of extremism said this attack harkened back to an earlier era of jihadi
violence, like the massacre by Egyptian militants with assault rifles of more
than 60 people outside an ancient temple in Luxor in 1997. Then, too, the
extremists hoped that driving away tourists would undermine the economy and thus
weaken and topple the state.

Instead, the cruelty of the slaughter and the damage to the economy alienated
average Egyptians and strengthened support for President Hosni Mubarak. The
Luxor attack cleared the way for a decisive crackdown.

Most extremists had accepted that attacks on tourists were ''a model that across
the jihadi world has always failed,'' said Mokhtar Awad, a researcher at the
Center for American Progress in Washington, but the Tunisian attackers appear to
have dusted it off. ''It shows they have obviously not thought it through,'' he
said, ''People are going to start to hate you.''

Some young Islamists in Egypt have also begun carrying out violent attacks
against business interests as a means of bringing down the military-backed
government. But they have so far mainly attacked empty buildings in an attempt
to minimize casualties, seeking to avoid triggering a popular backlash or
reinforcing the police state.

The spectacular success of other extremists around the region, however, appears
to have emboldened even amateurs.

Their interest is visible on social media, where some aspiring jihadists have
begun using the hashtag, in Arabic, ''Lone Wolf.''

In one Twitter message this week that appeared to come from Egypt, for example,
a user who called himself roughly Abu Mos'ab the Cairene, laid out his dreams
very plainly: ''Brothers, a very important request,'' he wrote. ''I want any
video to learn how to shoot, or to learn how to use guns.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/africa/miltants-isis-included-claim-tuni
sia-museum-attack.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators in Tunis on Thursday, a day after gunmen attacked
the National Bardo Museum. The Islamic State and another terror group claimed
responsibility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE
LEVANT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM
(89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); NOVEMBER 2015
PARIS ATTACKS (78%); 2015 CHARLIE HEBDO SHOOTINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (77%); TOURISM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%);
INTERVIEWS (73%); CRUISES (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); RESEARCH
INSTITUTES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); TUNIS, TUNISIA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (89%); OTTAWA, ON,
CANADA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (72%)

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%)

COUNTRY: TUNISIA (97%); FRANCE (92%); EGYPT (89%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA
(79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Kentucky Team and Its Star Seek Their Own Fame

BYLINE: By JERÉ LONGMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 978 words


GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. --  The top-ranked, undefeated team from Kentucky arrived at
the Final Four, wearing familiar blue and white, but the charter was a bus, not
a plane. The trip took nine hours with a stop at Arby's and a gym for practice.
The team hotel is not five-star plush but Holiday Inn utility.

''Ashley Judd doesn't come to this undefeated team's games,'' said Jeff Hans,
the women's basketball coach at Division III Thomas More College (31-0), a
Catholic liberal arts school with 950 undergraduates in Crestview Hills, Ky.

The men's team from the University of Kentucky gets the attention and celebrity
endorsement, but the women from Thomas More have been equally successful and
ambitious this season. And with the Division III Final Four set for Friday and
Saturday, Kentucky's first unconquered champion of 2014-15 could be nicknamed
the Saints, not the Wildcats.

''I heard there's another team in Lexington that's undefeated; I'm not sure who
they are,'' Terry Connor, the athletic director at Thomas More, said playfully.

If Thomas More is largely unfamiliar to the broader sports audience, the last
name of its star -- Moss -- is not. It is a football name seeking a separate and
distinct prominence in women's basketball as a daughter longs to escape the
athletic shadow of her father and step into her own sunlight.

''I think everybody wants to get out of their parents' footsteps and try to make
a name for themselves,'' said Sydney Moss, a 5-foot-10 swing player and the 2014
Division III player of the year, who is the daughter of Randy Moss, the former
N.F.L. All-Pro receiver.

Sydney said: ''Through high school, I was known as 'Randy Moss's daughter, Randy
Moss's daughter.' I feel like if we win a national championship, it would get me
farther out of his spotlight and kind of make me into my own person, my own
name.''

Last season, as a sophomore, Moss set a Division III record by scoring 63 points
in a game. She also matched the season scoring record with 891 points before
tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in her right knee while driving for a
layup during the regional semifinals, known as sectionals, of the 2014 N.C.A.A.
tournament.

That was the only game, of 63 played, that Thomas More has lost in Moss's two
seasons. A left-hander, she can play all five positions, leading the Saints with
24.4 points per game and ranking second with 3.8 assists per game. In four
N.C.A.A. tournament games this season, Moss has delivered 43, 40, 37 and 35
points.

''We don't see that kind of athleticism in D-III,'' said Carla Berube, the coach
at Tufts, which faces Thomas More on Friday in a national semifinal. ''She's a
complete player. Even after the A.C.L., it doesn't look like she's missed a
beat. She can cross over, hit step-back 3s, slash, hang in the air at the rim.''

Moss's desire to be her own person seems evident in her tattoos, in her Mohawk
haircut, in the omission of her father's name from her official team biography.

She describes a complicated relationship with her father. Sydney, 21, was born
while Randy was in high school in West Virginia. During his peripatetic football
career, she lived primarily with her mother, Libby Offutt, and her maternal
grandparents, Frank and Margaret Offutt. At the moment, Sydney said, she and her
father are not speaking. He does not attend her games.

''I feel like we're the same person, so we don't really get along,'' Sydney Moss
said. ''I think we're both'' -- and for a few seconds she paused before saying,
''hardheaded, I guess that's the right word.''

Her career has been almost as complex. Moss first attended Florida and was named
to the Southeastern Conference all-freshman team in 2012-13. But she grew
homesick and her grandfather died. And she found Division I basketball more of a
job than an adventure with its incessant demands and rigid structure.

''You didn't really have a life outside of basketball,'' Moss said. ''It was, I
guess, too much.''

Florida did not grant her a release to transfer to Kentucky, an SEC opponent,
for reasons that have not been explained. So Moss chose Thomas More. One, it was
15 minutes from Boone County High School, which she attended in Kentucky. She
knew most of the Saints players. Two, she would not have to sit out a year after
transferring. Three, she was only a few hours from her mother and grandmother in
West Virginia.

The fact that Moss remained at a Division III college after one season surprised
many, including some faculty and staff members at Thomas More. But Moss is on
schedule to graduate next spring with a degree in communications and said she
enjoyed discovering ''what it's like to be a regular student.''

She has become the rare elite player to find fulfillment at a level of
basketball that offers no athletic scholarships, television limelight or
express-train connections to professional ball in the W.N.B.A. or overseas.

''To me that's big for all of women's basketball,'' said Hans, the Thomas More
coach. ''It shows that a young lady can be successful'' in Division I ''and not
have the enjoyment and love for the game and come to a smaller school and love
her teammates and love the campus and stay with it.''

Thomas More is hardly a one-woman team, largely drawing players from northern
Kentucky and Cincinnati. The first reserve, Olivia Huber, is an all-American
soccer player who led Division III in scoring last fall. She is a
defensive-minded guard in basketball and a rapacious forward in soccer,
positions that might seem contradictory but demand acute focus and an insistence
to be near the ball.

Yet it is Moss who makes Thomas More particularly compelling because of where
she is and who she is -- the daughter of a famous athlete trying to forge her
own identity.

''I feel like you have to win a national championship to leave people
remembering your name,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/on-kentuckys-other-undef
eated-team-the-other-star-named-moss.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas More College's Sydney Moss said she doesn't ''really  get
along'' with her father, the former N.F.L. star Randy Moss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ALYSSA SCHUKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%);
RANKINGS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); COACHES & TRAINERS
(72%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (70%); SPORTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (55%)

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

$10 Million Settlement in Target Data Breach Gets Preliminary Approval

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 763 words


A federal judge on Thursday gave preliminary approval to a $10 million
settlement of a lawsuit brought by customers of Target, which experienced an
online attack involving confidential customer data during the holiday season in
2013.

According to documents filed with the United States District Court in Minnesota
this month, shoppers affected by the breach could be awarded up to $10,000 each
in damages. The settlement includes a draft of the form victims must complete to
make claims, processed through a dedicated website.

Customers may still file objections to the terms of the proposed settlement, but
Judge Paul A. Magnuson set a final hearing on the settlement for Nov. 10.

Molly Snyder, a Target spokeswoman, said, ''We are pleased to see the process
moving forward and look forward to its resolution.'' The pending settlement was
first reported by CNBC.

During the 2013 holiday season Target acknowledged that hackers had stolen
credit and debit card information for 40 million of its customers. Early last
year, the company revealed that additional personal information, like email and
mailing addresses, had been stolen from 70 million to 110 million people and
said there may have been overlap between those groups.

According to documents filed to the United States District Court in Minnesota
this month, shoppers who were affected by the breach are eligible for damages up
to $10,000 each.

But to claim damages, victims must prove, among other things, that unauthorized
charges were made to their credit cards. They must also show that they invested
time in addressing the fraudulent charges and incurred costs from correcting
their credit report because of higher interest rates or fees, from replacing
driver's licenses or other forms of identification, or from hiring identity
protection companies or lawyers.

Target said that it had seen ''low levels of fraud'' linked to the breach.

Matthew A. S. Esworthy, litigation partner at Shapiro Sher Guinot & Sandler,
said that many customers would have trouble proving that they had lost money
because of the breach.

''It's difficult to figure out how your card was compromised and if it was
directly tied to a particular data breach,'' he said. ''People are buying more
online and using their cards so frequently, making fraudulent charges so
commonplace.''

Still, he said that as such attacks had mounted, courts had become more willing
to entertain cases brought by breach victims. Another major retailer, Home
Depot, said in September that hackers breached the company's cash register
systems and compromised the account information of 56 million cardholders.

Courts have struggled with how someone proves being harmed by a particular
breach. ''But you've seen everybody become a lot more familiar with problems
associated with data breaches, and security in general, and the collateral
consequences that result from it,'' Mr. Esworthy said.

Target's data breach shook customer confidence in the retailer at a critical
time, and executives have said it had a noticeable effect on the bottom line.
Target's chief executive at the time, Gregg W. Steinhafel, resigned and was
succeeded in July by Brian Cornell, the former chief at PepsiCo Americas Foods.

Target has said that its computer security systems alerted it to suspicious
activity after hackers had infiltrated its networks, but that it decided to
ignore the alert, allowing what would become one of the largest data breaches
recorded.

As part of the settlement, Target promises to bolster protection of customer
data, including setting up a protocol for responding to online security threats
and providing data security training to employees. Last month, it named Mike
McNamara, a former executive at the British retailer Tesco, its chief
information officer, and has named its first chief information security officer.

The retailer estimated recently that it had already accrued $252 million in
expenses related to the data breach as of the end of January, a figure it said
would be partly offset by an expected $90 million in insurance payouts. That
estimate was based on the prospect of settling many lawsuits, Target said.

Target faces further claims from three of the four major credit card companies,
and is likely to face action from the fourth, it said in an annual filing on
March 13. State and federal agencies, including the state attorneys general, the
Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, are also
investigating the breach, and may seek to impose fines and other penalties,
according to Target.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/target-settlement-on-data-breach.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Target store in Maine. Shoppers affected by a data breach
could receive up to $10,000 each. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA SECURITY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DAMAGES (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); COMPUTER CRIME
(89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (88%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING
(78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%);
CREDIT RATINGS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); IDENTITY SECURITY (72%); DEBIT CARDS
(68%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: SHAPIRO SHER GUINOT & SANDLER PA (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (64%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (64%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boeheim Defends Penalized Program

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 669 words


In his first news conference since the N.C.A.A. penalized his program on March
6, Jim Boeheim, the men's basketball coach at Syracuse, took responsibility for
some of the transgressions revealed in a 94-page N.C.A.A. report, but he also
lashed out at the penalties, which he called ''unduly harsh.''

Answering questions in the Carrier Dome for more than an hour Thursday morning,
a defiant Mr. Boeheim denied the N.C.A.A.'s assertions that his program had spun
out of control and argued that the punishment -- including a nine-game
suspension for Mr. Boeheim to be served at the start of conference play next
season -- did not fit the alleged infractions.

''This is far from a program where student-athletes freely committed academic
fraud,'' Mr. Boeheim said.

Mr. Boeheim, 70, said he planned to file an appeal Friday against some of the
penalties, which also included reducing 12 scholarships over the next four years
and vacating 108 wins since 2004.

On Wednesday, the university announced that Mr. Boeheim, who had been second in
career Division I wins with 966 before the infractions were announced, would
coach for three more seasons, and that the athletic director, Daryl Gross, had
resigned, although he will remain at the university as a special assistant to
the chancellor.

Mr. Boeheim offered his apologies for how the investigation had affected his
program, which imposed a postseason ban on itself for this year.

''Ultimately, as head coach, I must also accept responsibility for the conduct
of individuals within the program,'' Mr. Boeheim said, ''including those found
to have committed violations of N.C.A.A. rules.

''I do regret that these violations happened,'' he added, ''and I apologize for
any harm it has brought to my players or the university, and any embarrassment
it has caused to our alumni, students and fans.''

Mr. Boeheim said three years was longer than he had planned to continue
coaching, and he indicated that he had considered retiring after Syracuse
reached the Final Four in 2013. But he did not want to leave the Orange amid a
lengthy investigation, he said, and he did not want to abandon the program now.

''I believe three years is right for me to be able to do my job as best as I
can,'' Mr. Boeheim said. ''I believe the program will be in a great position
when I retire.''

He also acknowledged that his retirement could come sooner than after three
years.

Mr. Boeheim maintained that he had no personal involvement in the alleged
infractions. He lamented that his side of the story had been ''disregarded by
enforcement staff,'' and that he was not asked to interview with the N.C.A.A. a
second time.

His remarks veered when he spoke about the former player Fab Melo, who was one
of the main subjects of the N.C.A.A.'s investigation into academic misconduct.
At one point, he implied that the focus on Mr. Melo as an at-risk student from
Brazil was biased and that Mr. Melo had been unfairly portrayed as a student who
was unable to do the work because he was a foreign student.

''I think there's a little racism involved,'' Mr. Boeheim said, ''when they
start talking about not taking this guy or that guy. He's from a foreign
country. We shouldn't have foreign students at Syracuse?''

According to the N.C.A.A., Mr. Gross convened a meeting with members of the
athletic department, as well as the faculty athletic representative and an
associate provost, in January 2012 to strategize a way to get Mr. Melo back on
the court after he had been declared academically ineligible.

The group settled on a plan to get a grade in one of Mr. Melo's previous courses
changed, according to the N.C.A.A. A former director of basketball operations,
Stan Kissel, was asked to assist Mr. Melo in making this happen, and he did,
providing text, research and citations to the ''extra work'' that Mr. Melo
submitted to a course he had taken the previous year.

Mr. Boeheim said those efforts were undertaken without his knowledge or consent.
He said, ''This was not my way.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/syracuses-jim-boeheim-sa
ys-penalties-are-unduly-harsh.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS
(90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); ATHLETES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); BASKETBALL
(78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); APPEALS
(53%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (84%)

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crowds and Long Delays Fray Subway System and Riders' Nerves

BYLINE: By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS; Rebecca White contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1239 words


Fares are about to go up. Delays are driving riders to distraction. And on a
recent evening, Ian Nolan's train was out of service.

Widespread problems across the subway system in recent weeks have left weary
commuters waiting on crowded platforms, stranded inside stalled cars and
scrambling to find alternate routes. With a fare increase set to go into effect
on Sunday, riders across New York City are complaining of having to pay more
when service is worse.

But transit experts and advocates say conditions will not improve unless the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority invests heavily in upgrading and expanding
the system's infrastructure -- the tracks, the trains and the tunnels that power
the city's daily transit miracle, except when they don't.

Leaving his stranded train behind, Mr. Nolan, 25, who lives in the East Village,
hustled out of a station near Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan and hailed a cab
in hopes of making it to an event for the beer company he works for. ''My
anxiety levels were off the charts,'' he said.

Officials at the authority, which is run by the state, acknowledge that delays
have grown and point to a 110-year-old system that is working to accommodate a
record six million riders a day.

''We are seeing a system that is bursting at the seams in terms of increased
ridership,'' Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the transportation agency, said.

One night last week, the F train was slow through Queens, the No. 5 train was
held up in Lower Manhattan and the L line was disrupted by a train with
mechanical problems in Brooklyn.

Riders are not suffering in silence. Last week, scores of them gathered for a
rally in Queens to protest service on the No. 7 line. Riders Alliance, an
advocacy group, is collecting hundreds of subway ''horror'' stories this week to
send to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the State Legislature.

On Sunday, the base fare will rise to $2.75, from $2.50, the latest in what the
authority has said will be regular -- and necessary -- increases.

Transit advocates say that while they understand the angst over another fare
increase, they are focused on securing money from state and city officials for
the authority's capital plan, which includes many of the very upgrades that
would bring meaningful improvement to commutes. The plan proposes $32 billion in
spending over five years, but it is $15 billion short -- the largest funding gap
ever and a striking sign of the difference between what the system needs and
what the authority can afford.

Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has called the plan ''bloated'' and has not addressed the
funding gap, instead publicly drawing attention to other infrastructure
projects, including a new Tappan Zee Bridge and his proposal for an AirTrain to
La Guardia Airport. But the authority's chairman, Thomas F. Prendergast, has
argued that the measures outlined in the capital plan are essential, such as
replacing aging cars and tracks, modernizing the signal system so more trains
can run and beginning the next phase of the Second Avenue subway.

For most riders, their only regular connection to the agency's budget is the
money they load onto their MetroCards. While some believe the authority makes a
profit by charging more than the ride costs, the system is, in fact, heavily
subsidized, with fares making up about 40 percent of its operating revenue.
Experts have called for a more sustainable source of funding; one proposal, by
Move NY, would establish tolls for drivers on the East River bridges in
Manhattan, an idea that was rejected in Albany in 2008.

The most recent transportation authority statistics reveal that train delays
increased in 2014, and new figures for January and February will probably
reflect worsening delays, Mr. Ortiz said.

One metric called ''wait assessment'' -- essentially whether trains arrive at
platforms on time -- decreased by 1.5 percent across the system in 2014 compared
with 2013, and long gaps in time between trains rose to 6.4 percent, from 3.9
percent. Officials attributed the delays over the last year to several factors:
an increase in track work, much of it in response to Hurricane Sandy; more
aggressive track inspections; and safety slowdowns through work areas.

Mr. Ortiz attributed the recent uptick in delays this year to snow and low
temperatures that caused rails to break and ice over, but transit advocates say
the subway should be able to handle Northeast winters.

''Our subway system should not be this fragile,'' said John Raskin, executive
director of Riders Alliance. ''People should be able to rely on effective mass
transit even if there is snow.''

In the past month, Lisamarie Green, 26, a skin care specialist who lives in
Astoria, Queens, said she had to take taxis home from her job in Midtown at
least three times because of train problems on the E, M and R trains -- the
lines she usually takes.

''You can't get from one place to another any cheaper, but it's hard to count on
all the time,'' Ms. Green said on a recent morning at Queens Plaza. ''I never
know how long it's going to take to get from one place to another. It's hard to
live like that.''

Another rider, Rohana Elias-Reyes, 46, an arts administrator at the New School
who lives in Prospect-Lefferts Gardens, Brooklyn, found herself sprinting to an
appointment in Manhattan last week with her son in tow after a delay on the B
train.

''It makes me panic,'' she said of an unexpected delay, ''because you're trying
to cut things as close as you can, and you know you're going to be late
somewhere you promised to be.''

Even when there is money for improvements, the ensuing disruptions only feed
rider frustration. On the No. 7 line, where a more advanced signal system is
being installed to allow more trains to run, a City Council member from Queens,
Jimmy Van Bramer, criticized recent delays and track work that shut down service
on weekends, including this month on the day of St. Pat's for All parade in
Sunnyside.

The authority should install the signal system, known as communications-based
train control, on a more aggressive schedule, said Charles Brecher, the
consulting research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a
business-financed fiscal watchdog group.

''We've got to update the system,'' he said. ''It's going to be inconvenient,
and riders need to get used to it.''

Mr. Brecher has called for other measures to improve service and shore up the
authority's finances, including higher subsidies for the agency from drivers'
tolls and fees. Move NY organizers say their plan, which also lowers tolls on
some other bridges, would fully finance the capital program.

As he rode the No. 6 train on a recent afternoon, Scott Singer, 62, a lawyer who
lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, said he supported the tolls plan
because the authority was too dependent on fare revenues.

''I think we should have done it 35 years ago,'' he said. ''I've always thought
it was insane there were no tolls on those bridges.''

For now, riders are bracing for the fare increase. Many commuters who use the
30-day pass say they can absorb the extra $4.50 a month while it will be harder
on riders with low incomes.

Solomon Stewart, 40, of the Bronx, said he received a free MetroCard through a
job-training program while he looks for work. Otherwise, it would be difficult
for him to cobble together $2.75.

''I'd be out there scrambling to get on the train,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/delays-and-costs-agitate-mta-riders-i
n-a-system-bursting-at-the-seams.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A train at the Times Square station in Manhattan. On Sunday,
the subway system's base fare will rise to $2.75, from $2.50. More increases are
expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)
Above, Metropolitan Transportation Authority workers along the No. 7 line in
Queens. At left, a No. 2 train at Times Square. The subways are coping with a
record six million riders a day. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
 YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL
SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (79%); COMMUTING (78%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%);
INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); CITIES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: In 'Spring,' Romance Gives Way to a Beastly Horror

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 237 words


Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead don't yet have many movies to their credit, but
with ''Spring,'' which they directed, they show that they already possess
something that many makers of horror films never develop: patience.

Filmmakers working the trashier side of the genre often can't wait to unleash a
big effect, as if they're worried viewers will bail if they're not grossed out
in the first 10 minutes. It is well past the one-hour mark before ''Spring''
really causes you to recoil, and the wait makes that shot all the more jolting.

''Spring'' tells the story of Evan (Lou Taylor Pucci), a young American who
after some personal troubles takes a trip to Italy to find himself and instead
finds much more than he bargained for. He becomes involved with Louise (Nadia
Hilker), a beautiful woman except when she's transforming into a hideous
monster.

Mr. Benson, who wrote the script, has invented an intriguing mythology for this
ancient, indescribably ugly beast that involves pregnancy, rebirth and genetics.
And the best thing about ''Spring'' is that it doesn't lead to an obvious
devoured-by-my-girlfriend ending. Evan and Louise have a good long time to talk
about their situation once he discovers her secret. The actors get a chance to
create a real relationship, and they make the most of the opportunity.

SPRING

Opens on Friday

Directed by Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead

1 hour 49 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-spring-romance-gives-way-to-a
-beastly-horror.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HORROR FILMS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jagr Scores 718th Goal as Panthers Win

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO HOCKEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 108 words


Jaromir Jagr scored his 718th N.H.L. goal, moving into fifth place on the career
list, and added an assist in the host Florida Panthers' 3-1 win over the Detroit
Red Wings. Jagr, who gave the Panthers a 1-0 lead, passed Phil Esposito for sole
possession of fifth place with his first goal since March 1.

â-  Bobby Ryan's third-period goal broke a tie and lifted the host Ottawa
Senators to a 6-4 win over the Boston Bruins. The Senators moved to 2 points
behind the Bruins in the race for the second wild-card spot in the Eastern
Conference. Ottawa has a game in hand. Andrew Hammond faced 35 shots and
improved to 12-0-1 in his first 13 N.H.L. starts.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/hockey/jaromir-jagr-scores-718th-goal-a
s-panthers-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA PANTHERS (94%); DETROIT RED WINGS (83%); OTTAWA SENATORS
(83%); BOSTON BRUINS (82%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (53%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%);
ONTARIO, CANADA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Harden Scores Career-High 50 Points

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO BASKETBALL; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 37 words


James Harden scored a career-high 50 points with 10 rebounds to lead the host
Houston Rockets past the Denver Nuggets, 118-108. He eclipsed his previous best
of 46, set in 2013, on a free throw with about a minute remaining.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/basketball/james-harden-scores-career-h
igh-50-points.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ROCKETS (83%); DENVER NUGGETS (83%)

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (69%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Franklin Triumphs in Her Final College Meet

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SWIMMING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 65 words


Missy Franklin won the 200-yard individual medley at the N.C.A.A. women's
swimming and diving championships, her final college meet. Franklin, a four-time
Olympic gold medalist, finished in 1 minute 52.11 seconds on the first night at
the Greensboro Aquatic Center in North Carolina. Franklin plans to turn pro
after the three-day meet ends Saturday, having completed two years of college.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/missy-franklin-triumphs-in-her-final-co
llege-meet.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
SWIMMING (90%); SPORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (88%); DIVING (87%); OLYMPICS (87%);
SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (85%)

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dolphins Decline to Match Bills' Bid for Clay

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | FOOTBALL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 140 words


The Miami Dolphins decided against matching the contract offer that tight end
Charles Clay had received from Buffalo, an A.F.C. East rival, so he will join
the Bills after signing their $38 million, five-year deal Tuesday. The Dolphins
had the right to match after giving Clay a transition tag two weeks ago, but
they decided the price was too high.

â-  The Washington Redskins re-signed the free-agent quarterback Colt McCoy. The
signing means, at least for now, that the three quarterbacks who started games
for last year's 4-12 club will return, including Robert Griffin III and Kirk
Cousins. Coach Jay Gruden has said that Griffin will enter the season as the
starter.

â-  The Jacksonville Jaguars claimed running back Bernard Pierce off waivers a
day after his drunken-driving charge led to his release Wednesday by the
Baltimore Ravens.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/football/dolphins-decline-to-match-bill
s-bid-for-charles-clay.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (88%); DRIVING WHILE
INTOXICATED (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (94%); BUFFALO BILLS (93%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS
(56%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (54%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brewers Exercise Option on Manager

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASEBALL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 55 words


The Milwaukee Brewers exercised their 2016 option on Manager Ron Roenicke.
Roenicke replaced Ken Macha after the 2010 season and has led the Brewers to a
335-313 record. Milwaukee won the National League Central in his first season.
Milwaukee started 20-7 last season but lost 22 of its last 31 games and finished
third, at 82-80.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/baseball/brewers-exercise-option-on-man
ager.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (88%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Changing of the Guard at Sphinx, a Diversity Advocate in Classical Music

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 681 words


Since the violinist Aaron P. Dworkin founded the Sphinx Organization nearly two
decades ago to encourage diversity in the stubbornly homogeneous field of
classical music, he has held competitions and tours to showcase young black and
Latino musicians, started educational programs and urged conservatories and
orchestras to be more inclusive.

Now Mr. Dworkin -- who along the way won a MacArthur fellowship and was
appointed to the National Council on the Arts -- is stepping down as president
of the organization to assume a different kind of role: dean of the University
of Michigan's School of Music, Theater and Dance, which on Thursday announced
that he would take up the position in July.

''Sphinx has, if you will, kind of been on the outside, almost by necessity, to
be a catalyst -- we are always the ones applying pressure and saying more needs
to be done,'' Mr. Dworkin, 44, said in a telephone interview. ''But it's easy
for us to say to an orchestra that you need to have more diversity, you don't
have enough, and not necessarily be fully in the weeds of all of the facets they
have to address. Now, of course, I'll be in a role where I won't have the luxury
of speaking from the outside. I will have to really deliver, but in the totality
of the role.''

Mr. Dworkin said that while diversity and inclusion would be major priorities of
his as dean, he would look at his mandate more broadly and thinking about how a
performing arts school should train and prepare artists for a rapidly shifting
cultural landscape.

The Sphinx Organization, based in Detroit, will continue its work, and has
appointed Afa S. Dworkin, its executive and artistic director, as its next
president. Ms. Dworkin, a violinist, is married to Mr. Dworkin, who noted that
their professional relationship -- she was the first Sphinx employee -- predated
their personal one, and that she was the architect of many of its initiatives.

The changing of the guard at Sphinx offers an opportunity to assess the state of
diversity at American orchestras, where there are still startlingly few black
and Latino players in major ensembles and the pace of change is glacially slow.

A survey by the League of American Orchestras found that only 2 percent of
orchestra musicians were African-American and 2.5 percent were Latino during the
2011-12 season. (The United States Census Bureau identifies 13.2 percent of the
nation's population as black or African-American and 17.1 percent as Hispanic or
Latino -- and those percentages are much higher in many of the cities where
major orchestras make their homes and try to attract audiences.)

But as low as those numbers are, they represent some progress: Two decades ago a
survey of a slightly smaller sample of orchestras found that only 1.6 percent of
orchestra players were African-American and 1.5 percent were Latino.

''I am frustrated with the slower pace of change, but there is change and I'm
encouraged by that,'' Mr. Dworkin said.

Mr. Dworkin was appointed on Thursday by Michigan's board of regents to a
five-year term as dean, and to a tenured professorship. It will be a homecoming
of sorts for him: He holds a bachelor's degree and master of fine arts degree in
violin performance from the university, in Ann Arbor. The school recently began
a project to create a definitive edition of Gershwin scores, and a recording it
made of Milhaud's ''L'Orestie d'Eschyle'' was nominated for a Grammy last year.

At the Sphinx Organization, Mr. Dworkin's initiatives helped raise the profiles
of young minority musicians, encouraged young people from different backgrounds
to consider classical music, and brought together black and Latino classical
musicians.

''When I founded the organization, people often said, 'Well, there's no
diversity because there are no musicians of color out there who play at a
qualified level,' '' Mr. Dworkin recalled. ''Thankfully, 18 years later, I hear
that very little now. What I hear more is: 'How do we connect with those
musicians? How do we build that kind of bridge to our organization?', things
like that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/music/sphinx-organizations-aaron-p-dworki
n-will-go-to-university-of-michigan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aaron P. Dworkin is leaving as  president of the Sphinx
Organization for a new job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN KENNEDY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
APPOINTMENTS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%);
MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS
(89%); MUSIC EDUCATION (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CULTURE
DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DANCE
(71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS
(68%); POPULATION SIZE (64%); CENSUS (62%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (51%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2671 words


Around Town

Museums and Sites

American Museum of Natural History: 'Countdown to Zero' (through July 12)
Smallpox is the only human disease to have been eradicated, but what about
Guinea worm, polio, malaria and other diseases? This exhibition, presented in
collaboration with the Carter Center, examines international efforts to control
and wipe out diseases. Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and
79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

BRIC and the Brooklyn Historical Society: 'Mapping Brooklyn' (through Sept. 6)
This exhibition features artworks that incorporate themes of mapping and
cartography in historical maps. The artists here are exploring the ways maps
represent the practical and metaphoric aspects of life. The show is on view at
BRIC House through May 3. Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.,
Sundays to 6 p.m., 647 Fulton Street, at Rockwell Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn,
bricartsmedia.org. The show will also be at the Brooklyn Historical Society
through Sept. 6. Wednesdays through Sundays from noon to 5 p.m., 128 Pierrepont
Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111,
brooklynhistory.org.

Grolier Club: 'Aldus Manutius: A Legacy More Lasting Than Bronze' (through April
25) To celebrate the quincentennial of Aldus Manutius's death, the Grolier Club
has assembled over 130 rare books, called Aldines, from that scholar-printer's
Italian Renaissance press. The exhibition explores the ways in which, to this
day, Manutius influences how we preserve and disseminate knowledge. As Jennifer
Schuessler wrote in The New York Times, ''Anyone who has ever sat in a cafe, or
in the bath, with a paperback owes a debt to Aldus and the small, cleanly
designed editions of the secular classics.'' 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan,
212-838-6690, grolierclub.org; free.

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'La Celestina' (Friday through March 29) This
site-specific video opera is a ''Rashomon''-like story in which characters tell
their own versions of a tragic Spanish tale, ''La Celestina,'' published more
than 500 years ago. The installation, with video projections and multichannel
audio, blends Spanish polyphonic vocal music with Judeo-Spanish, Arabic and
Andalusian folk music. Daily, during museum hours, in the museum's Vélez Blanco
Patio, 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.

Morgan Library & Museum: 'Lincoln Speaks: Words That Transformed a Nation'
(through June 7) This exhibition, which is presented thematically and
chronologically, homes in on Abraham Lincoln's leadership and its relationship
to language. In his exhibition review for The New York Times, Neil Genzlinger
wrote: ''For Lincoln admirers, simply being in the same room with so many
artifacts he touched will be a delight. And if they give the exhibition the time
it requires, they will certainly come away with a fuller appreciation of the
man.'' 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org.

Museum of the Moving Image: 'Matthew Weiner's ''Mad Men'' ' (through June 14) As
one of the most critically acclaimed TV shows in recent years nears its finale,
''Mad Men'' gets the exhibition treatment in this look at the series's creative
process. On display are large-scale sets, such as Don Draper's office, as well
as costumes, art and research material used by the show's staff. Viewers should
expect not only a look behind the scenes of the show, but also, like ''Mad Men''
itself, a peek into the era it depicts. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria,
Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us.

New-York Historical Society: 'Audubon's Aviary: The Final Flight (Part III of
the Complete Flock)' (through May 10) The third installment of ''Audubon's
Aviary: The Complete Flock'' comprises nearly 130 plates from the watercolors in
John James Audubon's ''The Birds of America'' collection, engraved by Robert
Havell Jr. The exhibition, as William Grimes wrote in an article for The New
York Times, ''underlines the natural wealth of the American land, and Audubon's
remarkable talent for producing art as varied as his subject matter.'' 170
Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

New-York Historical Society: 'Chinese American: Exclusion/Inclusion' (through
April 19) In his review for The New York Times, Edward Rothstein called this
show a ''vigorous and imaginative new exhibition,'' that includes a look at
''how Chinese-American identity came to be, how immigration and discrimination
were followed by recrimination and conflict, and how, finally, a people's trials
give way to celebration.'' Tuesday through Thursday and Saturday from 10 a.m. to
6 p.m., Friday until 8 p.m., Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., 170 Central Park
West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

New York Transit Museum: 'Spanning the Narrows: The Verrazano Bridge at 50'
(through next fall) Photographs, maps, drawings, models and other archival
materials related to the construction of the bridge (including correspondence
from Robert Moses, who oversaw the project) are part of this exhibition
commemorating its 50th anniversary. Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Boerum Place and
Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum.

New York Transit Museum Grand Central Terminal Gallery Annex: 'New York's
Transportation Landmarks' (through Nov. 1) It's been 50 years since New York
passed its Landmarks Law, which covers over 30,000 buildings and structures
around the city. To celebrate the anniversary, the New York Transit Museum has
created an exhibition that explores the history of development, use and even
rescue of these landmarks. More information: 212-878-0106,
web.mta.info/mta/museum. On Tuesday, the museum will host its AfterHours
program, ''A Lasting Legacy: Historic Preservation and the M.T.A.,'' at its
Brooklyn location, with Hollie Wells from the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, and Sara McIvor, a historic preservationist. At 6:30 p.m., New York
Transit Museum, Schermerhorn Street, at Boerum Place, Brooklyn, 718-694-1600.

Red Bull Studios: 'Alone Together'  (through April 12) The artist Ryder Ripps
has created a site-specific work that acts as sculpture and performance. It's a
system that covers two floors: Below are six performers whose computer activity
is sent above to a collective, frenzied display. Visitors to the exhibition play
the part of voyeurs. Mr. Ripps's idea is that the Internet creates a paradox in
which the more connected we are, the more physically withdrawn we become.
Thursdays through Sundays from noon to 7 p.m., 220 West 18th Street, Chelsea,
redbullstudios.com/newyork; free.

Events

'Bascove/Bridges: Transporting the Metropolis' (through July 12) This exhibition
features more than 30 paintings and drawings of city bridges by the artist Anne
Bascove, including the Brooklyn Bridge, the Outerbridge Crossing and the George
Washington Bridge. Thursdays through Sundays from 1 to 5 p.m.; also by
appointment; Noble Maritime Collection, Snug Harbor Cultural Center and
Botanical Garden, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island,
718-447-6490, noblemaritime.org.

HaZamir: The International Jewish High School Choir (Sunday) HaZamir, with 350
singers from 26 chapters in the United States and Israel, performs a selection
of classical and modern music. The program includes a premiere by Gerald Cohen.
The group will be joined by an alumni ensemble, with sets by the HaZamir Chamber
Choir and the HaZamir's Israeli singers. A 4 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln
Center, 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org.

Videology Presents Movie Trivia (Tuesdays) Videology, the Brooklyn bar and
cinema, hosts a free film-themed trivia contest every week. The game varies; you
will want to know theme songs, facts, quotes (especially ones from Nicolas Cage)
and more. The winning team receives a free round of drinks, and there are
chances to win free drinks each round. At 8:30 p.m., 308 Bedford Avenue, at
South First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-782-3468, videology.info.

Spoken Word

Geoff Dyer (Thursday) Mr. Dyer, an authority on contemporary British literature,
wrote the introduction for a new edition of Raymond Williams's ''Politics and
Letters,'' a collection of interviews with the New Left Review, a political
magazine. Mr. Dyer will discuss the book with Jenny Davidson, an English and
comparative literature teacher at Columbia University, as well as Nikil Saval,
author of ''Cubed: A Secret History of the Workplace'' and an editor at the
journal n+1. At 7 p.m., Strand Book Store, 828 Broadway, at 12th Street,
212-473-1452, strandbooks.com.

An Evening With Amy Tan (Tuesday) This writer discusses her career and
experiences as the daughter of Chinese immigrants with Ken Smith, a critic for
the Financial Times. Ms. Tan is the author of multiple best-selling novels,
including ''The Joy Luck Club,'' an exploration of family and Chinese identity.
At 6:30 p.m., New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th
Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

Gary Hustwit (Wednesday) The filmmaker Gary Hustwit discusses his book
''Helvetica/Objectified/Urbanized: The Complete Interviews,'' a companion to his
trilogy of documentaries about design. He will lead a panel with the designer
Paula Scher, the type designer Tobias Frere-Jones, the industrial designer Karim
Rashid, Smart Design founder Davin Stowell and the architecture expert Noah
Chasin. At 7 p.m., Strand Book Store, 828 Broadway, at 12th Street,
212-473-1452, strandbooks.com.

'Love Thy Neighbor: Brooklyn in Black and White' (Thursday) This workshop aims
to foster conversations about community and diversity in Brooklyn, and includes
an overview of the borough's history of racial justice from the 17th century to
the present. There will be remarks from the writer and social activist Darnell
L. Moore, as well as an activity led by Jenny Douglas from the Brooklyn Cottage.
At 7 p.m., Old Stone House, 336 Third Street, between Fourth and Fifth Avenues,
Park Slope, Brooklyn, theoldstonehouse.org; free.

Dawn Luebbe (Tuesday) Ms. Luebbe, a cast member at the Upright Citizen's
Brigade, rides her nostalgia back to the early '90s in ''My 1992 Diary.'' Back
then, she was an 11-year-old in Nebraska who was obsessed with ''Beverly Hills
90210'' and Kurt Cobain. Audience members can expect those topics to come up, in
addition to Bubble Tape and big bangs. At 7 p.m., Word, 126 Franklin Street, at
Milton Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, wordbookstores.com.

Out by Ten (Thursday) Joseph Keckler, a storyteller with a three-octave vocal
range, hosts this monthly performance series featuring stories and music. The
program will be followed by an open mike. At 7:30 p.m., Spectrum NYC, 121 Ludlow
Street, second floor, Lower East Side, outbyten.com.

RuPaul (Friday) This mononymous cultural figure joins Paul Holdengräber of the
New York Public Library as part of its Live From the NYPL series. The host of
''RuPaul's Drag Race'' will, as the show's name suggests, discuss all things
drag, though the evening's talk will be open to a variety of topics. At 7 p.m.,
Stephen A. Schwarzman Building, New York Public Library, 917-275-6975,
nypl.org/locations/schwarzman.

Colson Whitehead (Wednesday) This writer joins the New York Public Library for
its Books at Noon series to discusses his most recent work, ''The Noble Hustle:
Poker, Beef Jerky, and Death.'' Mr. Whitehead, a Pulitzer Prize finalist and
MacArthur Fellowship recipient, will recount how a magazine writing assignment
led to his brief stint at the World Series of Poker. At noon, Stephen A.
Schwarzman Building, New York Public Library, 917-275-6975,
nypl.org/locations/schwarzman; free.

Walking Tours

Flatiron District Walking Tour (Sundays) This free tour meets at 11 a.m. on the
southwest corner of Madison Square Park, at 23rd Street and Broadway, in front
of the William Seward statue. Sponsored by the Flatiron/23rd Street Partnership;
discoverflatiron.org.

The Ghosts of Grand Central (Saturdays) This tour offers shelter from the cold,
though discovering the ghosts of Grand Central Terminal may bring a different
sort of chill. There will be history of the Vanderbilts, as well as August
Belmont, Franklin Roosevelt and his dog, Fala. The tour meets west of the M.T.A.
information booth under the four-faced clock in the station's Grand Concourse.
(Through April 25.) At 7:30 p.m., 646-493-7092, ghostsofny.com.

History of Wall Street Tour (weekdays) Stops on this tour, led by Wall Street
Walks, include the New York Stock Exchange, Trinity Church, the Wall Street
Bull, and ground zero and the Sept. 11 memorial. The tours last 90 minutes and
begin at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. (Also at 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.) More
details: wallstreetwalks.com.

Musical Green-Wood Trolley Tour (Saturday) Green-Wood Cemetery has about 560,000
permanent residents -- some famous musicians among them. This tour, led by Marge
Raymond, makes stops at graves of the likes of Leonard Bernstein and Fred Ebb,
while celebrating their lives and listening to some of their greatest works. At
1 p.m., Fifth Avenue and 25th Street, Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, 718-768-7300,
green-wood.com/toursevents.

Opening the Way: A Women's History Walk (Sundays) This tour covers the history
of Manhattan and the influence women -- writers, abolitionists and suffragists
from a broad range of time periods -- had in its development. The tour, which
makes 21 stops, is presented by Women's eNews. It was researched by Betsy Wade,
a former editor at The New York Times, and the historian James Boylan.
Registration is required. At 11 a.m., 6 Barclay Street, near Broadway, Lower
Manhattan, 212-244-1720, womensenews.org/openingtheway; free.

'Satan's Seat' (Saturday) Big Onion Walking Tours offers a guide to New York
during prohibition, based on the Ken Burns documentary ''Prohibition.'' Stops
include landmarks and sites associated with Fiorello H. La Guardia and Margaret
Sanger, as well as dives like John McGurk's Suicide Hall. The tour meets at 1
p.m. at the northeast corner of the Bowery and Houston Street. 888-606-9255,
bigonion.com.

Skyscrapers Gallery Tour (Saturday) Within only three blocks, this tour makes
seven stops at Midtown galleries. Expect enormous hand-blown glass
installations, whimsical paintings, and miniature models of synagogues, mosques
and churches made with weapons and ammunition. At 1 p.m., 24 West 57th Street,
near Fifth Avenue, 212-946-1548, nygallerytours.com.

A Taste of Jewish New York (Sundays) Participants in this tour will get an
insider's look at Borough Park, Brooklyn, by learning about the customs of its
Hasidic residents. There will also be the chance to try a range of food. This
tour includes a stop at a lively shopping area, as well as at a matzo bakery --
with free samples, of course. The tour meets at 9:45 p.m. at Fort Hamilton
Parkway and 44th Street; 718-339-2302, timelinetouring.com.

Union Square: Crossroads of New York (Saturdays) Sponsored by the Union Square
Partnership, this free year-round tour focuses on the area's political and
social histories. The walk, led by guides from Big Onion Walking Tours, meets at
2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street
transverse. 212-517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org.

The World of 'Mad Men' (Saturday and Sunday) As ''Mad Men'' wraps up its
seven-season run, this tour, starting at 1 p.m., joins the crowded field of New
York celebrations of the series. Stops include the Time Life Building, the real
location of Don Draper's fictional office, the Seagram Building and the Waldorf
Astoria. Meeting information will be shared with reservations, which can be made
by calling 212-465-3331. JOSHUA BARONE

Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times should be sent to
weekend@nytimes.com by Monday at 5 p.m. for publication that week. Longer
versions of Around Town and For Children listings are in a searchable guide at
nytimes.com/events.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/spare-times-listings-for-march-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK ENGLISH/NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM
ANDREW GARN/NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM
 LUNDIN COLLECTION/NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%);
EXHIBITIONS (90%); SMALLPOX (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); MALARIA (73%); GEOGRAPHY
(70%); MUSIC (66%); LIBRARIES (64%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); CARTER CENTER (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shot Misses, but Call Dooms Mustangs

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SOUTH: U.C.L.A. 60, SOUTHERN
METHODIST 59; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 581 words


LOUISVILLE, Ky. --  U.C.L.A.'s Bryce Alford let his 3-pointer fly and
immediately knew the ball was off line. It was veering right, he said. He just
hoped a teammate might snatch the rebound and put the ball back in the basket
with the Bruins trailing Southern Methodist, 59-57, with 13 seconds to play.

Indeed, a hand went up in front of the rim, but it belonged to the 6-foot-11
S.M.U. center Yanick Moreira, who tipped Alford's shot as it came down from its
arc. There was a whistle, and an official rushed to the middle of the floor.
Moreira, a senior from Angola, stood with his mouth wide open in the middle of
the lane. The official called goaltending, and the N.C.A.A. tournament had an
instant controversy.

''I thought the ball was short,'' Moreira said in the S.M.U. locker room. ''I
was trying to get the rebound so nobody could go get it. If the official say
it's a goaltend, it's a goaltend; you can't argue with the referee.''

S.M.U. fumed on the bench, then regrouped and ran a play for the junior guard
Nic Moore, who missed a 3-pointer from the right wing with four seconds to play.
Moore got the ball back and took another 3-pointer that missed as time expired.

So, U.C.L.A., the 11th seed and a maligned tournament selection because of its
uneven play this season, escaped with a 60-59 victory in the South Region game
in the KFC Yum! Center and reached the round of 32.

A pool reporter interviewed Antinio Petty, the referees' crew chief, who said
the goaltending call was based on an interpretation of the rule 9.3, parts 1 and
2. Petty said the ball was on a downward flight, which is part 1 of the rule. He
said part 2 states that if the ball is above the level of the ring and has a
possibility while in flight of entering the basket and is not touching the
cylinder, the ruling is goaltending.

The officials briefly stopped the game to check the video to make sure Alford,
the son of U.C.L.A. Coach Steve Alford, was behind the 3-point line. The
goaltending call was not reviewable, said Sam Hull, one of the officials.

''I'm sad,'' Moreira said. ''I worked hard all summer to get here. To end up
like this, I don't think we deserved to end up like this. We had our shots to
win the game; we let the referee make that call.''

U.C.L.A. will meet 14th-seeded U.A.B. on Saturday.

Alford was brilliant, finishing with 27 points on 9-of-11 shooting from behind
the arc. He staged a terrific duel with the 5-foot-9 Moore, who scored 24 points
and played all 40 minutes.

The Bruins (21-13) led by 34-30 at the half and then clamped down on
sixth-seeded S.M.U. during the second half, holding the Mustangs to 5 points
during a stretch of nearly nine minutes. U.C.L.A. led, 44-35, with 9 minutes 42
seconds to play.

The Mustangs (27-7) suddenly came to life on a pair of 3-pointers by Moore. As
U.C.L.A. went more than eight minutes without a point, S.M.U. roared ahead and
led, 59-52, with 1 minute 26 seconds to play.

Alford hit a 3-pointer and Norman Powell hit two free throws with 29 seconds to
play to give S.M.U. a 59-57 lead. The Mustangs turned the ball over, setting up
the decisive shot by Alford. He came around the left wing with Moore trailing
him and launched the fateful 3-pointer.

''I'm not saying it wasn't goaltending,'' said S.M.U. Coach Larry Brown. ''I
have no clue. But it was a five-second judgment. I don't know. I just -- it kind
of blew me away. Again, you don't look at one play. We had our chances to win,
and it didn't happen.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/ucla-edges-southern-meth
odist-with-late-goaltending-call.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: S.M.U.'s Yanick Moreira, center, after he was called for
goaltending on Bryce Alford's 3-pointer. The call gave U.C.L.A. a 1-point lead
that it held on to for the victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID STEPHENSON/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
SPORTS (77%); ATHLETES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (94%); SOUTHERN METHODIST
UNIVERSITY (90%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (89%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chief of Secret Service Rebuts Crash Reports

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 392 words


WASHINGTON --  The head of the Secret Service told lawmakers on Thursday that
news accounts of two agents crashing a car into a White House barricade this
month were overblown and exaggerated.

The agency's director, Joseph P. Clancy, told senators that surveillance video
debunked the idea that the March 4 incident involved any kind of serious
collision.

''Previous reports of a crash are inaccurate -- there was no crash,'' Mr. Clancy
said, offering his most forceful comments yet about the episode. ''The video
shows the vehicle entering the White House complex at a speed of approximately
one to two miles per hour, and pushing aside a plastic barrel. There was no
damage to the vehicle.''

Mr. Clancy also responded to concerns from some lawmakers that other
surveillance video that might offer more information about the encounter had
been erased. He said that no one had manually erased any tapes, but that some
video might have been automatically overwritten.

''They are by practice, at 72 hours, taped over. I know that's a concern,'' Mr.
Clancy said. He said Secret Service officials had contacted the manufacturer of
the surveillance system and the agency's computer experts to see if the video
from that night could still be recovered.

''We are doing everything we can to retrieve those images to be as transparent
as we can be,'' Mr. Clancy said.

Mr. Clancy offered similar testimony about the video during a House hearing on
Monday. But in testimony to a Senate Appropriations subcommittee on Thursday,
Mr. Clancy was much more explicit in trying to debunk the idea that a crash had
taken place. The incident was first reported by The Washington Post.

Mr. Clancy said he remained ''extremely concerned'' about reports that the two
agents in the car were drunk after having attended a retirement party for a
Secret Service colleague. He said he was prepared to take disciplinary action
depending on the outcome of an investigation by the Office of the Inspector
General for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the Secret
Service.

''I trust the O.I.G.'s investigation will be thorough,'' Mr. Clancy said. ''I
have committed the Secret Service's full cooperation to the O.I.G. investigation
and eagerly await the findings.''

The incident was described similarly by numerous news organizations, including
The New York Times.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/secret-service-chief-testimony-on-
car-crash-reports.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph P. Clancy, director of the Secret Service, testifying on
Thursday about recent Secret Service incidents in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DREW ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE
TECHNOLOGY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY
(72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (53%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (53%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Secret of Water' Studies Liquid as an Archive of History

BYLINE: By KEN JAWOROWSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 313 words


There's a whole lot of hogwash in ''Secret of Water,'' a cheesy documentary
stuffed full of pseudoscience masquerading as profound truth.

After beginning with a slow-motion video of a falling water drop -- an image
repeated throughout, as if such stock footage were on clearance sale -- a
narrator says that ''any substance coming into contact with water leaves a trace
in the water,'' declaring as fact a theory that's been widely debunked. Water,
he states, ''records the whole history of its relationship with the world -- as
if on magnetic tape.''

Soon, slippery-worded generalizations, unattributed studies and vague claims are
trotted out and seconded by talking heads who are often labeled little more than
''researcher'' or ''professor.'' Hard evidence and competing viewpoints are
nonexistent.

In one scene we're told that Okinawans ''live incredibly long lives'' perhaps
because the ancient coral around their island ''imprints the water with
information about longevity, which is then passed over to the water medium of
the human body, tuning it for long life.''

There's extensive jargon about harmonic frequencies and images of beautiful ice
crystals that are formed when water listens to a Sting song. We watch people
holding hands in a circle as they send positive thoughts to a container of
liquid, and hear about the dangers of ''informational pollution'' that water
accumulates when it's exposed to right angles and bad attitudes.

With constant talk of the power of love and optimism, ''Secret of Water,''
directed by Jirka Rysavy and Saida Medvedeva, is ultimately just the flip side
of absurd claims made by climate-change deniers and anti-evolutionists. No doubt
this documentary was made with good intentions. But we know which road those
pave.

SECRET OF WATER

Opens on Friday

Directed by Jirka Rysavy and Saida Medvedeva

1 hour 16 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-secret-of-water-studies-liquid-a
s-an-archive-of-history.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (72%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carolee Schneemann: 'Part One'

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 355 words


Established in 2010 by Hunter College, the Artist's Institute is a combination
of exhibition gallery, historical laboratory and studio space dedicated to
meditating on the work of one contemporary artist at a time for roughly one
semester. Artists who've been in the spotlight -- or under the microscope --
have included Jo Baer, Jimmie Durham, Rosemarie Trockel and Haim Steinbach.
Carolee Schneemann is the subject of attention this spring, and a richer one
would be hard to find.

Ms. Schneemann's shaping influence on contemporary performance art and film are
a matter of record, but the Artist's Institute show, organized by Jenny Jaskey,
returns to the start of her history in the late 1950s, when she was in art
school. There were confusions. Cézanne was her hero, partly because the ''anne''
in his name had originally led her to think he was a woman. And because the
school didn't hire life models, she did nude portraits of her boyfriend and
herself, which got her expelled. Three pictures from the '50s --
expressionistic, high-colored, joyous things -- are on view, as are 1962
photographs by A. V. Sobolewski that show Ms. Schneemann, who has always
considered herself primarily a painter, posing, her body smeared with chalk and
grease, within assemblage environments.

Her liberationist trajectory soon afterward produced classic group performances
like the 1964 ''Meat Joy,'' as well as films that brought sensuality and
politics, feminist and otherwise, together. Along the revolutionary route she
encountered resistance; it wasn't until the 1990s that she received something
like a mainstream embrace. But she's one of the greats, and Hunter knows it.
Exactly how, under the hand of Ms. Jaskey, the director of the Artist's
Institute, the interpretive emphasis on Ms. Schneemann's career will be shaped
as the semester goes on remains to be seen. But the artist will certainly be
part of the process, beginning on Friday at 7 p.m. when she gives a
''performative lecture'' at Hunter's studio building, at 205 Hudson Street in
TriBeCa.

The Artist's Institute

163 Eldridge Street

Lower East Side

Through March 29




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/carolee-schneemann-part-one.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carolee Schneemann's  ''Reclining Nude'' (1956),  at the
Artist's Institute. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND P.P.O.W. GALLERY, NEW
YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Small Dreams and Long Odds on Tournament's First Day

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

Email: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg.

LENGTH: 926 words


Shortly after Hampton University defeated Manhattan on Tuesday night in the
first game of the N.C.A.A. tournament, Hampton's president, Bill Harvey, was on
the phone, more proud than excited.

The 74-64 victory had given Hampton the right to be the first tournament
opponent for undefeated Kentucky on Thursday.

Depending on how you look at it, facing Kentucky is an unenviable task or a
great opportunity. Harvey, 74, sees only opportunity. ''We dare our kids to be
great,'' he said. ''I just hope that we can play a good game and keep it
respectable.''

Kentucky beat one of its opponents by 58 points this season, and three others by
at least 40. It led the nation in margin of victory at 20.9 points per game.
Hampton managed to score fewer points than its 34 opponents over the course of
the season.

''It's very unlikely that Hampton can beat Kentucky,'' Harvey acknowledged.
''But our kids can say we went dancing. They probably won't dance long, but we
went.''

A similar opportunity awaits other long shots over the next two days: teams like
Robert Morris and North Dakota State and Coastal Carolina, programs whose hopes
are higher than their odds of winning. In Portland, Ore., on Thursday afternoon,
Texas Southern, the 15th seed, will take on second-seeded Arizona. Arizona is
hardly as imposing as Kentucky will be for Hampton, but the result is expected
to be the same: a rout.

For the Texas Southern president, John Rudley, the seeding is less important
than the experience.

''The most important thing is that these kids get this exposure,'' Rudley said
by phone from Portland. He was sitting in a hotel lobby amid the happy chaos of
cheerleaders, band members and T.S.U. fans who had made the trip.

''We are providing an opportunity for our students, athletes and our fans who
normally don't get to see the Halls of Valhalla when it comes to big-time
sports,'' he said. ''This is a lifetime experience for any kid, whether you're
in the big school in Kentucky or whether you're at Texas Southern. This is an
experience you'll be telling your kids about and you will remember the rest of
your life.''

At a time when super elite conferences reign supreme in college sports,
increasing numbers of athletic programs are being forced to contemplate new
directions and revised metrics of success, and sometimes even if they should
continue to compete at all. In this changing era, does success mean competing
for national championships? Conference championships? Does it mean consistently
having winning seasons? Attracting fans?

For Harvey, the Hampton president since 1978, success increasingly means doing
well outside the confines of its affiliation with the country's historically
black colleges and universities. In recent years, the champions of the H.B.C.U.
conferences, the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference and the Southwestern Athletic
Conference, have consistently been seeded 15th or 16th and been promptly
trounced by a top seed.

To officials like Harvey, that prospect is becoming less and less appealing.

This week I asked Harvey if he would consider leaving the Mid-Eastern Athletic
Conference for a conference like the Big East or the Atlantic 10.

Harvey said he was open to the idea, knowing that such a move would require a
significant commitment of resources, not to mention an invitation.

''My facilities are as good as any in the Big East,'' he said. ''I've got the
money to compete. Even more than that, I have the will to compete.''

Will conferences be open to a program like Hampton's joining the exclusive club?
Or would they fear that an H.B.C.U., once it moved into the neighborhood, might
develop a built-in recruiting advantage in the chase for black players?

Tennessee State joined the Ohio Valley Conference in 1986 after a 20-year
campaign for membership, and the Tigers have enjoyed modest success, even
playing in the N.C.A.A. tournament twice in the 1990s. This year, Tennessee
State's women's basketball team will represent the O.V.C. in the N.C.A.A.
tournament.

A different question is whether an H.B.C.U. can become part of a mainstream
conference and still maintain a connection to the African-American tradition
even as it expands its mission. Texas Southern's Rudley said he was more
intrigued by H.B.C.U.s coming up with a new model instead of linking with a
mainstream conference. If H.B.C.U.s are to prosper, he argued, they must create
a more independent model, either inside the N.C.A.A. framework or outside it.

''Whether you're in the SWAC or the M.E.A.C., we're playing around the edges,''
he said. ''We should create the same kind of league, the same kind of
excitement. We could break away from the N.C.A.A. and make our own
competition.''

These are long-term challenges, and full of risk.

For now, Hampton and Texas Southern face tremendous short-term tasks: undefeated
Kentucky and powerful Arizona.

Mission impossible? Perhaps. But the one-and-done nature of the N.C.A.A.
tournament -- and the essence of college basketball itself -- allows for the
occasional miracle. Hampton, with its 16-17 record, proved that Tuesday. Rudley
learned that as a player at the University of Toledo.

''Whether you're a little team like Harvard or Texas Southern, you get a chance
to deal with the big boys, five on five,'' he said. ''I don't care if you're a
rich boy whose mom and daddy gave him basketball lessons from Day 1 or a poor
kid in the hood who played in the projects until the sun went down, we can lace
'em up together now.''

Let's embrace the weekend. The new frontier can wait.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/small-dreams-and-long-od
ds-on-ncaa-tournaments-first-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR
ACTIVITIES (78%); CHEERLEADING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (78%); SPORTS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); SPORTS FANS
(71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY (54%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


''I personally think we are just not smart enough -- and won't be for a very
long time -- to feel comfortable about the consequences of changing heredity,
even in a single individual.''

DAVID BALTIMORE, a former president of the California Institute of Technology,
on a call for a moratorium on using a gene editing technique to change human
DNA.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DNA (82%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (53%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Please Be Normal,' a Couple's Dawning Desperation

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 289 words


It takes courage to ask your partner ''Are we happy?''-- especially if, like
Mary (Elisabeth Waterston), you're pregnant and your boyfriend, Victor (played
by Ms. Waterston's husband, Louis Cancelmi), seems increasingly detached from
his imminent fatherhood. That detachment, its cause and consequence, forms the
shrouded heart of ''Please Be Normal,'' a tiny, piercing study of dawning
desperation that's all the more remarkable for being virtually silent.

Working confidently within the quiet, the writer and director, Haik Kocharian,
lets us see the prison that love can become when responsibility smothers dreams.
A playwright with an Off Broadway work in rehearsal, Victor does odd jobs and
endures the disapproval and controlling largess of Mary's wealthy father (Sam
Waterston, playing a rather scary version of his real-life relationship to Mr.
Cancelmi). As the couple prepare to move from their cozy New York City apartment
to a new suburban home, their rising tension is conveyed through fragments of
dialogue and a camera that catches every twitching cheekbone and uncertain
glance.

Bearing up under this brutal scrutiny, the actors remain miraculously natural as
their director (who also photographed the film with Ori Lahav) creates a
curiously magnetic drama from restraint and repression. Stabs of eerie music (by
the duo Stars of the Lid) punctuate the narrative, most effectively in a dreamy
sequence that follows Victor and a grieving young woman (Dana Eskelson) on a
nighttime journey. Their connection is transient but profound, just one of the
film's several kinds of love. But happiness? That's something else entirely.

PLEASE BE NORMAL

Opens on Friday

Directed by Haik Kocharian

1 hour 29 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-please-be-normal-a-couples-dawni
ng-desperation.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%);
ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); THEATER (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Viewing the World at Full Exposure

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1252 words


As bad-boy artists go, Piotr Uklanski has always been fairly elusive. During his
20-year career he has tended to do something startling -- if not shocking -- and
then lie low, reappearing after a decent interval. And when he does, he is often
somewhere else entirely, doing something unlike anything he's done before.

Right now, Mr. Uklanski's efforts -- both artistic and curatorial -- can be seen
in the decorous precincts of the Metropolitan Museum. The occasion is a pair of
shows with the overall title of ''Fatal Attraction.'' One show is ''Fatal
Attraction: Piotr Uklanski Photographs,'' a survey of around 30 works of his
restless photographic activities, including two banner-size images unfurled over
the Met's Great Hall. The other, ''Fatal Attraction: Piotr Uklanski Selects From
the Met Collection,'' is nearby, a display of about 80 works -- photographs and
objects -- that he has picked from throughout the museum's holdings. They deepen
the understanding of this maverick artist.

The latest sign of the Met's drive to encompass contemporary art -- and one of
the more convincing -- ''Fatal Attraction'' follows by two years a quite
different Uklanski presentation at the excellent Karma, a hip downtown publisher
of artists' books. There he covered the walls with his ''Pornalikes'' series,
over 100 pornographic images whose actors bear uncanny resemblances to
well-known figures, among them Cher, Tom Cruise and Tony Blair. A bawdy comment
on our fame-obsessed, voyeuristic times, that series is represented at the Met
by one of its more demure examples: a bare-chested gamin easily mistaken for
Michael Jackson.

Mr. Uklanski, who was born in Warsaw in 1968 and came to New York in 1990, is a
latter-day Conceptualist with an unusually robust feeling for materials, scale
and knockout visual effects, as well as a taste for the perverse. He divides his
interests among photography, painting, sculpture, film, installation and
performance. All these art forms harbor undercurrents of satirical intent,
evocations of sex and death, and frequent references to Polish art and politics,
and are riddled with unexpected intimations of sincerity. For example, the show
includes an aerial shot of 3,500 Brazilian soldiers marshaled into a giant
portrait of John Paul II, the first Polish pope. (It was Mr. Uklanski's
contribution to the 2004 São Paulo biennale.)

The banner images in the Great Hall consist of two more aerial views involving
3,000 Polish soldiers, this time in the Gdansk shipyard. In one they form the
red and white Solidarity emblem, in the other they start to go their separate
ways. The emblem blurs; solidarity is literally dissolving.

In New York, Mr. Uklanski is especially well known for the fully functioning
disco floor that was his 1996 gallery debut at Gavin Brown's Enterprise --
perhaps the most intoxicating work of the interactive art known as relational
aesthetics -- and ''The Nazis,'' a compilation of more than 160 headshots of
several generations of Hollywood and European actors playing Nazis. It was
included in ''Mirroring Evil: Nazi Imagery/Recent Art,'' a hotly debated
exhibition at the Jewish Museum in 2002, and a good portion is also here,
covering a narrow wall, inviting us to play ''name that actor'' and, in so
doing, help usher evil personified into camp.

Also in the show (and on its poster) is Mr. Uklanski's single best-known, most
blatant sex-death image: a skull on a black background made entirely of
ingeniously placed naked people, including the artist in the central cruciform
pose. It is a tribute to a photograph by Salvador Dalí and Philippe Halsman
which used only women, but it also connects to a tradition of Eastern European
morbidity. (Think of the folded bodies in Klimt's ''Beethoven Frieze.'')

Mr. Uklanski doesn't expose only himself in his work. In 2003, Artforum magazine
published his large two-page color close-up -- also on view here -- of the naked
backside of his future wife, the writer and curator Alison M. Gingeras, punning
on her last name (which is pronounced, however, jin-JER-us). On the other hand,
in the past five years Mr. Uklanski has also taken, with visible relish, to
making extravagant works of fiber art quite like something a feminist artist
might have created in the 1970s.

Typically Mr. Uklanski has gotten the most out of his Met appearance, which has
been organized by Doug Eklund, curator of photography. Besides adding paintings
and sculptures to the collection show, Mr. Uklanski has insinuated a few works
of his own, although not always to the best effect. (A new version of the death
skull, printed in gold on a good-size canvas covered with paint that looks like
burned wood, is no match for its neighbor, the stylized painted wood figure from
Papua New Guinea, used for displaying skulls.) But Mr. Uklanski's ''Untitled
(Sacré Coeur),'' a suggestive chunk of bright red resin, does all right next to
the solid yellow jasper of ''Fragment of a Queen's Face,'' one of the most
sublime Egyptian pieces in the museum; and both commune effectively with the
brilliant colors in Dalí's gemlike 1929 painting ''The Accommodations of
Desire.''

This selection brings out Mr. Uklanski's softer, more connoisseurial side, while
also living up to the sex and death theme. There are relatively contemporary
works like Laurie Simmons's 1991 ''Walking Gun'' alongside a Weegee photograph
of a murder victim -- and numerous photographs of cavorting or coupling bodies
(as well as a small early Picasso painting in this vein). Among the sights not
to miss: ''Beauty Revealed,'' an exquisite watercolor on ivory of a woman's
breasts surrounded by a shroudlike (gift box) arrangement. It was painted in
1828 by Sarah Goodridge for her lover, the great Daniel Webster. And to counter
such perfection, seek out Andreas Feininger's 1946 ''Cape Cod Artists,'' a large
black-and-white photograph in which an outdoor art class, easels and all,
converges on a nude model so awkwardly posed she seems likely to fall over.

In Mr. Uklanski's show, his photographs range from 1990 to 2014 and survey his
continuing exploration of image size, mounting and framing treatments, print
processes and subject matter. It even includes a 2004 daguerreotype made from a
1985 self-portrait of the artist as a young man with a tattooed chest and an
improvised Mohawk. There are nearly 20 beautiful if banal images inspired by the
lessons, subjects and techniques of ''The Joy of Photography.'' In Mr.
Uklanski's hands this Kodak how-to manual yields clichés like a waterfall, Mount
Vesuvius at night, tulips and a sunset at sea -- all blurred or unbalanced in
color.

Also on view with the photographs is a work of fiber art that almost steals the
show. An enormous, somewhat grotesque clot of dyed rope, fiber, macramé and
embroidery 10 feet high, this dark crusty form intimates a burned-out planet
until you recognize its one spot of bright color as a pupil. It is an eye, and
it echoes the many images of eyes and semblances of eyes throughout both shows.
Possibly ripped from its socket, and perhaps rotting, this monumental
three-dimensional version nonetheless evokes the act of looking as irresistible,
invasive and voracious -- especially where photography is concerned.

''Fatal Attraction: Piotr Uklanski Photographs'' runs through Aug. 16 and
''Fatal Attraction: Piotr Uklanski Selects From the Met Collection'' through
June 14, both at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/review-in-fatal-attraction-piotr-u
klanskis-unblinking-gaze.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fatal Attraction: ''Untitled (Solidarnosc),'' from 2007, by
Piotr Uklanski at the MetMuseum. (C21)
Top, works from ''Fatal Attraction: Piotr Uklanski Selects From the Met
Collection''
left, ''The Nazis'' (1998)
 above, left, an image from ''Untitled (Pornalikes)''  (2002-12), and the
sculpture ''Untitled (Story of the Eye)'' (2013). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO
MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PORNOGRAPHY
(74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Patz Trial Jury Is Told Suspect Was Prone to Confessing

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 725 words


Pedro Hernandez, the man who has confessed to strangling Etan Patz, was
susceptible to giving a false confession while being questioned by detectives
because of his low intelligence, a psychologist serving as a defense witness
testified on Thursday.

But in cross-examining the witness, Bruce Frumkin, the prosecution argued that
Mr. Hernandez, 54, could understand nuanced situations and possessed a better
vocabulary than the defense had acknowledged.

Dr. Frumkin, who spent most of the day in State Supreme Court in Manhattan on
the witness stand, evaluated Mr. Hernandez over the course of two days in June
2012. During his testimony, Dr. Frumkin cited academic studies that he said
showed that people with low intelligence or ''some sort of mental disability''
had confessed to crimes they did not commit.

''People who are intellectually disabled are more vulnerable to police
demands,'' he said, adding that such people were ''less able to cope'' with the
demands of an interrogation.

Dr. Frumkin said he had reviewed many of the psychological tests and evaluations
that Mr. Hernandez had completed over the years, and had conducted his own
psychological evaluation as well. According to Dr. Frumkin, Mr. Hernandez, whose
scores on I.Q. tests ranged from the high 60s to low 70s, had given
''information that didn't correspond to actual facts.''

That information, Dr. Frumkin said, included how old Mr. Hernandez was when he
met his wife; whether the boy he said he had killed was dark-skinned; and
whether he had cut the boy up or strangled him. He added that Mr. Hernandez also
scored poorly on verbal comprehension and vocabulary tests.

Dr. Frumkin said that he was not offering an opinion about whether Mr. Hernandez
had given the police a false confession, but that people with low intelligence
tended to be afraid to assert themselves and inclined to believe what law
enforcement officers told them ''because they don't want to appear stupid.''

The videotaped confession that Mr. Hernandez gave to the police, in which he
admitted strangling Etan, 6, in May 1979, appeared to be ''highly rehearsed,''
Dr. Frumkin said. He noted that many hours of the questioning that led to the
confession had not been recorded and that the police could be seen patting Mr.
Hernandez on the head and telling him that Etan would thank him.

''That's very misleading for law enforcement to say that,'' Dr. Frumkin said.

Mr. Hernandez confessed in May 2012 to killing Etan, who disappeared while on
his way to school in SoHo. The confession came after he had been interrogated
for hours by New York police detectives in the Camden County, N.J., prosecutor's
office.

Joan Illuzzi-Orbon, the lead prosecutor in the case, questioned Dr. Frumkin's
concern about the lack of video from the interrogation, saying he had not
videotaped his evaluation of Mr. Hernandez. ''You benefited from the fact that
the people's experts did videotape every moment with the defendant,'' she said.
''We didn't have that benefit with your examination of the defendant''

Dr. Frumkin replied that he rarely videotaped psychological evaluations because
''there's no way of knowing how that can affect the test results.''

Throughout the trial, which began in late January, prosecutors have tried to
prove that Mr. Hernandez is less mentally disabled and more intelligent than his
I.Q. scores would suggest.

Challenging Dr. Frumkin's assessment that Mr. Hernandez had trouble with verbal
comprehension and vocabulary, Ms. Illuzzi-Orbon read a list of about two dozen
words that she said Mr. Hernandez had used in various situations, including
''appreciate,'' ''responsibility,'' ''diagnosed,'' ''bushels of flowers,''
''numbness'' and ''plasma.'' Dr. Frumkin, who during much of the
cross-examination looked toward Harvey Fishbein, the lead defense lawyer, said
that while Mr. Hernandez might have been capable of using such words, the
context in which he used them and whether he had used them properly could not be
determined by reading them off a list.

Dr. Frumkin has previously testified for the defense at pretrial hearings,
saying Mr. Hernandez was not mentally capable of understanding that he could
invoke his right to remain silent during interviews with detectives and a
prosecutor. The prosecution is expected to continue cross-examining Dr. Frumkin
on Friday.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/patz-trial-jury-is-told-suspect-was-p
rone-to-confessing.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (92%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (91%); TESTIMONY (91%);
PSYCHOLOGY (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%);
SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%);
POLICE FORCES (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Betty Parsons: 'A Life in Art'

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 306 words


This show has a big title for being fairly small: a total of 19 gouaches and
painted-driftwood sculptures by Betty Parsons (1900-1982), the revered New York
art dealer, advocate of Abstract Expressionism and an artist in her own right.
Five of the pieces were seen in a larger show in 2010 at the recently closed
Spanierman Gallery. But that show was the first sizable one in New York devoted
to Ms. Parsons's work since the 1980s, and who knows when another will come
along.

Ms. Parsons made her art on the side in the shadow of the Abstract
Expressionists, but she had a more playful, less angsty sensibility not unlike
Paul Klee's. She was something of a natural who infused her art with a palpable
ease and an instinct for color that was further cultivated by years of travel
outside the West.

One or two gouaches here resemble sinuous road maps, while others isolate shapes
of color on contrasting grounds, like islands in a sea, or windows in the corner
of a room. Inevitably several shapes are finished off with enlivening scribbles
that scratch through to reveal contrasting shades beneath.

In the 1970s, Ms. Parsons began working in bits of driftwood collected near her
house on the North Fork of Long Island. These she augmented with stripes of
color, cobbling them into sculptures and wall pieces that suggest toys, but also
boats and buildings. This is especially clear in a work consisting of eight
small pieces of weathered board that she striped with paint, stacked up and
titled ''Indian Memories,'' which even has a minaret.

Ms. Parsons's awareness of her strengths and limitations as an artist exceeded
that of some of her better-known contemporaries, but her place in the expanding
history of postwar art has not yet been defined.

David Findlay Jr. Gallery

724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street

Through March 28




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/betty-parsons-a-life-in-art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Indian Memories,'' from the 1970s, a painted-driftwood
sculpture by Betty Parsons, whose works are at David Findlay Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID FINDLAY JR. GALLERY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%);
ART DEALERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lusty, Lonely Gold Miners Making Moves

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words


Men in weathered woolens and suspenders roister vigorously around the stage,
hungry for booze, gold and women -- not necessarily in that order -- in the
jovial production of ''Paint Your Wagon'' being presented as part of the City
Center Encores! series. There's but a single gal in the gold-mining encampment
where the show takes place, at least until the end of the first act, when a
stagecoach brings a bevy of working (and dancing) girls to town and the boys
throw out a lusty cheer.

One of the founding goals of the Encores! series is panning for gold, if you
will, in the history of the musical theater. So it's perhaps surprising that the
series has taken so long to bring back ''Paint Your Wagon,'' the Lerner and
Loewe musical set during the California gold rush.

True, the show doesn't qualify as a big nugget of musical-theater perfection.
Then again, it doesn't meet the criterion of obscurity. It had a respectable run
in 1951 of nearly 300 performances, but Lerner and Loewe's best-known musicals,
the prior ''Brigadoon'' along with ''Camelot'' and the landmark ''My Fair
Lady,'' are all much better known and loved, and ''Paint Your Wagon'' has never
been revived on Broadway. The dismal movie version, which scrambled the score
and story and starred a singing (barely) Clint Eastwood and Lee Marvin, probably
didn't help matters. Watch it at your peril.

Lerner's original book, mind you, doesn't glitter with excitement. But the
handsome score, divided between boisterous numbers for the all-male chorus and
fine ballads, contains some serious riches, and they are delivered here by a
well-drilled cast under the direction of Marc Bruni (''Beautiful: The Carole
King Musical''), supported by the ever-sumptuous playing of the Encores!
orchestra under the lively baton of Rob Berman.

Keith Carradine, with whiskers sprouting like sagebrush from his lean, handsome
face, plays the nominal leading role of Ben Rumson, founder of the mining town
where the show takes place. His voice sits higher than that of James Barton, of
the original cast (who was also the original Hickey in ''The Iceman Cometh''),
but Mr. Carradine delivers two of the score's most memorable songs, the lilting
lament ''I Still See Elisa'' and the rousing anthem ''Wand'rin' Star,'' a paean
to the open road, with commendable style.

Mr. Carradine, the former star of ''The Will Rogers Follies'' and ''Hands on a
Hardbody,'' also seems naturally at home in the show's countrified milieu,
nicely evoked by the set designs of Anna Louizos and the costumes of Alejo
Vietti. (Very on-trend: Neck kerchiefs are apparently a must for spring.)

Ben's lost his wife (Elisa, who is still seen) but has brought his daughter,
Jennifer (Alexandra Socha, of the Off Broadway hit ''Fun Home''), along on his
search for riches. The petite Ms. Socha, convincingly playing 16, portrays
Jennifer as a spunky tomboy who's surrounded by inflamed testosterone (she sings
with puzzlement of the men's peculiar attentions in the comic ''What's Goin' On
Here?''), but yearns for more gentle attention.

Her wish is gratified when she meets Julio Valveras, a lonely Mexican who's
ostracized by the other miners and digs farther off. Justin Guarini, the onetime
''American Idol'' runner-up who has established himself as a capable Broadway
performer, brings ardency to this minimally written character. Julio pledges his
love, rather quickly, with the ballad ''I Talk to the Trees,'' one of the show's
best-known songs, rendered with supple urgency by Mr. Guarini.

It's perhaps a measure of Lerner's diffuse book that the show's most famous
song, ''They Call the Wind Maria,'' is performed by a supporting character, a
miner named Steve who barely stands out from the pack, at least until Nathaniel
Hackmann opens his mouth to sing this ode to the lonesome West. Mr. Hackmann
makes the most of his solo in the spotlight, his handsome baritone soaring over
the orchestra.

Jennifer and Julio's romance is put on pause while Ben lassoes himself a female
companion from an unlikely source, when a stern fellow named Jacob Woodling
(William Youmans) strolls into town, accompanied by not one but two wives (Jenni
Barber and Melissa van der Schyff). (The brief but appealing hymnlike song for
these characters, ''Trio,'' did not appear on the original cast album.)

''Holy Moses! They're Mormons!'' Steve cries. And it seems downright unfair that
one man should have two wives when the 400 must do without. So one of Jacob's
wives, Elizabeth (Ms. Barber), is promptly (and willingly, in an attempt to
soften the yuck factor) auctioned off to the highest bidder, who turns out to be
Ben, cuing a rousing celebration by the men (''Whoop-Ti-Ay'').

Agnes de Mille, who choreographed the original production, certainly knew how to
make macho men move, and Denis Jones does a creditable job of designing dances
along the de Mille lines. When that stagecoach arrives and the women spill out,
there's an even more jubilant jamboree as they have no trouble finding willing
partners.

Rich as it is in energetic numbers for the men -- and the chorus here is
terrific -- the most memorable songs in ''Paint Your Wagon'' are the quieter
ones. Perhaps the musical highlight of the second act is the plaintive ''Another
Autumn,'' gracefully led by Mr. Guarini, after Jennifer has left town and Julio
is feeling the chill of loneliness creep back into his bones.

Lerner's mournful lyrics are likely to give New Yorkers a particularly frigid
feeling this year, as this endless winter stretches out indefinitely. Spring may
be around the next bend, but when Julio sings of being ''alone all winter
long,'' you may know just what he means.

Paint Your Wagon

Book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner; music by Frederick Loewe; directed by Marc
Bruni; music director, Rob Berman; choreography by Denis Jones; sets by Anna
Louizos; costumes by Alejo Vietti; lighting by Peter Kaczorowski; sound by Brian
Ronan; concert adaptation by Marc Acito; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press;
original orchestrations by Ted Royal; production stage manager, Monica A. Cuoco.
Presented by New York City Center Encores!, Arlene Shuler, president; Jack
Viertel, artistic director; Mark Litvin, managing director. At City Center, 131
West 55th Street, Manhattan; 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org. Through Sunday.
Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes.

WITH: Jenni Barber (Elizabeth Woodling), Keith Carradine (Ben Rumson), Robert
Creighton (Mike Mooney), Caleb Damschroder (Jake Whippany), Justin Guarini
(Julio Valveras), Nathaniel Hackmann (Steve Bullnack), Robyn Hurder (Cherry
Jourdel), Adam Monley (Edgar Crocker), Alexandra Socha (Jennifer Rumson),
Melissa van der Schyff (Sarah Woodling), Scott Wakefield (Sandy Twist) and
William Youmans (Jacob Woodling).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/theater/review-paint-your-wagon-starring-keith
-carradine-opens-at-encores.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paint Your Wagon: A scene from this Encores! production at City
Center. Keith Carradine, center left, with Jenni Barber and Caleb Damschroder.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (92%); GOLD MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (90%); MEN
(79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MUSIC (74%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (57%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Michael Oreskes Leaving Associated Press to Join NPR

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 187 words


Michael Oreskes, a former senior editor at The New York Times and The Associated
Press, has been appointed senior vice president and editorial director at NPR,
the public broadcaster announced on Thursday.

Mr. Oreskes was most recently a vice president and senior managing editor at The
A.P. Before that he was executive editor of The International Herald Tribune,
and a deputy managing editor at The Times.

He will start his new job at the end of April, overseeing 200 newsrooms and
1,500 journalists at NPR member stations, the network said in a statement.

Jarl Mohn, the president and chief executive of NPR, said Mr. Oreskes brought
''a unique perspective on how to cover the most important stories of the day and
an understanding of the issues that are being overlooked or not reported well.''

News organizations like NPR, Mr. Oreskes said, can build ''audience by grabbing
their attention with stories told in creative new ways.''

NPR, which has been lauded for its efforts to expand on the web, has 26 million
radio listeners and more than 30 million unique visitors a month online,
according to its own figures.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/michael-oreskes-leaving-associated-pr
ess-to-join-npr.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%);
APPOINTMENTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (88%);
JOURNALISM (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS
(73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Greco-German 'Fingergate' Gets Curiouser and Curiouser

BYLINE: By ROBERT MACKEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; OPEN SOURCE; Pg.

LENGTH: 1192 words


Amid tense negotiations between Greece and its European creditors, the eyes of
the German media remained firmly focused Thursday on the Greek finance
minister's middle finger -- specifically on the question of whether a
two-year-old video clip of him extending that digit in Germany's metaphorical
direction was real or fake.

Three days after the minister, Yanis Varoufakis, first denied having made the
obscene gesture during a talk in Croatia in 2013 -- telling a conservative
German pundit that a widely circulated clip of his remarks had been ''doctored''
-- the host of a late-night satirical program stepped forward Wednesday to claim
that his crew had indeed faked the video, using green-screen technology and a
body double, as a prank.

Asked to comment on this latest turn in the unfolding ''Fingergate'' scandal,
which has focused populist rage in Germany over the Greek debt on Greece's new
finance minister, Mr. Varoufakis told Reuters TV in Athens on Thursday that he
had been vindicated. ''Now it's quite clear that it was doctored, as I said,''
Mr. Varoufakis said. ''The German people,'' he added, ''deserve better media.''

The video under discussion was a 17-second clip taken from an hourlong lecture
that Mr. Varoufakis, an economist, gave at the 2013 Subversive Festival in
Zagreb, long before he joined the Greek government. The video shows him telling
a group of Croatian radicals that Greece should have simply defaulted on its
debts in 2010 and told the German government to deal with the consequences.

At that stage in the crisis, Mr. Varoufakis can be heard saying in the complete
recording of the talk posted on YouTube by the Croatian organizers of the event,
Greece should have announced that it was defaulting on its debt, like Argentina
did, ''and stick the finger to Germany and say, 'You can now solve this problem
by yourself.' ''

However, when Mr. Varoufakis was asked about the remark, and his accompanying
gesture, by GÃ¼nther Jauch of Germany's ARD channel on Sunday, he seemed to stun
the host by insisting that the clip had been ''doctored'' and denying that he
had ever made the obscene gesture known in German as the Stinkefinger.

After the broadcast, the festival staff in Zagreb undermined that defense by
saying that Mr. Varoufakis had indeed made the gesture caught on camera,
although they argued that his comments had been perfectly justified, given the
German government's position in the debt crisis. Late Monday, Mr. Varoufakis
seemed to suggest that by ''doctored'' he meant just that the remarks had been
taken out of context.

The debate over the clip then took a strange twist on Wednesday when the German
satirist Jan BÃ¶hmermann posted what appeared to be a detailed confession on
YouTube to faking the gesture. In it he said that his crew had digitally altered
the recording of the 2013 talk, fabricating the obscene gesture through
computer-generated imagery, and had the fake video uploaded to the web as if it
were genuine by the Croats.

Sorry, @yanisvaroufakis! https://t.co/BSkYrbIIle  (now with ENGLISH subtitles,
full English and Greek subtitles available soon) #varoufake -- Jan BÃ¶hmermann
(@janboehm) March 18, 2015

By way of explanation, Mr. BÃ¶hmermann said that he had devised the prank to
expose the ridiculousness of German anger at perceived slights from Greece over
the debt talks. ''Devastating Europe two times within a century, but going nuts
when somebody's giving us the finger,'' he observed. ''Objective debate is
utterly out of the question. When a Greek gives us the finger, we totally freak
out, because we are Germans.''

Addressing the editorial staff of Mr. Jauch's political talk show, Mr.
BÃ¶hmermann added: ''Yanis Varoufakis is wrong. You did not falsify the footage.
You simply took it out of context and gave him the runaround so that average
Germans could pursue their passion for being angered.''

That apparent admission by Mr. BÃ¶hmermann, the host of the ZDF late-night show
''Neo Magazin Royale,'' was eagerly greeted online by supporters of the finance
minister in Germany and Greece who argued, under the hashtag #Varoufake, that
Mr. Varoufakis was owed an apology by Mr. Jauch and the conservative tabloid
Bild, which had called him a liar.

The finance minister posted a link to the satirist's video on the affair on
Twitter, and asked if Mr. Jauch planned to apologize.

@janboehm Humour, satire & self deprecation are great solvents of blind
nationalism. We politicians need you badly. https://t.co/CCXzHtfuKt -- Yanis
Varoufakis (@yanisvaroufakis) March 19, 2015

Any apology in the offing @GuentherJauch65? For having used a doctored video to
silence a conciliatory Greek voice? http://t.co/7SP6OcLIIv -- Yanis Varoufakis
(@yanisvaroufakis) March 19, 2015

On Thursday, however, suspicions that Mr. BÃ¶hmermann's confession might itself
have been an elaborate hoax were confirmed by his channel, ZDF, which clarified
that his work was indeed satirical in nature -- and joked that it should perhaps
carry a warning label.

Wir erwÃ¤gen kÃ¼nftig bei allen @neomagazin-Ausstrahlungen im TV und im ZDI den
Warnhinweis â[#x20ac][#x17e]Vorsicht Satire!'' zu platzieren. #varoufake -- ZDF
(@ZDF) March 19, 2015

Despite the channel's statement, as the video confession spread across the
German-speaking world, observers who missed it spent hours arguing about whether
the video of Mr. BÃ¶hmermann's crew inserting the raised finger into the clip of
Mr. Varoufakis was itself real or fake.

Mr. BÃ¶hmermann released a YouTube statement on Thursday, tongue firmly in
cheek, in which he called the accusation that the video was a ''fake fake fake
fake fake'' absolutely false.

Videostatement von Jan BÃ¶hmermann zum #varoufake https://t.co/ysS5Q8ZcPc
@neomagazin -- Jan BÃ¶hmermann (@janboehm) March 19, 2015

He also mocked the German media's obsession with the clip in a sarcastic aside.

Want a quote in English? pic.twitter.com/n2HGSj74El #varoufake -- Jan
BÃ¶hmermann (@janboehm) March 19, 2015

Tracked down in Zagreb, Martin Beros, the editor who put together the original
recording of Mr. Varoufakis's talk, told Reuters that the clip found on YouTube,
and played over and over in the German media, ''is the original, undoctored,
unmanipulated video that I edited.''

''Having edited the original footage,'' he added, ''I can confirm there is a
middle finger being raised by Varoufakis.''

Reflecting on what it all means, Leonid Bershidsky, a Bloomberg View columnist
in Berlin, suggested that the way the video was edited and presented on Mr.
Jauch's show was indeed misleading.

''Saying that Greece should have defaulted five years ago, instead of taking on
massive debt to Germany and the other architects of its bailout, is not the same
as suggesting Greece should not pay those debts now,'' Mr. Bershidsky observed.
The way the video was edited by ARD ''made it look as though Varoufakis was
suggesting the latter,'' which was incorrect.

That said, Mr. Bershidsky added: ''Varoufakis's barefaced lie on the Jauch show
was just as troubling. How does one negotiate with a partner who has no problem
denying on camera what can be easily proven?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/greco-german-fingergate-gets-stra
nger-and-stranger.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE
AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); FESTIVALS (88%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC
CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (62%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); ZAGREB, CROATIA (72%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); GREECE (97%); CROATIA (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anemic Support Greets Potential Bid in Boston

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words


BOSTON --  Public support for Boston to host the 2024 Summer Olympics was
already on the downslope, but it has plunged even further in the last month.

Only 36 percent of adults in the Boston region support hosting the Games, while
52 percent oppose doing so, according to the latest poll for WBUR, Boston's NPR
radio station.

This is among the most anemic levels of support ever registered by a potential
host city at this stage in the process and could doom the bid unless it is
reversed.

Public opinion will play an important role when the International Olympic
Committee selects its choice in 2017 from an array of cities that is likely to
include Paris; Rome; Hamburg, Germany; Istanbul; and Doha, Qatar.

In January, after the United States Olympic Committee selected Boston as
America's bid city, 51 percent of area residents supported the choice, according
to the same poll. By February, support had slipped to 44 percent.

Now, the numbers have dropped to the opposite of where the public started in
January.

The United States Olympic Committee responded to the poll Thursday.

Scott Blackmun, the committee's chief executive, said in a statement Thursday
that ''it's still early in the process, and while we would be pleased to see
full support across the board, we recognize that it will take time and effort to
successfully answer the important questions being raised by Bostonians.''

The decline in support coincides with a brutal winter in which Boston's regional
transit system, a linchpin in the proposed bid, collapsed as a record amount of
snow fell on the city.

''I wasn't sure what we would see this time,'' said Steve Koczela, the pollster
for the MassINC Polling Group, which conducted the survey for WBUR. ''One theory
was that after February, once the snow melted and the trains revved back to
life, you'd see support bounce back, that those numbers just reflected the
winter grumpiness,'' he said. ''But that hasn't happened.''

That suggested that winter, or winter alone, was not to blame.

''People have learned more about it and like it less,'' he said of the bid.

Chief among the concerns is that taxpayers will end up being saddled with
overrun costs.

Only 29 percent of the poll's respondents believed the promise that the Games
would be paid for with private money, while 65 percent said taxpayers would end
up footing the bill.

And they have a negative view of Boston2024, the group of business leaders,
construction magnates and public officials who organized the bid. It has been
criticized for failing to be transparent, announcing venues that were not
verified with landlords, and paying officials extravagant salaries: Deval L.
Patrick, the former governor, is to be paid $7,500 a day for his work as a
''global ambassador'' for the bid.

After the WBUR poll became public Thursday, Patrick said in a statement that he
would continue to promote the Olympics but would not take a fee. ''I intend to
take a full-time position soon and to forgo all outside consulting pay,
including for Boston2024,'' he said. ''Because I think the Olympics could be
good for the Commonwealth, I will continue to help as and when I can, but not
for a fee.''

Only 19 percent of respondents said they had a favorable view of Boston2024,
while 34 percent said they had a favorable view of NoBostonOlympics, the chief
opposition group.

Doug Rubin, a spokesman for Boston2024, said the committee knew it had work to
do. But he added that as the committee gets feedback and is able to explain its
ideas and goals, the bid is ''gaining traction.''

He said the plan was still fluid. ''It will take six or nine months of working
this through, but fairly soon we will come back with modifications to the plan,
and people will say, 'Hey, they listened to us,' '' he said. He declined to
specify any venue changes. ''We want to avoid some of the mistakes we made
early, and if we announce alternative venues, we want to make sure there's
significant community input beforehand,'' he said.

He also anticipated that support would grow.

''We are going to continue to talk with people every day, solicit their input
and advice and try to answer their questions,'' he said. ''And when we do, we
are confident that people will support an Olympic bid.''

In the group's favor, the first detailed independent study of the bid, released
Wednesday by the Boston Foundation and conducted by the University of
Massachusetts Donahue Institute, said that hosting the Games would pump billions
of dollars into the economy and create 54,000 temporary jobs; related
construction would create more than 4,000 jobs a year from 2018 to 2023. But it
also warned of the need to check potential cost overruns.

The International Olympic Committee will conduct its own official polling
starting in January 2017. One consultant who has been involved in three
successful Olympic bids hewed to the notion that this poll reflected negativity
brought on by winter and represented the nadir of public opinion.

The consultant, who spoke anonymously because of his sensitive position,
predicted the numbers would climb as spring blossomed. But he also said it was
important for Boston2024 to settle on a strategic campaign and begin to execute
it.

''No one should be pressing the panic button yet,'' he said. ''North America is
a discerning place, and I doubt you could ever see support over 70 percent
because there will always be a hard core that is opposed.''

But, he added, ''Boston needs to start getting its act together.''

The WBUR poll interviewed 504 registered voters from March 16 to 18 and has a
margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/olympics/potential-olympic-bid-in-bosto
n-is-greeted-by-anemic-support.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC RADIO (78%); CITY LIFE
(76%); GOVERNORS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (83%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (53%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); DOHA,
QATAR (56%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); QATAR (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Notre Dame Breaks Through, Holding Off Northeastern

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MIDWEST: NOTRE DAME 69, NORTHEASTERN
65; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 631 words


PITTSBURGH --  There is a perception about the Notre Dame men's basketball
program, and it is steeped in fact. It is that, come March, come the N.C.A.A.
tournament, the Fighting Irish cannot figure out how to win.

Their last two trips ended in upset losses in the round of 64, and they have not
reached the round of 16 in 12 years. This team, after winning the Atlantic Coast
Conference tournament last week, is different -- or so Coach Mike Brey said --
and on Thursday the Irish avoided further ignominy by toppling pesky
Northeastern, 69-65, at Consol Energy Center.

''We couldn't get away from them,'' Brey said.

The Irish (30-5), seeded third in the Midwest Region, did not beat the No. 14
Huskies (23-12) so much as outlast them. Northeastern, which trailed by 12
points with about six minutes left, countered every Notre Dame outburst with a
run of its own, drawing as close as 67-65 when Scott Eatherton put back a missed
3-point attempt by David Walker with 32.5 seconds remaining.

On Notre Dame's ensuing possession, Pat Connaughton threw a long pass down court
to Demetrius Jackson, who saved the ball from going out of bounds but threw it
into the hands of Northeastern guard Zach Stahl.

The Huskies did not have a timeout left, and Eatherton said he wished they did,
to draw up a play. Walker came around a curl looking for a 3-pointer, but he was
defended, and passed it off to Quincy Ford, who had the ball swiped away by
Jerian Grant.

''I've watched the N.C.A.A. tournament, and crazy things happen,'' Grant said.
''So I just wanted to be able to make a play and try to get the ball.''

Northeastern then watched as Zach Auguste, who was fouled after grabbing the
loose ball, made both free throws with 1.9 seconds left to provide the margin of
victory. Notre Dame will play No. 6 Butler on Saturday.

In truth, Brey had been wary of Northeastern, making its first N.C.A.A.
appearance since 1991, as far back as November, when both teams appeared in the
Hall of Fame Tipoff tournament in Uncasville, Conn. Notre Dame did not draw the
Huskies then, and Brey told his players he was glad they had not.

This time, the Irish did not have a choice. Northeastern stayed close the entire
first half, when neither team led by more than 5 points. To beat Notre Dame,
Huskies Coach Bill Coen said, his team could not afford to make mistakes. Any.

''You have to play the perfect game,'' he said.

The Huskies did not play a perfect game -- their 16 turnovers offset their 33-17
rebounding advantage, Coen lamented -- but still nearly joined the ranks of Iowa
State and Old Dominion and Winthrop, teams that in recent years drew the
higher-seeded Irish in the round of 64 and vanquished them. Those defeats
contributed to Notre Dame's reputation as a postseason patsy, a reputation that
the Irish expected to begin erasing during this tournament.

They ousted Duke and North Carolina in the conference tournament, but it was
another victory -- by 70-63 against Miami in the A.C.C. quarterfinals -- that
Brey evoked in the locker room after Thursday's game.

''It was really hard,'' Brey said. ''Let's see if we can get on a run like we
did down there.''

If Notre Dame does go on a run, it will need more complete performances from
Jackson, who had 8 points and 9 assists, and Auguste, whose pick-and-roll
proficiency flummoxed Northeastern. He scored 17 of his game-high 25 points
after halftime, none more important than those that came on his two free throws.

Those shots, Auguste said, put Notre Dame ''in a place where we don't have to
worry too much.'' The Irish, at tournament time, are not that familiar with that
place. Maybe another victory -- or two -- will acclimatize them.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/notre-dame-breaks-throug
h-holding-off-northeastern.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%)

COMPANY: CONSOL ENERGY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (96%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE
(57%)

TICKER: CNX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%); SIC1221
BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%)

STATE: MIDWEST USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Against North Carolina State, L.S.U. Lets One Slip Away

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; EAST: NORTH CAROLINA STATE 66,
LOUISIANA STATE 65; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 326 words


PITTSBURGH --  The problem with being the team that came closest to beating
mighty Kentucky, as Louisiana State has discovered, is the burden of
expectations. The Tigers know how well they are capable of playing, but then
there are the days when they lose to conference doormats like Auburn and
Mississippi State, and how do they explain that?

They do not know, and they will spend the off-season wondering how they blew a
16-point second-half lead Thursday night to North Carolina State, which won,
66-65, on a basket by BeeJay Anya with one-tenth of a second remaining. The No.
8 Wolfpack advanced to play the East Region's top seed, Villanova, on Saturday.

Only once all season had L.S.U., which has lost 11 games, dropped two in a row,
a stretch of futility encompassing those setbacks to Auburn and Mississippi
State. They fell into that unwanted company Thursday night by missing their last
12 shots, failing to make a field goal over the final 10 minutes 26 seconds.

L.S.U.'s 60-48 lead evaporated ever so slowly, and North Carolina State, after
drawing to 65-64, grabbed the rebound off Jordan Mickey's missed jumper and ran
one final possession. Trevor Lacey jumped at the foul line, as if to take a
shot, but he instead dished it to Anya, who took one dribble, spun and flicked a
left-handed hook that hit the back of the rim before dropping in.

''Not the shot we would have drew up to try to win a game, with BeeJay shooting
a left-handed jump hook from about eight feet,'' Wolfpack Coach Mark Gottfried
said. ''That probably wasn't the one.''

Mickey missed two foul shots with 1 minute 3 seconds left, and Anya scored the
final 4 points -- his only 4 of the game.

''I don't take that many shots during the game, so I try and contribute other
ways,'' Anya said.

When Lacey passed to him on the final play, Anya said, ''It was my turn to shoot
it.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/against-north-carolina-s
tate-lsu-lets-one-slip-away.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%);
LOUISIANA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Midmajor Upsets Are Just Part of the Tournament

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 516 words


SEATTLE -- On Thursday afternoon at KeyArena, several Northern Iowa players
gathered around a smartphone in a locker room to watch the end of the
Baylor-Georgia State game. The tension built as the time passed and Georgia
State mounted an improbable rally.

With 2.6 seconds left, R. J. Hunter hit a shot from beyond the 3-point line to
put the Panthers ahead, 57-56, and Northern Iowa's players were so astonished
that they practically fell over.

''Oh my God!'' said the junior guard Wes Washpun while jogging toward the
showers. ''How deep was that?''

Both Baylor and Iowa State, which fell to Alabama-Birmingham, were No. 3 seeds
from power conferences upset by 14th-seeded midmajors. Which made for an
interesting dynamic in Seattle, where serendipity has sent the only two midmajor
teams that are clear-cut favorites in the first round.

For most midmajor teams, the victories by Georgia State and Alabama-Birmingham
would be unequivocal sources of inspiration. But for second-seeded Gonzaga,
which faces No. 15 North Dakota State on Friday, and No. 5 Northern Iowa, which
plays No. 12 Wyoming, they are mainly cautionary tales.

''It doesn't surprise any of us anymore,'' said Seth Tuttle, a senior forward
for Northern Iowa. ''We're just hoping not to join that list.''

Silas Melson, a freshman guard for Gonzaga, noted, ''It's March Madness,
obviously.''

''We don't want to be one of those teams that gets upset like that,'' he said.
''We want to play our game, come in, just be successful.''

Gonzaga might be particularly well-equipped to see these upsets as omens rather
than outliers. After their improbable round of 8 run in 1999, the Bulldogs have
become both the perennial little midmajor that could, with 17 straight N.C.A.A.
tournament bids. However, they frequently disappoint. Despite having great teams
and low seeds in the past, they have made it as far as the round of 16 only
twice since 2001, and have not made it that far since 2009.

Louisville Coach Rick Pitino offered the perspective of the power-conference
favorite here: the Cardinals are a fourth seed from the Atlantic Coast
Conference, and in the past, Pitino has won national championships with
favorites from Louisville and Kentucky.

''I always get the most jitters as a basketball coach, after 20 times being in
the tournament, in the first round,'' he said, explaining that the higher seed
frequently comes in ''fired up.''

In the first round of the 1996 tournament, the No. 16-seeded San Jose State
trailed his top-seeded Wildcats by only 6 at the half.

''The emotional swing is dramatic,'' he recalled.

Gonzaga and Northern Iowa appeared to be trying to keep emotion out of it.

''It's fun watching all these fun college games,'' said Gonzaga's Kyle Wiltjer,
a junior forward. ''But we're just focused on ourselves.''

Washpun -- who, like many of his Northern Iowa teammates, is a Hawkeye State
native -- extended only a little sympathy to the fallen Iowa State, though.

''We know some of those guys,'' Washpun said. ''We kind of feel bad for them.
But I've got to be honest. They're competition.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/midmajor-upsets-are-just
-part-of-the-tournament.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (78%); COACHES & TRAINERS (75%); BASKETBALL
TOURNAMENTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF
(66%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA
(71%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (64%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA,
USA (91%); IOWA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Short-Handed St. John's

BYLINE: By VIV BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 231 words


CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Having made the N.C.A.A. tournament for only the second time
in Coach Steve Lavin's five-year tenure, and only the second time since 2002,
No. 9-seeded St. John's will be short-handed in its South Region game against
San Diego State (26-8), the No. 8 seed, Friday in Charlotte, N.C.

The Red Storm (21-11) will play without starting center Chris Obekpa, who was
suspended for two weeks for violating team rules after reportedly failing a drug
test. Obekpa averaged 3.1 blocks per game, fifth best in Division I, along with
5.8 points and 7 rebounds for St. John's.

''It's less than ideal to not have Chris Obekpa's services for the N.C.A.A.
tournament,'' Lavin said Thursday.

''Yet this group over the past three years has had a number of stretches where
we've had to play without Chris and have been successful. So whether it was
through foul trouble, being disqualified from a game or fouling out or a number
of injures that he's endured, this team has found a way to offset the loss of
Chris in games and stretches of the season and still been successful.''

Obekpa will not be eligible to return until the Final Four weekend, if the Red
Storm makes it to Indianapolis. The last time St. John's won a game in the
tournament was in 2000.

The team's last Final Four? Try 1985.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/st-johns-will-be-short-h
anded-against-san-diego-state.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); DRUG TESTING
(55%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (96%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Business

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 269 words


SEATTLE -- If you put a couple dozen people in a room together, there are good
odds two of those people will share a birthday.

A similar principle informs March Madness: Thrust 68 teams into one tournament,
and odd coincidences are bound to pop up in individual games.

The story line for Friday's No. 5 Northern Iowa-No. 12 Wyoming matchup concerns
Northern Iowa guard Wes Washpun, whose father, Jamal, played for Wyoming.

In the locker room Thursday, shortly after being on the receiving end of one
brief interview about the coincidence, Washpun sat for another.

Wyoming Cowboys basketball did not figure largely in his childhood in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, Washpun said.

''I knew that my dad went there and played his college ball, but that was the
extent of it,'' Washpun said Thursday.

He rooted, instead, for local teams, including Iowa State, which was upset
Thursday by Alabama-Birmingham, and Iowa, which is also at Seattle's KeyArena
this weekend. Jamal Washpun, who will be at the game Friday, offered his son
some advice.

''He just told me to go out and play just like it's any other day,'' the younger
Washpun said. ''Knowing that it's his alma mater is obviously a big deal, but
I'm not sure if he has any ties to Wyoming still.''

If anything, Wes Washpun might be the one better remembered in Cowboys
basketball lore: Friday will be Wyoming's first N.C.A.A. tournament game since
2002, and any larger run will require containing Washpun, a junior who is second
on the Panthers in points and assists per game.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/northern-iowa-and-wyomin
g-share-a-familial-connection.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (77%);
COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (76%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA
(54%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hulking Front Line Prepares to Face Kansas

BYLINE: By PAT BORZI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 319 words


OMAHA -- New Mexico State center Tshilidzi Nephawe stands 6 feet 10 inches with
an intimidating natural scowl that belies an engaging manner. Nephawe, a South
African, anchors a hulking front line for the No. 15-seeded Aggies (23-10), the
Western Athletic Conference champions who often dominate teams inside.

Facing second-seeded Kansas in an intriguing Midwest Region first round game
Friday, Nephawe expects nothing different, especially from himself.

''I think I'm bigger and stronger than everybody,'' Nephawe said, ''so I think I
will have an advantage over them.''

The Aggies go 6-10, 6-9, and 6-8 across the front with Nephawe, the redshirt
freshman Pascal Siakam and the senior Remi Barry. Their height and signature 3-2
zone defense could pose matchup problems for guard-oriented Kansas (26-8),
especially with the top forward and leading scorer Perry Ellis recovering from a
right knee sprain. Baylor usesd a similar zone in the Big 12, and Kansas won all
three meetings with the Bears in this season.

''I think it's important we attack whatever defense we're in right from the
outset as opposed to kind of waiting to go see how it's played,'' Kansas Coach
Bill Self said.

Kansas fans hate being reminded of their team's opening weekend, bracket-busting
losses under Self -- to Stanford last year, Northern Iowa in 2010, and Bucknell
and Bradley back-to-back in 2005 and 2006. Plus, a loss Friday would wreck a
potential intrastate matchup with Wichita State in the second round. The teams
have not played since 1993.

The 28-4 Shockers, of course, could losinge to Indiana (20-13) on Friday. Both
teams did their best to deflect questions about it.

''We're doing our thing right now trying to beat the team that wears the red and
white, not the blue, red and white,'' Wichita State Coach Gregg Marshall said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/a-hulking-new-mexico-sta
te-front-line-prepares-to-face-kansas.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%)

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (92%)

STATE: KANSAS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (91%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); IOWA, USA
(79%); INDIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Battle of the Lowly, the Knicks End Up a Bit Lower

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 393 words


After nearly five months of futility, the Knicks and the Minnesota Timberwolves
showed up at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night with matching records:
14-53, which qualified them as the two worst teams in the N.B.A.

Several thousand people, who were either morbidly curious or seeking refuge from
the cold, turned out to watch take Knicks another step toward cementing their
status as the very worst. Zach LaVine hit two late free throws to help send the
Timberwolves to a 95-92 victory in overtime.

Langston Galloway led the Knicks with 21 points and 7 rebounds.

If the result was tough on team morale, it at least boosted the Knicks'
prospects in the draft.

Before the game, Coach Derek Fisher again addressed the notion -- as he had for
weeks -- that winning games might not be in the Knicks' best long-term
interests. After all, the team that finishes the season with the league's worst
record has the best odds of winning the draft lottery. Fisher said it was
important that the Knicks actually try to win.

''We can't control who plays for Minnesota, what they're thinking about their
future and their plans,'' Fisher said. ''That shouldn't be on our radar. You
can't practice losing. So if at any point you embrace losing, I don't think that
works out very well for you.''

If the Knicks have not necessarily embraced losing, they have gotten awfully
good at it. After defeating the San Antonio Spurs on Tuesday in a seismic upset
-- Gregg Popovich, the coach of the Spurs, assessed his team's performance as
''pathetic'' -- the Knicks fell just shy of stringing together consecutive wins
for the first time in nearly three weeks.

The Timberwolves were in rough shape, with half their roster, including Kevin
Garnett, sitting out with what the team said were injuries. To meet the league
requirement that they dress eight players, the Timberwolves on Thursday signed
Sean Kilpatrick from the Delaware 87ers of the Development League. His primary
asset was his proximity to the arena.

''We had to go find someone that was within a train ride away,'' Coach Flip
Saunders said before the game. ''We'll be undermanned. Guys that have complained
in the past about playing time won't have to worry about it tonight.''

Kilpatrick wound up playing 10 scoreless minutes and missed his only field-goal
attempt. Against the Knicks, it was good enough.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/basketball/nba-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
(58%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (58%)

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Investigators Accuse Islamic State of Genocide Over Attacks on Yazidis

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 681 words


GENEVA --  United Nations human rights investigators on Thursday leveled
accusations of genocide and war crimes at the Islamic State, citing evidence
that the extremist group's fighters had sought to wipe out the Yazidi minority
in Iraq.

The investigators reported that the pattern of attacks against the Yazidis, a
religious minority living mostly in northern Iraq, pointed to the intention of
the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, ''to destroy the Yazidi as a
group.''

Although the report states cautiously that the extremists ''may have committed''
genocide, one of the most serious international crimes, Hanny Megally, a senior
United Nations rights official, told reporters in Geneva that ''all the
information points in that direction.''

Iraqi government forces and affiliated militia groups also appear to have
committed war crimes, the United Nations said, pointing to what it called
credible accounts of scores of summary killings, torture, abductions and
indiscriminate attacks on civilians, including the use of barrel bombs.

In their advance across Iraq last year, Islamic State fighters rounded up
hundreds of Yazidi men over the age of 14, led them to nearby ditches and
summarily executed them, the United Nations said. The report included the
testimony of men who had survived massacres by shielding themselves behind the
bodies of other victims.

''It was quite clear the attacks against them were not just spontaneous or
happened out of the blue; they were clearly orchestrated,'' said Suki Nagra, who
led a team of investigators that compiled the report.

Witnesses ''consistently reported that orders were coming through, by telephone
in many cases, about what to do with them,'' she said.

Islamic State fighters forced other religious minorities to convert or flee
their villages, Ms. Nagra said, but in many instances, even Yazidis who agreed
to convert were taken away and executed on orders from more senior figures in
the militant group. ''There was a clear chain of command,'' she said.

Evidence provided by witnesses also suggested that ''a huge number of foreign
fighters were involved'' and that they had come from at least 10 countries,
including from the West, Ms. Nagra said.

Yazidi women and girls were abducted and sold or given into sexual slavery as
spoils of war, said witnesses who also cited the rape by extremist fighters of
two girls, ages 6 and 9. A pregnant married woman, 19, told investigators that
she was raped repeatedly over two and a half months by an Islamic State militant
claiming to be a doctor, and that he had deliberately sat on her stomach,
telling her, ''This baby should die because it is an infidel.''

Yazidi boys as young as 8 were forced to convert to Islam, to undergo training
in the use of weapons and to watch videos of beheadings, children who escaped
captivity told the United Nations team.

''There are reports of hundreds, if not thousands, of these young boys who were
forcibly taken,'' Ms. Nagra said.

The investigators also detailed politically motivated violence, reporting that
the Islamic State had killed at least 602 members of the Albu Nimr tribe in
Anbar Province in Iraq and 1,500 to 1,700 Iraqi service members it had captured
at a military base. Some were shot, and others were beheaded, Ms. Nagra said,
citing a witness who recounted that the extremists had been ''kicking heads
around like footballs.''

The investigators also reported numerous accounts of killings, abductions and
torture by the Iraqi military and militias. As the fight against the Islamic
State gathered momentum last summer, the militias seemed ''to operate with total
impunity, leaving a trail of death and destruction in their wake,'' the
investigators reported.

Security forces summarily executed 43 prisoners at a police station in June and
killed at least 70 Sunni civilians in Diyala Province in January, according to
the United Nations team. The investigators also said they had received multiple
reports of militia groups running detention facilities and conducting routine
torture at a government air base.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/isis-genocide-yazidis-iraq-un
-panel.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); WAR CRIMES (92%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT
(91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS
(90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%);
MINORITY GROUPS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); WITNESSES (89%); SEXUAL
ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); WOMEN (78%); TORTURE (78%);
PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); SLAVERY (73%); MEN (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Victor Moscoso, 'Psychedelic Drawings, 1967-1982'

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 295 words


Andrew Edlin Gallery

134 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, Chelsea

Through April 25

In the 1960s, Victor Moscoso produced some of the most memorable acid rock
posters of the psychedelic revolution in San Francisco. He also contributed
trippy strips to Zap Comix, the underground publication founded by R. Crumb.
Organized by the curator and writer Dan Nadel and the graphic designer and
design historian Norman Hathaway, this exhibition offers a tantalizing glimpse
back at an unusually euphoric time for graphic design. Along with vintage
concert posters, it presents original drawings, collages and surrealistic comic
strips from 1967 to 1982, including several studies for one of Mr. Moscoso's
most famous images: the phallic, tap-dancing, hat-tipping Mr. Peanut, which
graced the cover of Zap No. 4.

Born in Spain in 1936, Mr. Moscoso moved with his family to Brooklyn in 1940.
One of the few celebrated psychedelic poster artists with extensive academic
training, he attended Cooper Union and earned a B.A. at Yale. There he studied
with the painter Josef Albers, whose color theories came in handy in 1966 when
Mr. Moscoso started producing his chromatically electric posters for the
Grateful Dead, the Doors and other bands. He also earned a master's degree in
painting at the San Francisco Art Institute in 1961.

It's helpful to compare the career of the graphic designer Paul Rand, who
created logos for corporations like IBM, UPS and Enron. While Mr. Rand's
instantly legible designs expressed faith in American capitalism, Mr. Moscoso's
riotous, perceptually and conceptually confounding works advanced a
countercultural ethos of imaginative and instinctual freedom whose effects
continue to reverberate in today's artistic culture. KEN JOHNSON




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/victor-moscoso-psychedelic-drawing
s-1967-1982.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Victor  Moscoso's acid  rock posters  and other  works are in
this show at  the Andrew  Edlin Gallery.  They reflect a  euphoric time  for
graphic  design. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR MOSCOSO AND ANDREW EDLIN GALLERY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (71%); DANCE (69%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); SPAIN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Donor Says Missouri Chairman of G.O.P. Made Biased Remark

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 438 words


JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. --  A prominent Republican donor backed up assertions that
Missouri's Republican chairman had made negative religious remarks about a state
auditor who killed himself amid perceptions that he was the target of an
anti-Semitic whispering campaign.

David Humphreys, a Republican businessman, released a signed affidavit saying
that John Hancock, a Republican consultant who later was elected head of the
party, told him on Nov. 24 that Tom Schweich, who was seeking the Republican
nomination for governor, was Jewish.

''The meaning I took from Mr. Hancock's statement and tone of his comments was
clear: He (Tom Schweich) is Jewish -- in case you didn't know -- and that being
Jewish is a negative attribute for Tom Schweich's gubernatorial race,'' Mr.
Humphreys said in the affidavit.

Mr. Humphreys is the first person to publicly attest to hearing such comments
from Mr. Hancock.

Mr. Hancock said Thursday that he had met with Mr. Humphreys, but he denied
saying anything about Mr. Schweich's religion.

''It didn't happen,'' Mr. Hancock said.

Mr. Schweich fatally shot himself on Feb. 26 at his home in the St. Louis suburb
of Clayton, one month after declaring his candidacy for governor. The shooting
occurred minutes after he told a reporter that he was ready to go public with
allegations that Mr. Hancock had made anti-Semitic remarks about him.

Mr. Schweich had Jewish ancestry but attended an Episcopal church.

Former Senator John Danforth, an Episcopal minister who was Mr. Schweich's
friend and political mentor, delivered the eulogy at his funeral and suggested
he had been driven to suicide by political bullying and an anti-Semitic
whispering campaign.

Mr. Danforth said Thursday that he asked Mr. Humphreys to come forward with his
account, because Mr. Hancock has denied making such remarks. He said the
Republican State Committee should remove him as chairman.

''The brand of the Republican Party in Missouri has been badly damaged, and it's
very important to set the record clear,'' Mr. Danforth said. ''I think it's
important for Republicans to dissociate themselves from what has happened in the
campaign against Tom Schweich.''

Mr. Hancock has said previously that he had mistakenly believed Mr. Schweich was
Jewish and, although he had no specific recollection of doing so, has said it is
possible he might have mentioned that in an off-handed way to prospective
donors.

''I did meet with David Humphreys on Nov. 24,'' while running for chairman, Mr.
Hancock said. But ''I would not have said Tom Schweich was Jewish at that
meeting, because I knew that he wasn't at that point.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/donor-says-john-hancock-missouri-r
epublican-chairman-made-biased-remark.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%);
RELIGION (90%); ANTISEMITISM (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%);
JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS
& AUDITORS (78%); SUICIDE (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%)

CITY: JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Man's Body Is Found Hanging From Tree in South

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 358 words


NEW ORLEANS --  Federal, state and local law enforcement agencies are
investigating the death of a black man who was found hanging from a tree in a
small Mississippi town on Thursday morning.

The man was hanging by a bedsheet, said Sheriff Marvin Lucas of Claiborne
County, who added that it had not yet been determined if hanging had been the
ultimate cause of death.

The man's hands were not tied, the sheriff said, adding that the death had not
yet been ruled a homicide or a suicide. The man has not yet been formally
identified.

''This person had been out in the woods for a while,'' Sheriff Lucas said. ''He
didn't just go out there yesterday.''

But the state chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. identified the man as Otis James Byrd,
54.

Sheriff Lucas said that seemed possible, though an identification would not be
certain until an autopsy was performed.

Mr. Byrd has been missing since March 2 from the small town of Port Gibson,
which is not far from the Mississippi River. His family had filed a missing
person's report with the Sheriff's Department six days later.

On Thursday morning, according to Jason Pack, a supervisory special agent with
the F.B.I., which is assisting state and local authorities in the investigation,
the Sheriff's Department and the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries
and Parks were conducting a search for Mr. Byrd when agents found the body
hanging in the woods.

The location was about 500 yards from a house Mr. Byrd had been renting, Sheriff
Lucas said.

According to the Mississippi Department of Corrections, Mr. Byrd was convicted
of capital murder for killing a woman in February 1980 during a robbery. He was
released on parole in November 2006.

The federal Department of Justice is also investigating the death for possible
civil rights violations. The state N.A.A.C.P. had urged federal involvement.

''Considering Mr. Byrd's body was found hanging from a tree, we are calling on
federal authorities to immediately investigate to determine whether his death is
a result of a racial hate crime,'' Derrick Johnson, the president of the state
conference of the N.A.A.C.P., said in a statement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/black-mans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-in-
mississippi.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MURDER (78%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); PAROLE (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%);
HOMICIDE (78%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DEATHS (78%); FISHERIES (73%);
SUICIDE (71%); HATE CRIME (71%); WILDLIFE (69%); CORRECTIONS (68%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (67%); CAPITAL CRIMES (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); ROBBERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%);
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shows at Q.E.D. in Queens, and a New York Public Library Show on Photography

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; WEEKEND
MISER; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 523 words


After-school activities at the Miser's junior high were a mixed bag. There was
that fly-tying class that has never come in handy, for example, but at least it
was a chance to try something new.

Adulthood shouldn't be any different -- or that's the idea behind Q.E.D., in
Astoria, Queens. It's a playground for adults who want to, say, practice
stand-up comedy or learn how to apply their own zombie makeup. (Not every new
skill must be useful in life.)

Q.E.D. is also a showcase for emerging performers in storytelling. On Friday,
the comedian Louie Pearlman hosts a musical improv show at 7 p.m. Imagine making
up a comic song on the spot.

The music continues at 7 p.m. on Saturday with ''Don't Feed the Musicians!,''
hosted by the YouTube-famous Rob Paravonian. (He had a viral hit eight years ago
with a musical rant about how Pachelbel's Canon in D pervades pop music to a
frustrating degree.) He and friends will play comedic songs and pick apart
chart-toppers, and for only $5.

Later that night, at 9, the storytellers Caitlin Brodnick and Lisa Kleinman host
''Everybody SHUT UP!,'' which is similar to ''The Moth'' but with a little more
variety. There will be stories, but there might also be stand-up comedy or vocal
impressions.

If you're hungry between performances, Q.E.D. serves food and drinks that are
cheaper than you'll find at many other places around the city. Beer ranges from
$4 to $6, and wine doesn't get more expensive than $7.

(27-16 23rd Avenue; 347-451-3873; qedastoria.com.)

If you'd rather venture off campus, Petey's Burger is less than a mile away. The
Miser, like countless other California expats, is always searching for a decent
In-N-Out substitute. Petey's Burger, with its low prices and no-frills menu,
might be the perfect candidate.

(30-17 30th Avenue; 718-267-6300; peteysburger.com.)

SHARING BEFORE SELFIES

Snapchat and Instagram are little more than new additions to a long history of
social photography. Even before the birth of daguerreotypes in the 19th century,
we had painted portraiture, as John Gallagher, a research fellow at the
University of Cambridge, pointed out in a recent tweet: ''In my day we had no
narcissistic selfie sticks -- you just paid a man to come to your house and
paint you surrounded by your possessions.''

A new exhibition at the New York Public Library, ''Public Eye,'' plays with this
idea to rethink how photography has been shared throughout its history, and how
we interact with public spaces -- even wilderness. The show goes back to the
official birth of photography in 1839 and works its way to the present, with
concerns about privacy in the age of oversharing.

The exhibition wouldn't be complete without its own contribution to social
photography. The library has a mirror set up where visitors can take a selfie
while standing near text on the ground that says, ''I am in the public eye.''
Post it to Instagram with #publiceyeNYPL, and you'll appear on the library's
website alongside others doing the same in a simulacrum of selfies.

(Through Jan. 3; Stephen A. Schwarzman Building, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street;
917-275-6975; nypl.org.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/shows-at-qed-in-queens-and-a-new-york
-public-library-show-on-photography.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1901 postcard of Pikes Peak, shot by William Henry Jackson.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE MIRIAM AND IRA D. WALLACH DIVISION OF ART, PRINTS AND
PHOTOGRAPHS/  NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAMS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (88%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES
(86%); PHOTOGRAPHY (86%); SELFIES (84%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (79%); MIDDLE
& JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(74%); POP & ROCK (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); VIRAL VIDEOS (68%);
EXHIBITIONS (64%); PRICES (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Mets' Gee Looks Solid in Start; Murphy Tweaks Hamstring

BYLINE: By PETER KERASOTIS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 727 words


PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. --  On a day when the Mets looked to plug one hole, moving
Dillon Gee from the bullpen to the rotation, another leak emerged, albeit not
one as major as losing starting pitcher Zack Wheeler to season-ending Tommy John
surgery.

In a split-squad game against the St. Louis Cardinals on Thursday, second
baseman Daniel Murphy played half an inning before he was sidelined by tightness
in his right hamstring. Murphy singled in the first inning and later scored on a
sacrifice fly by John Mayberry Jr. But Murphy did not take his position in the
bottom half of the first.

''His hamstring tightened up when he came around first and he felt it at third
before he scored,'' Manager Terry Collins said. ''He took off and felt it cramp
up. He didn't think it was serious.''

While Murphy's setback is considered minor, he does have a history of right leg
problems. Last season, he was on the 15-day disabled list from Aug. 25 to Sept.
9 with a right calf strain. In 2010, he was on the 15-day disabled list with a
mild strain of the medial collateral ligament. Later that season, he missed the
final 90 days at Class AAA Buffalo when that same ligament tore.

The Mets' more pressing concern is the loss of Wheeler. In his stead, Gee, like
Wheeler a right-hander, needs to build up his pitch count in what remains of
spring training, a process he started Thursday in the Mets' split-squad game at
home at Tradition Field against the Houston Astros.

After surrendering a scorching double to Jose Altuve on his first pitch --
which, Gee admitted, was a grooved fastball to a player known to be aggressive
-- he settled in and threw three and two-thirds scoreless innings. Gee yielded
only one other hit -- a single to the last batter he faced. In between the hits
to begin and end his outing, Gee walked two with no strikeouts. In all, he threw
47 pitches, 27 for strikes.

''More than anything I was trying to work on all four of my pitches,'' he said.
''The last few outings out of the bullpen hasn't afforded me the time to work on
a lot of different pitches.''

In relief, Rafael Montero, another potential fifth starter, also pitched three
and two-thirds innings, giving up an earned run while striking out two and
walking none.

Gee's outing was encouraging for the Mets, who have seen him perform at a high
level, but who also tried to trade him in the off-season.

In five seasons, Gee is 40-34 with a 3.91 earned run average. In 2011, he
started the season 7-0 with a 2.86 E.R.A., the best start by a Mets rookie
pitcher since Jon Matlack opened the 1972 season 6-0. From May 30, 2013, to July
9, 2014, Gee was 14-6 with a 2.67 E.R.A. But he struggled late in the 2014
season, which he finished with a 7-8 record and a 4.00 E.R.A.

This off-season, Gee said he put in a lot of film work, trying to recapture the
mechanics that made him a successful big leaguer. He said that the serious
shoulder injury he sustained in 2012 -- a clot in an artery -- spooked him into
wondering what caused it and how to prevent it from happening again.

''I felt like I needed to change something,'' he said. ''I started really
tinkering with my mechanics. When I do that, I'm all messed up. I'm a very feel
guy. Mechanics are key for me. I was messed up mentally big-time.''

He also found himself trying to overthrow to keep up with the plethora of power
arms the Mets have.

''For me,'' he said, ''being surrounded by guys who can throw almost 100 miles
per hour, it was like, I want to try and hump up a little bit. But I'm not that
guy. It took experience and failure for me to realize that's not me, and I need
to stick with what got me here.''

In watching off-season film, Gee saw that his arm angle had become an almost
complete overhead delivery, which caused his pitches to flatten. ''So I went
back and watched old film,'' he said. ''I went all the way back and watched film
from when I was in college.''

The lesson he learned is to be who he is, and also who he once was.

''Be good at what you're good at,'' he said. ''I learned that I shouldn't try to
be something that I'm not.''

INSIDE PITCH

Curtis Granderson, who is batting .381, hit his second home run of the spring,
lofting a changeup away down the left-field line. ... The Mets sent Akeel
Morris, a right-handed pitcher from the United States Virgin Islands, to their
minor league camp.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/baseball/mets-dillon-gee-looks-solid-in
-start-daniel-murphy-tweaks-hamstring.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In 'Metalhead,' an Icelandic Girl Drowns Her Sorrows in Music

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 268 words


Ragnar Bragason's ''Metalhead'' -- about a disaffected teenage girl on an
isolated farm who finds salvation in heavy-metal music -- could have been set in
a Great Plains town or in any American agricultural hamlet. But it takes place
near Svarthamar, an empty, rural corner of Iceland, where much social activity
revolves around the church.

It begins in the 1980s, when 12-year-old Hera discovers the dead body of her
brother, a victim of a tractor accident. Despondent, she honors his memory by
adopting his musical tastes (Judas Priest, Megadeth), his black biker jacket and
his band T-shirts, as well as his Flying V electric guitar, amplifier and
recording equipment. (Scandinavia has long had a thriving metal scene.) And she
grows into a sullen hellion (played by the remarkable Thora Bjorg Helga) who
cranks up her guitar, smokes cigarettes at religious services, acts up at her
slaughterhouse job and disrupts a local dance with thrashing mosh-pit moves. But
her parents (Ingvar E. Sigurdsson and Halldora Geirhardsdottir, both excellent)
mourn, too -- they can't bear to alter their son's room -- and the film is their
story as well.

The visually adroit Mr. Bragason sympathizes with all his characters (who
include an overweight suitor for Hera and a young priest she tries to seduce).
So much so that the film's sentimental closing scene is its one misstep. But on
the way there, it taps into something universal, and very precious, about loss,
art and adolescent rebellion.

METALHEAD

Opens on Friday

Directed by Ragnar Bragason

In Icelandic, with English subtitles

1 hour 40 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/in-metalhead-an-icelandic-girl-drowns-h
er-sorrows-in-music.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thora Bjorg Helga as a heavy-metal enthusiast grieving for her
brother in ''Metalhead.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CINELICIOUS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ADOLESCENTS
(78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); RELIGION (76%); AGRICULTURAL ACCIDENTS (73%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%)

COUNTRY: ICELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Burst of Upsets, and Confidence, to Shake Things Up

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR.

Email: juliet@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 858 words


LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- There was something about the way the University of Alabama
at Birmingham's men's basketball team took the court here at midday Thursday
that made me think that the Blazers fan holding a sign that said ''U.A.B. Shock
the World'' might not be so crazy after all.

The Blazers strutted onto the court, heads held high, looking not as if they
were heavy underdogs -- which they were because they were the No. 14 seed
playing the No. 3 seed, Iowa State -- but as if they owned the place.

They kept their confidence, even when they started off poorly, quickly falling
behind by 10-2, and at first that seemed amusing. I chalked it up to the team
being young and cocky. Then, as the time ticked off the clock, their attitude
turned brilliant.

What did they have to lose? Not a thing. So they played as if they should win,
and they did win, 60-59. The team was so overjoyed that its entire bench rushed
the court and many players ended up in a joyful pile of green uniforms, hugging
as if they had just won the national title.

And that, right there, was the beauty of this tournament. Here, there is
something that cannot be found in the regular season: an inexplicable and
sometimes unwarranted confidence that gives some teams the edge when it counts
the most.

That confidence is why U.A.B. gave us the tournament's first big upset. And it
is why, about an hour later, in a different region, No. 14 Georgia State beat
No. 3 Baylor, for the tournament's second big upset.

In that game, with 2.5 seconds to go, Coach Ron Hunter toppled backward off his
stool as his son, R. J. Hunter, hit a 3-pointer from the next town over to win
the game. Within minutes, video of the coach and his dramatic tumble spread
around the Internet.

Those two early upsets set off a chorus of crumpling brackets and served as a
reminder that the little guys here should never be ignored. They are often out
to prove everybody wrong, and that motivation can give them a powerful boost,
especially against a higher-seeded team that expects an easy game.

What did the U.A.B. sophomore guard Tyler Madison have to say about proving
everyone wrong?

''It was fun,'' he said.

How did the U.A.B. freshman forward Chris Cokley describe one highlight of the
game, when he rose above the rim and dunked, prompting Blazers fans to cheer so
loudly that the stands shook?

''It was cool,'' he said.

Thursday's upsets prove that it's futile to spend hours filling out your
bracket. This year, my 3-year-old daughter helped me with mine by choosing which
mascots looked fiercer, and look how that turned out: I look like a basketball
savant for picking Georgia State over Baylor. (A scary blue panther won out over
an angry teddy bear.)

Every year, there's always a U.A.B. or a Georgia State.

Or a U.C.L.A., a team that many people thought did not even belong in this
tournament. On Thursday, the No. 11-seeded Bruins delivered yet another upset,
beating sixth-seeded Southern Methodist, 60-59.

With about 10 seconds left, Bruins guard Bryce Alford -- son of U.C.L.A. Coach
Steve Alford -- shot a 3-pointer and the referees called goaltending. That came
after Bryce had made eight earlier 3-pointers, for nine in all. A few of those
3s came from so far beyond the arc that he could have ordered a hot dog at the
concession stand at the same time.

''I think everybody comes in here knowing that anything is possible,'' Bryce
said. ''That's what's so great about all of this.''

His father said that the Bruins didn't come in thinking they were underdogs,
saying, ''I'm not so sure we knew that or we accepted it,'' and that ''they had
a chip on their shoulder because we felt that we earned this.''

U.A.B. came in thinking the exact same thing. It didn't matter that earlier this
season, they had been trampled by Wisconsin, 72-43, and North Carolina, 89-58.
That was then, the Blazers said, and this is now.

''A totally different time,'' said Robert Brown, a junior who scored a team-high
21 points against Iowa State. ''Everybody turns a page when they get here.''

Iowa State did. But they went backward in the book, from a good team to a sloppy
and sluggish one.

The Cyclones were outrebounded, 52-37, and several times players celebrated too
soon by running downcourt with their arms outstretched, thinking a shot was
good, when it clanked off the rim. On defense, they allowed the Blazers to shoot
unimpeded, as if defense against a low seed was not worth the effort.

A day earlier, the Blazers had told me they hoped to build a winning tradition
of basketball, like the ones at Duke or North Carolina, now that the university
has cut its football team. The Blazers' basketball attendance dropped by nearly
25 percent this season, and Coach Jerod Haase and several players said fans were
staying away to punish the university for slashing football.

So the players on Thursday wanted to put on a show, in hopes of luring back some
fans. If their victory on Thursday doesn't accomplish that, nothing will.

Their upset may not have shocked the world, as the fan's sign said. But it
definitely shocked people into reality: No top team is safe.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/march-madness-2015-a-bur
st-of-upsets-and-confidence-to-shake-ncaa-tournament-up.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (84%)

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding the Lost City Was the Easy Part

BYLINE: By TOM LUTZ.

Tom Lutz is the editor in chief of the Los Angeles Review of Books.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 881 words


RIGHT now, in the jungle some 50 miles inland from the Mosquito Coast of
Honduras, sits an astounding cache of ancient artifacts, until this month most
likely unseen by human eyes for somewhere between 600 and 1,000 years. I
traveled there three weeks ago with a team of archaeologists, anthropologists,
ethnobotanists, filmmakers and Honduran soldiers, who were following up on lidar
images -- a laser-based aerial surveillance technology -- that suggested the
presence of ruins.

We discovered far more than that. In what appeared to be a ceremonial site at
the base of a pyramid, there were stone implements, bowls and furniture, relics
of a largely understudied pre-Columbian culture, called simply ''the people who
lived in the Mosquitia.'' The artifacts betrayed expert craftsmanship. Bowls
were decorated with curved handles in the shape of serpents and birds. A stone
face -- a jaguar? -- protruded from the dirt. It may have been decoration on a
larger, still-buried object.

We don't know, because we didn't touch anything.

Our group had built the kind of bonds that come from slogging around in the mud
together for days, and then sharing a once-in-a-lifetime event, the discovery of
a lost city. We all agreed about our good fortune. But we disagreed about what
should happen next.

Some, including the filmmakers Steve Elkins and Bill Benenson, thought we should
take a portion of the exposed objects back to Tegucigalpa for safekeeping by
I.H.A.H., Honduras's anthropology and history institute. The chances that the
site would be looted before it could be properly excavated were extremely high.
How long did we have? A matter of weeks, said one anthropologist; three days, a
security guy guessed.

Archaeological looting is epidemic, and not just in Honduras. A recent survey of
archaeologists published in the American Journal of Archaeology found that 80
percent worldwide have personal experience with looting -- being offered items
for sale, for instance, or realizing items were missing from a site.

The archaeologists, nonetheless, unanimously opposed moving anything. As a
Colorado State University professor, Chris Fisher, said, the scientific value of
the artifacts comes from their context, which we can establish through
conscientious excavation, and which would be fatally compromised if they were
improperly removed.

But they have been mapped now, the other group pointed out; we have filmed them,
and if we don't pull them out, the first person who comes looking will grab
them, and then you have no context and no object. Taking these few visible
objects will also make it harder for looters to find the rest of the cache.

Professor Fisher was unconvinced. When we say context, he explained, we mean
much more than location. Proper testing can measure when sunlight last hit the
earth below an object, can find residues in the soil, can help us date the
object, come closer to understanding its use, its significance. Museums already
display hundreds of bowls like the ones here, he said. A couple more would make
no difference.

But losing everything to looters? How can that be preferable?

Protecting the site cannot be our job, one archaeologist regretfully replied. We
will not be here. It is the Hondurans' responsibility, their patrimony, not
ours.

And that is how we left it as we abandoned the site to its fate. This week,
after National Geographic broke the story, the Honduran president, Juan Orlando
Hernández, ordered the armed forces to protect the site. They have arrived, but
we don't know yet if everything was found intact. The Mosquitia is an enormous
jungle and Honduras a poor country -- the armed forces have had only marginal
success curtailing illegal clear-cutting and drug smuggling, so their
effectiveness here remains to be seen. And how long will they stay? I.H.A.H.
does not have the financial resources to deploy a team of archaeologists to
excavate the site.

Funding for such projects everywhere is growing more difficult. A dig like this
does not translate into a career. You have a big career by asking the big
questions -- questions about sustainability, about the rise and fall of
civilizations -- for which you need deep data. Archaeologists are more likely to
fight over the chance to go through another archaeologist's back dirt at a
well-known site than take on the job of building a database from scratch. So
this site could remain orphaned for a long time.

In the 19th century, archaeologists could simply buy a promising site, and
European scientific societies could provide stewardship, for a hundred years and
more. But that was in the bad old imperialist days, before adequate patrimony
laws were instituted, ensuring that local governments controlled rights to
anything found on their sovereign soil. One unintended result is what we see in
Honduras today, where the resources for preserving that patrimony all too often
do not exist.

Thanks to the publicity around the expedition and the Honduran president's
decision, this site appears to be safe for now. But we who were lucky enough to
be the first scientific team to walk that ground in so many centuries hope that
a more permanent solution can be arranged. Otherwise, many of this long-lost
city's secrets will be truly and irredeemably lost.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/finding-this-lost-city-in-honduras-was
-the-easy-part.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANCIENT
HISTORY (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (77%); LASERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (60%); BOOK REVIEWS (59%)

CITY: TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS (79%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Juggle an iPad and a Concert Piano

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words


You might know that Yuja Wang is one of the best young pianists around. You've
probably heard something about her fashion sense. Well, I can report that she's
a natural page turner, too.

Digital pages, that is. Her quirkily brilliant performance of Gershwin's Piano
Concerto (1925) with the London Symphony Orchestra and Michael Tilson Thomas on
Wednesday at Avery Fisher Hall rightfully drew a standing ovation. Afterward,
there was an encore, a little piece built from electro-rocklike riffs. Amid
rapid streams of notes, her hands nonchalantly shot up to swipe across the iPad
she was reading from. (Easy!) The orchestra members laughed, clearly entranced.

The encore? A work written for Ms. Wang called ''You Come Here Often?'' Its
composer? A name surprising to many -- one Michael Tilson Thomas. He'll go far.

Mr. Thomas in fact is an accomplished if rarely heard composer. As it happens,
he and the London Symphony do come here often, just not in each other's company,
even though he has been the orchestra's principal guest conductor since 1995 and
was its principal conductor before that. He was most recently in New York with
his San Francisco Symphony in November. The London Symphony was last here in
October 2013. But they had not performed together in New York since 1992. For
all the recent clamor over Simon Rattle, who will become the London Symphony's
music director in 2017, theirs is a partnership that continues to thrive.

They're having fun, too -- I haven't seen an orchestra enjoy itself like this in
some time. In the Gershwin, the strings dug into the score's songful lines so
eagerly that Ms. Wang was often overpowered, although at times they lacked the
flexibility needed for the concerto's Charleston, blues and ragtime beats.

Ms. Wang often plays jazzy numbers as encores, and Gershwin suited her
perfectly. With star turns from Philip Cobb's sultry trumpet and Gareth Davies's
melancholy flute, she deliciously evoked a seedy, midnight bar in the second
movement.

The concert opened with a painterly account of the ''Four Sea Interludes'' from
Britten's ''Peter Grimes'' (1945), but with the orchestra oddly tame in the
''Storm.'' There was nothing docile about Sibelius's Second Symphony (1901-2),
though, played after intermission. Much of the Sibelius heard at the moment is
steely, frosty and concerned with structure more than overt emotionality. (Think
of performances led by the conductors Osmo Vanska and Leif Segerstam.) But the
London Symphony learned its Sibelius from Colin Davis, and the warm sound he
instilled in this orchestra was the perfect springboard for Mr. Thomas's
superheated, wildly impulsive view of the piece. Fiercely dramatic and often
bellicose, this was less a symphony than an epic.

The London Symphony Orchestra continues on tour in cities in California and in
Las Vegas and Seattle through April 1.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/music/review-yuja-wang-and-the-london-sym
phony-get-jazzy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: London Symphony Orchestra:  Michael Tilson Thomas conducting  at
Avery Fisher Hall, with  Yuja Wang at the piano. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD
INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A President's Bonds With a Jewish Minority

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1444 words


ON Sept. 20, 1862, Abraham Lincoln had a lot on his mind. The Civil War was
raging, and just days later he would issue the preliminary draft of the
Emancipation Proclamation.

Still, the weary president found time to sit down to write a testimonial to his
podiatrist.

''Dr. Zacharie has, with great dexterity, taken some troublesome corns from my
toes,'' Lincoln wrote. ''He is now treating me, and I believe with success, for
what plain people call back-ache. We shall see how it will end.''

The story may seem like the beginning of an ill-advised borscht belt meets Corn
Belt joke. But in fact it's one of the more unexpected vignettes presented in a
serious new exhibition, ''Lincoln and the Jews,'' which opens on Friday at the
New-York Historical Society.

The show includes about 100 letters, photographs and other artifacts, many never
previously exhibited, drawn largely from the Shapell Manuscript Collection,
assembled by the collector and philanthropist Benjamin Shapell.

Arranged chronologically, the exhibition presents the broader story of Lincoln's
political career and the Civil War through what organizers say is a fresh prism:
Lincoln's complex and sometimes surprising interactions with a religious
minority that was beginning to claim an equal place in American life.

''Lincoln played an important role in turning Jews from outsiders in America to
insiders,'' said Jonathan D. Sarna, a historian at Brandeis University and the
author, with Mr. Shapell, of the new, separately published book ''Lincoln and
the Jews,'' which inspired the show. ''It's a subject that has really been
overlooked.''

Lincoln's lifetime coincided with a dramatic increase in America's Jewish
population, which grew from about 3,000 in 1809, the year of his birth, to
roughly 150,000 in 1860. Growing up in the Midwest, he probably encountered few
or no Jews in person until he became a young man. But at a time when
anti-Semitism and nativism ran high, the show notes, there is no evidence of
Lincoln harboring any animus toward Jews.

''When it came to personal interactions with Jews or issues that had an impact
on Jews, Lincoln did the right thing on every occasion,'' Harold Holzer, a
prominent Lincoln scholar and the exhibition's chief historian, said in an
interview.

He added, ''The most important thing you could be to Lincoln wasn't a Christian
or a Jew, but a Republican.''

The exhibition opens with a wall-size graphic laying out ''Lincoln's Jewish
Connections'' in concentric circles of decreasing intimacy, from ''friends''
(five) to ''appointments and pardons'' (48), seemingly leaving no stone
unturned. The first known photograph of Lincoln with a beard, a label notes, was
taken by a Jewish photographer from Illinois, Samuel Alschuler. (That photo,
along with a beardless one also taken by Alschuler, is displayed in a vitrine
mimicking a 19th-century box camera.) Jews were also responsible for helping
organize his first inaugural ball, telegraphing the official text of the
Emancipation Proclamation and designing the Lincoln penny.

Lincoln also counted Jews among his closest political allies. Two sections of
the exhibition are devoted to Abraham Jonas, an Illinois businessman and
politician he met around 1843. Jonas -- ''one of my most valued friends,''
Lincoln once wrote -- was among those who strongly encouraged Lincoln to run for
president, suggesting a strategy of appealing to outsiders, including ''liberal
and freethinking Germans'' and ''Israelites.'' It was also Jonas who, in a
December 1860 letter included in the show, warned Lincoln of a plot to
assassinate him at his inauguration.

As president, Lincoln took some bold actions on behalf of Jews. In 1862, he
approved legislation creating the first Jewish military chaplains, to serve the
nearly 7,000 Jews in the Union Army. He also appointed an Orthodox Jew as a
quartermaster, noting that ''we have not yet appointed a Hebrew.'' (Eventually,
some 50 Jews would fill that capacity.)

When Gen. Ulysses S. Grant issued his infamous General Orders No. 11 in 1862,
barring Jews ''as a class'' from all territories under his control because he
thought they were smuggling cotton, Lincoln quickly rescinded it.

''I do not like to hear a class or nationality condemned on account of a few
sinners,'' Lincoln reportedly said.

Lincoln's commitment to religious pluralism even held in grisly moments. When
five deserters were executed at Beverly Ford, Va., in August 1863, each was
accompanied by a clergyman of his own faith, with a Jewish prisoner marching out
first in accordance with Judaism's status as ''the most ancient of religious
creeds,'' as one news account put it.

And then there was Lincoln's relationship with the eccentric, British-born
Issachar Zacharie. The chiropodist, as a foot doctor was known at the time,
scored a cameo in Steven Spielberg's ''Lincoln'' -- as well as an entry in the
online resource PodiaPaedia. But his story, Mr. Sarna said, is told in full in
the book for the first time.

Zacharie first treated Lincoln in 1862, on the recommendation of the editor
William Cullen Bryant and others. Their relationship was celebrated in an ''Ode
to Dr. Zacharie'' published that year in Vanity Fair, then a humorous weekly.
(The first line: ''King of Chiropodists, salaam!'') In early 1863, Lincoln sang
the doctor's praises to a (gentile) White House visitor who had presented a
far-fetched scheme to end the Civil War, restore the Jews to Palestine and
establish general world peace.

''I myself have a regard for the Jews,'' Lincoln reportedly said, brushing off
his visitor. ''My chiropodist is a Jew, and he has so many times 'put me on my
feet' that I would have no objection to giving his countrymen 'a leg up.' ''

Zacharie's grandiose dream of establishing a chiropody corps within the Union
Army never came to pass. But Lincoln did send him to New Orleans in 1862 to
gauge public opinion among Jews there, in what Zacharie later described as a spy
mission. (At one point, the exhibition notes, he enlisted the help of fellow
Jews disguised as peddlers.) He made a similar trip to Richmond, Va., in 1863,
reporting back to Lincoln on a meeting with Judah P. Benjamin, the Jewish
secretary of state for the Confederacy.

Zacharie also vigorously campaigned in New York for Lincoln's re-election in
1864, reassuring him that ''the Israelites'' would ''vote for you,'' and
claiming to have secured ''trustworthy men to attend to them on Election Day.''
(Such comments, a wall label notes, helped to set off scoffing in the Jewish
press that any Jewish bloc existed.)

He popped up again in a January 1865 memo titled ''About Jews,'' in which
Lincoln implicitly rebuked his secretary of war, Edwin M. Stanton, for detaining
Zacharie during another trip to the South, and also requested fair treatment for
Leopold Blumenberg, a Union Army provost marshal charged with torturing
suspected deserters, among other abuses.

Lincoln, the exhibition shows, did much for Jews, individually and as a group.
But just how affected was Lincoln by his encounters with them?

Deeply, Mr. Sarna argues. The encounters, he writes in the book, helped push
Lincoln past a ''parochially Christian'' understanding of American identity. In
what he called his ''most controversial claim,'' not made by the show, Mr. Sarna
writes that the ecumenical phrase ''this nation, under God'' in the Gettysburg
Address may have been meant as a ''silent homage'' to Jews who fell on the
battlefield, one that ''reimagined America in language that embraced Jews as
equals.''

Mr. Holzer, the winner of this year's Gilder Lehrman Lincoln Prize for his book
''Lincoln and the Power of the Press,'' said he wouldn't go that far. ''Clearly
Lincoln was a leader concerned principally with African-Americans and their
relationship with white America,'' he said. ''I think it would be wrong to say
he dwelled on the place of non-Christians.''

But still, Mr. Holzer added, there is no denying Jews' sense of ''mystical
association'' with Lincoln, who was assassinated not just on Good Friday but
during Passover, when many rabbis heard the news as they were preparing for
Saturday services.

A wall text near the end of the exhibition quotes a eulogy delivered by Rabbi
Henry Hochheimer at the Oheb Israel Congregation in Baltimore. ''More than all
others, the 'House of Israel' has cause to mourn this great loss,'' the rabbi
declared. ''Abraham Lincoln had served as American Jewry's 'shield and
protection.' ''

''Lincoln and the Jews'' continues through June 7 at the New-York Historical
Society, 170 Central Park West; 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/lincoln-and-the-jews-explores-bond
s-with-a-nations-growing-minority.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WELLS FAMILY COLLECTION)
Above, a painting of Abraham Lincoln on his deathbed prominently features the
ophthalmologist Charles Liebermann. It is part of the show ''Lincoln and the
Jews.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHICAGO HISTORY MUSEUM)
Left, a carte de visite of Issachar Zacharie, the podiatrist who treated
Lincoln, is part of the show at the New-York Historical Society. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
THE SHAPELL MANUSCRIPT COLLECTION)
A letter by Abraham Jonas, top left, warning of a plot to assassinate Lincoln.
Below, a testimonial by Lincoln to his podiatrist. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS
 THE SHAPELL MANUSCRIPT COLLECTION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HISTORY (89%); MINORITY GROUPS
(87%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (74%); PODIATRY (72%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (70%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (69%); RELIGION (68%); ANTISEMITISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

For Africa, a Pivotal Plane Crash

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg.

LENGTH: 688 words


LONDON --  It was a tragedy that resonated far from its time and its place.

When Dag Hammarskjold, the secretary general of the United Nations, perished in
an air crash in what was then Northern Rhodesia in September 1961, his death
laid a first layer in a palimpsest of conflicting narratives that the United
Nations this week  pledged to revisit with a new review by a panel of experts.

Mr. Hammarskjold's plane went down eight miles from the airport at Ndola on the
Copperbelt of what is now Zambia. He had planned a meeting there with Moise
Tshombe, leader of a secession in the neighboring Congolese region of Katanga
that was backed by many Western interests. His mission was to end the fighting.

It was a story of Cold War rivalry and human idealism pitted against greed and
realpolitik. As the Congo sought to emerge from Belgian rule, Mr. Hammarskjold,
a 56-year-old Swede, was a messenger of peace flying into a war zone where
United Nations forces fought secessionist troops backed by foreign mercenaries.
Did the plane simply crash or was it brought down? Was it simply an accident,
the result of human error -- or the fruit of human design signaling a gigantic
loss of innocence for a continent?

For many Swedes, looking back from today's vantage, Mr. Hammarskjold's death was
part of a catalog of loss among their elite, from  the disappearance of Raoul
Wallenberg in 1945 to the death of Anna Lindh in 2003, from the assassination of
Folke Bernadotte in 1948 to the murder of Olof Palme in 1986. For all of them,
high office and idealism exacted the highest price.

When Mr. Hammarskjold died, Africa stood at a crossroads. Only a year earlier,
Harold Macmillan, the British prime minister, had declared that the ''wind of
change'' was blowing through the continent. In 1964, Zambia itself declared its
independence -- part of a process that scored a trail through Angola,
Mozambique, Zimbabwe and elsewhere toward the biggest prize of all, South
Africa.

The fear of those geopolitical dominoes infused colonial thinking.

Already, Belgians fleeing the Congo brought with them tales of mayhem that
seemed only to confirm the worst nightmares of white minorities farther south.

Katanga, said Roy Welensky, head of the colonial-era Central African Federation,
which grouped together what are now Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi, was ''an ideal
buffer between ourselves and the wilder forms of pan-Africanism to the north of
us.'' Without that shield, he said, ''the alternatives are too frightful to
contemplate.''

Such was the alarm that, as the conflict worsened in Katanga, Mr. Welensky
deployed elite troops to the border area and a detachment of warplanes to the
city of Ndola. Far to the north of Africa, electronic listening posts in the
Mediterranean run by the United States National Security Agency monitored
frequencies on the ground.

But this was not just about geopolitics or even the toxic cocktail of race and
ideology that drove regional rivalries. The fighting that Mr. Hammarskjold
sought to end also posed a familiar question in Africa: Who should benefit from
the continent's riches? That was particularly apt across a swath of Africa where
Western mining concerns controlled a trove of uranium, cobalt and other
resources.

For centuries, it had been axiomatic in the West that Africa's resources
belonged to outsiders, just as Africa's markets belonged to those same
foreigners who processed raw cotton into cloth or rough diamonds into jewelry.

But the wave of independence, swollen by the Congo's emancipation from Belgium,
traded colonial exploitation for, at best, an ambiguous economic legacy. And
today, where Westerners once strutted on an African stage, building roads and
bridges to ease their access, China is the dominant player.

All that seemed remote in 1961. But students of modern Africa exploring the
dramas of the postcolonial era might start their quest for clues and pointers in
the  period surrounding that September night, when Transair DC-6B, registration
SE-BDY, went down near Ndola.

Where the quest leads, of course, is as laden with unknowables as the crash
itself.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/dag-hammarskjold-united-nations-p
lane-crash.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SEPARATISM
& SECESSION (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRPORTS
(76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); PRIME
MINISTERS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); BRITISH
PRIME MINISTERS (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%)

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (94%); AFRICA (94%); ZAMBIA (93%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); MALAWI
(79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM
(79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

By Design, an Argument Against the Way We Live Today

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 657 words


The characters in ''La Sapienza,'' Eugène Green's new film, tend to look
directly into the camera when they speak, to speak clearly and grammatically,
and to refrain from interrupting one another. The rhythm of the editing is
similarly deliberate: The camera looks at one person, then another, and
patiently surveys a landscape or the interior of an old and magnificent
building. This graceful, unhurried style, with its blend of austerity and
artifice and its roots in classical French theatrical traditions, is Mr. Green's
signature. American by birth and ardently European by residence and vocation, he
elevates formal decorum to a moral principle. ''La Sapienza,'' quiet and
conversational as it seems, is a passionate defense of -- and perhaps also an
elegy for -- an old and dignified ideal of civilization.

And also, as such, an escape from the modern world. Though set in the present,
''La Sapienza,'' which takes its name from a venerable university in Rome, finds
inspiration and sustenance in the past, specifically in the 17th century.
Alexandre Schmidt (Fabrizio Rongione), a coldly rational Swiss-born architect
living in France, finds himself in a state of professional and emotional
malaise. He and his wife, Aliénor (Christelle Prot Landman), a social scientist,
retreat to the Piedmontese town of Stresa, where Alexandre plans to begin
researching and writing a long-deferred book on the Baroque architect Francesco
Borromini. During a stroll along the shore of Lake Maggiore, Alexandre and
Aliénor meet Lavinia (Arianna Nastro) and Goffredo (Ludovico Succio), teenage
siblings who become their protégés. Goffredo, who wants to study architecture,
accompanies Alexandre to Turin and Rome, while Aliénor remains in Stresa with
Lavinia, who suffers from a mysterious nervous disorder.

Emotions are held in check: Voices are never raised, and passions are described
from a distance rather than expressed overtly. Most of the conversations are
about art, history, literature and of course architecture, but there are
inklings of more volatile and intimate matters. Mr. Green, who shows up briefly
on a park bench to dispense wisdom (in syntactically impeccable, heavily
accented French), has more on his mind than old churches. The story he has to
tell, at times barely perceptible but moving all the same, is about a marriage
in crisis. It is also about the fate of the idea clumsily translated into
English as ''sapience'' and embodied by artists and craftsmen like Borromini.
Where, in the 21st-century West, are the sources of enlightenment and wisdom?

Mr. Green's response is quietly but unmistakably polemical. His conservatism --
rarely articulated outright but implicit in every meticulous frame and carefully
wrought sentence -- is intriguing and provocative. His films amount to a protest
against the vulgarity and velocity of 21st-century life, from which he, like
Alexandre, seeks refuge in the symmetries and harmonies of Borromini and his
contemporaries.

The chance to contemplate Borromini's arches, ornaments and elliptical forms is
both an incidental pleasure of ''La Sapienza'' and the whole point. The movie is
an unapologetically rarefied undertaking and at the same time a gracious and
inviting film. And it embodies an elegant and melancholy paradox: What looks
like tourism is really the pursuit of truth and beauty, and vice versa.

La Sapienza

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Eugène Green; director of photography, Raphaël O'Byrne;
edited by Valérie Loiseleux; production design by Giorgio Barullo; costumes by
Agnes Noden; produced by Martine de Clermont-Tonnere and Alessandro Borrelli;
released by Kino Lorber. In French and Italian, with English subtitles. Running
time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Fabrizio Rongione (Alexandre Schmidt), Christelle Prot Landman (Aliénor
Schmidt), Ludovico Succio (Goffredo), Arianna Nastro (Lavinia) and Eugène Green
(Le Chaldéen).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-in-eugene-greens-la-sapienza-a-s
earch-of-ideals-of-civilization.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Christelle Prot Landman, Arianna Nastro, Ludovico
Succio and Fabrizio Rongione in  ''La Sapienza,'' in which an architect and his
wife, a social scientist, discover Italy in a new way. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KINO
LORBER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ART HISTORY (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%)

CITY: ROME, ITALY (90%); TURIN, ITALY (55%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times: For Children

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 3970 words


'The Magic Garden, or, The Princess Who Grew Antlers'

To disappear, or not to disappear?

That is the question for many puppet troupes, whose members can fade into the
background with the aid of devices like curtains and black bodysuits, or remain
in full view, obtrusively unobtrusive. But the players of the
Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theater have their own strategy: They become
their marionettes' colorful doubles.

In ''The Magic Garden, or, The Princess Who Grew Antlers,'' a new family
production at Theater for the New City, Vit Horejs, the company's artistic
director, manipulates a marionette that's a wizard disguised as an old beggar;
he also wears an almost identical costume and mimics the puppet's actions. At
the same time, he and the other performers -- Theresa Linnihan, Michelle Beshaw
and her sister, Deborah Beshaw-Farrell -- switch wardrobe elements and
marionettes to play additional folk-tale roles, while also portraying a
centuries-old itinerant Czech puppet troupe, whose culture they periodically
explain in asides.

Whether all this confuses or amuses depends on the theatergoer. Small children
are likely to be bewildered, but those over 7 or 8 may be intrigued by this
foreign fairy-tale world, which incorporates a clownlike character -- the
potbellied Kasparek -- and a princess who'd never star in a Disney adaptation.
Not only is she positively venal, but she also acquires horns.

''The Magic Garden'' centers on her story, whose hero, an impoverished former
soldier, earns valuable gifts from the beggar-wizard by handing over his last
bit of food. The sorcerer first rewards him with a magic pipe, perpetually full,
warning him to be careful about sharing it. (Don't expect traditional Czech
tales to include antismoking messages.) The retired soldier ignores this advice
when he visits the princess's palace, where she and her father make him fall
asleep and replace the pipe with an ordinary one.

This switcheroo occurs with two more enchanted gifts until the hero stumbles
upon a means to win back his goods and wreak his revenge.

Although ''The Magic Garden,'' which Mr. Horejs wrote (with the cast's help) and
directed, isn't one of the company's top efforts, it's performed with the
troupe's usual artistry and dazzling marionettes. (Some are antique; Jakub
Krejci and Milos Kasal designed most of the contemporary ones.) Including two
other tales, the show also answers a question that might have inspired folklore
through the ages: Why does the camel have such a sour disposition?

(Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; 155 First Avenue,
near 10th Street, East Village; 212-254-1109, theaterforthenewcity.net.) LAUREL
GRAEBER

For Children

'Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces' (Friday,
Sunday through Tuesday, and Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an
explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum,
but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of
excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and
figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a
bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a
recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists
can dress in costume. From 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8 p.m. on Thursdays; 1109
Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

'The Bully' (Saturday and Sunday) Vital Theater Company has revived this
ever-topical musical, by John Gregor and David L. Williams, which refreshingly
avoids the trap of bullying its own audiences with heavy moralizing. Instead,
the many pitfalls of the typical middle school relationship of victimizer and
victim are revealed through wit, humor and a killer of a sly twist. (Through
April 26.) At 3:30 p.m., McGinn-Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street,
fourth floor; 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

'Camp Kappawanna' (Saturday and Sunday) If the spring equinox is here, can
summer camp be far behind? This new musical from Atlantic for Kids, the
children's division of the Atlantic Theater Company, focuses on a 12-year old,
Jennifer Jenkins, who is facing the challenge of leaving home for the first
time. With music and lyrics by Lisa Loeb, Michelle Lewis and Dan Petty, and a
book by Cusi Cram and Peter Hirsch, it features lots of singing, and not just
around the campfire. (Through April 12.) At 10:30 a.m., Linda Gross Theater, 336
West 20th Street, Chelsea; 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org.

Children's Museum of the Arts Persian Festival (Sunday) Where do paisley
patterns come from? How about geometric styling? Children can investigate the
ancient legacies and contemporary innovations associated with Persia, now Iran,
in this celebration, part of an annual series honoring the traditions of
different cultures. Programming this weekend includes an interactive theater
performance based on Iranian literature and an art project centered on radial
symmetry. Other highlights will be creating paisley-themed stop-motion films and
remixing Iranian pop music. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 103 Charlton Street, between
Hudson and Greenwich Streets, South Village, 212-274-0986, cmany.org.

'Fancy Nancy the Musical'  (Saturday) One of the arts' youngest divas has
returned to the McGinn/Cazale Theater. This musical from Vital Theater Company
focuses on a little girl who wants everything to be fancy -- especially herself.
Based on the book series written by Jane O'Connor and illustrated by Robin
Preiss Glasser, the production explores the predicament that ensues when Nancy
finds out that she hasn't been cast as the glamorous mermaid she'd hoped to be
in the coming dance show. With a book by Susan DiLallo, a score by Danny Abosch,
and lyrics by both, the musical humorously follows Nancy's attempts to cope with
a most unfancy role: that of a tree. (Through April 5.) At 1:30 p.m., 2162
Broadway, at 76th Street, fourth floor, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

'The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation'  (Friday through Sunday)
Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion
but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers.
The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son
Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may
even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at
7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; 340
West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

'Hakanai' (Friday through Sunday) Geometry can be a lot of fun when you create
it with your body. In this performance, part of the BAMkids series at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music, a single dancer enters a cube in which images are
projected on the walls. These patterns respond digitally to movement, so that
when the dancer traces an arc or a sine wave, the images shift and morph.
Composed and directed by Adrien Mondot and Claire Bardainne, the installation is
also offering young visitors a chance to explore the cube themselves in groups
of 20, in half-hour sessions, on Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. and on Sunday from 2
to 4 p.m. Tickets are sold out online, but some will become available at the
door. Shows: Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6 p.m., Fishman Space,
Fisher Building, 321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene;
718-636-4100, bam.org/kids. Reservations are required for the sessions within
the cube.

'Hello From Japan!' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday)
Japanese culture comprises both unbridled whimsy and serene seriousness. Young
visitors can get acquainted with these two sides at the Children's Museum of
Manhattan, which recreates different aspects of Tokyo in this new exhibition.
One-half of the show, Kawaii Central, captures the fun of the city's Harajuku
district with the opportunity to sing karaoke, serve a Japanese meal and create
cute, cartoonlike family mascots. The exhibition's other half includes a Shinto
shrine park, where young visitors can build a bridge, meet kami (spirits) and
express their desires at a wishing tree. Programs, free with museum admission,
accompany the show. (Through May 17.) Museum hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; to 7 p.m.
on Saturdays; also open free from 5 to 8 p.m. on the first Friday of every
month. Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

'Inspector Pulse Pops a String' (Sunday) The composer Bruce Adolphe's alter ego,
Inspector Pulse, a musical detective he refers to as a ''private ear,'' is at it
again. In this program for children 6 and older, part of the Meet the Music!
series from the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the inspector breaks a
string on a piano. (And he thought those instruments were just about keys.) This
leads to an exploration of the secrets of strings with the help of the Amphion
String Quartet. A preconcert ''instrument petting zoo'' is at 1 p.m.; the
concert at 2; Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, 212-875-5788,
chambermusicsociety.org.

'Jack and the Beanstalk' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday)
Many plants grow in Central Park, so why not a beanstalk? This one sprouts
indoors at the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater, which has revived Michael
Alogna's adaptation of the classic fairy tale about Jack, the Giant (here named
Milford), Dolly the Cow and the famous Golden Goose. Bruce Cannon, the theater's
artistic director, has revised the script, and a human actor now stars in the
show along with the company's hand-built marionettes. (Through June 28.)
Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an additional performance on Wednesdays at
2:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. (Some shows are sold out.)
Reservations required. 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park;
212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts.

Kids 'N Comedy: 'Prepping for Pranks Show' (Sunday) The class clown gets
applause, not detention, at this monthly series, in which tween and teenage
comics perform stand-up. Here, in honor of the approaching April Fools' Day,
they offer a show focusing on all the tricks -- successful and not -- associated
with that tradition. The material is recommended for children 9 and older, but
there's no need to worry about appropriateness (profanity is banned) or
knock-knock jokes (this crew is sophisticated). Reservations required. At 1
p.m., Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, 212-877-6115,
kidsncomedy.com.

La MaMa Kids (Saturday) La MaMa, the downtown theater famous for cultivating
cutting-edge adults, has in recent years been turning its attention to
cutting-edge kids, too. This series for families, which presents interactive
workshops and performances, continues this weekend with ''The Blue Marble.''
Presented by Jane Catherine Shaw, curator of La MaMa Puppet Slam, this puppet
play invites children to accompany a child named Cassie Day on her adventures
into outer space and back. At 11 a.m., Ellen Stewart Theater, 74 East Fourth
Street, East Village, 212-475-7710, lamama.org.

'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe'  (Saturday) If the children of the
Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as
simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn't two hard-working actors be able to play them
and all the characters found there? That's what Abigail Taylor-Sansom and her
husband, Rockford Sansom, are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater's
first production, le Clanché du Rand's adaptation of C. S. Lewis's classic
novel. (The run is open-ended.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th
Street, Clinton; 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

'The Little Prince' (Friday and Sunday) Long before E.T., another
extraterrestrial won the hearts of children: the title character of Antoine de
Saint-Exupéry's fable ''The Little Prince,'' who lived on a distant planet with
only a rose for company. Hang a Tale, a new theater company, is presenting Rick
Cummins and John Scoullar's adaptation of the story, a multimedia production
that incorporates video projections, original songs and puppets and masks.
Friday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Saturday at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 10:30 a.m. and 7 p.m.;
Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton; hangatale.org.

Elizabeth Mitchell and You Are My Flower (Saturday) This concert is a family
affair. Elizabeth Mitchell, who specializes in creating children's versions of
classic folk tunes, will perform with her daughter, Storey, and her husband,
Daniel Littleton, as part of the Just Kidding series at Symphony Space. Joining
them will be Ms. Mitchell's band You Are My Flower and assorted guests. Young
listeners 3 and older can expect to hear original music, too, from Ms.
Mitchell's albums ''Catch the Moon'' and ''Blue Clouds.'' At 11 a.m., Peter Jay
Sharp Theater, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, 212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org.

MoMA Art Lab: Places and Spaces (Friday through Thursday) What's an art lab?
These interactive spaces for children at the Museum of Modern Art, free with
museum admission, help introduce the institution's collection through activities
related to a theme: this time it's Places and Spaces. Young visitors can design,
draw and build as they explore spaces both real and imagined -- landscapes,
cityscapes, seascapes -- as they appear in Modern art. (Through Aug. 31.) Daily,
from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; to 6:30 p.m. on Fridays; Lewis B. and Dorothy
Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan;
212-708-9805, moma.org/momaartlab.

New York International Children's Film Festival (Saturday and Sunday) This is
the last weekend of the festival, and the last chance to experience a universe
of unusual and challenging global cinema. In addition to several shorts
programs, features on the schedule include the documentaries
''Landfillharmonic,'' about teenagers in Paraguay who made an orchestra of
instruments from trash, and ''Ballet Boys,'' which focuses on three teenage male
dancers in Norway, navigating a female-dominated world. (Both screen on
Saturday.) And tickets still remain for Sunday's closing-night celebration,
which includes awards presentations and an 80-minute program of the best short
films in the monthlong festival, as voted on by the jury and audience members.
(Tickets may be available at the door for screenings listed as sold out.) At
various locations; full schedule is on the website; 212-349-0330,
gkids.com/fest2015.

'Pinocchio' (Saturday and Sunday) In this stage version of Carlo Collodi's
classic tale, the title character doesn't just want to be a boy; he also wants
to be a star. Presented at the New Victory Theater by the acclaimed Windmill
Theater of Australia, and closing this weekend, this two-hour rock musical, with
a score by Jethro Woodward, portrays Pinocchio as a youth -- his nose grows
before the audience's eyes -- who's easily seduced by contemporary glamour.
Written by Rosemary Myers and Julianne O'Brien, the show includes puppetry and
animated projections. Saturday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m.; 209
West 42nd Street, Manhattan; 646-223-3010, newvictory.org.

'Rapunzarella White: A Fairly Fractured Tale' (Saturday and Sunday) Yes, it's
fractured, but it's also blended: In this creative musical retelling, by June
Rachelson-Ospa and Daniel Neiden, Rapunzel, Cinderella and Snow White are infant
triplets abducted by an ill-tempered witch. These heroines aren't like their
traditional selves -- Snow White, for instance, is allergic to apples -- and
neither are their princes, who may be more clumsy than charming. (Through May
10.) Saturday at 1 p.m., Sunday at noon, 13th Street Repertory Theater, 50 West
13th Street, Greenwich Village, 212-352-3101, rapunzarellawhite.bpt.me.

'Shaping the Lowline With the Young Designers Program' (Sunday through Thursday)
You know about the Highline; now comes the Lowline. This project, a planned
underground park on the Lower East Side, has solicited ideas from area students
through its Young Designers Program, an after-school initiative. This free
exhibition at the Mark Miller Gallery, which kicks off with a daylong reception
on Sunday, includes 3-D models of the new park, along with written explanations
and photos. It also offers interactive exhibits at which visitors can deliver
their own suggestions and feedback. (Through March 29.) The reception, for which
online registration is required, is from noon to 6 p.m. Gallery hours are also
noon to 6 p.m. At 92 Orchard Street, near Broome Street, Lower East Side,
212-253-9479, thelowline.org/exhibit.

Spring Fling Family Fun Field Day (Saturday) Spring is in the air -- or at least
on the calendar -- and Asphalt Green, the sports and fitness nonprofit, will
welcome it with this free outdoor celebration at its Upper East Side location.
There will be plenty of games to play (soccer, gaga, baseball); activities to
enjoy (Zumba, martial arts); and art projects to create, for those who don't
want to sweat. Snacks will be provided, too. (The event will take place
regardless of the weather; the field will be cleared of any snow.) From 2:30 to
4:30 p.m., 555 East 90th Street, Manhattan, asphaltgreen.org/ues.

Sun/Earth Day (Saturday) The sun isn't just the center of the universe; it's
what makes life on Earth possible. In this program at the American Museum of
Natural History, children can learn about the relationship between our planet
and its star. Highlights include meeting scientists who study climate change;
watching Part 3 of the HBO documentary ''Saving My Tomorrow,'' which features
young people from around the world speaking on environmental issues; seeing
visualizations of the Earth's magnetosphere and the sun's atmosphere; and
visiting a portable planetarium. From 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Cullman Hall of the
Universe, Rose Center for Earth and Space, Central Park West, at 81st Street,
212-769-5200, amnh.org.

Super Sábado: 'The Big Screen' (Saturday) Sabádo means Saturday, and El Museo
del Barrio tries to make the third one each month a super event for children.
(And it's always free.) This celebration, ''The Big Screen,'' centers on the
museum's current exhibition ''Under the Mexican Sky: Gabriel Figueroa -- Art and
Film.'' In addition to going on guided tours of the show, devoted to the work of
this Mexican cinematographer, young visitors can make thaumatropes
(vintage-style moving-image toys) or short animations; take part in interactive
storytelling; learn Mexican dances; and attend a performance by Ballet
Hispanico. From noon to 5 p.m., 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem,
212-831-7272, elmuseo.org.

'Through the Looking Glass' (Friday through Sunday) Lewis Carroll himself,
portrayed by a member of the Gingerbread Players of St. Luke's Church in Queens,
narrates this musical theater adaptation of Alice's continuing adventures,
closing this weekend. With a score by William Ryden and a book by Louise
Guinther, the show, first performed in 1999, has been updated to suit its
current cast. Expect the usual characters -- Humpty Dumpty, the Jabberwock, the
Red and White Queens -- along with something Alice would have appreciated during
her journey: gingerbread for sale. Friday at 7:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at
2:30 p.m.; St. Luke's Church, 85 Greenway South, between Ascan Avenue and Harrow
Street, Forest Hills, 718-268-7772, gingerbreadplayers.org.

'Tiny Giants' (Friday through Thursday) The heroes of this film may be small,
but they're mighty in their will to survive. Inspired by the BBC television
series ''Hidden Kingdoms,'' this new Imax movie at the American Museum of
Natural History uses 3-D cameras to peer into the universes of two diminutive
creatures: a forest chipmunk and a grasshopper mouse from the Arizona desert,
noted for its ability to prey on scorpions. Narrated by Stephen Fry, the film
allows viewers to see the world from their perspectives. (Through July 5.)
Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 11:30 a.m. and 4:30
p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. Central Park West and 79th Street,
212-769-5200, amnh.org.

'Tunes With Tina' (Sunday) That's Tina deVaron, a jazz musician and singer,
whose musical brunch for young people at the Measure Lounge at Langham Place,
Fifth Avenue, a hotel in Midtown Manhattan, has returned. Ms. deVaron, who often
sings show tunes for children, also improvises and gears her performances to the
audience. On selected Sundays throughout the season, she will be accompanied by
Broadway performers. Singing along is encouraged. (Through May 31.) At noon, 400
Fifth Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-695-4005, measurenyc.com.

UniverSoul Circus (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Don't
expect hurdy-gurdy tunes at this big-top event. Emphasizing African-American
contributions to circus arts, UniverSoul performs its acts to hip-hop, R&B, soul
and gospel. This year's show also presents performances from around the world,
including Cuba, China, Ecuador and Ethiopia. Among the acts are flying trapeze
artists, acrobats, Caribbean dancers and clowns. (Through April 5.) Weekdays at
10:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.; Saturdays at noon and 4 and 7:30 p.m.; Sundays at
12:30, 3:30 and 6:30 p.m., 149th Street and Exterior Street, Mott Haven, the
Bronx, 800-345-7000, ticketmaster.com; universoulcircus.com.

'A Voyage Through Jewish History'  (Sunday through Thursday) This journey
involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at
the Jewish Children's Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah's
tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along
the way include giving water to Rebecca's camels, playing the strings on David's
harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and
taking part in the exodus from Egypt. Sundays through March 29, at 1, 1:45 and
2:30 p.m., the museum will also feature the Matzo Bakery, a program in which
children can grind wheat into flour and roll and bake their own matzos in
preparation for Passover. Museum hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; to 5:30 p.m. on
Sundays; 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn;
718-907-8833, jcm.museum.

Whodunnit Family Scavenger Hunt (Saturday) Imagine playing the game of Clue when
the board consists of the halls of a great museum. That's what this scavenger
hunt for children 10 and older, from Watson Adventures, is like: They'll trail a
killer who has committed a murder in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He's mocked
the police with an intriguing series of hints about his name, the weapon he used
and the gallery where he hid the body. Teams, which must each include at least
one adult and one child (six is the maximum number for a team), will receive a
list of suspects, weapons and hiding places. Then the sleuthing begins. At 10:30
a.m., 877-946-4868, Ext. 12, watsonadventures.com. The meeting place will be
revealed upon registration, which is required at the Web site or by phone.

Worlds Collide Convention (Saturday) Fans love conventions, and why shouldn't
book lovers have them, too? Scholastic, publisher of a number of adventure and
fantasy series, is hosting this event celebrating four of them: The 39 Clues,
Spirit Animals, Infinity Ring and TombQuest. Geared to children over 8, the
convention will feature series authors giving interactive performances based on
the books; demonstrations of online games they've inspired; and related craft
projects and giveaways. From 1 to 4 p.m., Scholastic Store, 557 Broadway, near
Prince Street, SoHo, scholastic.com/worldscollidecon. The event is free, but
online registration is required. LAUREL GRAEBER




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/spare-times-for-children-for-march-20-26.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN SLAFF)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FOLKLORE (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); FAMILY
(75%); THEATER (58%)

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hampton Keeps It Close Against Kentucky, for 12 Minutes

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; MIDWEST: KENTUCKY 79, HAMPTON 56; Pg.

LENGTH: 269 words


LOUISVILLE, Ky. --  There was drama here for 12 minutes. No. 1 Kentucky led
16th-seeded Hampton, 18-14, with 8 minutes 27 seconds left in the first half,
and John Calipari, the Kentucky coach, fumed at his players from the bench for
misdeeds in execution.

The throng of Wildcats fans who filled KFC Yum Center were entertained, but not
quite as agitated as Calipari. They expected to get what they had come for -- a
rout -- and in due time, that was what they got.

Kentucky (35-0) went on a 14-0 spurt over a stretch of nearly five minutes to
take a 32-14 lead before coasting to a 79-56 victory over the Pirates (17-18).

Karl-Anthony Towns, a 6-foot-11 freshman, led the Wildcats with 21 points. It
was the first step in the N.C.A.A. tournament for Kentucky, which is widely
favored to win the title and is trying to complete an undefeated season in the
process.

The Wildcats' defense and size are the keys to their championship aspirations,
and they displayed both against the Pirates in suffocating style.

Hampton made just 28.8 percent (17 of 59) of its shots from the field. The
Pirates were led by Quinton Chievous, a 6-foot-6 forward who is in graduate
school, who scored 22 points.

Calipari did not back off his team. With Kentucky leading by 30 in the second
half, one of his big men made a lazy move in the lane, and Calipari jumped out
of his chair and jerked a thumb in the air for Towns to re-enter the game.

The fans were in step with their coach. When center Willie Cauley-Stein was
called for an offensive foul, several fans howled at the referee. At that point,
Kentucky was ahead by 33 points.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/against-kentucky-hampton
-keeps-it-close-for-12-minutes.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS
(77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%)

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

7-Foot Badger Takes Pride in Growing Up

BYLINE: By JEFF ARNOLD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1485 words


LISLE, Ill. --  A faded school crest overlooks the A-frame Catholic school
gymnasium where exposed metallic heating ducts and off-white bricks run the
length of the basketball floor below.

The gym, a 76-year-old relic that once hosted a 102-game home winning streak, is
hidden from view. Down the hall is a more modern gym, where Benet Academy's
championship banners hang in a lobby that displays trophies adorned by
basketball nets.

It is inside that nondescript alumni gym where Frankie Kaminsky -- the
self-described goofball who still remembers the combination of his high school
locker (1-17-49) and who tried to catch falling confetti on his tongue like a
7-foot-tall kid seeing snow for the first time after Wisconsin's Big Ten
tournament championship victory -- became Frank the Tank, the polished senior
scoring, rebounding and assist machine determined to lead the Badgers to a
second straight Final Four.

It is in that dimly lighted basketball sanctuary where Kaminsky works out four
days a week during summer visits home, putting up 750 to 800 shots until 500
find their target.

During the 75-minute workouts, Kaminsky floats from station to station. He
transitions from close-range hook shot to 3-point jump shot. He drifts to the
top of the key and then to the right wing. He moves back to the top and then to
the left wing, throwing up shot after shot after shot.

When he is winded, Kaminsky stands 15 feet from the basket, where only a pair of
made free throws will keep him from running suicides, from one end of the gym to
the other.

Just when Kaminsky thinks the shooting drill is finished, his former Benet
teammate Dylan Flood pushes to see what Kaminsky has left.

''Five more,'' Flood barks, insisting that the big man keep shooting.

This has always been Kaminsky's way. Always pushing. Outworking the competition.
Never allowing what his former Amateur Athletic Union basketball coach calls a
''positive chip'' to fall from his shoulder.

''At every level, there's an initial shock factor that it might not be as easy
as you thought,'' said Mike Mullins, the director of the Illinois Wolves A.A.U.
program that Kaminsky started with at 15. ''The difference is what you do from
there. And Frank's answer was always to go back to work.''

Even now, Kaminsky, who goes by Moose, Joe College and the Sleepy-Faced Assassin
among other nicknames, is not willing to stop.

Those summer shooting sessions have continued throughout a Wisconsin career that
began with Kaminsky averaging six minutes a game. Just as in high school,
Kaminsky -- who was offered scholarships by the midmajors Bradley, Northern
Illinois and Southern Illinois before Wisconsin came calling -- never hit his
stride with the Badgers until his junior year, which he followed with a senior
season that earned him the Big Ten's Player of the Year award.

Kaminsky is the face of a Badgers program that Coach Bo Ryan has built on
recruits who are underadvertised at the start, but are groomed to overdeliver by
the time they leave.

Nearing the end of a meteoric two-year run that has Kaminsky positioned as a
favorite for national player of the year honors along with Duke's Jahlil Okafor,
Kaminsky -- who leads the Badgers in scoring, rebounding and assists -- is not a
finished product.

''He had a chance to look at a lot of backups who became pretty good players for
us,'' Ryan said. ''But he's taken it to another level.

''He has picked up things and has been able to go to the next level of learning;
where some guys maybe get to a point where they plateau, Frank's still getting
better.''

Kaminsky is a study in perseverance and pushing through growing pains. Some have
been physical. Others are borne in the fact that at points of Kaminsky's career,
he has not been considered good enough -- only to turn around and prove that
people have misjudged his talent.

''I was never 'the man,' '' he said, referring to his days at Benet. ''I was
never the center of attention, and I think that's what really made me who I
was.''

Ask Kaminsky where his transformation into Frank the Tank began, and he points
to the private school that he did not want to attend and that he considered
leaving before his sophomore year even began.

Inside the school, where crucifixes and priestly portraits line the walls,
Kaminsky endured an emotionally taxing two-year stretch when he went from a
6-foot-3 guard to a 6-10 junior ready to take on the world.

The former Wisconsin assistant Howard Moore -- credited with finding Kaminsky
while he was recruiting and seeing what others did not -- recalled the awkward
teenager battling long arms and legs he did not know what to do with.

''The first time I saw him play, he couldn't even get on the court,'' Moore
said.

''But you saw this mold of clay that could be developed into something pretty
nice.''

Even at 6-10, Kaminsky fancied himself a guard and preferred to play beyond the
3-point arc. His abilities to handle, pass and shoot the ball were clearly
evident. But when he was forced into a big man's role, awkwardness took over.

He missed layups. He rushed basic post moves, trying to stay out of his body's
way. As much as his father, Frank Jr. -- a 6-foot-10 tower of a man who starred
at Lewis University -- tried to intervene with teaching sessions and one-on-one
games, nothing came naturally.

''A lot of times I would just leave the gym because I was so frustrated with
myself,'' Kaminsky said. ''I wasn't progressing the way I saw myself
progressing.''

Frank Jr. refused to ease up. Raised on Chicago's tough South Side, he once told
Kaminsky to ''either stop crying or go play soccer'' after he did not make the
travel roster for an A.A.U. trip at 15. His father called that car ride home the
defining moment of his son's basketball development. Kaminsky remembered it
being ''frustrating more than anything.''

Frank Jr. and Kaminsky's mother, Mary -- a former Northwestern volleyball player
-- raised their three children to fend for themselves. For Kaminsky, that
included basketball.

''I never babied him,'' his father said. ''There were times -- even at Wisconsin
-- when he would be upset because he didn't get to play. I would tell him the
same thing: 'Who's got your spot?' ''

Tomorrow, Frank Jr. would say, ''take it from him.''

Kaminsky preferred not to be so gruff. He wanted to play -- both at Benet and
Wisconsin -- but did not want to step on upperclassmen's toes. By the end of his
junior season, playing under Benet Coach Gene Heidkamp, the kid who once could
not get on the floor emerged as one of Illinois' top prep players.

All of the work and tough love from his father and his A.A.U. coaches were
paying off.

''He's a self-made man,'' said Alex Flood, a Benet classmate.

Frank Jr. remains Kaminsky's toughest critic. When Kaminsky became visibly
frustrated after missing three easy shots and committing two turnovers during
Wisconsin's Big Ten quarterfinal victory over Michigan, he knew not to make eye
contact with his father.

''My sisters tell me after the game how crazy he is in the stands,'' Kaminsky
said. ''I try to block it out. I know he will be in the hotel lobby waiting to
tell me how I played.

''More times than not, it will be what I did wrong.''

Inside Heidkamp's fourth-floor classroom -- decorated by pennants representing
the programs of former players -- a series of team photos hangs on the wall. One
shows Kaminsky surrounded by a Benet squad after a playoff win. The photo's
border includes signatures of each player, including Kaminsky's in the left-hand
corner.

The photo, along with the red Wisconsin pennant hanging among the others, serves
as evidence of hard work's rewards. Like Moore, Heidkamp was always sure
Kaminsky could play, but he also knew the young and sometimes awkward player
would need developing. Heidkamp scoffs at characterizations that paint Kaminsky
as an aloof big man who finished as a second-team all-state selection, but who
could not walk and chew gum at the same time.

''Maybe, possibly, some people got it wrong,'' Heidkamp said, smiling.

Moore added, ''No one saw this coming.''

Kaminsky loves that part of the story. Even now, doubters have not backed down.
Many look at Kaminsky's unorthodox style and still see the clumsy kid rather
than the reluctant college superstar. Kaminsky bristles at such notoriety,
constantly telling his former classmate Flood, ''Being famous is stupid.''

At heart, Kaminsky is a big kid who would stay at Wisconsin if he could. He is
the kid who celebrated Wisconsin's Big Ten tournament title and chronicled every
moment with a GoPro video camera strapped to his chest. But it has been the
journey, more than the goofiness, that has defined him.

''I love the way I've had to work through all my problems and my struggles to
come out better than I was before,'' he said. ''I view it in a way that maybe
not everyone else views it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/wisconsins-frank-kaminsk
y-a-former-goofball-works-to-prove-his-doubters-wrong.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (B8)
 Frank Kaminsky Jr., far left,  can be his son's toughest  critic. ''I know he
will be in  the hotel lobby waiting to tell  me how I played,'' Wisconsin's
Frank Kaminsky said of  his father. A photograph,  near left, hangs in a hallway
at Benet Academy, above,  where the younger Kaminsky,  No. 44 at left, had a two
year  stretch when he grew  from 6 feet 3 inches to 6-10. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID
KASNIC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B14) GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS
(78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS &
GRANTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (72%);
COACHES & TRAINERS (72%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jets' General Manager Looks for Fitzpatrick to Compete to Start at Quarterback

BYLINE: By TOM PEDULLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 706 words


Mike Maccagnan, the Jets' new general manager, said he believed he upgraded the
quarterback position with the newly acquired Ryan Fitzpatrick. Of his
willingness to enter training camp with Fitzpatrick vying with Geno Smith for
the job, he said, ''As it stands right now, absolutely.''

Maccagnan, speaking with reporters for the first time Thursday since he
initiated a major overhaul of a 4-12 team, declined to offer opinions on the top
quarterback prospects Jameis Winston and Marcus Mariota. Concerned that he might
tip his hand, he would not give any insight into the Jets' level of interest in
Winston and Mariota. He attended Mariota's pro day at Oregon and plans to be
there when Winston showcases his abilities at Florida State on March 31.

''You don't really know who's going to be available in the draft, so every time
you have an opportunity to add to your team, you go ahead and do that,''
Maccagnan said of acquiring Fitzpatrick, 32, from the Texans in exchange for a
conditional late-round draft choice.

Maccagnan noted that when he was working in the Houston Texans' front office, he
had spent a year with Fitzpatrick, and that Chan Gailey, the Jets' new offensive
coordinator, has an extensive background with him.

''I was very impressed with his work ethic, his approach, his personality and
his leadership skills,'' Maccagnan said.

Fitzpatrick continues to recover from a broken left leg that is expected to
limit him throughout the off-season, leaving those repetitions to Smith and Matt
Simms, who is third on the depth chart. Smith, a second-round draft choice in
2013, made some progress in his second season but lacked the consistency needed
to secure the job on a long-term basis. Maccagnan said Fitzpatrick was expected
to be ready for the start of training camp.

The injury is not likely to represent a significant setback for Fitzpatrick, a
Harvard graduate, because he played for the Buffalo Bills from 2009 to 2012 when
Gailey was the head coach there and knows his system well. Fitzpatrick completed
60.3 percent of his passes and threw for 10,232 yards with 71 touchdowns and 54
interceptions while with Buffalo.

Maccagnan defended his heavy spending on free-agent cornerbacks. After the
A.F.C. East rival New England Patriots released Darrelle Revis, 29, rather than
pick up a one-year option on his contract that was worth $20 million, the Jets,
who drafted Revis in 2007, brought him back with a front-loaded five-year deal
worth $70 million. The contract included $39 million in guaranteed money.

''He's played at a very high level and we thought potentially he could play at a
high level for a number of years going forward,'' Maccagnan said.

The Jets brought back another of their former cornerbacks, Antonio Cromartie,
with a four-year deal worth $32 million. They also signed cornerback Buster
Skrine away from the Cleveland Browns. The Jets were scorched for 31 touchdown
passes last season, most in the A.F.C.

The three signings would seem to make Dee Milliner, drafted ninth over all by
the Jets in 2013, expendable. But all indications are that the injury-plagued
Milliner is not being shopped.

''You never have enough good corners,'' Maccagnan said.

The Jets also made a significant addition when they acquired receiver Brandon
Marshall from the Chicago Bears for a fifth-round draft choice.

Maccagnan emphasized that the move was made only after an extensive background
check. Marshall was twice arrested in domestic-abuse incidents; charges were
dropped both times. ''We are very excited about adding Brandon to the
organization as a player and a person,'' Maccagnan said.

Maccagnan also expressed the desire to sign Muhammad Wilkerson, a mainstay at
defensive end, to a long-term extension.

''We do have the ability and the allocated resources to do that with him, but I
don't want to put a timetable on it,'' he said.

Maccagnan emphasized his commitment to the draft. He said of the free-agent
activity, ''We got off to a good start, but it is one small step in a long
process.''

EXTRA POINTS

James Brewer, a former Giants offensive lineman, has been signed to a one-year
contract by the Jets. Brewer, who is 6 feet 6 inches and 330 pounds, plays guard
and offensive tackle.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/football/mike-maccagnansays-jets-upgrad
ed-with-ryan-fitzpatrick.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan Fitzpatrick with the Texans. He is recovering from an
injury, but expected at training camp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRIC
SCHNEIDER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%);
SPORTS (89%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); ETHICS (72%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Allen Jerkens Dies at 85; His Horses Sprang Upsets

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 852 words


Allen Jerkens, the Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who was known as the Giant
Killer for springing some of horse racing's greatest upsets, died on Wednesday
in Aventura, Fla. He was 85.

His death was announced by his son Jimmy, who is also a trainer. Mr. Jerkens had
been hospitalized with an infection for several weeks.

Mr. Jerkens, who was based at Belmont Park for most of his 65-year career, never
had a winner in the Triple Crown series or the Breeders' Cup, but he won more
than 200 stakes races and gained renown as a master of his craft.

''You can never be casual about Allen Jerkens,'' Penny Chenery, the owner of
Secretariat, told USA Today before the running of the 1999 Belmont Stakes. After
winning the Triple Crown in 1973, Secretariat was been beaten twice by colts
trained by Mr. Jerkens.

At the time, the self-effacing Mr. Jerkens said: ''Sometimes, it's being in the
right place at the right time. I've been around a long time.''

He emerged as an upset architect in 1962 and '63, when his colt Beau Purple
scored three victories over Kelso, a five-time horse of the year. Jerkens's
Handsome Boy bested the outstanding colt Buckpasser in the 1967 Brooklyn
Handicap.

Mr. Jerkens's greatest moments came in 1973, when he won an Eclipse Award as
racing's top trainer. That year, his mounts got the best of Secretariat after he
won the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes and gained acclaim
as perhaps the fastest horse ever. Mr. Jerkens's colt Onion beat Secretariat in
the Whitney at Saratoga, and his Prove Out defeated Secretariat in the Woodward
at Belmont Park.

In 1998, Mr. Jerkens's 34-1 shot Wagon Limit bested Skip Away, who was seeking a
third straight victory in the Jockey Gold Cup and trying to surpass Cigar as
horse racing's career earnings winner.

Although known to fans as the Giant Killer, Mr. Jerkens, not given to hyperbole,
preferred the more simple tag Chief, as he was called by track insiders. His
horses won more than 3,800 races and garnered nearly $104 million in purses.

Mr. Jerkens trained Sky Beauty, who won the prestigious Triple Tiara series for
3-year-old fillies (which then included the Acorn, the Mother Goose and the
Coaching Club American Oaks) at Belmont Park in 1993 and captured an Eclipse
Award the next year as the best female handicap horse. He also saddled Devil His
Due, the winner of the Gotham and the Wood in 1992, and Kelly Kip, a star
sprinter who had won $1.1 million in purses when he was retired in 2000.

When Mr. Jerkens was inducted into the National Racing Hall of Fame in Saratoga
Springs, N.Y., at age 46 in 1975, he was the youngest trainer ever chosen.

Harry Allen Jerkens was born on April 21, 1929, in Islip, on Long Island, the
son of a retired Austrian cavalry captain who ran a riding academy. He dropped
out of high school, intent on becoming a jockey. But finding he was too big, he
turned briefly, at 17, to steeplechase riding. At 21, he received his trainer's
license, and on July 4, 1950, he had his first winner, at Aqueduct.

Mr. Jerkens became the head trainer for Hobeau Farm, owned by the investment
banker Jack Dreyfus Jr., in 1962, and soon after notched his three upsets over
Kelso.

Mr. Jerkens never focused on the Triple Crown races, and most of his major
victories came in handicaps or stakes races for older horses. He entered only
six mounts in the series -- three horses in the Kentucky Derby and three in the
Belmont Stakes (none in the Preakness) -- without finishing in the money.

''My good 3-year-olds weren't that good,'' Mr. Jerkens said in an interview with
The Record of New Jersey. ''They got better and came on at 4.''

Mr. Jerkens saddled Best of Luck in the 1999 Belmont Stakes for what became his
Triple Crown finale. The colt's breeder and owner, Allaire duPont, had also bred
and owned Kelso. Best of Luck finished fourth in the Belmont.

Mr. Jerkens left Belmont Park as his base in late 2013, shifting to Gulfstream
Park in South Florida.

In addition to his son Jimmy, Mr. Jerkens is survived by his son Steven, also a
trainer, and another son, Allen; his daughter, Julie; and several grandchildren,
the New York Racing Association said. His wife, Elisabeth, died last year. Mr.
Jerkens became known for his attention to detail, even supervising the feeding
at his barn each evening, and for his ability to nurture a horse. He was
particularly astute in buying and claiming seemingly ordinary horses and turning
them into winners who returned a handsome profit.

''He was a horseman's horseman,'' Mr. Jerkens's fellow Hall of Fame trainer D.
Wayne Lukas told The Daily Racing Form. ''No frills, old school, as they call it
nowadays. Very thorough. Always to be considered, whether it was the third race
on a Wednesday or a Grade I on a Saturday.''

John Veitch, who trained the 1970s star colt Alydar, told The New York Times in
1993 that Mr. Jerkens cared little about horse racing's social trappings.

''At 3 o'clock in the afternoon,'' he said, ''you might find him standing
outside his barn in rubber leggings and shoes, spraying water on a horse's
legs.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/sports/allen-jerkens-giant-killer-of-horse-rac
ing-dies-at-85.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Allen Jerkens in 1973 after Prove Out, a horse he trained,
upset Secretariat in the Woodward Stakes at Belmont Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY
COOKE/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
   Mr. Jerkens with Best of Luck, whom he saddled in the 1999  Belmont for what
became Mr. Jerkens's Triple Crown finale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HORSES (92%); HORSE RACING (91%); SPORTS
AWARDS (90%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Jazz

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2404 words


Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz. A searchable guide
to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

John Abercrombie Quartet  (Tuesday through March 28) The guitarist John
Abercrombie takes a measured, self-possessed approach to improvisation, so much
so that it's easy to underestimate the considerable chance-taking in his
playing. He appears here with the same sterling rhythm team as on ''39 Steps,''
his fine album from 2013: Marc Copland on piano, Drew Gress on bass and Joey
Baron on drums. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton;
212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Nate Chinen)

Thana Alexa  (Monday) Born in New York but raised in Croatia, Ms. Alexa is a
jazz singer with a global perspective, as she illustrates on her debut album,
''Ode to Heroes.'' She celebrates its release with this concert, featuring the
drummer Antonio Sanchez -- her partner in life as well as in music --
spearheading an ensemble that includes the saxophonists Donny McCaslin and Ben
Flocks, the vibraphonist Christos Rafalides and the pianist Sergio Salvatore. At
8 p.m., SubCulture, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village;
212-533-5470, subculturenewyork.com. (Chinen)

Monty Alexander and the Harlem-Kingston Express  (Thursday through March 29) Mr.
Alexander, an effervescent pianist and one of Jamaica's proudest musical
exports, stamps his native groove with an uptown twist in a group that includes
two bassists and two drummers. At 7:30 and 10 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th
Street, Manhattan; 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

Barry Altschul and the 3dom Factor  (Friday) The drummer Barry Altschul has been
a stealth eminence in jazz: known mainly within the avant-garde, and for music
he made many years ago. But that's changing, thanks to work like ''The 3dom
Factor,'' which features the youngish saxophonist Jon Irabagon, who has been one
agent of Mr. Altschul's recent re-emergence, and the veteran bassist Joe Fonda,
who has been another. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia
Street, Greenwich Village; 212-989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com. (Chinen)

Peter and Will Anderson Quintet  (Friday) The upstanding young torchbearers
Peter and Will Anderson -- they're also saxophonists, clarinetists, Juilliard
alumni and identical twins -- preview material from their forthcoming album,
''Déjà Vu,'' with the pianist Jeb Patton, the bassist Mike Karn and the drummer
Phil Stewart. From 7:30 to 10 p.m., Smalls Jazz Club, 183 West 10th Street, West
Village; smallsjazzclub.com. (Chinen)

Brussels Jazz Orchestra  (Friday through Sunday) This acclaimed big band
recently collaborated with the illustrator Philip Paquet to create a multimedia
project that engages with the graphic novel. This weekend they present the
United States premiere of that work, ''Graphicology -- A Visual Jazz Score.'' At
7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at
Lincoln Center; 60th Street and Broadway, 212-258-9595, jalc.org. (Chinen)

Joey Calderazzo Trio  (Tuesday) The pianist Joey Calderazzo has an elegant and
forceful new album, ''Going Home,'' featuring the bassist Orlando le Fleming and
the drummer Adam Cruz. On this one-nighter, with Rudy Royston filling in on
drums, Mr. Calderazzo will draw from the album, mixing standards with searching
originals. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose
Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway; 212-258-9595, jalc.org.
(Chinen)

John Escreet Quartet  (Saturday) On his exploratory recent release, ''Sound,
Space and Structures,'' the pianist John Escreet connects with an uncompromising
elder, the great British free-jazz saxophonist Evan Parker. For this
one-nighter, the framework will probably be a bit less abstract, as Mr. Escreet
connects with the vibraphonist Steve Nelson, the bassist Harish Raghavan and the
drummer Antonio Sanchez. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Jazz Gallery, 1160 Broadway, at
West 27th Street, fifth floor; 646-494-3625, jazzgallery.org. (Chinen)

Duane Eubanks Quintet  (Thursday) The trumpeter Duane Eubanks recently released
his overdue third album, ''Things of That Particular Nature,'' featuring a batch
of original tunes in an assertive post-bop mode. Drawing partly from the album,
he leads a band with Stacy Dillard on tenor saxophone, Anthony Wonsey on piano,
Corcoran Holt on bass and E.J. Strickland on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.,
Ginny's Supper Club at Red Rooster, 310 Lenox Avenue, near 125th Street, Harlem;
212-421-3821, ginnyssupperclub.com. (Chinen)

5th Annual James Moody Scholarship for Newark Youth  (Tuesday through March 29)
James Moody, an ebullient bebop saxophonist and one of jazz's most beloved
elders, died in 2010 at 85. This benefit, supporting the James Moody Scholarship
for Newark Youth, began shortly thereafter. In its fifth edition, the
celebration will feature some notable alumni of his bands, as well as featured
guests like the singer Dee Dee Bridgewater (Tuesday), the saxophonist James
Carter (Tuesday and Wednesday), and the guitarist Russell Malone (Thursday). At
8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village,
212-475-8592, bluenote.net. (Chinen)

? Bill Frisell and Thomas Morgan (through Sunday) Mr. Frisell, an introspective
but expansively creative guitarist, has worked countless times at the Village
Vanguard, both as a leader and as a member of a magical trio anchored by the
drummer Paul Motian. Mr. Morgan, an intuitive young bassist, made his
appearances in the club with Mr. Motian, who died in 2011. This duo -- a rarity
at the Vanguard -- might not refer to Mr. Motian, but it should uphold
compatible values, among them a sense of unforced discovery. At 8:30 and 10:30
p.m., 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village; 212-255-4037,
villagevanguard.com. (Chinen)

Jacob Garchik's Ye Olde  (Thursday) Mr. Garchik is a trombonist, composer and
arranger brimming with bright ideas: Consult his most recent album, ''The
Heavens: The Atheist Gospel Trombone Album,'' or his work with the Kronos
Quartet. This will be the premiere of Ye Olde, an intriguing proposition that
involves one infinitely adaptable drummer, Dan Weiss, and three texture-mad
guitarists: Jonathan Goldberger, Mary Halvorson and Brandon Seabrook. At 9:30
p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place,
East Village; 212-967-7555, joespub.com. (Chinen)

? Lee Konitz and Dave Douglas Quintet (Friday through Sunday) At 87, Mr. Konitz
is not just one of jazz's most venerable alto saxophonists but also one of its
most steadfast searchers. Which means he has the right artistic temperament to
fall in easily with the trumpeter Dave Douglas and a dynamic rhythm section
comprising Matt Mitchell on piano, Linda Oh on bass and Ches Smith on drums. At
7:30 and 10 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan; 212-576-2232,
jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

? Steve Lehman Octet  (Friday) The alto saxophonist Steve Lehman is a
state-of-the-art musical thinker -- a composer of high academic credentials and
complex algorithm -- but he has a true affinity for postwar jazz modernism, as a
benchmark and a literature. His octet, featured on two superb recent albums,
features longtime peers like the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson, the tenor
saxophonist Mark Shim, the vibraphonist Chris Dingman and the tubaist Jose
Davila. At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Conservatory Concert Hall, 58 Seventh Avenue, at
Lincoln Place, Park Slope; 718-622-3300, bqcm.org/tickets. (Chinen)

? Rudresh Mahanthappa: 'Bird Calls'  (Tuesday) ''Bird Calls'' is the audacious
new album by the alto saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthappa, which takes Charlie
Parker as a point of departure, if not a distant lexicographic ancestor. To
celebrate the album's release, Mr. Mahanthappa reconnects with a frontline
partner, the sharp young trumpeter Adam O'Farrill, and an anchor, the agile
bassist François Moutin; rounding out the band are the pianist Bobby Avey and
the drummer Jordan Perlson. At 7:30 and 10 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th
Street, Manhattan; 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

? Myra Melford at the Stone  (Tuesday through March 29) Ms. Melford, a pianist
and composer of restless imagination and rigorous execution, has assembled a
parade of collaborators for her residency at the Stone. Among the highlights: a
10 p.m. set on Tuesday by Spindrift, her tribute to the violinist Leroy Jenkins,
featuring the flutist Nicole Mitchell and the drummer Tyshawn Sorey; at 8 p.m.
on Wednesday, a duo with the clarinetist Ben Goldberg; and both sets on
Thursday, featuring her ensembles Crush (at 8 p.m.) and Be Bread (10 p.m.). At
Avenue C and Second Street, East Village; thestonenyc.com. (Chinen)

NettWork Trio (Friday and Saturday) The bassist Charnett Moffett has led more
than one version of this powerhouse postbop trio, which suggests that he's the
first among equals in its lineup, featuring two more virtuosos who came to
prominence in the 1980s: the guitarist Stanley Jordan and the drummer Jeff
(Tain) Watts. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton;
212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Chinen)

Aruán Ortiz Trio  (Friday) The ambitious young Cuban pianist Aruán Ortiz
balances the musical bedrock of his heritage against a taste for abstraction.
His partners in this trio, Eric Revis on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums, are
well equipped to go wherever the music leads. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Jazz
Gallery, 1160 Broadway, at 27th Street, fifth floor, 646-494-3625,
jazzgallery.org. (Chinen)

Arturo O'Farrill  (Monday) Mr. O'Farrill, the pianist and composer known for his
leadership of the Afro-Latin Jazz Orchestra, recently traveled to Cuba,
ancestral home of his father, the great composer-bandleader Chico O'Farrill.
''Oye Cuba! A Journey Home,'' a film in progress about that pilgrimage, will
screen during this fund-raising event, which also features a solo piano
performance by Mr. O'Farrill. At 9 p.m., Drom, 85 Avenue A, at Sixth Street,
East Village; dromnyc.com. (Chinen)

Maceo Parker (through Sunday) Mr. Parker, the alto saxophonist best known for
his longtime service with James Brown, has soldiered on in the name of funk, and
his live show never fails to connect. His most recent album, ''Soul Classics,''
features him in the company of a spit-and-polish big band; he works here with a
smaller but still potent crew. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third
Street, Greenwich Village; 212-475-8592 bluenote.net. (Chinen)

Jacob Sacks Trio/Yoon Sun Choi-Jacob Sacks Duo  (Wednesday) Jacob Sacks is a
pianist of exploratory temperament, drawn to open space and shrewd irresolution.
In one-half of this concert, he features his own compositions for a trio with
the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer Dan Weiss. The other half will feature
Mr. Sacks in a duo with the vocalist Yoon Sun-Choi, performing improvisations as
well as works by (among others) Duke Ellington and Charles Ives. At 8 p.m.,
Weill Recital Hall, 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org. (Chinen)

Vinnie Sperrazza's Apocryphal/Loren Stillman & Russ Lossing  (Saturday)
''Apocryphal,'' the most recent album by the drummer and composer Vinnie
Sperrazza, follows an appealing agenda of postgenre modernity, blending jazz
dynamics with the vibe of experimental rock and ambient music. He is appearing
as part of the Sound It Out series, and his partners, here as on the album, are
the alto saxophonist Loren Stillman, the guitarist Brandon Seabrook and the
bassist Eivind Opsvik; the other half of the bill will feature Mr. Stillman in a
duo with the pianist Russ Lossing. At 7:30 p.m., Greenwich House Music School,
46 Barrow Street, West Village; 212-242-4770, greenwichhouse.org. (Chinen)

? Trio 3  (Tuesday through March 29) The alto saxophonist Oliver Lake, the
bassist Reggie Workman and the drummer Andrew Cyrille are esteemed veterans of
the avant-garde, and as the collective Trio 3, they share an agenda of rugged
epiphany. They have released recent albums featuring an array of impressive
pianists, but this weeklong run at the Village Vanguard has no billed guests,
which isn't at all a problem. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., 178 Seventh Avenue South,
at 11th Street, West Village; 212-255-4037, villagevanguard.com. (Chinen)

Joanna Wallfisch and Dan Tepfer  (Tuesday) Ms. Wallfisch is an introspective
singer-songwriter, originally from London, with a natural attraction to
chamberlike musical settings. On her new album, ''The Origin of Adjustable
Things,'' she works strictly with Mr. Tepfer, a pianist with roughly equal
footing in jazz and classical music. Their interplay, on original songs as well
as on a few choice covers, is sensitive and deep. At 8 p.m., SubCulture, 45
Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village; 212-533-5470,
subculturenewyork.com. (Chinen)

Warren Wolf and Wolfpack  (Friday through Sunday) An assertive young
vibraphonist with an abundance of technique, Warren Wolf chases a brisk post-bop
ideal with his flagship band, which in this weekend run will include Alex Brown
on piano, Vicente Archer on bass and Pete Van Nostrand on drums. At 7, 9 and
10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, 212-864-6662, smokejazz.com.
(Chinen)

Glenn Zaleski Trio with Ravi Coltrane  (Wednesday) The articulate young pianist
Glenn Zaleski ushers in the release of his new album, ''My Ideal,'' with an
assist from the tenor and soprano saxophonist Ravi Coltrane, its prominent
special guest. Their rhythm team will consist of the bassist Ben Street and the
drummer Craig Weinrib. At 7:30 and 10 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street,
Manhattan, 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

? Miguel Zenón  (Friday) Mr. Zenón is an alto saxophonist and composer who has
turned the exploration of Puerto Rican culture into an aesthetic signature. With
''Identities Are Changeable,'' first presented a few years ago and released as
an album last fall, he explores the Nuyorican experience, with snippets of oral
history woven into his state-of-the-art big-band arrangements. For this
performance, at a hub of Nuyorican culture in the Bronx, he leads his excellent
quartet, with a video component by the artist David Dempewolf. At 7:30 p.m.,
Hostos Center for the Arts and Culture, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street,
Mott Haven, the Bronx; 718-518-4455, hostos.cuny.edu/culturearts. (Chinen)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/music/jazz-listings-for-march-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB BLICKENSTAFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS
(90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); CLASSICAL
MUSIC (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); KINGSTON, JAMAICA (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); CROATIA (71%); JAMAICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Desperately Tracking a Daughter in a Landscape Beyond Time

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 790 words


The films of the Argentine director Lisandro Alonso often feel longer than they
are. That isn't a bad thing, necessarily. Too many movies hurtle forward on fast
editing and breathless plotting, and too much of life goes by in a blur. The
characters in four of Mr. Alonso's features -- ''La Libertad,'' ''Los Muertos,''
''Liverpool'' and now ''Jauja'' -- undertake difficult journeys, at least partly
on foot, across hostile terrain. Following them through long takes and static
shots accompanied by abundant silence and sparse dialogue and music, the viewer
feels the weight of time. This can be uncomfortable, but the risk of tedium can
deliver a special kind of intensity, a slowing of the metabolism and an
awakening of the senses.

In ''Jauja'' -- the title refers to a mythical city akin to Xanadu or El Dorado
-- the traveler is Gunnar Dinesen, a Danish engineer played by Viggo Mortensen,
the first actual movie star to appear in an Alonso film (and also one of the
composers of the film's curiously and also purposely anachronistic-sounding
score). Sometime in the late 19th century, somewhere along the rocky and
desolate Patagonian coast, Dinesen and his 15-year-old daughter, Ingeborg
(Viilbjork Mallin Agger), are camped out with a small group of soldiers and
surveyors. A middle-aged officer expresses polite but unmistakably predatory
interest in the girl, who instead runs off with his assistant, a skinny
dreamboat named Corto. Her father sets off in pursuit.

The situation carries echoes of Joseph Conrad and John Ford. In addition to a
mostly unseen, presumably hostile indigenous population, the dangers facing
Dinesen include a former soldier known as Zuluaga, who seems to have descended
into Kurtzian madness. Dinesen, with his European manners, books and scientific
principles, is at once noble and ridiculous, a civilized man adrift in the
wilderness and the embodiment of blind, imperial arrogance. A doting father and
a bit of a snob, he seems to absorb the wildness of his surroundings, becoming
desperate and almost feral as he wanders the wasteland howling his daughter's
name.

For a while, his search follows the trail of a classic western -- of ''The
Searchers,'' to be precise. We assume that it will end either in a reunion or in
disaster, and as Dinesen encounters bloody corpses and bloodcurdling screams,
the second possibility seems much more likely. But Mr. Alonso, it turns out, has
an entirely different destination in mind.

I hesitate to spell it out. Frankly, I doubt if I could. Suffice it to say that
this filmmaker, who has until now specialized in earthbound, emphatically linear
stories that nonetheless resonate with intimations of spiritual mystery, has
gone in a new direction, toward a more overtly poetic and frankly anti-realist
kind of cinema. ''Jauja'' is more stylized and shapely than his earlier films.
The rounded-off corners of the almost-square frames evoke early movies and
antique photographs, and there is wit and mischief in the way Mr. Alonso plays
with the relationship between what we see, what we don't see and what we expect
to see.

The setting is vast and empty, yet nobody experiences true solitude. Whenever
characters might think themselves alone and unobserved, the camera will pivot to
reveal that someone else is nearby, watching or scheming or just taking up
space. The wilderness, a barren and silent entity in ''La Libertad'' and
''Liverpool,'' now feels haunted, full of inscrutable meanings and intentions.
These may be signs of a cosmic or metaphysical presence, or they may be figments
of Dinesen's increasingly desperate and fevered imagination. It's possible that
we end up in his mind or his dreams, or in a hitherto uncharted dimension, or
maybe the film guides us to the magical city of Jauja. It may take a few more
trips to figure it out.

Jauja

Opens on Friday

Directed by Lisandro Alonso; written by Mr. Alonso and Fabián Casas; director of
photography, Timo Salminen; edited by Natalia López and Gonzalo del Val; music
by Viggo Mortensen and Buckethead; art director, Sebastián Roses; costumes by
Gabriela Aurora Fernández; produced by Mr. Alonso, Mr. Mortensen, Ilse Hughan,
Sylvie Pialat, Jaime Romandía, Andy Kleinman, Helle Ulsrteen, Michael Weber,
Ezequiel Borovinsky and Leandro Pugliese; released by Cinema Guild. In Danish
and Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. This film
is not rated.

WITH: Viggo Mortensen (Capt. Gunnar Dinesen), Viilbjork Mallin Agger (Ingeborg),
Ghita Norby (Woman in the Cave), Adrian Fondari (Teniente Pittaluga), Esteban
Bigliardi (Angel Milkibar), Diego Roman (Corto), Mariano Arce (Birrit), Misael
Saavedra (Indian), Gabriel Marquez (Zuluaga) and Brian Patterson (Dog Man).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-jauja-a-desperate-odyssey-in-the
-argentine-desert.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Haunted terrain: From far left, Viggo Mortensen, Viilbjork
Mallin Agger and Esteban Bigliardi in  ''Jauja,'' directed by Lisandro Alonso
and set along the Patagonian coast of Argentina. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE CINEMA
GUILD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (69%)

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (78%); DENMARK (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; Japan: Police Arrest Suspect in Threats Against U.S.

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 124 words


TOKYO -- The Japanese police said on Thursday that they had arrested a
52-year-old man on suspicion of threatening to bomb the United States Embassy in
Tokyo and an American military base on Okinawa.

The police said the man, Mitsuyoshi Kamiya, who was arrested on the southern
island of Okinawa, quickly confessed to making bomb threats in three phone calls
this month.

The arrest was made as the Japanese authorities are investigating death threats
made last month against the American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy,
daughter of President John F. Kennedy. The police said it was still unclear
whether Mr. Kamiya played any role in those threats.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/japanese-police-arrest-man-accused-
of-threatening-to-bomb-us-embassy-and-base.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); BOMBINGS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (71%);
INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (52%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alfredo Jaar: 'Shadows'

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 409 words


This is the second project in a trilogy by Alfredo Jaar exploring the power and
politics of famous images. The first installation focused on a 1993 Pulitzer
Prize-wining photograph of a starving child in Sudan; here Mr. Jaar has chosen
the Dutch photographer Koen Wessing's ''Estelí, Nicaragua, September 1978''
(1978), which shows two women at the moment they learn their father has been
murdered.

Mr. Jaar's presentation opens not with Mr. Wessing's famous photograph but with
a video of Mr. Wessing describing how Nicaraguans led him around during the
Sandinista uprising against the Somoza government, urging him to capture
everything on film. You then enter a labyrinth lit by lightboxes displaying
images from the same series and contact sheets, also taken by Mr. Wessing. The
final room serves as a showy climax: the ''Estelí'' photograph is blown up and
illuminated so the women become glowing silhouettes.

This is the weakest part of the exhibition. But Mr. Jaar has set himself a
difficult task: How do you amplify the effects of an image that is already as
dramatic as a Baroque painting? (Or, as Mr. Wessing says in the video, Greek
drama.) Equally at issue are the ethics and politics of photography. Do we have
a right to witness such nakedly human moments? Susan Sontag, who wrote a lot
about photography, felt images of this nature were exploitative and voyeuristic;
more recently, Ariella Azoulay, author of ''The Civil Contract of Photography,''
argued that they initiate a ''civil contract'' between the photographic subjects
and the viewer who might be compelled to help or intervene. (In his landmark
book on photography, ''Camera Lucida,'' Roland Barthes even mentioned a
photograph by Mr. Wessing, also taken in Nicaragua during this period, as
emblematic of photojournalism, with its combination of banality and horror.)

Mr. Jaar's project falls somewhere in between. Bombastic and theatrical, it's
political in its image choice, but hackneyed in its delivery -- and less
effective than his first installation, which also focused on the photographer as
much as his subjects. This project feels more like politics at a remove,
however, and the overshadowing fact is that photography has changed. Atrocities
of this magnitude are happening today, but they're just as often captured by
civilians with cellphones instead of auteurs of photojournalism, like Mr.
Wessing.

Galerie Lelong

528 West 26th Street, Chelsea

Through March 28




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/alfredo-jaar-shadows.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alfredo Jaar's ''Shadows'' (2014) is a mixed-media installation
based on a photo by Koen Wessing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOEN WESSING/NEDERLANDS
FOTOMUSEUM, ROTTERDAM
 COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND GALERIE LELONG, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PAINTING (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (66%); ETHICS (65%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

CITY: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%)

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (94%); SUDAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Takahiro Iwasaki, 'In Focus'

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 314 words


Asia Society

725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street

Through April 26

Takahiro Iwasaki, born in 1975 in Hiroshima, Japan, has a lacemaker's hand, a
jeweler's eye and a shopper's instinct for cool materials. He's the current
participant in Asia Society's ''In Focus'' program, a series of small solo shows
for which artists create new work often based on objects from the society's
collection. Mr. Iwasaki's source of inspiration is a magnificent 17th-century
Japanese six-panel folding screen called ''Flowers and Grasses of the Four
Seasons,'' and his response is an unconventional sculptural version of it.

The piece, titled ''Out of Disorder (Folding Scenery),'' is made almost entirely
of kimonos -- robes traditionally printed with seasonal images -- folded and
stacked inside clear plastic display cases. From the garments, layered like
geological strata, the artist has pulled out individual colored threads, which
he weaves into upright, three-dimensional landscape elements that refer both to
times of the year and to changes in Japanese history and culture.

The thread landscape corresponding to the screen's spring panel is filled with
bright-colored woven flowers; in the display case devoted to autumn, the flowers
become dandelions, puffy, gray and gone to seed. Unlike the painted screen, Mr.
Iwasaki's piece is dominated by architectural forms. Electrical and cellphone
towers rise over a black pagoda. Construction cranes like those being used to
revive the tsunami-ravaged, radiation-plagued city of Fukushima dwarf a single
tiny pine tree that survived the disaster and has become a symbol of Japanese
resilience. The 17th-century screen was meant to prompt reflections on
evanescence and cyclical return. Mr. Iwasaki's exquisite show, organized by
Michelle Yun of Asia Society, gives a far less certain vision of renewal, but
still has hope built in. HOLLAND COTTER




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/takahiro-iwasaki-in-focus.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A detail of Takahiro Iwasaki's ''Out of Disorder (Folding
Scenery),''  part of the ''In Focus'' program at Asia Society. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LEISE HOOK/ASIA SOCIETY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (79%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (76%); HISTORY (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); GEOLOGY &
GEOPHYSICS (67%); TSUNAMIS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

STATE: TOHOKU, JAPAN (78%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.A.B. Topples Iowa State

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA-BIRMINGHAM 60,
IOWA STATE 59; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 674 words


LOUISVILLE, Ky. --  Jerod Haase's last game as a college player was in
Birmingham, Ala., in 1997 in the N.C.A.A. tournament's round of 16. His Kansas
team was 34-1, with its only loss having come in double overtime against
Missouri, but the Jayhawks were stunned by a nine-loss Arizona team in the
tournament, 85-82. Haase knows all about the sting of defeat and the sudden,
unexpected packing of bags in March.

Here Thursday, coaching a team from Birmingham, Haase felt the euphoria that
comes with being an N.C.A.A. tournament underdog that stuns a higher seed. His
University of Alabama-Birmingham Blazers, a No. 14 seed, stunned third-seeded
Iowa State, 60-59, as the U.A.B freshman William Lee outplayed Iowa State's
senior star Georges Niang in the crucial final moments of the game at the KFC
Yum! Center.

Haase, recalling his 1997 loss, said, ''Arizona was really good, they won the
championship that season, and it was a bitter loss for us.'' He paused for a
moment and added, ''This is an unbelievable feeling.''

U.A.B (20-15), a member of Conference USA, will play U.C.L.A., which defeated
Southern Methodist, on Saturday here in the round of 32.

Lee, a 6-foot-9 forward, turned down offers from larger schools to sign with
U.A.B. and made the defining plays of this upset. He pulled up to hit a 15-foot
shot over Niang with 23 seconds left to give the Blazers a 58-57 lead. At the
other end, he blocked Niang's shot off a spin move in the lane, then grabbed the
rebound and was fouled.

Lee sank both free throws for a 60-57 lead as the arena shook with anticipation
of yet another N.C.A.A. tournament upset. Iowa State's Naz Long missed an open
3-pointer from the right side on the Cyclones' last possession.

''He's good, a really good player,'' Niang said of Lee. Niang, an All-Big 12
forward, made 4 of 15 shots and finished with 11 points. The Cyclones led the
Big 12 in scoring, averaging 78 points a game, but struggled with their offense
on Thursday, shooting just 36.9 percent from the field.

Lee finished with 14 points and 12 rebounds.

Robert Brown, a 6-foot-5 junior, led U.A.B. with 21 points. The Blazers made
just 3 of 18 3-point attempts, but they had numerous extra possessions because
of 19 offensive rebounds.

''They really didn't like boxing out and that's what we did, we went to the
glass and got offensive rebounds and second-chance points,'' Lee said.

Haase said he went to the team's dry erase board in the locker room before the
game and wrote ''scared'' on the bottom of the board and ''cocky'' on the top.
He asked his team where they thought they were on that scale and he said they
were much closer to the top -- and confident, not cocky.

It was not just a win for the basketball program, the players said, it was a win
for the campus and the city of Birmingham.

The school  closed its football program after the 2014 season, and the mourning
has continues in a state where football dominates.

''We have to give U.A.B. something to cheer about, something to believe in,''
Lee said.

The Blazers noted the lack of belief in their chances against Iowa State, Big 12
tournament champion. It is hard to avoid the constant chatter of favorites vs.
underdogs before the N.C.A.A. tournament, but U.A.B. played well the part of the
righteous so-called mid-major.

''They predicted us to lose 89 percent; we took that to heart,'' Lee said.
''Little bit of disrespect if you ask me.''

Iowa State (25-9) had won five straight games after trailing by at least 10
points, but it had no remedy for the hustle of the underdog Blazers.

''I think the difference was the glass,'' said Iowa State Coach Fred Hoiberg.
''They outrebounded us 52-37 and just kind of had their way on the offensive
glass down there.

''It's just tough. It's as tough a loss as I've ever been a part of. With what
we had going, I thought the momentum we had coming into this tournament, and
then just to go out there and not play very well.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/no-14-seeded-uab-surges-
to-stun-iowa-state.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Notre Dame's Demetrius Jackson attempting to block a shot by
Northeastern's Scott Eatherton during the Fighting Irish's 69-65 victory in a
Midwest Region game Thursday in Pittsburgh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE J.
PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%);
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%);
SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (54%)

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA
(92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Indonesia Postpones Drug-Case Executions Amid Legal Challenges

BYLINE: By JOE COCHRANE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 549 words


JAKARTA -- An Indonesian court on Thursday postponed a hearing for two
Australians facing execution for smuggling heroin, as government officials said
it could take months to resolve legal appeals by the men and several other
people sentenced to die for drug crimes.

Just two weeks ago, it appeared that a total of 10 people convicted by
Indonesian courts of drug-related offenses -- all but one of them foreigners --
would soon face firing squads, a situation that drew protests from Australia and
elsewhere. But a flurry of 11th-hour legal challenges has delayed the executions
indefinitely.

Indonesia has come under intense international pressure since putting five
foreigners to death in January for drug offenses. Those executions, the
country's first since 2013, came after President Joko Widodo's government
declared narcotics a ''national emergency'' and vowed to speed up executions of
dozens of condemned drug offenders, most of them foreigners.

On Thursday, the State Administrative Court in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital,
gave lawyers for Andrew Chan, 31, and Myuran Sukumaran, 33, until March 25 to
prepare their legal challenge against Mr. Joko's rejection of their requests for
clemency.

Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran were part of a group of nine Australians arrested in
Bali in 2005 and convicted of trying to smuggle 18.5 pounds of heroin off the
island. The two have since expressed remorse, and their defenders have portrayed
the crime as youthful foolishness.

Government lawyers argue that no one has recourse under Indonesian law to
challenge the president's sole prerogative to accept or reject a request for
clemency. But T. Mulya Lubis, the Australians' lead defense lawyer, said Mr.
Joko had not examined Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran's case files before rejecting
their requests.

''While there may be no legal right to challenge the clemency decision, we have
to try, because we are trying to save their lives,'' Mr. Lubis said.

Two Nigerians among the group of 10 scheduled for execution are also challenging
Mr. Joko's rejection of their clemency rejections, while a Frenchman and a
Ghanaian are asking the Indonesian Supreme Court to review their convictions.

Earlier this week, the Supreme Court agreed to a judicial review of the death
sentence handed down to the one woman in the group of 10, a convicted drug
smuggler from the Philippines.

Lawyers for a Brazilian man in the group, meanwhile, are trying to get a stay of
execution for their client and have transferred him to a mental institution,
arguing that he has schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, as diagnosed by
Brazilian and Indonesian doctors.

Indonesian officials have said that they wanted to execute the 10 convicts, who
also include an Indonesian and a Nigerian who have exhausted their legal
appeals, at the same time. They have completed preparations for isolation cells
and a field for the firing squads on a remote prison island off the southern
coast of Java.

On Wednesday, however, H.M. Prasetyo, Indonesia's attorney general, said the
government would wait until legal proceedings for all 10 convicts were concluded
before carrying out the executions.

''If they were not executed simultaneously, it would create further problems for
us,'' he was quoted by The Jakarta Post as saying.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/indonesia-postpones-drug-case-execu
tions-amid-legal-challenges.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); HEROIN (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG
TRAFFICKING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); SUPREME COURTS
(78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); MENTAL
ILLNESS (62%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (60%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (60%); PSYCHIATRIC
HOSPITALS (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%)

PERSON: JOKO WIDODO (59%)

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%)

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vera Iliatova: 'For Now, at Once'

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 250 words


In her dreamy paintings of girls in verdant landscapes, Vera Iliatova toys with
conventional associations of nature, femininity, childhood and innocence. The
foregrounds of her pictures are occupied by lush, colorful floral bouquets;
forests, meadows, hills and dales fill the backgrounds. Ms. Iliatova paints
these with a deft, brushy touch that gives the surfaces of her canvases a
sensuously tactile presence.

The diminutive figures of adolescent girls that Ms. Iliatova inserts into these
environments look almost as if they'd been cut from magazines and pasted in.
With few if any signs of civilization in view, you get the feeling they've
escaped not only from parental supervision and the rules of their community but
from modernity in general and the mess made of the world by the Industrial
Revolution. They call to mind Henry Darger's Vivian Girls on the run from the
evil Glandelinians and Justine Kurland's photographs of girls in wilderness
settings.

It's a short step to see Ms. Iliatova's heroines' escape into the bosom of
Mother Nature as a romantic protest against the dominion of patriarchal
consciousness. Insofar as the artist herself identifies with her girls, they may
be said to personify the life and freedom of art and imagination. This gives Ms.
Iliatova's paintings a touching personal urgency. She's projecting her own sense
of what it takes to be an artist in the modern world: You have to be some kind
of outlaw.

Monya Rowe Gallery

34 Orchard Street

Through April 12




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/vera-iliatova-for-now-at-once.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''To See You Through'' (2015), one of Vera Iliatova's  dreamy
paintings of girls in verdant landscapes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONYA ROWE, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Sprucing Up a Strip of Georgian Elegance

BYLINE: By LAURA LATHAM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 770 words


WARWICK, England -- Perhaps best known for its imposing medieval castle, the
market town of Warwick, 20 miles south of Birmingham in the West Midlands, also
has some fine examples of later period architecture. Much of the town center was
rebuilt after a huge fire destroyed it in 1694,  and many buildings now date to
the late 17th and early 18th centuries.

At the heart of the town is Northgate Street, a road so well preserved that it
was once referred to by Alec Clifton-Taylor, an architectural historian, as
''the most handsome Georgian street in the Midlands.'' Now plans are underway
for its restoration.

On one side of the road are 11 houses constructed in the early 1700s; all are
listed by English Heritage as Grade II or better and have protected status.

Facades of brick or painted render still have the original dormer windows, large
sash window frames, and wooden doors with fanlights. Interiors retain many
period fittings, including original floorboards and ceiling timbers, staircases,
shutters, decorative plasterwork and fireplaces.

From the 1930s the local authority gradually took possession of this entire row
of properties, as well as the former Victorian police station on the street
corner. It also extended into further buildings, including two decorative
18th-century pavilions, on The Butts, an adjacent road.

The buildings were used as offices until 2007 and, as a result, were neglected
and suffered unsympathetic alteration. An unattractive extension was constructed
on land immediately behind Northgate Street.

Despite this, the site retained its historic significance and, in 2008, it was
concluded that selling the area  to a developer would be the best way to
encourage a program of restoration.

Andrew Brown, managing director of the British firm Ash Mill Developments, said
his company was selected, in 2012, because of its good track record of historic
renovations. ''It was felt that the project needed to be sensitively done, and
we have experience in working with historic sites and on complicated
buildings,'' he said.

The family-owned firm has an experienced team of property professionals and is
backed by private finance. Recent developments include the restoration of two
Grade I listed houses in Bath and the conversion of a Regency villa in Devon.

The company purchased the Warwick site, which measures 3,900 square meters, or
42,000 square feet, for 3 million pounds, or $4.4 million, and were given
permission to demolish the unsympathetic 1930s additions.

The new master plan includes the partial or complete restoration of 10
properties on Northgate Street, with one left undeveloped, and the conversion of
the Victorian police station into three homes. Both pavilions will also be
converted to individual dwellings, and two additional cottages will be
constructed.

There will be 18 properties in total for sale, and the remaining land will be
used for access and landscaped gardens.

Mr. Brown said his firm had already received over 200 inquiries about the
houses, mainly from British buyers but also investors from Singapore, Kenya and
the United States.

Warwick, on the River Avon, is centrally located. Direct rail services to
London's Marylebone station take 70 minutes and there are good road connections
to London and Birmingham. The highly regarded University of Warwick is nearby,
as is the town of Stratford-upon-Avon, home of William Shakespeare.

Currently only one house is being actively marketed. The price is £1.5 million
for the property in its raw state, which means it has not been refurbished.

Charlie Smith, sales director for the project, said this unusual decision was
made because the firm had discovered that there was a niche market for
individual renovation projects. ''Experience has shown us that there are owners
who prefer to undertake the work themselves,'' he said.

A further four properties will be sold as shells, which means the external
fabric of the buildings has been made sound, utilities installed and interiors
brought to habitable standard but not fully renovated.

The historic nature of the buildings means all restoration work must be
delivered within strict guidelines and overseen by local conservation officers.

The 13 remaining residences will be sold finished. Prices for the remaining
properties have not yet been set.

Mr. Smith said that property prices in Warwick rose about 8 percent over the
past year and that there was demand for residences with character in the town
center, close to good schools and connections. ''Warwick is becoming
increasingly upmarket and desirable,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/greathomesanddestinations/sprucing-up-a-strip-
of-georgian-elegance.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HISTORY (73%); POLICE
FORCES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (63%)

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (88%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Dynamic Bogotá Attracts Foreign Buyers and Businesses

BYLINE: By CHRIS KRAUL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1387 words


Bogota -- Roberto Vale has become a passionate rolo, as residents of Bogotá are
known. Mr. Vale, a Venezuelan oil field services executive, fled his country's
rising crime and socialist government two years ago to open his business and
start anew in Colombia's capital, a burgeoning energy hub.

''Colombians have welcomed me with open doors, and we love it here,'' said Mr.
Vale, who with his wife recently bought a 600-square-meter, or
6,460-square-foot, home in Sopó, a rural suburb north of the capital, for 2.6
billion pesos, or about $1.2 million -- $1,670 per square meter at today's
exchange rate.

Housing demand from foreigners like Mr. Vale has helped fuel a surging Bogotá
real estate market in which prices of high-end residential units have grown an
average 10 percent a year since 2011 and even faster in rural settings like
Sopó, said Camilo Peréz, the chief economist at Banco de Bogotá. Rents have
risen at a similar pace.

Camilo Alvarado Boshell, architect and chief executive of Kubik, the design and
construction company that sold the house to Mr. Vale, said foreigners accounted
for 20 percent of his sales at the eight projects under construction in Bogotá.
The leading foreign nationality among those buyers is Venezuelan, followed by
Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese and American.

''Ten years ago, Bogotá was absolutely nada,'' said Mr. Alvarado, who studied
architecture at the Pratt Institute, in New York. ''But it has undergone a big
transformation becoming a truly international place and one of the most
important cities in Latin America.''

Along with close-in Bogotá residential neighborhoods like Rosales, El Chicó,
Usaquén and Parque Virrey, Sopó has become a preferred domicile for chief
executives and other professionals with means. Its popularity shows that buyers
are willing to live farther out to gain respite from Bogotá's nightmarish
traffic.

''The climate is great, the economy is booming, the lifestyle is very
international,'' Mr. Vale said.

The underlying driver of rising prices is Colombia's expanding economy, which,
on the strength of increased oil and coal production, grew 4.7 percent last
year, more than any other South American country, said Simón Gaviria Muñoz,
director of the National Planning Department, a cabinet-level office in
Colombia's executive branch.

Also pushing prices higher is the rising spending power of Colombians.

''Colombian income per capita has doubled since 2003 amid sustained low
inflation,'' Mr. Gaviria said. If, as some economists forecast, Colombia grows
at 4 percent in 2015, ahead of the region's 1.2 percent, ''then we really will
be doing well,'' he added.

Also squeezing prices upward is the scarcity of buildable land on Bogotá's
sabana, the verdant high-altitude plateau of 2,590 meters, or 8,500 feet, over
which the city sprawls, said Mr. Peréz, the bank economist.

The 40 percent gain in the dollar's value against the Colombian peso since July
has given dollar-holding buyers and renters added purchasing power, at least for
the time being. But prices for high-end residences may still seem stratospheric,
particularly in developments in trendy areas or close to office-retail-apartment
hubs where employers like the American International Group, the insurance
company known as AIG, and SAB-Miller have set up to cut their workers' commute
time.

For example, new single-family houses in the desirable north Bogotá barrio
Usaquén, near a booming office hub known as the Santa Bárbara-Teleport, sell on
average for about $4,000 per square meter, or close to $1 million for a house of
185 square meters, said Juan Pablo Jiménez, an agent at Fonnegra Gerlein, which
represents many foreign clients in in Bogotá.

At the Cerros de los Alpes, a multi-unit development perched on a mountainside
above Usaquén, the purchase prices are roughly similar and even more expensive
for penthouses. Spectacular views have made rental apartments there especially
coveted by ambassadors, retired generals and entertainers, with rents averaging
$5,500 per month for a 240-square-meter apartment, Mr. Jimenez said.

A decade or so ago, the current market conditions were unthinkable for Bogotá.
Like the rest of Colombia, the capital, with a population of 8.7 million, was in
the grips of a crime wave and a rebel insurgency. International businesses
shunned the nation's violent image, and tourists, by and large, stayed away --
except for ''thrill-seekers and backpackers,'' William R. Brownfield said in
2010 when he was the United States ambassador.

But with security improving and the economic tide rising, increasing numbers of
foreigners are taking to the city's Spanish colonial charm, temperate climate
and wide-open business environment. (Nearly two million foreign residents
visited Colombia last year, up 14 percent from the previous year and four times
the 2002 total, according to ProColombia, a government export-promotion agency.
The destination of many was Cartagena, a coastal resort city undergoing a
housing boom of its own.)

Another positive factor for the Bogotá housing market is the possibility that a
peace deal now being negotiated in Havana by the government and the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the leftist rebel group known as the
FARC, could soon produce a ''peace dividend,'' or overall lift to the economy.

''Peace will make Colombia safer and drive up tourism investment and open up
more areas of the country to development,'' said Mr. Gaviria, the planning
director. ''No doubt it will have a beneficial effect on the real estate
market.''

Colombia's dynamism has not gone unnoticed among international hospitality
chains like Marriott, Hyatt, Sheraton and Four Seasons, all of which have opened
hotels or announced new projects. Recent retail and food service arrivals
include Starbucks, Krispy Kreme, Tommy Hilfiger and PriceSmart, a discount
retailer based in San Diego. Twitter and Uber recently decided on Bogotá for
their regional headquarters, Mr. Gaviria said.

In less than two years, AIG has doubled its payroll in Bogotá to 700 to staff an
administrative services operation that supports the insurer's operations around
Latin America. What makes Bogotá attractive are high foreign investment,
increased political stability and Colombian education levels, said Jorge
Gilling, AIG's local general manager.

''We looked at different cities including Mexico City and Central America where
we could set up shop and Bogotá turned out to be the best,'' Mr. Gilling said.
He recently rented a 110-square-meter apartment in the neighborhood of El Chicó
for $4,000 a month. Purchase prices there and in the adjoining Rosales district
average $3,300 per square meter but increase sharply with view and size.

Prices are similarly high in Parque Virrey, an area popular with young couples
and affluent single people for its bicycle and jogging paths and nearby high-end
retail shops. Three of Kubik's eight Bogotá projects are clustered there, with
prices at the 50-unit Kubik Virrey project listing at about $3,400 per square
meter, said Mr. Alvarado, the Kubik chief executive.

The Bogotá market has slowed in recent months with lower global oil prices, said
Camilo Fonnegra, executive director of the Fonnegra agency.

In the near to medium term, high-end prices could level off as builders take
advantage of new zoning rules allowing higher density developments. But Fonnegra
and other agencies see little risk of a real estate bubble given the strength of
the economy, the low level of mortgage debt figured as a percentage of economic
output and tougher lending standards since the 1990s housing crisis.

Bogotá's huge disadvantage is its worsening traffic jams caused by inadequate
mass transit. In December 2000, the city inaugurated the TransMilenio, an
innovative dedicated bus-lane system, but the network has fallen far behind
population growth and half the capital remains uncovered, said Natalia Salazar,
an economist at Fedesarrollo, a think tank in Bogotá.

The gridlock is why Margarita Murcia, general director of Disney Consumer
Products in Colombia, joined Mr. Vale as a homeowner at the Kubik Verde
development in Sopó. ''My house offers me refuge from the stress of working in
Bogotá's high density and pollution,'' she said. ''It's marvelous out here.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/greathomesanddestinations/a-dynamic-bogota-att
racts-foreign-buyers-and-businesses.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%);
REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
(89%); PRICES (89%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); OIL
PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (75%);
INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); REAL
ESTATE MARKET (69%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (68%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (67%);
COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AMERICA
(79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Li Ning Posts Third Straight Annual Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 176 words


HONG KONG -- The Chinese sports brand Li Ning said Thursday it posted a loss for
a third year in a row as it invests in a restructuring plan, and said it has
appointed the executive chairman Li Ning as its interim chief executive.

Li Ning, which is backed by the U.S. private equity firm TPG Capital and the
Singapore sovereign fund GIC, posted a net loss of 781.5 million renminbi, or
$125.4 million, for 2014, compared with a 391.5 million renminbi loss a year
earlier.

The retailer warned in January that it expected to post a loss for 2014, partly
because of the costs of its transformation plans, and the result was in line
with analysts' forecasts.

Li Ning said full-year revenue rose 16 percent to 6.73 billion renminbi, while
its gross profit margin came in at 44.6 percent, compared with 44.5 percent in
2013.

The company, which recently teamed up with the Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi
to produce a new generation of ''smart'' running shoes, operated 5,626 retail
stores in China as of the end of December, 289 fewer stores than a year earlier.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/international/li-ning-posts-third-str
aight-annual-loss.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%);
FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); COMPANY
PROFITS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%);
CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

COMPANY: LI NING CO LTD (92%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%)

TICKER: 2331 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (92%); SIC2253 KNIT OUTERWEAR
MILLS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719
OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Timeless Ways to Mark the Occasion

BYLINE: By GINANNE BROWNELL MITIC

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1026 words


LONDON -- When Kate Collins was looking for a combination 18th birthday and high
school graduation present for her eldest son, Will, time was of the essence.

She wanted a milestone gift, something he would always remember receiving at a
pivotal time in his life, as he was leaving home in London to begin his studies
at Harvard University.

She decided on a watch, something that was cool as well as practical, that he
could have and use all his life. After some initial searching online, Ms.
Collins, an American mother of four based in London, decided on a stainless
steel Tag Heuer. She said it was not inexpensive, but she was drawn to the watch
because it was not flashy, was a practical timepiece and could even be worn when
swimming.

To her surprise, Will, now 21 and a junior majoring in history, loved it. ''You
want to get something that you will keep awhile and remind you of those
milestones and special people who are with you during that time,'' he said. ''A
watch does not go out of date, especially if it is an analog or older watch; it
only increases with value, financially and sentimentally. That is an important
thing for a gift.''

Building on that success, she also decided to give her second son, Patrick, a
Tag Heuer when he graduated from high school last year. ''Looking at your phone
to see what time it is, you could be checking your email, a text from a friend,
but looking at your watch, whether in class or in a meeting, means you are just
looking at what time it is,'' she said. ''A watch makes a statement, which is 'I
am an adult.'''

The industry, aware of stories like Ms. Collins's, promotes watches as the
perfect present for big events -- Patek Philippe even has a slogan: ''Begin Your
Own Tradition.'' And luxury brands including Cartier, Tag Heuer, Tudor, Raymond
Weil and Tiffany deliberately have a range of prices to make gift-giving to
teens more practical.

''When you give a watch as a gift, what I really think you are saying is 'You
are a responsible person now. You are in control of your own schedule; you have
places to be and people are relying on you,''' said Ariel Adams, founder and
editor of ABlogToWatch, one of the most popular watch blogs. ''The symbolic
element of that is much more powerful than some of the more temporary things
that kids are into these days.''

Mary Marsh agrees. When her daughter, Margaret, then a student at Princeton
University, was about to turn 21, she asked for a Cartier watch as a gift.

Thinking it was a great present and remembering that she had received a watch
when she graduated from high school, Ms. Marsh, who lives in Hong Kong, went to
a department store to check prices and options.

''To be honest, I would like the watch I got for Margaret,'' she joked. ''It is
a classic enough watch so it won't look like 'I got this in 2014.'''

That, watch experts say, is an important consideration. Classic styles like
Cartier's Tank line and Bulgari's Serpenti in stainless steel are a few of the
watches that Marina Larroudé, Teen Vogue's fashion editor, has seen on a number
of young women lately. ''For me, a watch is a piece of jewelry, it is not just
about checking time,'' she said. ''I would give the most classic piece.''

Finding a classic style that will be both appreciated now and will retain its
value, style and sentiment over the years may seem like an overwhelming
prospect, but according to Daryn Schnipper, chairman of Sotheby's international
watch division, educating yourself about the choices is a good first step. ''My
best advice is go to a watch store that sells new watches with a wide range,
have a look and get an idea of price points,'' she said. ''Another good way is
to go to an auction and see what you like. They may not have exactly what you
want, but it may not be a bad idea to see what is reselling.''

Mr. Adams cautioned buyers to avoid obscure brands -- as they may not be around
in a few years' time -- and not to buy incredibly expensive pieces.

''Give them something to aspire to; don't get them something that they are like
'That's it, I have the nicest watch ever,''' said Mr. Adams, whose interest in
timepieces started when his grandfather gave him a watch. ''You want to give
them something nice and something that will always be relevant to their lives,
but give them a place to step up to. If you get them a Rolex watch, don't get
them a gold Rolex right away, they haven't earned that; they will expect stuff
like that forever and where do you go from there? What do you get them when they
graduate from college -- a Lamborghini?''

Luxury brands such as Cartier, Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe also can garner
great resale value if, down the line, teens want to either sell their watches or
add to their collections.

''Vintage can become a huge opportunity for those who are interested in history
and in the value of a timepiece they were given as a gift,'' said Lindsay
Hymson, director of public relations, events and social media for Tag Heuer.
''It's definitely an opportunity to get them collecting watches and get excited
about the different options between them, from fashion timepieces to
technologically advanced ones. There are so many ways to express your interests
through your timepiece.''

Like Ms. Collins and Ms. Marsh, Stanislas de Quercize, chief executive of
Cartier, has given watches as milestone gifts to his three sons. Each one has
been (or will be) given engraved watches for their 18th, 20th, 21st and 25th
birthdays.

''A watch is a perfect gift to mark a milestone moment. My youngest, who is 17,
cannot wait to be 18 to have his first watch,'' he said. ''It is the start of a
collection. If you get a Cartier when you are 18, you will wear it your whole
life and you will give it to your child or on to your grandchild, and they will
appreciate it forever.''

And Mr. de Quercize has put some thought into the giving process. ''First, I
would go for the element of surprise. When they are blown away, this is part of
the gift,'' he said, describing the moment when a teen is presented with a
Cartier red box. ''They do not know what is in it. It is part of the
excitement.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/watches-timeless-ways-to-m
ark-the-occasion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FINE
WATCHES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRICES
(71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); LUXURY GOODS (67%)

COMPANY: PATEK PHILIPPE SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%);
SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (53%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Enthusiasts Who Go Behind the Glass

BYLINE: By NAZANIN LANKARANI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 869 words


PARIS -- Several times a month, Objectif Horlogerie, a watchmaking workshop in
Paris, teaches six adult students some of the mysteries of mechanical
timepieces.

The students, dressed in white coats, sit behind high workbenches. With tiny
tweezers and screwdrivers, they take a four-and-a-half-hour plunge into the
microscopic depths of a watch movement.

''Our students are typically men between 25 to 60 years of age, from all walks
of life,'' said Samir Khemici, who founded Objectif Horlogerie in 2011. ''Demand
is highest during Christmas or Father's Day.''

Four years ago, Mr. Khemici, a watch lover and sometime collector, left a career
in finance to explore the entrepreneurial opportunities available in the watch
world, beyond selling or manufacturing.

''I have been passionate about watches for a long time and was devoting a lot of
time to that passion,'' Mr. Khemici said. ''I took a chance by opening this
business, but I had sensed the demand.''

Objectif Horlogerie is not a professional school for watchmakers, only a
workshop for adults interested in understanding the basics. ''I wanted the
school to be open to the public and not be associated with a watch brand,'' Mr.
Khemici said.

After a brief introduction to the history of time measurement, starting with
ancient sundials, students test their skills under the guidance of a watchmaker
in taking apart and re-assembling a mechanical movement.

The challenge is both simple and daunting. If properly re-assembled, the
movement will start ticking again.

''We work on a Swiss ETA movement reference 6498, of the type used in certain
models by IWC, Panerai or Zenith,'' Mr. Khemici said.

The process of re-assembling requires precision, dexterity and just the right
amount of pressure applied to the 60 minuscule parts that must be reinserted in
the right place and the right order, for the balance wheel to start moving
again.

''The point is to show our students how energy is transferred in the mechanism
of a watch,'' Mr. Khemici said. ''Some of our students know little about
watches, others don't even wear one, but all are curious about how a mechanical
watch functions.''

At the end of the class, the students are rewarded with a certificate of
completion and the satisfaction that comes with having overcome a formidable
challenge, for a fee of 290 euros, or about $315.

''When you see the complexity of a movement, you understand why watch repairs
are so costly,'' he said.

Mr. Khemici has since opened workshops in five other French cities as well as in
Brussels, Geneva and Luxembourg. Objectif Horlogerie is also adding a program of
visits within the industry. Last January, the company organized a two-day trip
to Geneva during the SIHH trade show for 20 clients, including meetings with
watchmakers at Hublot, lunch with the independent watchmaker Ludovic Ballouard
and a visit to MB&F's M.A.D. Gallery, and a tour of the Patek Philippe museum
outside business hours.

He is not alone in having sensed an opportunity on the pedagogical side of
watchmaking.

In recent years, a number of watchmaking workshops have been set up, though most
are affiliated with a brand or offered as an added service to clients.

The best known is perhaps the Masterclass in Fine Watchmaking offered by the
Swiss watch and clock company Jaeger-LeCoultre, to select clients under the eye
of a watchmaker from Jaeger's own manufacturing site in the Vallée de Joux in
Switzerland. Students are invited to explore ''the living heart'' of a Jaeger
caliber 986. Classes are also organized at the Jaeger boutique on the Place
Vendôme in Paris, or in other boutiques on client request, and online.

Cartier offers workshops to clients invited on visits to the brand's watchmaking
ateliers.

The Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie in Geneva also offers a monthly workshop,
called ''Change places with a watchmaker.'' The three-and-a-half-hour course
costs 350 Swiss francs, or about $355.

Van Cleef & Arpels has taken a further step to capitalize on curiosity about
watch and jewelry manufacturing. In 2012, L'École Van Cleef & Arpels, on the
Place Vendôme, started offering courses to the public on the history of time,
and workshops around mechanical movements and jewelry setting.

''The program was born out of a desire to educate the public and provide a
greater understanding of the art of watch and jewelry making and the
savoir-faire involved in these crafts,'' said Marie Vallanet-Delhom, president
of the school.

The four-hour courses are offered in French and English, one day a month, at a
cost of ?300 for the history of watchmaking, and ?600 for the mechanical
movement.

The program was so well received that a year later the company decided to take
its courses on the road, traveling to Tokyo in 2013 and to Hong Kong last
summer.

Next June, the school will set up its first workshop at the Cooper Hewitt museum
in New York, where for three weeks it will offer half-day mechanical watch
workshops for adults along with a ''Create your Clock'' workshop for children.

''We want to be present wherever interested students are located,'' Ms.
Vallanet-Delhom said. ''There is a palpable fascination everywhere for the
mechanical watch.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/watch-enthusiasts-who-go-b
ehind-the-glass.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOCK & WATCH MFG (91%); FINE WATCHES (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION
(90%); ADULTS (90%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%)

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Discreet 24 Hours on Your Ring Finger

BYLINE: By DAVID BELCHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 661 words


LONDON -- With all the places to read the time these days -- from smartphones to
the show-off wristwatch with all 24 time zones -- why not something as dainty as
a ring?

There's even a digital ring watch that rotates on different layers -- with the
same gesture many people use to fiddle nervously with their rings -- to display
the hour and the minute with LED lighting.

''The idea of having a watch on a ring is like having a watch on a cuff link.
It's sort of like playing with the idea of a secret watch,'' said Pierre
Rainero, head of Cartier's department of image and heritage in Paris.

''With a secret ring you don't look at the time as much. It's much more
subtle.''

Cartier has several ring watches on the market, including ones with a
diamond-studded parrot and with the leopard, the company's iconic image, that
flip over to reveal a tiny watch dial underneath.

''A ring that opens is something traditional, such as famous rings during the
Middle Ages that might hold poison or something,'' said Michel Pitteloud, the
chief executive of Graff. ''Even in the recent past we had rings that had
pillboxes.''

''In some cases in the 18th and 19th century, you could have a hidden portrait
of a loved one,'' Mr. Pitteloud added. ''The hair of a loved one could be hidden
inside the ring, along with a picture of someone you loved.''

Both Cartier and Graff have embraced the idea of hidden watches in rings, much
like secret watches, bridging the worlds of jewelry and watches.

''We have rings with hidden watches -- including a piece with a round engraved
rubellite that swivels to reveal a watch face that is inlaid with diamonds and
mother of pearl,'' Mr. Pitteloud said.

''You can wear the ring with a watch on top, or a ring with a diamond on top and
the watch underneath.''

Similar to the white-gold carved rubellite is the Halo ring watch, also
available in diamonds, or a combination of rubies and diamonds, emeralds and
diamonds, or sapphires and diamonds.

''Developing these rings was very complicated,'' Mr. Pitteloud said. ''You have
to swivel the stones sideways almost 360 degrees to open the watch.''

Swiveling of a different sort is behind the concept of a very modern ring watch.
For the 26-year-old Hungarian inventor Gusztav Szikszai, a ring watch was not
just an alternative to a watch, but a solution.

''I never wore a watch on my wrist because I don't like the feeling, but I like
watches in general, so I came up with something that I could wear, the Ring
Clock,'' Mr. Szikszai, who is co-founder of the Ring Clock, said by email.

''A lot of people like watches, rings and games,'' he said. ''The Ring Clock
puts them together.''

The clock is made up of three bands of stainless steel that rotate around the
master ring to tell the time. The largest band tracks the hours, the center
displays the minutes and the bottom band the seconds. The time displays in LED
lights of blue or orange when users twist the ring watch.

''I wanted to create something that is innovative, good to look at and can
actually be useful,'' Mr. Szikszai said.

The ring, which retails for 185 pounds, or about $285, is for sale this month
after several delays.

The company had to hone the wireless charging through a closed metal shell and
find the right manufacturer to produce the appropriate LiPo battery for the
3-millimeter watch. A wireless power pad recharges the ring, but the company
hopes to use kinetic energy in the future.

For any of the ring watch designs, it's about turning a ring into a clock
without losing sight of the ring's first function as jewelry.

''The idea is to have an ornament, not a dial, on your finger,'' Mr. Rainero of
Cartier said.

''In the '20s and '30s we used to make the ring watch more visible, but only if
you really looked closely. There has always been a secret element to it.
Sometimes there were even photos hidden beneath the dial, such as a picture of
your dog. Or perhaps your mistress.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/a-discreet-24-hours-on-you
r-ring-finger-watches.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (71%);
EXECUTIVES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Designer Finds Inspiration in Expanded Horizons

BYLINE: By NAZANIN LANKARANI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 987 words


Eric Giroud has spent the last 15 years designing some of the most memorable
timepieces on the market, from bejeweled creations for Harry Winston to concept
watches for MB&F, the curved Badollet Ivresse, and even early smartwatches. Mr.
Giroud, who lives in Geneva where his company, Through the Looking Glass, is
based, says he owns about 10 ''serious'' watches including a pink gold Patrimony
Contemporaine by Vacheron Constantin -- not a model he designed but one he wears
most often. He spoke with Nazanin Lankarani.

Q. What training did you receive prior to designing watches?

A. I started out studying music in various conservatories. But without talent
sufficient to devote my life to music, I eventually switched to architecture. I
learned to draw, not beautifully, but functionally, and to build things. I saw
my job as overcoming the constraints in a project. That is magical but it also
teaches you humility. In 1989, I opened my own architect's office but had to
close down two years later due to the financial crisis that followed the Gulf
War. Then I took a job in a design firm in Lausanne, designing all sorts of
products from furniture to light fixtures, coffee makers to telephones.

Q. What was your introduction to watches?

A. In 1998, while working in Lausanne, Underwood, a leather maker, asked me to
design a watch to go with their leather bracelets. The project was simple but
the production phase took me to the Jura region of Switzerland, where I met
local watchmakers. That was all it took. I quit my job in Lausanne, moved to
Geneva and started working for Tissot and Mido in the Swatch group. Since then,
I have devoted my career to designing watches.

Q. Where do you find your inspiration?

I work alone. I find that looking for inspiration while sitting behind a desk
does not work for me. Leaving my comfort zone stimulates my imagination. I try
to meet people outside of my own line of work, to expand my horizons. So I
travel, read and talk to people. Otherwise, I am fascinated by curves. I like
the shape of old plates and the door handles of certain automobiles. I
photograph them and use them for inspiration.

Q. What was the first watch you designed?

A. The first complete watch I designed was the re-interpretation of the PRS516
for Tissot in 2003. I based my work on the existing model that was inspired by
the world of automobiles. To design from scratch, you must listen carefully to
the words your clients choose to describe what they want. If the watch brand has
an interest in automobiles, I try to imagine the year of the car, the culture of
its decade, the way one would sit in it and what the ride would feel like.

Q. How is your work different from that of a watchmaker?

A. I am given exact specifications, like the size of the movement and the volume
of the dial, and I must design with precision everything outside the mechanical
aspect of the watch. My job is to take the structure and the aesthetics and work
them within those given constraints so that the concept can be both beautiful
and functional.

Most watch brands use a designer. Some independents like Kari Voutilainen, Peter
Speake-Marin, François-Paul Journe, the watchmaker is also the designer.

But many big groups like Richemont or LVMH use outside designers.

Q. What do you think about smartwatches?

A. I designed my first -- if not the first -- ''connectable'' watch long before
digital watches as we know them today, were marketed. It was a groundbreaking
project for a big watch group that was shelved in 1999. Today, ''connectable''
watches are not aesthetically pleasing objects.

The debate among designers is how to make them more wearable and more pleasing
to the eye. For now, we are focused on the wrist and limited to a square-shaped
dial since we cannot make round digital screens yet. I would certainly buy a
smart watch or two. I find them amusing. But there is no comparison between a
smart watch and a mechanical watch and 500 years of history.

Q. What are some of your most memorable collaborations?

A. My introduction to mechanical movements came from Peter Speake-Marin, the
English watchmaker, in 2001. He taught me the technical aspects, and together we
designed his jump-hour Oxford model, a prototype that was never marketed. Peter
introduced me to Max Büsser [founder of MB&F] who at the time was head of Harry
Winston Timepieces. I also met Christophe Claret at Harry Winston, and together
we designed the limited edition Tourbillon Glissière. Then I worked on the Harry
Winston Opus 9 with the master watchmaker Jean-Marc Wiederrecht in 2009. That
was a fantastic project for a very contemporary concept watch. When Max left
Harry Winston to start his own brand, Max Büsser & Friends, I joined him. In 10
years, we have created at MB&F something very new. I was the first ''friend'' in
the MB&F adventure. I have designed nearly all the MB&F watches, including all
the Horological and Legacy Machines.

Q. What are some of the brands you are working with today?

A. I am working with Manufacture Royale. The history of the Manufacture goes
back to the 18th century, but there is limited ancestry in the product line. So
we have freedom in designing the new line.

For Leroy, my mission is different. The brand has a long history and a known
heritage in chronometers. The new product line must be in homage to that
heritage.

Q. What is the current state of the watch industry from a creative standpoint?

A. There are too many watches out there and the market is saturated. There is a
glaring absence of creativity in the industry and too many models look alike.

The brands need to take more risk, not in terms of opening markets, but in terms
of being original and creative. That is the responsibility of company chief
executives, not their designers. The watch industry needs new ideas. Creativity
is the salvation of the entire luxury industry.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/watch-designer-finds-inspi
ration-in-expanded-horizons.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOCK & WATCH MFG (89%); FINE WATCHES (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG
(71%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: SWATCH GROUP LTD (58%)

TICKER: UHRN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%);
NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING,
DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334111
ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK
OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (58%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT,
DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); SIC3571
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%)

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (90%); JURA, SWITZERLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Passion for Cars and Timepieces

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 938 words


Nicholas Biebuyck is a watch specialist for Asia at Bonhams auction house. He
spoke with Nina Siegal.

Q. You work for both the watch and the cars departments at Bonhams. Are they
related?

A. The car-watch crossover is the thing closest to my heart. I started out in
the motoring department many years ago. My father was a car and motorcycle
collector, and I always went to the car shows with him. For my 16th birthday he
gave me a cardboard box filled with the pieces for a Norton motorcycle and said,
get into it. That's how I got into engineering. I studied mechanical engineering
at college, and with watches there's always this shared passion with collectors
of cars as well.

Q. What is the fundamental connection between cars and watches?

A. In the car world as in the watch world, I always say you're either a body man
or an engine man. You've got watch collectors who are completely fascinated by
the engineering, the design, the workmanship, the finishing, the polishing that
goes into a watch. They want to understand how the gears mesh together, what
makes the perpetual calendar work, why does a minute repeater do its thing.
They just want to know what's going on inside.

Q. And the ''body men?''

A. You've got people who are fascinated by the aesthetics of it. How the design
works, the polishing or the brushing on a Royal Oak [Audemars Piguet] or a
Nautilus [Patek Philippe]. They're not hugely interested in the fact that the
original movement came from Jaeger-LeCoultre. What they're interested in is what
makes that watch as it is. It's the same with the guys fascinated by [Rolex]
Submariners. The movement itself is a real workhorse. There's no beautiful
finishing to that movement, but that watch was designed for a very specific
purpose in mind, like going to the bottom of the Mariana Trench or going to the
moon or climbing Everest.

Q. How do collectors evolve from watches to cars?

A. The first expensive watch I ever bought myself retail was a Panerai back in
2004, and I was visiting the very well-known Panerai forum, Paneristi, and you
would log on and notice something. The guys would buy a Panerai and then a
modern Rolex, and then they'd probably move on to buying a vintage Rolex, and
then they'd start collecting Leica cameras, and then eventually they'd start
buying Porsches. The sports watch to Porsche progression was quite natural.

Q. Are there watches that correspond to certain cars?

A. I get asked the question quite a lot: What watch brand goes with what car?
It's funny, at the moment you think you've got the conception about what that
person's going to be wearing because of the car they drive, you're generally
wrong. I don't think you can draw direct parallels. But one thing I can say is
that Patek Philippe collectors and Ferrari collectors tend to go together quite
closely. Rolex guys and Porsche guys go together quite closely too. Beyond that,
it's less obvious.

Q. Are there other common pairings of cars and watches?

A. IWC [Schaffhausen] and Mercedes; they're two strong German brands that have a
natural affinity. The ''Wolf of Wall Street'' gave a pretty good example of what
Lamborghini collectors wore in the past -- heavy gold Rolexes. But these days,
guys with Lambos are more into the more avant-garde stuff. A Singaporean
collector I know who owns a couple of Lamborghinis wears MB&Fs and Richard
Milles. Lamborghini drivers are looking for off-the-beaten path. It's probably
not going to be Roger Smith, more like Maîtres du Temps. Guys buying Greubel
Forsey and Philippe Dufour are probably driving 1930s Mercedes SSKs, or some
crazy amazing coach-built car from the 1930s/1940s.

Q. What's a surprising pairing that you've noticed?

A. One of my favorites was at a Goodwood Revival a few years ago. There was a
guy racing a Ford GT40, a very rare prototype car. He'd bought an Omega sports
watch from us for his wife to use as a stopwatch to time his laps. I went over
to say hello and looked down to see that he's wearing this platinum Patek
perpetual calendar chronograph. It's amazing that this guy is so passionate
about his watch, which is worth about $200,000 U.S., that he's prepared to wear
it to go out racing. Most guys, when they go out on track, are wearing a Casio
or one of these sports watches from Suunto or something. For him, it's a watch
-- he wears it.

Q. That must be very rare with Patek Philippe collectors

A. It's very rare. There are so many watches that come to the auction market now
as double-sealed watches, they've never been opened, never been worn. It's very
sad. I've got a friend now who is wearing a Nautilus that he's wearing every
day. It's got scratches all over it, dents in it. I love it.

Q. When you talk about collectors like that, I tend to wonder about how much
money you have to have to be that casual with things that expensive.

A. There's a perception that the guys who are going out to buy Pateks are
multimillionaires or even billionaires. It's not always the case. A perpetual
calendar Patek is an expensive watch, but I know guys who save fairly diligently
for several years. They always hunt for it when it comes on the market, and
they'll wait to get it.

Q. You keep mentioning guys. Is this a totally male domain?

A. There are women. A lot of women who are daughters of car guys who have been
introduced to racing through that, or partners of car collectors who inevitably
have gone out and bought their own cars and watches along the way. I met a woman
in Hong Kong recently who is a watch collector and a car collector. She drives
an Aston Martin and wears Audemars Piguet.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/a-passion-for-cars-and-tim
epieces.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); FINE WATCHES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUCTIONS
(78%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (76%); MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING (70%)

COMPANY: PATEK PHILIPPE SA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%);
SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (54%)

STATE: MOUNT EVEREST (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

A Watch Auctioneer on Bloggers as Game Changers

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 972 words


For the past 20 years, Geoffroy Ader has worked for many auction houses,
organizing watch auctions across the globe. Now, as managing director of
Antiquorum Online, he is helping to create an e-commerce watch store from the
Geneva-based watch specialist Antiquorum Auctioneers. He spoke with Nina Siegal.

Q. Auction specialists, vintage dealers and watchmakers used to be the go-to
experts on luxury watches. Now many collectors follow bloggers. How have they
changed the game?

A. Over the past five years, a new breed of specialists and watch influencers
have appeared on the market, and their advice is followed by a new generation of
collectors who consult the ''blogosphere'' to find information on specific
brands or models. This ''blogosphere generation'' is contributing to the success
of watch collecting worldwide.

Q. Which blogs are the most influential for new watch collectors?

A. Over the last few years, two names come to mind: Hodinkee and Watch Anish.
These two blogs have influenced the watch industry as well as the community of
watch collectors. Hodinkee was founded by Benjamin Clymer, who built his
reputation by informing the watch community about the latest trends in vintage
watches, especially asking specialists for their expert opinion on the watch
auction market. On the other hand, Watch Anish, which bears the name of its
founder Anish Bhatt, has positioned itself as the leader in the lifestyle blog
world. He's famous, among other bloggers on social media, for posting pictures
that immediately catch your eye like in the world of fashion, where he started
his career.

Q. Can you cite an example of how one blogger made a difference to a particular
watch?

A. The best example I can give recently is Hodinkee's story related to the
Jaeger-LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm, which was largely promoted online through
bloggers. It was posted online Jan. 26, ''Man finds Original LeCoultre Deep Sea
Alarm at Phoenix Goodwill Store For $5.99, Sells It for $35,000.'' In one day
the online community was on fire. Everyone was discussing this treasure hunt,
even myself, with collectors. It was fantastic free publicity for the brand
heritage of Jaeger-LeCoultre, great storytelling.

Q. Are there other bloggers getting into the game?

A. Recently, I discovered a watch blogger in Paris, Moonphase, whose blog is
very well written and deeply interesting for vintage watch collectors,
especially as he draws links between famous figures and their watches. Articles
on the Heuer saga and Steve McQueen were brilliantly written. He finds
incredible black and white pictures, too. The only trouble is that it's only
written in French. In order to gain international exposure and recognition, it
should be translated into English. It is a pure jewel for the watch community.

Q. What is the market impact of online watch forums like Paneristi?

A. Definitely Paneristi has a large influence on the Panerai watch community,
but they aren't the only ones. Another influential online watch forum,
especially for vintage timepieces, is www.vintagepanerai.com, founded by Volker
Wiegmann and Ralf Ehlers, who wrote the leading authoritative book on vintage
Panerai watches. Undoubtedly, their influence before an auction is critical. In
recent years, they regularly publish a special section with extensive literature
on the subject of each watch that comes up for auction.

Q. What kinds of watchmakers do you think have benefited most from online
attention?

A. The wave of independent watchmakers that have appeared in Switzerland over
the past decade have greatly benefited from the emergence of bloggers. Most
independent watchmakers were initially unknown. Among collectors, F.P. Journe
and Greubel Forsey have benefited most, when you look at auction results.

Q. When did you start to see Greubel Forsey's auction market change as a result
of this attention?

A. Greubel Forsey started to appear at auction in late 2000. Antiquorum was
among the first of the auction houses to present these highly complicated
tourbillon wristwatches. One we sold on Nov. 16, 2008, in Geneva drew tremendous
attention from collectors. Since then, with the growing influence of bloggers,
all major auction houses have largely benefited from the rising interest in this
sector of the market by a new generation of collectors. All results have been
consistent over the years and especially among new collectors from the emerging
economies in the BRICS [Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa], which
largely appeared after the crisis in 2008.

Q. How about F.P. Journe?

A. F.P. Journe watches have always been a great subject for the watch
blogosphere. It is no surprise that his inventions beyond the first Resonance
System Chronometer have given him the status of master watchmaker of all the
independents. Over the years, he gained recognition from the world of bloggers.
All of these articles published on F.P. Journe have certainly made the market
shift toward a new generation of collectors for F.P. Journe on the auction
block. F.P. Journe has been largely predominant in Geneva auctions over the past
10 years.

Q. Has there been a noticeable percentage increase in the prices certain watches
achieve at Antiquorium as a result of blog attention?

It's difficult to measure it in terms of percentages, but there are examples of
results achieved for some brands and rare models largely discussed on the
blogosphere. For example, the vintage Jaeger-LeCoultre Geophysic model from
1958, which achieved an impressive result of 52,500 Swiss francs, after an
initial estimate of 6,000 francs in Antiquorum's auction on Nov. 8 and 9, 2014
in Geneva. I'm convinced that the blogosphere added to the exceptional outcome
of this example selected by Antiquorum experts resulting in an intense battle
between active bidders.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/a-watch-auctioneer-on-blog
gers-as-game-changers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (93%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); AUCTIONS
(90%); FINE WATCHES (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%);
CLOCK & WATCH MFG (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
(78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); LUXURY GOODS
(76%); TRENDS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (68%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Classifying the Personalities Who Buy Watches

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN BECKETT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 748 words


NEW YORK -- ''At any one time, I have more than 8,000 different watches
available for sale,'' said Michael Gordon, director of the Tourneau TimeMachine,
a 16,000-square-foot store in Manhattan that is one of the largest in the world.

As a result, Mr. Gordon and his team have sorted potential customers into four
''personality'' groups: the professional, the connoisseur, the adventurer and
the visionary.

Here's how Mr. Gordon describes each group, and what he says about the watches
that fit the type:

THE PROFESSIONAL: an executive type who needs a watch for the boardroom that can
be worn to follow through to dinner. He or she doesn't want anything flashy, but
something finely made, elegant and classic.

Recommended watches:

Jaeger-LeCoultre Grande Reverso 976 (it's elegant yet understated, with the
sophistication of being hand-made);

Rolex Oyster Perpetual (the timeless styling speaks for itself; the wearer, man
or a woman, understands quality and wants simple design);

Cartier Ballon Bleu (elegant and feminine design with clean look; it has a touch
of diamonds to add sophistication);

Blancpain Villeret Ultra Slim Seconds & Date Automatic (simple and elegant
styling, slim profile perfect for under a dress shirt).

THE CONNOISSEUR: This person identifies with the finer things in life. He or she
looks for things that are one-of-a-kind, interesting or different, and
identifiable as the best.

Recommended watches:

Patek Philippe Perpetual Calendar Automatic (a mechanical perpetual calendar is
a feat of watchmaking; the client understands this is not just a timepiece but
also a work of art);

Vacheron Constantin Patrimony Perpetual Calendar (the connoisseur will be among
a few clients lucky enough to wear such a special piece);

Baume & Mercier Capeland Worldtimer (elegant styling and lots of functionality
for someone who travels or does business internationally);

Frédérique Constant Ladies Automatic World Heart Federation (beautiful timepiece
with styling flair, the dial is cut out to see the movement's heartbeat).

THE ADVENTURER: There are two types, those who live in the city, and those who
like the outdoors.

Recommended watches:

Casio G-Shock Mudman (strong and virtually indestructible, this multifunction
timepiece is for the outdoor adventurer);

Bremont MBII (perfect for the urban adventurer, it has a durable construction,
with a rugged yet sophisticated look);

Rolex Oyster Professional Submariner Date (a crossover piece, perfect for urban
or outdoor adventurer, man or woman, with classic style and durable
construction);

Tissot T-Touch Expert Solar (multifunction piece for the outdoor adventurer,
with altimeter, chronograph, thermometer);

Hamilton Khaki Field Automatic (for the urban or weekend adventurer who wants
something sporty yet sophisticated to wear to work).

THE VISIONARY: Someone who wants things off-the-beaten path, who doesn't want to
be like anyone else.

Recommended watches:

Bell & Ross 03-90 B-Rocket (unique square shape coupled with motorcycle-inspired
design, unlike the other Bell & Ross styles);

Nomos Tetra 27 Karat (simple and elegant Bauhaus styling, different from most
timepieces, coupled with a movement made in-house);

MB&F Moon Machine Titanium Limited Edition (looking unlike any other timepiece,
this watch aims to set a new standard on how to tell time);

Biegert & Funk Qlocktwo W (for the individual who wants to stand out with a new
concept in telling time, actually reading it in English letters off the dial,
because there are no hands).

When it comes to matching watches to people, the watch historian Gregory
Gardinetti has another approach.

''For me the personality is one component but not all for choosing a watch,''
said Mr. Gardinetti, the culture and patrimony manager of the Fondation de la
Haute Horlogerie in Geneva. ''Every person is an exception. If we take two
persons with the same job, and same interests, this doesn't mean that they love
the same watch.''

''The interests are for me more significant than the personality,'' he said.
''People who love art will appreciate timepieces with craftsmanship'' like
enamel, engraving, gem-setting and so on. ''People with interest in the
technical will appreciate watches with complications. Athletes will love sports
watches. If you like pure things, elegant, you'll choose a watch looking the
same.''

And of all the aspects that go into the choice of watch, he said, ''perhaps the
most important factor is the price.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/classifying-the-personalit
ies-who-buy-watches.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE WATCHES (89%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (73%); CITIES (60%)

COMPANY: PATEK PHILIPPE SA (54%); CASIO COMPUTER CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: 6952 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%);
SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (54%); NAICS334310
AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO
EQUIPMENT (51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Digital Is a Change in the Watch Magazine World

BYLINE: By JANE A. PETERSON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1228 words


SINGAPORE -- Tropical rain clouds hovered at the Bukit Timah Saddle Club  as a
model dressed cowboy-style thrust his wrist toward the photographer, showing off
a Grande Reverso Ultra-Thin 1931 Chocolate  timepiece by Jaeger-LeCoultre.

As lights flashed, the model changed his expression and moved his wide-brimmed
hat as if on cue -- all to create a perfect pose for Revolution, the luxury
watch publication with the largest print circulation in the world.

The photograph will appear this month  in the 300-plus glossy pages of the
magazine's Singapore-Malaysia edition as well as in its digital version, a
three-year-old app, for iPhone and iPad as well as Android, that already is
being revised to add new features, including rotating 3-D-like images.

Revolution's dual focus is not unusual. Watch publications (and there are more
than 150 titles worldwide) largely have been loyal to print even as their
younger readership is compelling them to develop digital alternatives.

The prime reason: Most cash-rich watch brands still prefer to advertise in the
kind of luxury publications that appeal to their most valued clients, wealthy
collectors who are known to keep issues for years and to look at them many
times.

''Brand managers are conservative, particularly in Asia, and associate luxury
with printed media,'' said Jonathan Ho, managing editor of The Millenary, a
two-year-old print and digital watch magazine in Singapore. ''The lust for a
watch piece on a glossy page is different on an iPad.''

Watch magazines appeared in Europe in the 1980s, proliferating as the demand for
luxury watches grew, prices escalated and brand advertising budgets exploded.

And they have helped the watch industry grow enormously over the past two
decades, according to Maximilian Büsser, founder of MB&F, a small luxury Swiss
watchmaker. ''We may see fewer magazines in the future, but they won't die
anytime soon,'' he said.

According to Antonio Seward,  general manager for Audemars Piguet in Southeast
Asia, Revolution leads the pack. He credits the quarterly magazine, founded in
2005, with raising the editorial bar: taking original photographs and writing
about watches in a lifestyle context.

''They changed the way the watch magazine is talked about,'' he said.
''Revolution was, and is, revolutionary.''

Wei Koh,  the magazine's founder, said its mission ''is to connect watches with
today's culture -- cinema, literature, art.'' With a Singapore headquarters,
Revolution has had the right environment to flourish. The island nation is known
for having more than 100 watch collectors who each spend more than a million
dollars a year on watches -- and several spend $10 million to $30 million.

Revolution's Singapore and Malaysia edition is distributed in thirds: to
newsstands and bookstores, where it sells for 15 Singapore dollars, or $11; to
luxury locations such as five-star hotels, car showrooms and elite watch
retailers, on a complimentary basis; and to a target list of potential buyers.

''We develop our mailing list through a number of means,'' said Bruce Lee, the
magazine's chief executive, who funded its debut through his own company. ''Many
are friends over the years, because of our mutual love for watches, who in turn
refer other friends.''

He noted that the magazine also sponsored promotional events, sometimes with
other luxury labels, to broaden its profile.

Revolution owns six editions, has franchised 11 more, and hopes to find four
more franchisees for new markets. ''Niche titles still do extremely well,'' Dr.
Lee said. ''People consume media today like they are fishing in a barrel.
Everything they consume is concentrated and targeted to their interest.''

He said the magazine's global print reach, which factors in readership rather
than just issue sales, totals 350,000 each quarter while digital attracts
another 100,000 to 120,000 readers.

The magazine's largest circulation -- 80,000 -- is on the Chinese mainland, even
though there has been a sharp drop in watch sales there over the past year,
largely because of the government's anticorruption campaign. Dr. Lee, who said
he expected the market to bounce back, noted that Chinese consumers still buy
large numbers of luxury watches when traveling internationally.

But several pressures are forcing the magazine to change. Watch brands are
saying they want to move 20 percent of their advertising budgets to digital, Dr.
Lee said, although he added, ''only in a few cases are we seeing that.''

Still, the magazine is working on a digital revamp that is costing 150,000
Singapore dollars.  ''We can't be complacent,'' said Mr. Koh, adding that the
changes should be ready by midyear. ''Our digital format must be unique.''

Digital already leads the strategy at WatchTime,  the leading title in the
United States with a print circulation of 40,000 and editions in three other
countries. It focuses first on its iPhone and Android mobile versions; second,
its website, watchtime.com; and third, print and iPad and Android tablet
editions. (The company also boasts 200,000 followers on social media and 100,000
subscribers to its digital newsletters.)

''When we implemented our strategy, print paid the bills while digital learned
to walk,'' said Dominik Grau,  who publishes WatchTime in New York for its
owner, Ebner Group, a German media conglomerate that also publishes the watch
magazine Chronos. ''Now we have mastered the transformation, going from a small
print publication to a large, multi-channel media brand.''

WatchTime projects 40 percent of its advertising revenue this year will come
from its digital business, which includes several watch blogs and a new social
media platform.

Older subscribers may help keep watch advertisers tied to print, but Mr. Grau
predicts a continued shift toward digital in the next three years as traditional
brands grow more comfortable with digital audience data. ''As a media brand,
you've got to be there or you're irrelevant,'' he said. ''Money follows
eyeballs. Millennials hardly use print.''

Watch advertising budgets, the bellwether for the watch magazine industry, are a
well-guarded industry secret. Leading Swiss groups, including Richemont and
Swatch, decline to comment about advertising strategy or whether budgets will
shrink this year in reaction to the stronger Swiss franc and declining sales in
some markets.

Mr. Büsser at MB&F acknowledged that advertising budgets may face cuts and force
some consolidation. ''Some markets, with five to 10 watch magazines, clearly
have too many,'' he said, referring to Hong Kong, China, Japan and Singapore.

And luxury watch retailers, such as The Hour Glass with 37 boutiques across
Asia, are re-evaluating their advertising budgets.

But ''Revolution will be the last specialist cut,'' said Michael Tay,  the
boutique's executive director, who devotes 50 percent of its advertising dollars
to print watch magazines.

''But social media platforms -- such as Instagram -- are proving to be the
future,'' he said. ''They will become one of the most important channels for
brands. To upload an image, the cost is nothing.''

Audemars Piguet also is shaping a more targeted approach in print. ''We will be
in watch magazines; that's our essence,'' Mr. Seward said, ''but they need to be
among the best. There's not enough budget for everybody.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/fashion/digital-is-a-change-in-the-watch-magaz
ine-world.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE WATCHES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%);
PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (88%); BRANDING (87%);
CLOCK & WATCH MFG (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (74%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (71%); BUDGETS (71%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); PRICES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%)

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%);
EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Look, Don't Touch

BYLINE: By VICTORIA GOMELSKY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1358 words


GENEVA -- When visitors to this city's convention center entered the plush
confines of the Audemars Piguet booth at the Salon International de la Haute
Horlogerie, the high-end watch fair that took place here in late January, an
unorthodox presentation awaited them.

''We were not able to use a piano because we have no room for that, so we use a
xylophone,'' said Claudio Cavaliere, an ambassador for the Swiss watchmaker, as
he led passers-by through an impromptu lesson on sound mechanics.

Mr. Cavaliere picked up a mallet and played a few chords on the instrument. As
he did so, a screen behind him rendered the notes in colorful graphics,
transforming the cocoon-like room into a makeshift sound lab.

The performance marked the culmination of a wristwatch project that spanned
eight years, spawned three patent applications, produced two prototypes -- and
was engineered by a scientist plucked from a technical university in Lausanne
who had until then specialized in hearing aid technology.

The brand touted the resulting timepiece, a minute repeater dubbed the Royal Oak
Concept Acoustic Research wristwatch, as a breakthrough in acoustics engineering
because its chiming mechanism produces a crisp, pleasing sound that is loud
enough to be enjoyed by more than just its wearer.

There's one hitch: The RD1, as the watch is nicknamed, is not for sale. For now,
it remains a concept.

Taking a page from the automotive industry's playbook, the Swiss watch trade has
developed a tradition of creating far-out timepieces to showcase cutting-edge
examples of its craft. By withholding them from market, watch-makers are able to
test not only their timekeeping mechanisms, but also potential buyers'
reactions.

''Just like watches, cars have a huge degree of showmanship,'' said Aaron
Sigmond, the senior contributing lifestyle editor for Autoweek, and the author
of the forthcoming book ''Drive Time: Watches Inspired by Automobiles,
Motorcycles and Racing.''

''Concept cars and watches serve a multitude of purposes,'' Mr. Sigmond
continued. ''It keeps the trade -- including your competitors -- and your own
team very engaged, and clearly keeps consumers very engaged. It lets you show
what the future could potentially hold.''

At Audemars Piguet, the acoustic research timepiece was borne of a desire to
create a next-generation minute repeater, considered by many to be the ultimate
in complications. At the outset of the project, said the chief marketing
officer, Tim Sayler, the idea was to make the watch salable, but as time went
by, the company decided a commercial version would have to wait.

''We wanted to present it as soon as possible,'' Mr. Sayler said. ''It was a
race for bringing innovation. To showcase and bring something to life, it
accelerates things and gives you the possibility to take more risks and
experiment, because not everything you put in a concept watch you need to put in
a production watch.''

And that's the point: Concept watches allow watchmakers to manifest their
dreams, without worrying about the practical concerns that restrain models
destined for industrialization.

Take the ID concept program at Cartier. Shorthand for ''Ideas & Innovation,''
the initiative has produced two celebrated timepieces -- the ID One in 2010 and
the ID Two in 2012 -- that were intended to serve as examples of what mechanical
watchmakers can do when they're unencumbered by the mundane demands of a budget.

Conceived as a watch that required no lubrication and could function,
adjustment-free, for eternity, the ID One employed space-age materials,
including a balance wheel manufactured in carbon crystal; a hairspring fashioned
from Zerodur, a high-tech ceramic borrowed from the aerospace industry; and a
case made from an exotic blend of niobium and titanium, the former known for its
use in high-tech weaponry.

The ID Two occupied a team of 20 on a quest to produce a high-efficiency watch
whose construction helps to avoid a loss of energy by the oscillator, which
regulates the speed of the movement, when it encounters air resistance. The
result, according to Cartier, is a watch with a 32-day power reserve that
consumes 37 percent less energy than its traditional counterpart.

While Cartier has adopted some of the technology pioneered in its ID pieces for
production models -- such as the 2012 Astrotourbillon, which incorporated a
balance wheel made from the same carbon crystal used in ID One -- there are no
indications that its existing concept models (or the ID Three that is reportedly
in the works) will ever be available for sale.

TAG Heuer approached its own concept program differently. In 2004, the brand
unveiled the Monaco V4 concept watch, whose chief distinction was a transmission
system powered by belts no thicker than a human hair. The model, whose first
commercial version was unveiled in 2008, went on to serve as a platform for a
production series that welcomes the addition of the Monaco V4 Phantom at the
Baselworld watch and jewelry fair in Switzerland this week.

Guy Sémon, a former French Navy pilot and physicist hired to lead the brand's
research and development team before the V4 debut, said the challenges of the
project were what lured him to watchmaking. ''At first, it was not a watch; it
was physics,'' he said.

Today, as TAG Heuer's new general manager, Mr. Sémon explained that ''the
strategy of the company is to connect haute horlogerie with commercial
collections.''

''The time of concepts is probably finished in watchmaking, because if you
present a concept very far, you create frustration for the clients,'' Mr. Sémon
continued. There is also the matter of resources. The amount required to produce
a working concept watch is estimated to top $1 million, leading many brands to
question whether the effort is worth the return on investment.

Bremont in England, for example, learned that lesson when it partnered with
Jaguar to create six bespoke chronometers to complement six new Lightweight
E-type cars built to complete a 1963 production run of 18 vehicles, only 12 of
which were ever made. The watches made their public debut alongside the new cars
at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance in August.

''We will at Basel be doing some variations on that watch,'' said Giles English,
a co-founder of Bremont. ''You go through a lot of effort in creating those
pieces, you've done a lot of R&D, the concept works, you get a good response --
then, actually, you'd be silly not to produce it.''

''If you don't get it into production, that's probably because it doesn't
work,'' Mr. English added.

The Swiss watch business is rife with examples of ambitious timepieces that were
introduced with much fanfare but never made it into production. When the
watchmaker Richard Mille presented the Tourbillon RM 039 Aviation E6-B Flyback
Chronograph watch in 2012, for example, the piece was not intended to be a
concept model. Owing to its complexity, however, the brand has yet to make the
watch commercially available.

Instead, the RM 039 spawned a less complicated version, the RM 39-01 Aviation
Chronograph, which was announced in 2013 and is now available for purchase.
Essentially, it is ''the concept watch that launched the nontourbillon
version,'' said Laura Hughes, a Richard Mille spokesperson.

All of which underscores the real challenge of Swiss watchmaking: developing
cutting-edge technology that is both repeatable and affordable.

''Conflating something done in a small series into larger production units --
that is the challenge,'' said Karl-Friedrich Scheufele, co-president of Chopard.

He recalled the five years of work that went into the L.U.C 8HF, produced by
Chopard Technologies in the Swiss village of Fleurier in 2012. The limited
edition watch, which retails for $19,800, is powered by a movement featuring the
first high-frequency escapement to be chronometer-certified by the COSC, a Swiss
regulating body.

''The concept was well received, it works well, but it is still costly to
produce,'' Mr. Scheufele said. ''Those who bought one of those pieces, I can
only congratulate them; it could have been much more expensive.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/concept-watches-look-dont-
touch.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE WATCHES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (89%); CONCEPT
CARS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); PATENTS (68%); WRITERS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(67%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%)

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%)

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (72%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Touch Time, for the Blind and Everyone Else

BYLINE: By FELICIA CRADDOCK

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 888 words


LONDON -- Serving in Afghanistan, Lt. Bradley Snyder, working in a United States
Navy bomb-disposal squad, stepped on an improvised explosive device while trying
to aid two victims of another blast. The explosion robbed him of his sight.

On Sept. 7, 2012, one year later to the day, Lieutenant Snyder won a gold medal
in 400-meter freestyle swimming at the London Paralympics. Altogether, he won
two gold medals and one silver, and broke two world records at the event.

Inspired by his story, Hyungsoo Kim, founder and chief executive of the start-up
Eone Time, named the company's first timepiece the Bradley.

Designed for both the visually impaired and the sighted, the timepiece
reimagines wristwatch design to let people tell the time via touch.

The simple design indicates hours and minutes through two rotating ball bearings
set in concentric grooves around the timepiece's face and perimeter. The balls'
positions are measured against raised hour indices around the face. Connected by
magnets to the Swiss quartz movement, the ball bearings can be realigned with a
twist of the wrist.

''This product does a great job of getting you to consider a very simple item in
another way,'' Lieutenant Snyder said in a phone interview from the United
States. ''Something as simple as telling what time it is can be very difficult
if you can't look at a clock.''

The Bradley's design -- nominated last year for the London Design Museum's
annual award -- ''changes the way that everyone perceives blind people, and it
changes the way blind people carry out their daily life tasks,'' he said.

Persuading the public that the Bradley was for everyone was the company's
biggest challenge, Mr. Kim said. Nor was that the initial idea.

He was drawn to the project when a visually impaired fellow student at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology asked him the time during a lecture.
Though he was wearing his own ''talking'' watch, the student was too embarrassed
to consult the disruptive timepiece. Surprised by the dearth of practical
devices for the visually impaired, Mr. Kim resolved to make a watch for the
blind.

Created by a team of M.I.T. engineers, the prototype was a bulky braille watch
with dots that changed their combination each minute. When Mr. Kim presented the
watch to several blind focus groups, ''none of them liked it,'' he said.

''The very first questions they asked were about the size, the materials and
even the colors,'' Mr. Kim said. ''Those were things that we never paid
attention to.''

What members of the focus groups wanted most was an attractive timepiece that
didn't highlight their disability, a watch ''that everyone else likes to wear,''
he said.

In response, Mr. Kim named the brand Eone -- for ''everyone'' -- and put
inclusive design at the company's core. More than 100 people, including 30 blind
participants, played a role in the final design, prompting Eone, which is based
in Washington, to open its patent publicly to anyone who wishes to use, and
better, it.

Despite the idea's innovative nature, financing remained an issue. ''I talked to
about 20 potential investors, and none of the conversations lasted more than
five minutes,'' Mr. Kim said. ''They still saw this as a watch only for the
blind.''

His personal funds exhausted, he turned to the crowdfunding website Kickstarter,
and the company's fortunes changed. In a single day, Eone raised its entire
35-day goal of $40,000. That had climbed to nearly $600,000 by the campaign's
end. The Bradley remains one of Kickstarter's most funded design campaigns.

''We realized that sighted people are also very interested in wearing a
timepiece that you don't have to look at to tell the time,'' Mr. Kim said.
Meetings and dinners, for instance, are situations in which it is best to check
time discretely.

Today he estimates that only 1 percent to 2 percent of the company's customers
have a visual impairment.

Although the concept may seem unfamiliar, touch is a sense that watchmakers have
used in mainstream watches for centuries, said Oliver Cooke, the curator of
horological collections at the British Museum, where the Bradley is in the
permanent collection. ''The touch time theme wasn't continuous, but it kept
reoccurring.''

The earliest ''touch watches'' to survive date from the early 16th century.
These had open faces, allowing the wearer to judge the single hour hand's
position against raised indices, or touch-pins.

Later touch-watch designs include montres à tact, or tactful watches. Introduced
in the late 1790s, these told the time by a revolving arrow set at the back of
the watch, which was manually pushed until it met resistance.

Believed to have been conceived for the sighted, these watches allowed users to
check discreetly.

Familiar with this history, Mr. Cooke was pleased when he first saw the Bradley
on Kickstarter. ''I thought, here it is, recurring again,'' he said.

The Bradley, in the British Museum's Horological Students Room, is the
second-to-last timepiece in a 178-strong collection that charts horologic
transformations from the 16th century.

Looking back through history, ''there can be a good few years between
developments, and that only slows up as products, if you like, evolve.'' Mr.
Cooke said. ''So it's particularly exciting to see a new innovation these
days.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/touch-time-for-the-blind-a
nd-everyone-else.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%);
SPORTS AWARDS (90%); BLINDNESS (89%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS
(88%); OLYMPICS (79%); ORDNANCE CLEARANCE (78%); VISION AIDS (78%); SPECIAL
OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL
WORKERS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); EXECUTIVES (55%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Artists Create, but on a Palette for the Wrist

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN BECKETT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 818 words


NEW YORK -- Just as the fashion world has partnered with artists to get buzz for
clothes or accessories (think of balloon dogs by Jeff Koons plastered on H&M
handbags), so too do watchmakers look for the artiste touch.

These collaborations range from superficial to something a bit more elemental.

As Alex Newson, senior curator at the London Design Museum, put it: ''Are the
artists just choosing a color, or are they looking into how to go about
communicating the time?''

Efforts from various watch companies fall somewhere in between, and the process
is sometimes more complicated than it may seem by looking at the watch dial.

Chaumet, for instance, commissioned Loris Cecchini, an Italian artist based in
Berlin, to design one of its Class One watches.

The look of the watch is ''strictly related to my series of sculptural
installations, Wallwave Vibrations,'' which evoke ''the behavior of waves on the
water's surface,'' he explained.

But Mr. Cecchini did more than just slap a wavy surface on a dial. ''We spent
almost one year of work and conversation with engineers and craftsmen to realize
this product,'' he said.

''At the beginning I made several proposals and designs, and then with the team
of Chaumet we evaluated the feasibility of the initial individual variations,''
he added.

''This moment of the work is very important because it gives you the opportunity
to get to know how to work in the technical implementation.''

Artists and designers ''like to take an established product, like a chair, and
give it their own interpretation,'' Mr. Newson said. But, he added, working with
a watch ''is an unusual challenge.''

Not only is a knowledge of the technical demands often required, but sometimes
the biggest problem is just the small space involved.

Occasionally the size is part of the game, for example with Art Piece 1, the
watchmaker Greubel Forsey's latest collaboration with an artist.

The firm commissioned Willard Wigan, an artist known for painting on the head of
a pin, to collaborate on a watch design.

The result featured a three-masted sailing ship crafted from 22-karat gold and
carbon fiber -- and the size of a grain of sand.

''It is practically invisible to the naked eye,'' said Stephen Forsey, ''so it
was necessary to develop a special miniature optical system which took almost
four years to design. Set into the side of the watch case, this revolutionary
miniature microscope achieves 23-times magnification.''

If the wearer wants to know the time, it's necessary to push a button to reveal
it, because, Mr. Forsey said, ''the time display purposely takes a back seat in
order to focus on the artist's work.''

No magnifying glass is needed to appreciate Hublot's artist collaborations. In
fact, a pair of shades might be more in order.

Hublot's first partnership with an artist launched last year. Jean-Claude Biver,
president of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton's watch division, turned to the
Brazilian artist Romero Britto to celebrate the World Cup.

Mr. Britto designed a special watch case, shaped like a football (soccer ball)
and brightly painted it with a patchwork of colors and patterns, to house a
limited edition Big Bang Unico FIFA watch.

In a more recent project, Mr. Britto painted the dial of a Classic Fusion watch.

The artist ''did not really design a watch, but used the dial like a painting,''
Mr. Biver said. ''The dial, after all, is 65 percent of what you see.''

Hublot also turned to Thierry Guetta, better known as the artist Mr. Brainwash.

He had his way with the whole watch. ''It's unbelievably wild,'' Mr. Biver said.
''It's totally painted, the indices, the dial, the crown, the bracelet. It's a
work of art, and each one is different.''

So far Mr. Brainwash has produced five pieces, and negotiations are underway to
form a partnership between artist and watchmaker.

Having artists collaborate on watches has a history.

''One of the earliest examples is Swatch,'' the London Design Museum's Mr.
Newson said.

''They commissioned Kiki Picasso to create a limited edition Art Watch #1,'' he
added. ''Then they worked with artists such as Keith Haring and Yoko Ono.

''They were one of the first to recognize the power of collaboration. It's a
powerful marketing tool. It opens up a different market from the classic watch
market, a more fashion client, and those interested in the artist's work.''

Jean-Claude Biver couldn't agree more.

''We claim we are leaders in the watchmaking art. We never say industry, we say
art. Art is limited, and made by hand. The best way to make people understand
that we are an art is to work with an artist. Many people have forgotten.''

''The artist is like an ambassador for us,'' he added. ''He transfers his art,
and he gives us the credibility.'' And for the consumer, ''You have a piece of
art to wear on your wrist instead of hanging it on a wall.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/style/international/artists-create-but-on-a-pa
lette-for-the-wrist.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (89%); FINE WATCHES
(89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (56%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Block by Block, the Man-Boy's Guide to Manhattan

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words


''Growing Up and Other Lies,'' the story of four friends in their 30s who walk
from the northern tip of Manhattan to the Battery (with detours), is nominally a
buddy comedy. But the movie, written and directed by Danny Jacobs and Darren
Grodsky, is so steeped in angst that you share its characters' deep-seated dread
of a future that looks anything but rosy. The prospect of parenthood is
especially daunting.

Their jaunt is a ceremonial farewell for their unofficial ringleader, Jake (Josh
Lawson), a painter whose dreams of artistic glory haven't panned out. Not only
is Jake devastated by accusations by another, more successful artist that Jake
stole his ideas, he is reeling from the loss of an ex-girlfriend, Tabatha (Amber
Tamblyn), for whom he stills pines. The pair briefly reconnect at a children's
birthday party in Central Park and meet again at a dinner at her parents'
Gramercy Park apartment.

Although Jake has decided to forsake New York City to live in Ohio and work for
his ailing father, he holds out the possibility that he will change his mind at
the last minute. It brings up the prickly issue of a grown-up child's
responsibility for his aging parents, one of many themes that percolate through
the film. Throughout the day, Jake behaves like an overgrown brat whose rowdy
behavior camouflages terror and despair.

Jake and his companions, Rocks (Adam Brody), Gunderson (Wyatt Cenac) and Billy
(Danny Jacobs), make a somewhat unlikely foursome. Their defensive, competitive
roughhousing suggests that their bonds are shallow; they act more like
fraternity brothers than lifelong friends, and they have few common interests.
As they make their way downtown, they pass an apartment they once shared in
which a fire broke out and foam from an extinguisher caused damage, leaving some
hard feelings.

The trip itself, a tour of Manhattan on a bright and beautiful autumn day, is
the movie's organizing principle; blocks are counted off on a map, and sights
identified.

Rocks, the most soulful of the four, has been engaged to his girlfriend Emma
(Lauren Miller) since she unexpectedly became pregnant. He is determined to do
the right thing, but his earnestness can't cover up his notable lack of
enthusiasm. She senses his ambivalence and doesn't want him to witness the
baby's birth lest it repel him sexually.

Billy, nerdy and paranoid about keeping his job as a law partner, is the only
one of the four who has prospered. Gunderson, the least developed character, is
a hipster contrarian who exudes a sour, reflexive sarcasm.

It has been seven years since the directors' small and promising debut feature
film, ''Humboldt County,'' a group portrait of marijuana farmers living off the
grid in Northern California. That movie immersed you in a bohemian culture that
the filmmakers seemed to know inside out, and you feel the same here. For all
their differences, the characters and their joshing camaraderie feel believable.
Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Grodsky have an extraordinary ear for the rhythms and nuances
of everyday speech, as voices overlap, conversations take random directions, and
casual remarks carry loaded subtexts.

''Growing Up and Other Lies'' may not have been intended as a generational
portrait, but it feels like a slightly older, male version of ''Girls.'' Because
the costumes at that children's birthday party have a pirate theme, you are
reminded of ''Peter Pan.'' The portrayal of rampaging, screeching children at
the picnic is a nightmarish premonition of their future as stressed-out parents
unable to control the little savages they have spawned. The movie subscribes to
the notion that attaining maturity is synonymous with learning to survive in
hell.

Growing Up and Other Lies

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Darren Grodsky and Danny Jacobs; director of
photography, Christopher Baffa; edited by Josh Noyes; music by Fil Eisler and
Philip Klein; production design by Maya Sigel; costumes by Sarah Mae Burton;
produced by Nicole Lederman, Katie Mustard and Jason Weiss; released by
Entertainment One Films. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not
rated.

WITH: Adam Brody (Rocks), Wyatt Cenac (Gunderson), Danny Jacobs (Billy), Josh
Lawson (Jake), Amber Tamblyn (Tabatha) and Lauren Miller (Emma).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-growing-up-and-other-lies-stares
-down-the-advent-of-adulthood.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One last trek: from left, Danny Jacobs, Adam Brody,Wyatt  Cenac
and Josh Lawson in ''Growing Up and Other Lies.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENTERTAINMENT
ONE FILMS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); FIRES (62%); AGING (51%);
MARIJUANA (50%); MARIJUANA FARMING (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rare Solar Eclipse Leaves Utilities Across Germany Worried and Watchful

BYLINE: By MELISSA EDDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words


BERLIN --  Germany has enthusiastically embraced the sun as an important source
of energy, but a strange celestial trifecta on Friday evoked a shiver of ancient
fears -- and the more practical concern that the lights might go out.

For astronomers, it was an opportunity to witness a cosmic coincidence involving
a solar eclipse, a supermoon and the spring equinox. Solar eclipses are rare --
the next one will not occur until 2026 -- and a supermoon can be as much as 12
percent bigger and 30 percent brighter than an average full moon.

Yet Europe's increasing reliance on solar energy made it a day of terrestrial
anxiety for utilities. The authorities were concerned enough that they added to
the usual list of eclipse precautions, just in case.

Besides advising the use of special glasses or a projector of paper and aluminum
foil to avoid looking directly at the eclipse, they recommended having a
battery-powered radio and enough food to last through possible power failures.

''Keep in mind that in addition to the wonderful spectacle, the high proportion
of photovoltaic generators poses a major challenge to the management of the
electric grid in Europe, as well as Germany,'' Germany's federal office of civil
protection and disaster assistance warned.

From about 9:30 a.m. to noon, the moon was to slide across the sun and cast a
partial shadow across much of Europe, nearly blocking out sunlight. Such solar
eclipses, though rare, are usually uneventful.

Grid operators, of course, have to take into account the rising and setting of
the sun every day. What made the eclipse a challenge was the speed at which the
energy generated by solar panels was expected to drop and then rise again, at a
time of day when demand was high, said Bruno Burger, a solar energy researcher
for the Fraunhofer Institute.

''It is above all the sharp return that is causing headaches for the grid
operators,'' Mr. Burger said. ''It will be the equivalent of a sunrise, but
three times as fast.''

The eclipse began over the far reaches of the northern Atlantic Ocean and
continued for a couple of minutes in a tight arc.

Solar eclipses were once thought to be a sign of divine anger. Herodotus said an
eclipse even halted a battle. These days, Europe depends more and more on the
sun for renewable energy, drawing from some 1.4 million solar installations in
Germany alone to keep lamps lit and power supplied to industrial giants like
Daimler and Siemens.

The sharp drop in sunlight caused by the eclipse was expected to trigger a
fluctuation of energy levels equivalent to that of shutting off 12 power plants
at once, only to have a surge that amounted to the power generated by 19 plants
switched back on.

Grid operators in Germany and across Europe have been preparing for months,
running simulations and exploring backup plans.

In Germany, some saw the eclipse as an opportunity to test the capabilities of
the power system, as the country pushes ahead with its goal to generate 80
percent of its energy needs from renewable sources. Last year, almost 26 percent
of all electricity in Germany came from renewable power.

Patrick Graichen, who heads Agora Energiewende, a policy institute in Berlin,
said the eclipse provided a natural simulation of challenges that could be faced
by an energy sector far more reliant on sunshine and wind.

''If today's relatively inflexible power system can cope with the eclipse, the
power system of 2030 will deal with similar situations easily,'' Mr. Graichen
said in a statement. ''For a successful energy transition in Germany, the power
system will have to become more flexible anyway.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/solar-eclipse-and-supermoon-have-
europe-energy-providers-watchful.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Solar panels being installed in Binsham, Germany. The nation has
1.4 million solar installations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAELA REHLE/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC
UTILITIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ASTRONOMY &
SPACE (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); RESEARCH
INSTITUTES (62%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (55%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513
INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING &
CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR &
RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS
MANUFACTURING (55%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (89%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scientists Seek Ban on Method of Editing the Human Genome

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words


A group of leading biologists on Thursday called for a worldwide moratorium on
use of a new genome-editing technique that would alter human DNA in a way that
can be inherited.

The biologists fear that the new technique is so effective and easy to use that
some physicians may push ahead before its safety can be assessed. They also want
the public to understand the ethical issues surrounding the technique, which
could be used to cure genetic diseases, but also to enhance qualities like
beauty or intelligence. The latter is a path that many ethicists believe should
never be taken.

''You could exert control over human heredity with this technique, and that is
why we are raising the issue,'' said David Baltimore, a former president of the
California Institute of Technology and a member of the group whose paper on the
topic was published in the journal Science.

Ethicists, for decades, have been concerned about the dangers of altering the
human germline -- meaning to make changes to human sperm, eggs or embryos that
will last through the life of the individual and be passed on to future
generations. Until now, these worries have been theoretical. But a technique
invented in 2012 makes it possible to edit the genome precisely and with much
greater ease. The technique has already been used to edit the genomes of mice,
rats and monkeys, and few doubt that it would work the same way in people.

The technique holds the power to repair or enhance any human gene. ''It raises
the most fundamental of issues about how we are going to view our humanity in
the future and whether we are going to take the dramatic step of modifying our
own germline and in a sense take control of our genetic destiny, which raises
enormous peril for humanity,'' said George Q. Daley, a stem cell expert at
Boston Children's Hospital and a member of the group.

The biologists writing in Science support continuing laboratory research with
the technique, and few if any scientists believe it is ready for clinical use.
Any such use is tightly regulated in the United States and Europe. American
scientists, for instance, would have to present a plan to treat genetic diseases
in the human germline to the Food and Drug Administration.

The paper's authors, however, are concerned about countries that have less
regulation in science. They urge that ''scientists should avoid even attempting,
in lax jurisdictions, germline genome modification for clinical application in
humans'' until the full implications ''are discussed among scientific and
governmental organizations.''

Though such a moratorium would not be legally enforceable and might seem
unlikely to exert global influence, there is a precedent. In 1975, scientists
worldwide were asked to refrain from using a method for manipulating genes, the
recombinant DNA technique, until rules had been established.

''We asked at that time that nobody do certain experiments, and in fact nobody
did, to my knowledge,'' said Dr. Baltimore, who was a member of the 1975 group.
''So there is a moral authority you can assert from the U.S., and that is what
we hope to do.''

Recombinant DNA was the first in a series of ever-improving steps for
manipulating genetic material. The chief problem has always been one of
accuracy, of editing the DNA at precisely the intended site, since any
off-target change could be lethal. Two recent methods, known as zinc fingers and
TAL effectors, came close to the goal of accurate genome editing, but both are
hard to use. The new genome-editing approach was invented by Jennifer A. Doudna
of the University of California, Berkeley, and Emmanuelle Charpentier of Umea
University in Sweden.

Their method, known by the acronym Crispr-Cas9, co-opts the natural immune
system with which bacteria remember the DNA of the viruses that attack them so
they are ready the next time those same invaders appear. Researchers can simply
prime the defense system with a guide sequence of their choice and it will then
destroy the matching DNA sequence in any genome presented to it. Dr. Doudna is
the lead author of the Science article calling for control of the technique and
organized the meeting at which the statement was developed.

Though highly efficient, the technique occasionally cuts the genome at
unintended sites. The issue of how much mistargeting could be tolerated in a
clinical setting is one that Dr. Doudna's group wants to see thoroughly explored
before any human genome is edited.

Scientists also say that replacing a defective gene with a normal one may seem
entirely harmless but perhaps would not be.

''We worry about people making changes without the knowledge of what those
changes mean in terms of the overall genome,'' Dr. Baltimore said. ''I
personally think we are just not smart enough -- and won't be for a very long
time -- to feel comfortable about the consequences of changing heredity, even in
a single individual.''

Many ethicists have accepted the idea of gene therapy, changes that die with the
patient, but draw a clear line at altering the germline, since these will extend
to future generations. The British Parliament in February approved the transfer
of mitochondria, small DNA-containing organelles, to human eggs whose own
mitochondria are defective. But that technique is less far-reaching because no
genes are edited.

There are two broad schools of thought on modifying the human germline, said R.
Alta Charo, a bioethicist at the University of Wisconsin and a member of the
Doudna group. One is pragmatic and seeks to balance benefit and risk. The other
''sets up inherent limits on how much humankind should alter nature,'' she said.
Some Christian doctrines oppose the idea of playing God, whereas in Judaism and
Islam there is the notion ''that humankind is supposed to improve the world.''
She described herself as more of a pragmatist, saying, ''I would try to regulate
such things rather than shut a new technology down at its beginning.''

Other scientists agree with the Doudna group's message. ''It is very clear that
people will try to do gene editing in humans,'' said Rudolf Jaenisch, a stem
cell biologist at the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass., who was not a
member of the Doudna group. ''This paper calls for a moratorium on any clinical
application, which I believe is the right thing to do.''

Writing in Nature last week, Edward Lanphier and other scientists involved in
developing the rival zinc finger technique for genome editing also called for a
moratorium on human germline modification, saying that use of current
technologies would be ''dangerous and ethically unacceptable.''

The International Society for Stem Cell Research said Thursday that it supported
the proposed moratorium.

The Doudna group calls for public discussion, but is also working to develop
some more formal process, such as an international meeting convened by the
National Academy of Sciences, to establish guidelines for human use of the
genome-editing technique.

''We need some principled agreement that we want to enhance humans in this way
or we don't,'' Dr. Jaenisch said. ''You have to have this discussion because
people are gearing up to do this.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/science/biologists-call-for-halt-to-gene-editi
ng-technique-in-humans.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer A. Doudna,  an inventor of a new  genome-editing
technique, in her office  at the University  of California, Berkeley.  Dr.
Doudna is  the lead author of an  article calling for a  worldwide moratorium
on the use of the  new method, to give  scientists, ethicists  and the public
time  to fully understand  the issues surrounding  the breakthrough. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ELIZABETH D. HERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); DNA (90%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%);
BIOETHICS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); GENETIC DISEASES (78%);
ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (77%); WRITERS (73%); RODENTS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY (56%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Weekend Entertainments From the Archives of The New York Times

BYLINE: By MARY JO MURPHY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FRIDAY FILE;
Pg. 29

LENGTH: 599 words


77 YEARS AGO

The glass slippers have worn well. Cinderella is making money hand over fist,
not from her marriage to a wealthy prince but from box-office coffers stuffed
largely by female moviegoers.

''Cinderella'' joins ''Maleficent'' and ''Snow White and the Huntsman'' as the
latest fairy tale to get a live-action remake decades after Disney made classics
out of animated versions. Like ''Maleficent,'' last year's revisionist telling
of ''Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Cinderella'' -- decidedly unrevisionist -- was made by
Disney. Disney could yet return to the wishing well for its own live-action
remake of ''Snow White,'' but it was not involved with ''Huntsman.''

All three Disney animated tales were hits in their day. And for the most part,
critics loved them, too. Writing in 1938, when ''Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs'' had its New York premiere at Radio City Music Hall, the Times film
critic Frank S. Nugent said ''there is magic in the film, and hearts' ease, and
tonic for disillusion.'' A dozen years later, in 1950, Mr. Nugent's successor
Bosley Crowther wrote that ''Cinderella'' was ''well worth the love and labor
spent.'' Weighing in on ''Sleeping Beauty'' at its premiere in 1959, Mr.
Crowther wrote that ''it all comes out nicely in a crisply stylized fairyland,
where the colors are rich, the sounds are luscious and magic sparkles spurt
charmingly from wands.''

The harshest assessment of any of these films might have come not from a film
critic but from the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld, who was unsparing in a 1938
article about ''Snow White'' in The Times titled ''An Artist Contests Mr.
Disney'': ''The illusion created by a well directed pen line is an art not to be
confused with the gingerbread realities of a Snow White. Disney's treatment of
these characters belongs in the oopsy-woopsy school of art practiced mostly by
etchers who portray dogs with cute sayings. Snow White with her full complement
of fingers and fingernails, eyelashes, one dimensional head, bare arms without
solidity and uninventive neck is an anatomic automation. These awkward symbols
do not articulate, and the lovely voice with which she is endowed only heightens
the effect of a ventriloquist's dummy. The staccato movements of Snow White and
her cardboard lover, both wired for sound, are distinctly bad influences in this
new art form.''

Well, ouch. Let's return to Mr. Nugent's review of the film: ''Memory is a
notorious trickster, yet, after cudgeling it soundly, I can recall no more
joyous picture than 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.' '' It is, he wrote ''so
delightful, so engaging, so very merry a fantasy that I suspect Santa Claus
himself must have had a hand in the making.''

Here is not so much a criticism as a question, reported in The Times later that
year. ''Was the handsome, stouthearted Prince who answered Snow White's
prayers,'' the article said, ''was the Prince a Yale man?''

A lawsuit filed against Disney claimed that Snow White's song ''Some Day My
Prince Will Come'' was essentially pirated from the ''Old Eli March.'' The suit
failed.

Even as early as 1950, merchandise was an integral part of the Disney way. A
Cinderella fashion show at the old department store B. Altman, The Times
reported, featured shoes ''appropriately named and trimmed to tie in with the
fairy tale. There was 'Clock,' a suede shoe with the hours marked around the kid
binding of the opening.'' The article said that other shoes were called Magic
Wand, Royal Ball, Princess and Pumpkin Coach.

Pumpkin Coach? One can only imagine the toes that sought to fit those. MARY JO
MURPHY




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/weekend-entertainments-from-the-archi
ves-of-the-new-york-times.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ANIMATION (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (66%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS
(57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT,
NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bloodshed in Tunisia

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 522 words


With their massacre of at least 20 people from five countries at the National
Bardo Museum in Tunis, the gunmen who carried out the rampage on Wednesday
struck at Tunisia's economic lifeblood, the tourism industry; its government;
and the international community. The attack lays bare the extent to which
extremists who are spreading through the region now threaten Tunisia, the only
success story of the Arab Spring.

This is a fragile moment for Tunisia as it moves to consolidate the democracy
put in place after the popular uprising four years ago that overthrew a
dictator, Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali. As the country's leaders deal with the
mounting security threats, they will have to be careful not to crush the civil
liberties that are essential to any democratic society. The government needs
economic aid and support in training its security forces from the United States,
Europe and the Gulf states.

Japanese, Italian, Spanish and British tourists, as well as three Tunisians,
were victims of the attack. Two gunmen were killed by security guards and on
Thursday Tunisian authorities announced the arrest of nine people suspected of
being accomplices. Supporters of the Islamic State celebrated the attack and
warned vaguely of more violence to come. Other groups, including one loyal to Al
Qaeda's branch in North Africa, claimed some association with the killings, but
officials said no firm links had been confirmed.

Even before the museum attack, Tunisia had been struggling with security issues.
An estimated 3,000 Tunisians are believed to have gone to fight with radical
Islamists in Libya and Syria. Authorities have had a hard time stemming the
weapons flowing across the border from a chaotic Libya. There have also been
numerous attacks on security forces since 2011. In 2013, two leftist politicians
were killed in separate incidents that threatened to derail the transition to
democracy.

Economic concerns drove Tunisia's revolutionaries into the streets in 2011, and
the country still lacks the jobs, foreign investment and trade that could put it
on a firm footing.

One bright spot is the fact that Ennahda, the moderate Islamist party that swept
to power in the postrevolution elections and then lost to the secular Nidaa
Tounes party last October, has continued to work constructively within the
system and has some members in the coalition government.

The party's leader, Rachid Ghannouchi, has long argued that democracy and Islam
can coexist. On Wednesday, he issued a statement condemning the attack,
stressing that it will not ''undermine our revolution and our democracy.''

Secular hard-liners in the political establishment no doubt will try to exploit
the killings as reason to crack down on even moderate Islamists and crush any
dissent. The right response is to keep working to strengthen Tunisia's democracy
and expand political freedoms while also working with the international
community to improve the economy.

The country has been an example of sanity in a region consumed by chaos and
dominated by authoritarian governments. It will need substantial international
help to stay that way.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/opinion/bloodshed-in-tunisia.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); TERRORISM (78%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (77%);
TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); TOURISM (77%); DICTATORSHIPS
(75%); POLITICS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); RELIGION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

CITY: TUNIS, TUNISIA (92%)

COUNTRY: TUNISIA (99%); LIBYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%);
SYRIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suzan Frecon: 'Oil Paintings and Sun'

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 275 words


Suzan Frecon came to Minimalism late, but she has persisted and her work has a
deeper, quieter kind of originality: a sense of unassailable integrity and the
fullness of form. Now in her early 70s, Ms. Frecon has for over three decades
been homing in on one or two simple shapes seen against one color. Her newest
paintings have two panels whose division forms a kind of horizon line, while the
shapes themselves imply curved hillocks, small mountains, crystalline ponds,
low-hanging clouds and rising or setting suns. Despite the use of 'Sun'' in this
show's title, her colors, which she grinds and mixes herself, tend toward dark.
Rust, blues and greens prevail here with results that seem like nocturnes. They
combine Rothko's color at its winningest and most somber with the carefully
modulated geometries of Ellsworth Kelly, but are always clearly handmade,
painted with a meditative quality that evokes Morandi.

Ms. Frecon's images are obviously landscapes, but they also resemble something
stranger: actual sculptures completely flattened against the surface, with
traces of light and space lingering behind them that go beyond simple
illusionism into actual perception. This balancing of nature and artifice is
both exquisite and witty. Part of the physicality of the work stems from Ms.
Frecon's earthy color sense but also from her subtle yet decisive contrasts of
matte and shiny surfaces. The paintings have a profoundly odd optical reality
that is all their own. They are obdurate objects that don't quite dwell in our
space, which is what makes them so exceptional.

David Zwirner Gallery

525 West 19th Street,

Chelsea

Through March 28




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/suzan-frecon-oil-paintings-and-sun
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil painting from Suzan Frecon's ''dark red cathedral,'' part
of a show of her landscapes at David Zwirner Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY 2015 SUZAN
FRECON/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK
  DAVID ZWIRNER, NEW YORK/LONDON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

French Move on Model Size Faces Setback

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and DAPHNE ANGLES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 337 words


PARIS --  Lawmakers on the French Parliament's health committee said Thursday
that they had rejected two provisions of an anorexia prevention measure but left
open the possibility that an amended version could win approval when the
provisions are debated anew by the full National Assembly in early April.

The provisions would be added to a larger health bill that is moving through
Parliament.

Lawmakers opposed to the measure, which would criminalize the employment of
severely underweight models, said it could contravene workplace
anti-discrimination laws by making it difficult for extremely thin models to be
employed. France has very comprehensive labor protections for workers in all
fields.

Catherine Coutelle, a co-sponsor of the measure, said there was no risk of its
being applied inappropriately to people in other professions because models are
treated in a separate section of the labor code, and the amendment would be
added to that section. She said the technical aspects would be explained in
greater detail when the full assembly took up the measure.

Another concern voiced by some committee members was that the wording, which
would extend the penalties to any entity that encouraged anorexia, could be
applied to websites. There is an aversion in France, as in many Western
countries, to regulating anything on the Internet for fear that it could open
the door to censorship.

Other countries, like Italy and Spain, that have tried to find a compromise
between the fashion industry's demands and public health concerns about anorexia
have been able to regulate the use of very thin models on runways but have not
passed laws.

A major question is where to set weight requirements. The body mass index that
is widely used does not account for variations in bone size and other factors,
and some consider it too inexact, a spokeswoman for the French Labor Ministry
said. The ministry is also looking to address health issues in the workplace and
said it might include the fashion industry in its review.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/europe/french-proposal-on-models-weights
-clashes-with-labor-laws-opponents-say.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRENCH PARLIAMENT (90%); EATING DISORDERS
(90%); APPROVALS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%);
DISCRIMINATION LAW (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%);
DISCRIMINATION (70%); CENSORSHIP (65%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Greece, Germany, and the Bird That Doesn't Tweet

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and MELISSA EDDY.

Liz Alderman reported from Paris, and Melissa Eddy from Berlin.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 856 words


PARIS -- Did he flip Germany the bird?

What had been a serious debate over Greece's economic future has taken a side
track down a tabloidy, Twitter-paved path.

The questions include whether Yanis Varoufakis, Greece's outspoken finance
minister, really did raise a middle finger to Germany in an obscure video
dredged up by the German media.

Or did a German satirist manipulate the video to fake the gesture -- either to
stir up more ire against Greece or to tweak Germany's staid television culture?

The original footage of Mr. Varoufakis shows him speaking at a conference in
Zagreb, Croatia, in 2013. Still an academic economist at the time, Mr.
Varoufakis was making the point that Greece could have defaulted on its debts
when the Greek crisis first broke out in 2010 to ''stick the finger'' to
Germany, one of its main creditors.

The video clip, which shows Mr. Varoufakis raising his middle finger, has stoked
outrage in Germany since it was first broadcast Sunday night on ''Günther
Jauch,'' the country's leading talk show, named for its host. German media
outlets, many already critical of Greece, including the mass-circulation daily
newspaper Bild, went into a frenzy.

Mr. Varoufakis, who was a guest on Mr. Jauch's program, via satellite, swiftly
denied that the gesture was authentic and said his remarks were being taken out
of context. Mr. Jauch told Mr. Varoufakis that he believed the video was from a
conference in Zagreb.

''That video is faked,'' Mr. Varoufakis told Mr. Jauch. ''The conference is
real, but the finger is doctored.''

On Monday, Mr. Jauch's editorial team issued a statement saying there was
''absolutely no indication of manipulation or falsification in the video that
was shown during the live show.''

On Wednesday night, Jan Böhmermann, the host of the satirical German TV show
''Neo Magazin Royale,'' posted a lengthy segment from a coming show in which his
team had apparently faked the finger footage. The next day, Mr. Varoufakis asked
on Twitter whether Mr. Jauch would apologize ''for having used a doctored video
to silence a conciliatory Greek voice.''

A few hours later on Thursday, Mr. Böhmermann and his network, ZDF, said that
the disputed video highlighted the way images could go viral on the Internet
without anybody bothering to verify their authenticity, aggravating prejudices
and stereotypes.

In this case, he pointed out, it played into existing nationalistic tensions
between the two countries.

''But it really strikes a chord,'' Mr. Böhmermann said on his program, which
aired Thursday night. ''That's how we Germans work. Devastating Europe two times
in a century, but going nuts when somebody's giving us the finger.''

Mr. Böhmermann's comments on Thursday, which spawned a Twitter hashtag,
#Varoufake, tapped into the nationalistic tensions that have flared between the
two countries ever since Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras swept to power earlier
this year, armed with a pledge to roll back a harsh austerity program that many
hard-hit Greeks see as having been engineered by Germany.

But confusion was still rampant as to whether or not Mr. Varoufakis, in the
video, had indeed flashed what Germans call the Stinkefinger.

Fingergate, as it has come to be known, quickly acquired its own hashtag, with
hundreds of people posting video clips and spoofs of the video playing on the
question of whether an insult had been hurled at Germany -- or not.

The controversy underscores how the debate over Greek debt has devolved into a
mostly superficial, divisive, stereotype-driven cacophony that threatens to
obscure more serious discussion about the future of the currency union, said
Nick Malkoutzis, the editor of the Greek newspaper Kathimerini.

''The rhetoric has gotten dangerous on both sides, and there are people
pandering to the lowest common denominator, using populism and nationalism to
cover up for their own deficiencies,'' he said. ''The problem is that you may
use this as a short-term tactic, but it has long-term effects.''

The mudslinging is hardly new. Few Greeks have forgotten an incident in 2010
when the German magazine Focus ran a doctored cover photo of the Classical Greek
sculpture of Venus de Milo with her middle finger turned up, under the headline,
''Swindlers in the Euro Family.''

Earlier this month, Greece began demanding that Germany repay billions of euros
in reparations from World War II. A motif of Greek street protests has been
posters of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, with a Hitler-style mustache.

The ''Neo Magazin Royale'' broadcast showed a supposed behind-the-scenes video
of how the footage was doctored, including an actor whose job was to hold up his
middle finger while the producers filmed it and inserted it into the video of
Mr. Varoufakis's speech. ''Of course, I'm using several effects, like motion
blur, to make it appear more realistic,'' one producer says.

Mr. Böhmermann then took Mr. Jauch to task, accusing him of downloading the
doctored video off the Internet without checking, and taking it out of context
''so that the average German could pursue their passion for being angered.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/international/the-gesture-that-turned
-a-fiscal-crisis-into-twitter-fodder-or-did-it.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%);
GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); VIRAL VIDEOS (77%); TELEVISION
COMEDIES (76%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (66%)

CITY: ZAGREB, CROATIA (71%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); GREECE (94%); CROATIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

France to Host in 2019

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 193 words


FIFA awarded the 2019 Women's World Cup to France on Thursday, rewarding a
rising power in women's soccer with the chance to win the title on home soil.

France is among the favorites to win this summer's Women's World Cup in Canada,
and in four years it will look to follow the precedent of its men's team, which
won soccer's global championship as host in 1998.

South Korea, which co-hosted the men's World Cup with Japan in 2002, was the
losing finalist for the 2019 World Cup.

The announcement, made by FIFA's president, Sepp Blatter, at the organization's
headquarters in Zurich, confirmed France as a key player in world soccer over
the next four years. France will host the men's European Championship in 2016
and then the under-20 women's World Cup in 2018 as a warm-up to the senior event
the next year.

France will be the third European country to host the Women's World Cup, joining
Sweden (1995) and Germany (2011). China (1991 and 2007) and the United States
(1999 and 2003) have hosted twice, and Canada will bring the event back to North
America in June.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/soccer/fifa-awards-2019-womens-world-cu
p-to-france.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (93%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); CANADA (90%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH
AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (69%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'22 World Cup in Qatar Is Shifted to December

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 418 words


FIFA confirmed that the 2022 World Cup in Qatar would be played in the winter,
announcing Thursday that its governing executive committee had set the date of
that year's final for Dec. 18.

The move away from the summer months to winter had been expected for years.
Almost immediately after awarding the World Cup to Qatar in 2010, top FIFA
officials, including the president, Sepp Blatter, acknowledged that playing the
event in the searing heat of the Gulf summer was unworkable, and unwise.

While the final is now set, it remains unclear when the tournament will begin.
The 2014 tournament in Brazil lasted 32 days, and the 2018 World Cup in Russia
is scheduled at the same length. A similar timetable in Qatar would put the
World Cup opener around Nov. 17, though FIFA officials suggested Thursday that a
28- or 29-day schedule was under consideration.

Few in soccer disputed the need for a move away from the summer once FIFA
declared that there was no chance Qatar would lose the right to host. The
problem was finding an open window on the calendar.

Any move out of the summer would upset FIFA's richest stakeholders, most notably
the European leagues and federations that would see their lucrative league and
Cup seasons interrupted and the United States media companies like Fox, which
will have to broadcast the tournament during the heart of the American football
season.

The International Olympic Committee also received assurances from Blatter that
soccer would not encroach on the February window claimed by that year's Winter
Games.

FIFA's scheduling committee recently completed a six-month evaluation of the
proposed move. In a news release last month, FIFA said that the committee had
considered a number of options and ''aimed to find the most viable solution for
all stakeholders'' given the extreme temperatures in Qatar during the
traditional summer World Cup window.

Those stakeholders remain angry about the move. The switch to winter will
disrupt not only league competitions in Europe and elsewhere, but also the
lucrative UEFA Champions League, and it will require starting seasons earlier or
finishing them later, or both.

A winter World Cup also would leave those professionals who do not go to Qatar
-- less than 800 of the world's players take part -- with a midseason break that
could extend to two months, once pre-tournament camps and friendlies and
post-Cup rest is factored in.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/soccer/fifa-confirms-winter-world-cup-f
or-2022.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SOCCER
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP (90%);
SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); WEATHER (71%);
OLYMPICS (69%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (59%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (94%);
INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%)

COUNTRY: QATAR (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BRAZIL
(79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Urban Landscape in Abstract Realism

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 911 words


Painting used to be as much a craft as an art. That began to change in the late
19th and early 20th centuries as artists like van Gogh, Picasso and countless
others shifted the focus from technical virtuosity to the expression of
individual sensibility and intellect. Bravura skills with the brush, like those
of Bouguereau and other academicians, became anathema for the early Modernists.

Prejudice against craft persisted into the late 1960s, when there came a
resurgence in realism, a way of painting that seemed to require considerable
know-how if not traditional expertise to be done well. A subtrend was
photorealism, which was practiced most compellingly by Robert Bechtle, Chuck
Close and Richard Estes, who is the subject of an interesting but
problematically organized exhibition at the Museum of Arts and Design.

''Richard Estes: Painting New York City'' is Mr. Estes's first solo exhibition
in a New York museum, and it's the first exhibition devoted to a single painter
at the Museum of Arts and Design. The core of the show, organized by the guest
curator Patterson Sims, is a selection of 24 paintings of urban subjects like
glass and chrome storefronts, movie theater marquees, cars and trucks, subways,
the Brooklyn Bridge, views from the Staten Island Ferry and idyllic images of
Central Park made between 1965 and 2015. As if some further justification for
exhibiting paintings at this museum was needed, the show also includes didactic
sections about the technique that goes into Mr. Estes painting and prints.
Disappointingly, this aspect of the show doesn't fully deliver what it promises.
But the paintings are riveting to behold.

Born in Chicago in 1932, Mr. Estes moved to New York in 1958. He's lived here
ever since, and most of his paintings have been of New York scenes. Based on his
own photographs, which he cuts up and pieces together to create his
compositions, they picture complex scenes in eye-dazzling sharp focus and in
extreme detail. Viewed up close, the seamless illusions fall apart into myriad
patches of colored paint; the magic partly is in how your eyes and mind flip
between seeing the realism and seeing the abstraction.

Mr. Estes's concern with the nature of seeing is made humorously explicit in
''The Eye Man'' (2014), an extraordinarily complicated image in which red
scaffolding pipes crisscross in front of an optometrist's store called the Eye
Man. You have the sense of seeing more clearly and intensely than you ordinarily
do; it's nearly hallucinatory. There are paradoxes about time, too. While all
that you see appears instantly and simultaneously present, it takes time to
visually parse the whole picture. It also took a lot of time for Mr. Estes to
construct it in paint, and his manifestly slow, patient and careful process of
doing so may be vicariously calming for the contemplative viewer.

The exhibition's earliest painting, ''Seated Figures, Central Park'' (circa
1965), a smudgy picture of people sitting on a park bench with an indistinct
crowd beyond, shows Mr. Estes still in thrall to a 1950s-type of expressive
humanism. It's a startling change from that warm, moody picture to a
photorealist work from 1967, ''Horn and Hardart Automat,'' a frontal assault of
cool complexity. A set of tall storefront windows extends diagonally from the
left into the picture, filling more than two-thirds of the whole rectangle.
Reflections of tall apartment buildings, cars and trucks merge with the view of
the restaurant's interior, where a man sits pensively in profile, chin on hand.

Like the customers in Edward Hopper's ''Nighthawks'' (1942), the man inside
seems lonesome, adding an emotional dimension of ennui that runs throughout Mr.
Estes's oeuvre. The solitary diner is an allegorical figure, too, a modern
Everyman trapped in layers of systematic artificiality.

One of the show's most poignant and beautiful paintings is ''Bridal
Accessories'' (1975), which depicts the facade of a bridal shop lit up at night.
With more than two dozen female mannequin heads modeling hats and veils in the
front window, the image evokes a sense of longing for love and security in a
city that often runs roughshod over human vulnerabilities.

As for Mr. Estes's process, Mr. Sims offers an informative discussion in the
catalog, but the exhibition itself doesn't delve deeply into all the steps that
go into making his works. Vitrines display the photographic collages from which
he works, but what happens between those and the finished paintings is left to
your imagination.

One room in the show explicates the technology of Mr. Estes's silk-screen and
woodblock prints, which closely resemble his paintings. But printmaking has
never been his focus. He became involved in it only because he and his dealer
(Allan Stone, at that time) realized in the early 1970s that producing prints
would be a way to make his work more widely and cheaply available and thus
generate more income. Moreover, as Mr. Sims writes in the catalog, production of
Mr. Estes's prints ''is left almost entirely to highly skilled printmaking
artisans and specialists.''

It's only in painting that the spirituality and morality of Mr. Estes's art is
fully embodied. It teaches us to slow down and pay more unprejudiced attention
to all things great and small.

''Richard Estes: Painting New York City'' continues through Sept. 20 at the
Museum of Arts and Design, 2 Columbus Circle; 212-299-7777, madmuseum.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/review-richard-estes-painting-new-
york-city-features-works-in-abstract-realism.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Estes's ''Horn and Hardart Automat'' (1967), at the
Museum of Arts  and Design, has a streak of ennui that runs throughout his work.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD ESTES, PRIVATE COLLECTION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RETAILERS (66%); OPTOMETRY (65%); FERRIES (51%); MOTOR
VEHICLES (51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fox Scores Big in 'Empire' Finale

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 243 words


After last week's episode of ''Empire,'' a Fox teaser warned viewers: Don't miss
the two-hour finale, or you'll almost certainly risk being spoiled.

They listened. ''Empire,'' Fox's first-year hip-hop drama, brought in a
season-high 16.7 million viewers for Wednesday's finale, according to Nielsen
data provided by the network. That caps off an improbable run of 10 consecutive
weeks of viewership growth.

''Empire'' also brought in 17.6 million viewers from 9 to 10 p.m., its normal
time slot. The show posted a 6.5 rating among the key 18-to-49-year-old
demographic, and Fox said that it had its highest-rated Wednesday night among
that age group in three years. The finale also prompted 2.4 million Twitter
posts, an enormous increase over the 750,258 sent last week (the premiere in
January generated slightly fewer than 300,000). The show has the highest average
of tweets per episode of any show, according to Nielsen Social.

The total viewership for the show will increase in the coming days and months as
people catch up after two months of nonstop buzz. Hulu announced on Thursday
that it had exclusive streaming rights for current and future episodes of
''Empire.''

The show's success has given a badly needed bump to Fox, which is the
fourth-rated network. Last week, Fox executives hosted a party for the show's
cast and producers at Nobu in West Hollywood. The network's co-chief executive,
Dana Walden, gave everyone at the dinner a Rolex watch.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/media/empire-finale-draws-season-high
-viewership.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%);
EXECUTIVES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Yankees' Jacoby Ellsbury Expects to Play on Opening Day Despite Oblique Strain

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 185 words


TAMPA, Fla. --  Yankees center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury said Thursday that the
mild oblique strain that had sidelined him since Sunday would not prevent him
from being in the lineup on opening day, which is less than three weeks away.

Ellsbury said that he felt a twinge in his side while warming up Sunday and that
he notified the team when he woke up sore the next morning. The team decided
Wednesday that it wanted him to have a magnetic resonance imaging test. Manager
Joe Girardi expects Ellsbury to return to baseball activities early next week.

Ellsbury was sidelined for the latter part of spring training last year with a
calf injury, but he returned in time for the opener and had a strong start to
the season. He batted .312 with 11 extra-base hits and 11 R.B.I. during April.

One of the few roster spots for position players that is open for competition is
backup catcher, where Austin Romine and John Ryan Murphy are competing to spell
Brian McCann. Girardi said Romine (3 for 15) and Murphy (2 for 20) were pressing
at the plate.

''That will probably be one of our last decisions,'' Girardi said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/baseball/yankees-jacoby-ellsbury-expect
s-to-play-on-opening-day-despite-oblique-strain.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (55%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (74%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Jobless Claims Rise Slightly

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 506 words


WASHINGTON -- The number of people seeking unemployment benefits in the United
States basically held steady last week, as the job market continues to outpace
broader economic growth.

The Labor Department said on Thursday that weekly applications for unemployment
aid rose slightly, by 1,000, to a seasonally adjusted 291,000. Jobless claims
have been subdued for the last two weeks, after winter storms caused them to
spike at the end of February because of closed schools and construction sites.

The four-week average, a less volatile measure, increased 2,250, to 304,750.
That average has dropped 7.5 percent over the last year.

Applications are a proxy for layoffs. When employers keep their workers, it is
generally a sign that they expect continued economic growth and will probably
increase hiring. Applications below 300,000 are typically consistent with
healthy job gains.

The relatively modest number of applications contrast with the Federal Reserve's
view announced on Wednesday that economic growth had lost some momentum since
the start of 2015.

"These data appear to defy" the Fed's statement, said Ian Shepherdson, chief
economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "So far, though, we see no sign of slower
hiring either."

Also on Thursday, the Conference Board reported that the index of leading
indicators rose a modest amount for a second straight month, indicating the
economy's momentum may have slowed. The index is intended to predict the future
health of the economy, and it increased 0.2 percent last month, matching the
January increase.

The gains in both months were the smallest since the index rose by just 0.1
percent in August.

Analysts said that the smaller increases over the last two months may be
signaling a period of more moderate activity.

''Weakness in the industrial sector and business investment is holding economic
growth back despite improvements in labor markets and consumer confidence,''
Ataman Ozyildirim, Conference Board economist, said on Thursday.

The leading index is composed of 10 forward-pointing indicators. Seven of the 10
indicators increased in February; the biggest support came from the spread on
interest rates, gains in stock prices and an increase in building permits.

The three indicators that subtracted from growth were weekly unemployment
benefit applications, weekly manufacturing hours and the index for new orders
tracked by the Institute for Supply Management.

And the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said on Thursday that its index of
regional factory activity expanded more slowly in March than the previous month
as new orders slipped. The index ticked down to 5 this month, from 5.2 in
February. Any figure above zero indicates expansion.

It was the fourth straight decline after the index reached its highest point in
more than two decades in November. It follows a similar survey from the New York
Fed this week that also found slightly slower factory growth.

The survey covers manufacturing in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and
Delaware.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/us-jobless-claims-rise-slightly.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%);
LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%);
EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%);
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS
(86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING
OUTPUT (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); NEW MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PRICES (73%);
BUILDING PERMITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF
PHILADELPHIA (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL
RESERVE BANKS (62%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%)

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Rare Total Solar Eclipse

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 536 words


By a lucky coincidence, the moon and the sun appear to be almost the same size,
each subtending about half a degree of arc in diameter. As a result, the endless
and repetitive wobbly dance of the worlds causes the moon to pass directly in
front of the sun every year or two, sometimes hiding it completely in a total
solar eclipse.

Typically, the people on some barely inhabited stretch of land or ocean a few
hundred miles wide and a few thousand miles long are treated to a few minutes of
noontime darkness. The sun is replaced by an inky hole in the sky surrounded by
the feathery glow of the corona, a halo of superheated gas that surrounds it.
The landscape turns caramel. Winds blow, the temperature falls apocalyptically,
and wildlife go crazy.

Friday's solar eclipse will be no different. The shadow of the moon will cross
over the North Atlantic Ocean and into the Arctic. The only places on land where
the eclipse will be total are the Faroe Islands and Svalbard, a Norwegian
archipelago, at around 5:45 a.m. Eastern time. People and spooked animals in
Europe, Russia and North Africa will see a partial eclipse.

How to watch the eclipse online: The Slooh observatory website will stream video
from 4:30 a.m. as will the Virtual Telescope, embedded here.

[Video: 20 March 2015 Solar Eclipse: live, online view Watch on YouTube.]

Waiting for it in Svalbard, as he has for 58 eclipses of various kinds dating
back to 1959, will be Jay M. Pasachoff, an astronomer and director of Hopkins
Observatory at Williams College, and a team of colleagues supported in part by
National Geographic. Dr. Pasachoff is an expert on the corona, one of the sun's
most exotic but bashful features. Its pearly light is less than a millionth as
bright as the sun itself and thus is visible only during those rare instances
when the moon completely covers the sun.

He's seen eclipses from ships and airplanes and camps on the ground on every
continent including Antarctica, from Easter Island to New England. In 2009, he
blogged for this newspaper about an eclipse in China that was to be the longest
of this decade.He has already laid plans for eclipses next year in Indonesia and
2017 in Oregon.

''We're here for the science, yes,'' Dr. Pasachoff wrote in 2010 from Easter
Island. ''But there's also the primal thrill this astronomical light show always
brings -- the perfect alignment, in solemn darkness, of the celestial bodies
that mean most to us.''

Dr. Pasachoff wrote recently from Oslo, where he and his wife, Naomi, were
getting ready to go north to Svalbard, a former whaling base that is halfway
between Norway and the North Pole. Thousands of tourists have gathered there
ahead of the eclipse, including one man who was attacked by a polar bear inside
his tent Thursday, according to Reuters. (The man fared better than the furry
intruder, escaping with minor injuries while the bear was shot to death.)

''The weather forecasts for Svalbard mainly show ''partly cloudy,'' which is
what we hoped for -- since it is almost never COMPLETELY clear,'' wrote Dr.
Pasachoff wrote in an email. ''So we are hopeful; the cloud statistics over 20
years from weather satellites show about a 1/3 chance of seeing totality.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/science/a-rare-total-solar-eclipse.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%);
STREAMING MEDIA (71%); WILDLIFE (71%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (71%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%)

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (55%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTHEAST USA (71%)

COUNTRY: SVALBARD & JAN MAYEN (93%); NORWAY (90%); ANTARCTICA (79%); ARCTIC
(79%); FAROE ISLANDS (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); EUROPE (70%);
CHINA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volvo V60 Cross Country, Good for the Long Haul

BYLINE: By TOM VOELK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRIVEN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 524 words


ARE luxury automotive brands banned from using comprehensible names? It would
explain the baffling alphanumeric monikers that Acura, Audi, BMW, Infiniti,
Lexus and Mercedes use. Volvo forks off this trail with the newest V60 variant
by adding two actual words: Cross Country.

That designation on the V70 appeared in the late 1990s, eventually becoming
simply the XC70 (but ask any owner and they'll say they drive a Cross Country).
Besides, Volvo hangs the XC60 badge on their most popular model, so that name
was out for V60.

My wife, Mariko, and I drove the Cross Country cross country (as it were) from
Seattle to Bend, Ore., for some cross-country skiing. Talk about a theme trip.
Aptly named, the Volvo kept us fresh through 830 miles, two outlet mall detours,
three hiking stops and more Dairy Queen drive-throughs than I'll admit to.

Simply put, this is a V60 wagon outfitted in full Arc'teryx apparel. There's de
rigueur fender cladding, a bolder grille and sill trim, and Cross Country
branding on the rear. Volvo lifts the structure skyward 2.6 inches for nearly
eight inches of ground clearance. (The larger XC70 is still available.)

The Cross Country coddles its occupants. It's quiet, controlled and supremely
comfortable for long stretches. Orthopedically designed seats are widely
considered by my peers to be the best in the business (though a ventilation
feature is missing).

At altitude near Oregon's Timberline Lodge, acceleration is confident. The
turbocharged 2.5-liter, 5-cylinder engine offers 250 horsepower and 266
pound-feet of torque. The gearbox is a 6-speed, with a Haldex all-wheel-drive
system with hill descent control.

A simple listing of safety technology features would fill this article, but in
addition to blind-spot and lane-departure warning, there's a system that brakes
automatically to avoid most impacts with cars under 31 miles an hour. The
Platinum model we toured in detects and brakes for pedestrians (and in certain
conditions bicyclists, too). Once radar-assisted cruise control is experienced
on a road trip, you'll never go back.

The Environmental Protection Agency rates the Cross Country at 20 miles per
gallon in the city, 28 highway. We saw 27 m.p.g. on specified standard-grade
fuel. The Cross Country is not for severe off-roading. It's at home on rough
forest service roads that lead to trailheads overwhelmed by Subarus.

Finding fault takes concentration, but one shortcoming is the small
user-interface knob. Navigating the apps (including sophisticated navigation,
Yelp and Pandora) is tedious. Voice command? Perhaps it would work better if I
knew Swedish. Volvo insists it will be addressed as it introduces new models.

Other than a dashboard that's a bit plain, reduced visibility out the rear and a
wish for panoramic glass in the roof, the nimble Volvo is close to letter
perfect. The numbers aren't bad either. Starting at $41,940, with destination,
this premium crossover alternative tops out at nearly $49,000 with impressive
safety tech. Buyers that need badge superiority will overlook the V60 Cross
Country, but it makes an honest name for itself wherever it goes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/automobiles/video-review-volvo-v60-cross-count
ry-good-for-the-long-haul.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 2015 Volvo  V60 Cross  Country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM VOELK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%);
ORTHOPEDICS (70%); SKIING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%);
CONSERVATION (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (56%); HALDEX AB (53%)

TICKER: HLDX (STO) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE
BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3496 MISC. FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCTS (53%)

CITY: BEND, OR, USA (79%)

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Senior Banker Predicts Robust Deal-Making Will Continue

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 543 words


NEW ORLEANS -- If the opening comments from one of the senior deal makers at the
Tulane Corporate Law Institute here are to be believed, the good times for
mergers and acquisitions will continue to roll.

In his speech, Greg Weinberger -- named last week as Credit Suisse's co-head of
global mergers -- said that the conditions for robust deal-making aren't likely
to change anytime soon.

But surprisingly, he also said that the outsize returns that have driven the
red-hot burst of shareholder activism were due for a slowdown.

First the numbers: $3.5 trillion in mergers and acquisitions were announced last
year, mostly on the high end and largely in the United States. The confidence of
chief executives and boardrooms continues to be robust, meaning that companies
are more willing to take the risk of pursuing a deal.

''Our perspective is that M.&A. is primarily confidence driven,'' Mr. Weinberger
said. ''It's pretty high.''

That's despite the relative collapse of some practices, like corporate
inversions -- the much-ballyhooed type of deals in which American companies buy
foreign counterparts to reincorporate abroad and lower their tax rates.

Even a 153 percent rise in withdrawn transactions reflects increased confidence,
according to Mr. Weinberger, because that simply means more management teams are
more comfortable pursuing takeovers that don't necessarily pan out.

The banker also predicted that more hostile takeovers may arise. After all, the
stock price of acquirers, on average, has continued to rise after a deal is
announced, suggesting that shareholders support aggressive pursuits of growth

''This should be an era where you should see hostile M.&A. done,'' he said.

But Mr. Weinberger added an interesting wrinkle to his speech, saying that
activist investors may face lower returns in the future. Much of the low-hanging
fruit, in the form of companies obviously ripe for breakups or board management
changes, has been picked, he contended.

Activism is popular, with 513 campaigns last year, the most in five years. The
amount of capital overseen by activist investors has soared to an all-time high
of about $120 billion. And institutional investors like huge mutual funds have
continued to demonstrate support for dissidents pursuing seats on corporate
boards.

Agitation, which has been a primarily American phenomenon to date, also has
shown signs of extending abroad, even if initial efforts in Europe have met with
mixed results so far.

The tactic has been a powerful driver of deals, as investors push target
companies to pursue sales of themselves or break themselves apart.

But that run may eventually taper off. Mr. Weinberger pointed out that many
corporate breakups spurred by activist investors, like those of Apache and Dow
Chemical, met with relatively tepid interest last year.

That may mean that activists will have to go to greater lengths to seek new
targets for their efforts, like pursuing some of the newly public companies spun
out from existing corporations, or live with lower returns.

''The other thing I have to infer is that their alpha goes down,'' Mr.
Weinberger said, referring to the investment returns activists generate above
and beyond overall stock market performance. ''Maybe.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/senior-banker-predicts-robus
t-deal-making-will-continue.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%);
TAKEOVERS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126
DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO
MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE &
OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL &
RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL
MANUFACTURING (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Philips Spinoff

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 289 words


LONDON -- Philips, the Dutch electronics giant, said on Thursday that it planned
to spin off its lighting business through an initial public offering next year.

The announcement is the latest move by Philips to restructure its operations and
focus on growth. In September, Philips, based in Amsterdam, said that it planned
to split itself into two companies: one focused on health care and technology,
and the other on lighting.

The company said in a shareholder circular that it would most likely offer only
a minority interest in the I.P.O., ''followed by one or more secondary
offerings, or by one or more other transactions, with the aim of full divestment
of the Lighting Solutions company over time.''

Shareholders are expected to consider the spinoff at the company's annual
meeting in May.

Philips said that it expected the I.P.O. in the first half of 2016, and that it
would use the proceeds from the sale in part to fund growth in its HealthTech
business, which is hoping to capitalize on the growing convergence of the health
care and consumer sectors.

The lighting business will include three divisions that cover offerings like
traditional light bulbs and complete lighting systems. The business had about
37,000 employees and posted sales of 1.98 billion euros, or about $2.1 billion,
in the fourth quarter.

The spinoff is not expected to include the company's automotive lighting and LED
components businesses, which Philips said last year would be combined into a
stand-alone company. Philips said it was in discussions with potential buyers
and expected to complete a sale of those businesses in the first half of this
year.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/philips-to-spin-off-lighting
-business-in-ipo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%);
SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS
(78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS
(77%)

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (91%)

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (91%); PHIA (AMS) (91%); PHG (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334516
ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO
EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ex-Trader Sentenced to 19 Months for Insider Trading in London

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 433 words


LONDON -- Julian Rifat, a former trader arrested nearly five years ago in what
was then described as the largest crackdown on insider trading here, was
sentenced to more than a year in prison on Thursday after he pleaded guilty in
November to insider trading.

Mr. Rifat, a former senior execution trader at the hedge fund Moore Capital
Management, was among those arrested in a series of raids by the British
authorities in March 2010 in an investigation called Operation Tabernula.

The Financial Conduct Authority of Britain accused Mr. Rifat of sharing inside
information about several companies, including Volkswagen and Barclays, during
the financial crisis.

He received cash, an expensive vacation in Oman and a Range Rover in exchange
for the tips, which netted about 280,000 pounds, or about $413,000, in illicit
proceeds.

At a hearing in Southwark Crown Court in London on Thursday, Judge Alistair
William McCreath sentenced Mr. Rifat to 19 months in prison. Mr. Rifat was also
fined £100,000 and ordered to pay investigation costs of £159,402.

Mr. Rifat ''was privy to highly sensitive information at the heart of some of
the largest transactions in the U.K. financial markets during the latter half of
2009,'' Georgina Philippou, the acting director of enforcement and market
oversight for the F.C.A., said in a news release.

''Mr. Rifat's behavior exploited financial markets during a particularly
challenging time just as they were taking steps to recover from the 2008 crisis.
The smooth running of our financial markets requires market professionals to
play by the rules -- Mr. Rifat knew the rules, but he abused them for his own
benefit.''

Mr. Rifat pleaded guilty in November to a single-count indictment that covered
eight instances of insider trading.

The F.C.A. accused Mr. Rifat of sharing inside information with Graeme Shelley,
a former broker at Novum Securities. Mr. Shelley was said to have then traded
for their joint benefit.

Mr. Shelley pleaded guilty to insider trading last year, admitting to engaging
in the crime with Mr. Rifat and another man, Paul Milsom. Mr. Shelley received a
two-year suspended sentence last year.

A former senior trader at Legal & General, Mr. Milsom pleaded guilty to
so-called insider dealing -- how the crime of insider trading is described in
Britain -- and was sentenced in 2013 to two years in prison.

In the Operation Tabernula investigation, nine people have been charged
criminally in Britain.

Since 2009, the F.C.A. and its predecessor agency, the Financial Services
Authority, have secured 27 insider trading convictions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/ex-trader-sentenced-to-19-mo
nths-for-insider-trading-in-london.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (92%); INSIDER TRADING (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(90%); LITIGATION (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CORRECTIONS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%);
INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); FINES &
PENALTIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%);
ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%)

COMPANY: MOORE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONDUCT AUTHORITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); OMAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A British Proposal to Help Control Bankruptcy Costs

BYLINE: By STEPHEN J. LUBBEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; IN DEBT; Pg.

LENGTH: 499 words


Beginning next October, corporate reorganization professionals in Britain are
going to have do something quite amazing: At the start of a case, they are going
to have to estimate what their total fees will be. And if they exceed that
amount, they will have to go back to the creditors and obtain further approval.

Given the decades of complaints about the costs of Chapter 11 cases in the
United States, it's something that we might want to consider, too.

Big cases can run into hundreds of million of dollars, with top partners who
specialize in Chapter 11 cases charging $1,000 an hour.

For example, General Motors' two-year bankruptcy case generated $120 million in
fees and expenses. That seems paltry compared with the record holder, Lehman
Brothers, whose fees went north of $2 billion. The fees for Nortel Networks were
$1.3 billion.

Companies also often end up paying legal expenses for lenders and bondholder
groups, which can drive up costs.

Whether Chapter 11 costs ''too much'' is a matter of some contention. The most
difficult question is ''compared to what?'' After all, big city law firms are
hardly cheap in any practice area.

The real question, but the one that is hardly ever asked, is whether bankruptcy
is in some way prone to extra expense, costs that would not surface but for some
special aspect of Chapter 11.

One commonly identified problem is that the debtor company is spending ''other
people's money,'' namely cash that could otherwise go to the creditors. This
seemingly simple point is actually more complex than would appear at first
blush.

First, in some sense the argument is true of all corporations, bankrupt or not.
As Berle and Means noted long ago, big corporations are run by people who are
not the owners.

Moreover, no matter whose money is being spent, the real question is whether
spending that money generates recoveries that creditors would not otherwise
receive. That is, spending on restructuring professionals only takes money from
creditors if the cost of those professionals is greater than the extra returns
they generate.

The ''net'' is important.

Various proposals have been floated to help rein in costs, like greater judicial
oversight and fixed fees, but the British proposal may have hit on an intriguing
idea. If the ''other people's money'' argument is meant to suggest that
restructuring professionals are not subject to market forces -- either because
bankruptcy is so extreme that managers will willingly overspend, or because
managers don't exercise oversight when they have one foot out the door -- the
British approach could provide real benefits.

Namely, if professionals all had to provide reasonably binding cost figures
upfront, the parties to a case could make sensible adjustments to staffing,
committing to pay for a ''just right'' amount of reorganization and number of
restructuring professionals.

The upfront disclosure would facilitate comparison shopping -- that is, a true
market for bankruptcy professionals.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/dealbook/a-british-proposal-to-help-c
ontrol-bankruptcy-costs.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS
INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%);
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); LAWYERS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS
(74%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); NEW ISSUES (73%); BONDS (69%)

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL
MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING
(69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK
& UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING
(57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES &
PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Dance

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1917 words


Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance. A searchable guide
to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Ailey II  (Friday through Sunday) Venturing south from its home on 55th Street,
this hardworking ensemble, the second company of Alvin Ailey American Dance
Theater, is presenting its first independent season at the Joyce Theater. Two
triple bills showcase the dancers' technical prowess and seemingly boundless
stamina, with high-energy works by Dwight Rhoden, Manuel Vignoulle and Amy Hall
Garner (Program A); and Katarzyna Skarpetowska, Jennifer Archibald and the
artistic director Troy Powell (Program B). Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8
p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea,
212-242-0800, joyce.org. (Siobhan Burke)

? Armitage Gone!  (Wednesday through March 27) Dance isn't the most obvious way
to address climate change, but the inventive choreographer Karole Armitage takes
an intriguing stab at it by setting her new work, ''On the Nature of Things,''
in the Milstein Hall of Ocean Life at the American Museum of Natural History.
Ms. Armitage has also smartly recruited the renowned biologist Paul R. Ehrlich,
who has composed, and will read, an original text to accompany the 30 dancers.
At 8 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org. (Brian
Schaefer)

? Ballet West  (Wednesday through March 29) This troupe has a national profile
partly because of its participation in the reality TV show ''Breaking Pointe,''
which chronicled the personalities and backstage antics of this Salt Lake City
company. For its Joyce Theater debut, the troupe will keep the drama onstage in
New York premieres by Matthew Neenan and Nicolo Fonte as well as Val
Caniparoli's ''The Lottery,'' based on Shirley Jackson's chilling short story
about a violent ritual in a small town. Helen Pickett, resident choreographer of
the Atlanta Ballet, contributes a world premiere. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.,
Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30
p.m., 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-242-0800, joyce.org.
(Schaefer)

Maya Ciarrocchi and Kris Grey  (Wednesday through March 28) As any university
sociology professor will tell you, gender is a performance. The video artist
Maya Ciarrocchi and the visual and performance artist Kris Grey bring that idea
to the stage, making a performance of that performance in ''Gender/Power
(composition II).'' The work, part of Gibney's new Making Space series, includes
an immersive installation and draws from the experiences of those who defy
gender norms and challenge the relationship between power and sex. The
installation opens at 4 p.m. daily, with performances at 6, 7 and 8 p.m. Gibney
Dance Performing Arts Center, 280 Broadway, near Chambers Street, Lower
Manhattan, 646-837-6809, gibneydance.org. (Schaefer)

Rebecca Serrell Cyr  (Friday and Saturday) An arresting performer in the work of
Donna Uchizono, RoseAnne Spradlin and many other choreographers, Ms. Cyr has
lately been immersed in a project of her own. Her ''Assemblage'' pushes back
against paring down, favoring accumulation over editing. Sundry objects and
ideas jostle in a series of solos and duets, performed by Ms. Cyr, Aretha Aoki
and guests. At 8 p.m., Jack, 505 1/2 Waverly Avenue, near Fulton Street, Clinton
Hill, Brooklyn, jackny.org. (Burke)

? 'Dancers, Buildings and People in the Streets' (through March 28) Ballet and
contemporary dance sometime seem like estranged relatives, but with its latest
platform, inspired by the dance critic Edwin Denby, Danspace Project collapses
the space between them. The curator Claudia La Rocco, a poet and critic who
contributes to The New York Times, paired artists from different choreographic
traditions -- those of Merce Cunningham, George Balanchine and Judson Dance
Theater -- and left them to their own devices. The next set of collaborations
(on Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.) features the choreographers Jillian Peña,
Troy Schumacher, Emily Coates and Yve Laris Cohen. Also this week (on Friday at
1:30 p.m.), Ms. Coates, who has danced with Yvonne Rainer and New York City
Ballet, teaches Ms. Rainer's seminal ''Trio A.'' Danspace Project, St. Mark's
Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, 866-811-4111, danspaceproject.org.
(Burke)

DiMauro Dance  (Saturday and Sunday) In the project ''Metropolis,'' Jessica
DiMauro (of New York) and Ana Miranda (of Miami) take inspiration from their
respective cities and regions. Ms. DiMauro's ''They Told Me With Their Hands''
borrows from the gestures of pedestrians, while the Cuban-born Ms. Miranda
weaves together Mississippi Delta blues with flamenco. They are joined by the
New York choreographer Gierre J. Godley, who honors the African-American
railroad workers of the early 1900s in ''Gandy Dancer,'' which was a slang term
for these laborers. Saturday at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Manhattan Movement
& Arts Center, 248 West 60th Street, Manhattan, 212-787-1178, dimaurodance.com,
manhattanmovement.com. (Schaefer)

? Flexn  (Wednesday through April 4) Flex, a dance style thought to have been
born in Jamaica in the '90s and raised in the clubs of Brooklyn, is defined by
dislocated limbs, extreme contortions and stuttering steps reminiscent of
animation. It is disconcerting and elegant, nightmarish and divine, and a
fitting vessel to consider today's volatile race relations through dance. This
ambitious project by the director Peter Sellars and the flex pioneer Reggie
Gray, known as Regg Roc, brings a crew of 20 flex dancers to the Park Avenue
Armory's cavernous hall. Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3
p.m., 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, 212-933-5812, armoryonpark.org.
(Schaefer)

Generations of Gypsy Flamenco  (Friday) Some may consider a folkloric form like
flamenco to be a single artistic expression, but, like language, dance has many
regional accents and inflections. Here, three notable Gypsy dancers represent
the Andalucía style of flamenco: the mesmerizing veteran Concha Vargas; the
fleet-footed Pepe Torres; and the powerful Gema Moneo, part of a new generation
that is keeping this tradition alive. They will be accompanied by the vocalist
Esperanza Fernández and other musicians. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd
Street, Manhattan, 800-982-2787, the-townhall-nyc.org. (Schaefer)

? Juilliard Dances Repertory  (Wednesday through March 28) There's nothing that
makes an old work feel new again more than seeing it tackled by fresh, hungry
minds. These talented Juilliard students bring to life Martha Graham's 1946
abstract work ''Dark Meadow'' (with live music performed by fellow Juilliard
students), staged by Terese Capucilli, who danced with the Graham company for 26
years. The students will also keep Merce Cunningham's legacy alive with
performances of his technologically innovative ''Biped,'' from 1999. Wednesday
through Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater,
Lincoln Center, 155 West 65th Street, 212-769-7406, events.juilliard.edu.
(Schaefer)

National Dance Theater Company of Jamaica  (Saturday and Sunday) Jamaica gained
independence from Britain in 1962, which was the same year that Rex Nettleford
and Eddy Thomas founded this company as an act of nation building. For more than
two decades, this troupe has regularly brought its vision and artistry to
Brooklyn. On this tour, the company presents over a half-dozen works spanning a
half-century, with several by Nettleford, who died in 2010. Saturday at 8 p.m.,
Sunday at 3 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College,
Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, 718-951-4500, brooklyncenter.org.
(Schaefer)

Laura Pawel Dance  (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Pawel, who has been making dance
for decades, is interested in those transient thoughts that form in the mind,
only to suddenly vanish; her new work, ''Flickers,'' considers this phenomenon.
The year-old ''3 a.m.,'' about that dreamlike time that's neither here nor
there, treads in similar intangible territory. Ms. Pawel's style, which
incorporates improvisational movement and music, is thematically fitting. Two
works from 2013 round out the program. At 7 p.m., Chen Dance Center, 70 Mulberry
Street, Chinatown, 212-349-0438, chendancecenter.org. (Schaefer)

? Sally Silvers  (Friday through Sunday) She may not have the actual Mount
Rushmore as a backdrop, but Ms. Silvers's homage to Alfred Hitchcock, ''Actual
Size Plus,'' includes a few notable winks to ''North by Northwest.'' The work,
which closes this year's 92Y Harkness Dance Festival, features film projections,
snippets of text and live musical accompaniment, as well as a cameo each night.
As part of the festival's Stripped/Dressed format, Ms. Silvers will first break
down the work before presenting it whole. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday
at 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, 212-415-5500, 92y.org.
(Schaefer)

SoHa Dance  (Sunday) For those unfamiliar with New York neighborhood acronyms,
SoHa stands for South Harlem, and it's the home of Sarah Horne's dance company.
Ms. Horne, who grew up in St. Croix, has corralled a collective of fellow
choreographers who call Harlem home. ''Harlem Dances: Études and Duets,'' as the
evening is called, includes work by Antonio Brown, Shantelle C. Jackson, ModArts
Dance Collective and Ms. Horne. At 5 p.m., Dixon Place, 161 Chrystie Street,
Lower East Side, 212-219-0736, dixonplace.org. (Schaefer)

? Take Dance  (Thursday through March 28) While Paul Taylor's company performs
uptown, the former Paul Taylor dancer Takehiro Ueyama celebrates his 10-year
anniversary as an independent choreographer by presenting his second
evening-length work, ''There and Here.'' This meditation on life and afterlife
is set to an improvisational score by the composer and sound artist Kato Hideki,
and features a reunion of sorts with the fellow former Taylor dancers Amy Young
and Orion Duckstein as well as the powerfully ethereal Miki Orihara. At 7:30
p.m., Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street,
between Park Row and Gold Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-346-1715,
schimmel.pace.edu. (Schaefer)

? Paul Taylor's American Modern Dance  (through March 29) It's never too late to
reinvent yourself: After 60 years as the Paul Taylor Dance Company, the group
has returned as Paul Taylor's American Modern Dance, a more inclusive moniker
reflecting the addition of outside choreographers. This season includes Shen
Wei, with his artful ''Rite of Spring,'' and the pioneering Doris Humphrey,
represented by her 1938 ''Passacaglia.'' Adding to his tireless output, Mr.
Taylor has also presented a new work, ''Death and the Damsel.'' Fridays at 8
p.m., Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m., Sundays at 2 p.m., and Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Thursdays at 7 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, 212-496-0600,
davidhkochtheater.com. (Schaefer)

Annie Wilson  (Thursday through March 28) Why does the performance of
''sexiness'' often look so ridiculous? This Philadelphia artist ponders this and
other probing questions in a new work. With a debut in 2014, this self-described
''burlesque-postmodern-dance-theater-bad-improv performance'' claims a kinship
with other artists from the City of Brotherly Love who take a raw, and decidedly
more sisterly, look at female sexuality. At 8 p.m., Jack, 505 ½ Waverly Avenue,
near Fulton Street, Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, jackny.org. (Schaefer)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/dance/dance-listings-for-march-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEBRIJA FLAMENCO) (C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BALLET (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FILM
(77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); THEATER (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE
(71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); HISTORY (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 86 words


A Critic's Notebook article last Friday about Asia Week New York misstated the
address of the Nayef Homsi gallery, which has a display of religious sculpture.
It is at 7 East 75th Street, not 75 East 75th Street. The article also
misidentified the gallery showing work by Liang Quan. It is M. Sutherland, not
the Kang Collection. The article also misstated the process used by Minjung Kim,
whose work is on display at the Kang Collection. She colors rice paper then
applies a flame; she does not apply the flame first.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words


A listing of credits on Wednesday with a theater review of ''The Evening,'' at
the Kitchen in Manhattan, omitted two organizations that are presenting the play
in addition to New York City Players. They are the Kitchen and Performance Space
122.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


An entry in the What's on TV Thursday highlights in some editions on Thursday
about ''Masters of Their Craft'' from SundanceNow Doc Club, using information
from a publicist, misstated the first part of the title of one of the
documentaries being shown. It is ''Far Out Isn't Far Enough: The Tomi Ungerer
Story,'' not ''Far Out Isn't Enough.''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


An article  in some copies on Thursday about the Rangers' 1-0 loss to the
Chicago Blackhawks referred incorrectly to Rangers goalie Cam Talbot's losses
since Henrik Lundqvist last played on Feb. 2. He has lost three times in
regulation, not three times over all. The article also misstated Talbot's record
during that span. He is 13-3-3 -- not 15-3-3, which is the Rangers' record
during Lundqvist's absence.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (83%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 62 words


An article on Wednesday about Diana Taurasi's experiences playing professional
basketball in Yekaterinburg, Russia, misidentified the church there that is
built over the cellar where the Romanovs were assassinated. It is the Church on
Blood in Honor of All Saints Resplendent in the Russian Land -- not the Church
of the Savior on Spilled Blood, which is in St. Petersburg.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (85%)

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words


An article on Tuesday about the introduction of ShotSpotter, a detection system
that pinpoints the location of gunfire in some New York City neighborhoods,
misstated, in some editions, the status of a bill that would require quarterly
reports on gunshots recorded by ShotSpotter. Letitia James, the public advocate,
has already introduced the bill to the City Council; she is not planning to do
so.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); CITIES (84%);
LEGISLATION (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


An article on Wednesday about a vote by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) to
change its definition of marriage to include same-sex marriage misstated the
membership of the United Methodist Church. It is 12.8 million worldwide -- not
5.5 million, which is the number outside the United States.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (87%); GAYS & LESBIANS (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words


Because of an editing error, an obituary last Friday about the architect Michael
Graves referred incorrectly to a building in Oregon he designed. It includes
only one hammered-copper statue, not statues. The obituary also misstated the
name of the building. It is the Portland Building, not the Portland Municipal
Building.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%)

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exhibition Possible in Cuba Next Year

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 349 words


Major League Baseball continues to highlight its intention to play at least one
exhibition game in Cuba, bringing the game to the homeland of some of the
league's best players.

Commissioner Rob Manfred and Tony Clark, the executive director of the players'
union, have said in recent weeks that they would be open to staging a game or
games there soon.

Manfred put a time frame on the plan Wednesday by telling The Wall Street
Journal that the most likely time to do it would be during spring training next
year.

''We're in ongoing discussions with federal agencies regarding how the law
applies,'' said Pat Courtney, the chief communications officer for Major League
Baseball.

President Obama said in December that the United States intended to restore full
diplomatic relations with Cuba and open an embassy in Havana for the first time
in more than half a century.

The idea of playing in Cuba is a natural fit for Major League Baseball because
the sport has remained extraordinarily popular there for many years.

Cuba has been a part of the World Baseball Classic, which has been held in 2006,
2009 and 2013, and more and more Cuban players -- including Aroldis Chapman,
Yoenis Cespedes, Yasiel Puig, Jose Fernandez and Jose Abreu -- are making a
significant impact in the majors.

During his visit to the Miami Marlins' spring training camp this month, Manfred,
who took over for the retired Bud Selig as commissioner in January, told
reporters that the tradition of baseball in Cuba, and the talent there, made it
a logical fit for exhibition play.

''I can envision a situation, assuming that is consistent with the government's
policy on Cuba, where we could have ongoing exhibition game activity in Cuba,''
Manfred said then. ''We're going to follow the government's lead on when it
makes sense for us to try to play some games there.''

Major League Baseball last played in Cuba in 1999, when the Baltimore Orioles
had an exhibition game against the Cuban national team during spring training.

The Cuban team then played an exhibition in Baltimore during the 1999 regular
season.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/baseball/mlb-exhibition-possible-in-cub
a-next-year.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%);
DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%);
EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (58%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marsha Cottrell at Eleven Rivington

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN
REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 276 words


Born under another sign, Marsha Cottrell might have been a consumer tester for
laser printers rather than an artist. Instead, she has created a body of work
that harnesses the power of office equipment, treating it like a paintbrush or
master printer's tool.

Each work here is created by tweaking image files on a computer and feeding high
quality paper -- often mulberry paper, which allows the powdery iron oxide toner
to build up on the surface -- through the printer multiple times. Works in the
''Spectral Sun'' series have off-white circles of blank paper and radiating
lines that are reminiscent of 19th-century photographs of the sun or Vija
Celmins's drawings. (The dense accretion of powdery black material also reminds
you of Ad Reinhardt's monochromes or Wade Guyton's black paintings made with
inkjet printers. Although Ms. Cottrell's use of printers predates Mr. Guyton's.)
Images in the ''Aperture'' series are hovering rectangles that recall early
televisions, computer screens and grayscale 1960s geometric abstraction, while
the ''Interior'' works divide space into slightly fuzzy grids.

Ms. Cottrell began as a painter but came to laser printers while working in
production for a magazine. (Walker Evans, Barbara Kruger and Richard Prince also
worked for publishers.) What's notable about Ms. Cottrell's aesthetic, however,
is that it is for the most part intensely nostalgic: She uses current technology
to make things look old. Paradoxically, because art that looks as if it was
created decades ago is popular at the moment, her works appear very
contemporary.

Eleven Rivington

11 Rivington Street,

Lower East Side

Through April 5




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/marsha-cottrell-at-eleven-rivingto
n.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marsha Cottrell's ''Old  Museum (Interior 7)'' (2015)  is made
of laser toner on  paper. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELEVEN RIVINGTON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER PRINTERS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Comedy

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words


For news about comedy, including critical commentary: nytimes.com/arts. A
searchable guide to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

'ComedyJuice' (Tuesday) This reliable stand-up show presents a first-rate
lineup, with Todd Barry, Christian Finnegan, Dan St. Germain, Dustin Ybarra and
Carmen Lynch. At 9:30 p.m., Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea,
212-367-9000, gothamcomedyclub.com. (Elise Czajkowski)

'Des Bishop: Made in China' (Fridays through Sundays and Tuesday through
Thursday) Mr. Bishop moved to China with the intention of ultimately performing
stand-up in Mandarin. In this show, he recounts the year he spent there, during
which he worked as a host in a restaurant and appeared on a Chinese dating show.
(Through March 29.) At various times, Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street,
at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, 212-868-4444, barrowstreettheatre.com.
(Czajkowski)

Fortune Feimster (Thursday through March 29) Ms. Feimster, a Southern comedian
best known as a regular panelist on ''Chelsea Lately,'' headlines at Carolines
on Broadway next week. Thursday and March 29 at 7:30 p.m., next Friday and
Saturday at 7:30 and 10 p.m., 1626 Broadway, at 49th Street, Manhattan,
212-757-4100, carolines.com. (Czajkowski)

? 'Hot Tub Hijacks Night Train' (Monday) Kurt Braunohler and Kristen Schaal,
hosts of the long-running variety show ''Hot Tub,'' return to New York to
reclaim Littlefield's Monday night comedy spot for an evening. Eugene Mirman,
Aamer Rahman, Alingon Mitra, Phoebe Robinson, Maeve Higgins, Matt Wayne and
Michael Palascak are among the performers. At 8 p.m., Littlefield, 622 Degraw
Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Gowanus, Brooklyn, littlefieldnyc.com.
(Czajkowski)

'Josh Gondelman and People He Admires'  (Tuesday) Mr. Gondelman again welcomes
an impressive group of comedians for this cheery stand-up show. Performers
include Giulia Rozzi, Seaton Smith, Bandits on the Run, Jon Fisch and Sabrina
Jalees. At 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope,
Brooklyn, 718-638-4400, unionhallny.com. (Czajkowski)

? NYC Improv Festival (through Sunday) The Peoples Improv Theater hosts this
annual event, which features teams from across country performing over five
days. Highlights include Baby Wants Candy, Trike and Ali & Friends. At various
times, 123 East 24th Street, Manhattan, 212-563-7488, improvfest.nyc.
(Czajkowski)

? Aamer Rahman  (Sunday) Mr. Rahman, an Australian political comedian who became
a global figure with his video on reverse racism, brings his new solo show,
''The Truth Hurts,'' to Brooklyn. At 7:30 p.m., the Bell House, 149 Seventh
Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn, 718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.com. (Czajkowski)

'The Terry Withers Mysteries'  (Thursday) In this twist on the improv show, the
audience creates a crime scene for Mr. Withers, who then goes about trying to
solve the murder mystery with the help of fellow improvisers and actors. At 9:30
p.m., Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, 307 West 26th Street, Chelsea,
212-366-9176, newyork.ucbtheatre.com. (Czajkowski)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/comedy-listings-for-march-20-26.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS
(78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER (55%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Classical

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1545 words


Full reviews of recent classical performances: nytimes.com/classical. A
searchable guide to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Opera

? 'Les Contes d'Hoffmann' (Saturday) James Levine is now conducting the rest of
the run of this revival of Bartlett Sher's phantasmagoric 2009 production, which
closes on Saturday. This Offenbach opera has long been a Levine specialty, and
he leads an elegant and insightful performance. The tenor Matthew Polenzani
makes a vocally and emotionally impassioned Hoffmann. Audrey Luna stands out for
a dazzling turn as Olympia. Laurent Naouri brings a robust voice and consummate
French style to the four villains. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln
Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org. (Anthony Tommasini)

'Kafka-Fragments' and 'Daphnis et Chloé' (Friday through Sunday) In what looks
like an enticing collaboration, the adventurous Cantata Profana ensemble joins
the bold Heartbeat Opera group for a mini-festival. Gyorgy Kurtag's wrenching,
beautiful ''Kafka-Fragments'' for female vocalist (the mezzo-soprano Annie
Rosen) and solo violin (Jacob Ashworth) alternates with a rare, and what
promises to be wild, staging of Offenbach's one-act operetta ''Daphnis et
Chloé.'' ''Kafka-Fragments'': Friday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m.; ''Daphnis
et Chloé'': Friday at 10 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3:30 p.m.;
Sheen Center, 18 Bleecker Street, near Elizabeth Street, East Village,
866-811-4111, heartbeatopera.org. (Tommasini)

'Lucia di Lammermoor'  (Tuesday) For its revival of Donizetti's moody
masterpiece, the Metropolitan Opera has summoned a strong cast, led by the
potent Russian coloratura soprano Albina Shagimuratova, the ardent tenor Joseph
Calleja and the talented baritone Luca Salsi. Maurizio Benini conducts. (Through
April 10.) At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000,
metopera.org. (Zachary Woolfe)

? 'Manon' (Saturday and Wednesday) This sensational revival of Massenet's tragic
love story features the fiery combination of Diana Damrau, singing the title
role for the first time with peerless commitment, and Vittorio Grigolo,
infectiously passionate. Emmanuel Villaume leads a performance that's agile and
fast-moving without sacrificing sumptuous lyricism, and the supporting cast is
characterful and involving. (Through March 28.) At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera
House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org. (Woolfe)

? Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions Grand Finals (Sunday) Every
year, opera lovers have a chance to hear the stars of the future during the
Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions Grand Finals concert. This year,
nine young singers will each perform two arias with the Met Orchestra, conducted
by Fabio Luisi. The soprano Angela Meade, a 2007 winner, will host the event and
sing ''Casta Diva'' from Bellini's ''Norma.'' At 3 p.m., Metropolitan Opera
House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org. (Vivien Schweitzer)

Classical Music

American Symphony Orchestra  (Thursday) Given Leon Botstein's appetite for
exploring uncharted territory the composers he presents here with the American
Symphony Orchestra are almost shockingly familiar: Schubert, Bruckner and
Dvorak. But the works are rarities and were never heard during the composers'
lifetimes: Dvorak's Symphony No. 1, Bruckner's student-day Symphony in F minor
(No. 00) and the Overture to ''Claudine von Villa Bella,'' written by a teenage
Schubert. At 8 p.m., Isaac Stern Auditorium, Carnegie Hall, 212-247-7800,
carnegiehall.org. (Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim)

? Argento Chamber Ensemble  (Thursday) This excellent contemporary group offers
an alluring program with notable young soloists: Saeunn Thorsteinsdottir will
perform Ligeti's Cello Concerto; the clarinetist Carol McGonnell is the soloist
in Giacinto Scelsi's ''Kya''; and the soprano Sharon Harms will sing
Schoenberg's arrangement of Mahler's ''Songs of a Wayfarer.'' At 7:30 p.m.,
DiMenna Center for Classical Music, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan,
argentomusic.org. (Schweitzer)

Inna Faliks (Friday) This noted Ukrainian-born pianist has chosen a demanding
and interesting program for a Masterworks series recital at Bargemusic. She
begins with the premiere of a Clarice Assad piece for speaking pianist. Then she
plays Brahms's overlooked Sonata No. 2, followed by a Clara Schumann Romance
dedicated to Brahms, ending with Brahms's formidable Sonata No. 3. At 8 p.m.,
Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn,
800-838-3006, bargemusic.org. (Tommasini)

George London Foundation Recital  (Sunday) This foundation, which nurtures
exceptional young singers, presents two alumni of the 2010 competition in
recital. The countertenor Anthony Roth Costanzo and the soprano Nadine Sierra
will be accompanied by the pianist Bryan Wagorn in a program of Duparc, Liszt,
Schubert, Turina, Pergolesi and Ned Rorem. At 4:30 p.m., Morgan Library &
Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org.
(Schweitzer)

? Richard Goode and Friends  (Thursday) Collaboration is at the heart of this
wonderful pianist's career. Here he teams up with a group of rising stars in
quintessential works by Debussy, Fauré and Ravel. Performers include the pianist
Ieva Jokubaviciute, the violinist Itamar Zorman, the violist Kyle Armbrust and
the cellist Brook Speltz. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall,
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org. (da Fonseca-Wollheim)

Johannes String Quartet  (Saturday) The esteemed Peoples' Symphony Concerts
presents this all-star quartet in an ambitious program that features
Mendelssohn's Quartet in F minor (Op. 80) and Esa-Pekka Salonen's
''Homunculus.'' The violist John Dalley and the cellist Peter Wiley join for
Brahms's String Sextet No. 2. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving
Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, 212-586-4680, pscny.org. (da Fonseca-Wollheim)

David Kaplan (Sunday) The title of Schumann's piano piece ''Davidsbündlertänze''
takes some explanation. This suite is a collection of wondrous dances playfully
meant as the battle cries of Schumann's contemporary circle, the David's Club,
against the forces of musical philistinism. The excellent Juilliard-trained
pianist David Kaplan, presented by the Metropolis Ensemble, will play the New
York premiere of ''New Dances of the League of David,'' which intersperses new
dance works by a number of contemporary composers, in between Schumann's
originals. It should be fun. At 6 p.m., Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street,
near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, 212-505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com.
(Tommasini)

Kodo One Earth Tour: Mystery (Friday and Saturday) Kodo, the sensational
Japanese drum ensemble, whose players practice a heritage of massed drumming
that goes back centuries, comes to Brooklyn as part of ''Kodo One Earth Tour:
Mystery,'' a new work. Expect the musicians to do some chanting and singing, and
play other instruments now and then, along with their riveting drumming. At 7:30
p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue,
at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100, bam.org. (Tommasini)

Nikolai Lugansky  (Tuesday) This excellent pianist plays Schubert's Sonata in C
minor (D. 958) and works by Tchaikovsky, whose ''The Seasons'' will be familiar
to many. The other Tchaikovsky work on the program, Sonata in G, however, is
rarely heard in performance. At 7:30 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue,
212-415-5500, 92y.org. (Allen)

? New York Philharmonic  (Friday, Tuesday and Thursday) On Friday and Tuesday,
Alan Gilbert leads the orchestra in Debussy, Strauss and Esa-Pekka Salonen, and
the Philharmonic's artist-in-association, Inon Barnatan, will join them for
Ravel's Piano Concerto. On Thursday (and continuing through March 28), Leila
Josefowicz and Mr. Gilbert will perform the world premiere of John Adams's new
symphony for violin and orchestra, ''Scheherazade.2.'' Also on that program are
Anatoly Lyadov's ''The Enchanted Lake'' and Stravinsky's ''Petrushka.'' Friday
at 11 a.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln
Center, 212-875-5656, nyphil.org. (Allen)

? St. Louis Symphony  (Friday) Visits by the dynamic David Robertson and his
superior ensemble are always a treat. Mr. Robertson -- recently mentioned in a
New York Times feature about possible candidates to replace Alan Gilbert at the
end of his tenure at the New York Philharmonic -- will lead a program featuring
Debussy's ''Nocturnes,'' Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 4 and Meredith Monk's
''Weave,'' receiving its New York premiere, with the mezzo-soprano Katie
Geissinger and the baritone Theo Bleckmann as soloists. At 8 p.m., Isaac Stern
Auditorium, Carnegie Hall, 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org. (Schweitzer)

Verdi's 'Requiem'  (Thursday) In his first collaboration with the Oratorio
Society of New York and the Manhattan School of Music Symphony and Symphonic
Chorus, Kent Tritle will present Verdi's masterpiece at the Cathedral Church of
St. John the Divine. The soloists are Lori Guilbeau, Sara Murphy, Alex
Richardson and Matthew Anchel. At 7:30 p.m., 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th
Street, Morningside Heights, 212-316-7540, stjohndivine.org. (Allen)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/music/classical-music-opera-listings-for-
march-20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%);
THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Short-Handed Cincinnati Rallies Past Purdue

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MIDWEST: CINCINNATI 66, PURDUE 65;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 305 words


LOUISVILLE, Ky. --  Playing without its coach and suddenly its leading scorer,
No. 8 seed Cincinnati rallied in regulation and defeated No. 9 seed Purdue,
66-65, in overtime in a Midwest Region game Thursday night.

Mick Cronin, the Bearcats' coach, has not coached the team since December
because of a nonlife-threatening vascular condition. He was here this week
helping with game preparation, but was not on the bench, following doctor's
orders. The Bearcats (23-10) expected to play without him, but they also played
the last 16 minutes 22 seconds of regulation, as well as overtime, without the
6-foot-10 forward Octavius Ellis, who was ejected for a flagrant foul.

No matter. Cincinnati played its usual stifling defense, holding Purdue to 36.1
percent field-goal shooting. The Bearcats also got 13 points from the reserve
Coreontae DeBerry, who took over the post scoring from Ellis and made five of
nine shots.

Cincinnati earned the right to play No. 1 seed Kentucky in the round of 32 on
Saturday.

''It's just a basketball game,'' the sophomore Troy Caupain said. ''We're not
going to go in there nervous. We're not going to go in there playing scared.
It's a chance that -- not everybody gets a chance to do this, and we're just
going to go out and leave it on the floor. Cincinnati basketball is never known
to back down from anybody, and I don't think we should back down from them.''

Farad Cobb led Cincinnati with 14 points in the third game at KFC Yum Center
that was decided by 1 point on Thursday. The Bearcats trailed, 56-49, with 48
seconds left in regulation before storming back to tie the score, 59-59, on
Caupain's layup with one second left in regulation.

A. J. Hammons scored 17 points to lead Purdue (21-13).

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/short-handed-cincinnati-
rallies-past-purdue.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%)

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Samuel Charters, a Musical Catalyst Behind the Folk Revival, Is Dead at 85

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1297 words


Samuel Charters, whose books and field research helped detonate the blues and
folk music revival of the 1960s and '70s, died on Wednesday at his home in
Arsta, Sweden. He was 85.

The cause was myelodysplastic syndrome, a type of bone marrow cancer, his
daughter Mallay Occhiogrosso said.

When Mr. Charters's first book, ''The Country Blues,'' was published at the tail
end of the 1950s, the rural Southern blues of the pre-World War II period was a
largely ignored genre. But the book caused a sensation among college students
and aspiring folk performers, like Bob Dylan, and it created a tradition of
blues scholarship to which Mr. Charters would continue to contribute with books
like ''The Roots of the Blues'' and ''The Legacy of the Blues.''

''We can mark the publication of 'The Country Blues' in the fall of 1959 as a
signal event in the history of the music,'' the music historian Ted Gioia wrote
in his book ''The Delta Blues'' (2008). As ''the first extended history of
traditional blues music,'' he said, it was ''a moment of recognition and
legitimation, but even more of proselytization, introducing a whole generation
to the neglected riches of an art form.''

Released in tandem with ''The Country Blues,'' which remains in print, was an
album of the same name containing 14 songs, little known and almost impossible
to find at the time, recorded in the 1920s and '30s by artists like Robert
Johnson, Sleepy John Estes, Blind Willie McTell and Bukka White.

Mr. Dylan's first album, recorded in 1961, included a version of Mr. White's
''Fixin' to Die,'' and within a decade other songs by the singers and guitarists
whom Mr. Charters had highlighted were staples in the repertoires of blues and
rock bands like the Allman Brothers, Canned Heat, Cream and the Rolling Stones.

Equally important, the aura of mystery Mr. Charters created around his subjects
-- where had they disappeared to? were they even alive? -- encouraged readers to
go out into the field themselves. John Fahey, Alan Wilson, Henry Vestine, Dick
Waterman and other disciples tracked down vanished performers like Mr. White,
Mr. Estes, Skip James and Son House, and their careers were revived. Their song
catalogs were soon injected into folk and pop music.

''I always had the feeling that there were so few of us, and the work so vast,''
Mr. Charters told Matthew Ismail, the author of the 2011 book ''Blues
Discovery.'' ''That's why I wrote the books as I did, to romanticize the glamour
of looking for old blues singers. I was saying: 'Help! This job is really big,
and I really need lots of help!' I really exaggerated this, but it worked. My
God, I came back from a year in Europe and I found kids doing research in the
South.''

Mr. Charters had himself succumbed to the lure of field work. In 1958 he went to
the Bahamas to record the guitarist Joseph Spence (who would influence the
Grateful Dead, Taj Mahal and others), and a year later he helped revive the
career of the Texas guitarist Lightnin' Hopkins. He pursued overlooked music and
artists on four continents for the next 50 years.

Throughout the 1960s, as the audience for the blues expanded exponentially, Mr.
Charters continued to write about the music and to produce blues-based records
for Folkways, Prestige, Vanguard and other labels. ''The Poetry of the Blues,''
with photographs by his wife, Ann Charters, was published in 1963, and ''The
Bluesmen'' appeared in 1967; during that period he also wrote ''Jazz New
Orleans'' and, with Leonard Kunstadt, ''Jazz: A History of the New York Scene.''

By the mid-1960s, Mr. Charters had broadened his focus to include contemporary
electric blues, producing a three-record anthology of new recordings called
''Chicago: The Blues Today!'' Songs from that collection, as well as from albums
Mr. Charters produced for Junior Wells, Buddy Guy, James Cotton and Charlie
Musselwhite, were covered by rock groups like Led Zeppelin and Steppenwolf and
have remained rock standards.

Samuel Barclay Charters IV was born in Pittsburgh on Aug. 1, 1929, to Samuel
Barclay Charters III and the former Lillian Kelley. When he was a teenager the
family moved to Sacramento, Calif., where his father worked as a railroad switch
engineer. In writings and interviews, he recalled a childhood immersed in jazz
and classical music. He dated his interest in the blues to hearing Bessie
Smith's recording of ''Nobody Knows You When You're Down and Out'' when he was
about 8 years old.

After serving in the Army during the Korean War, he spent time in New Orleans,
where he played clarinet, banjo and washboard in bands and studied with the jazz
clarinetist George Lewis while also researching that city's rich musical
history. He earned a degree in economics from the University of California,
Berkeley, before returning to the field.

After the initial impact of ''The Country Blues,'' which would be inducted into
the Blues Hall of Fame in 1991, Mr. Charters resumed performing music, more for
the sheer fun of it than as a livelihood. He played with Dave Van Ronk in the
Ragtime Jug Stompers and then formed a duo called the New Strangers with the
guitarist Danny Kalb, later of the Blues Project.

Mr. Charters was also drawn to the psychedelic music emerging in the San
Francisco area in the mid-'60s. He produced the first four albums by Country Joe
& the Fish, including the satirical ''I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die Rag,'' one
of the best-known protest songs of the Vietnam War era.

Mr. Charters had long been involved in the civil rights movement and left-wing
causes, and the Vietnam War infuriated him. He moved to Sweden with his family
in 1970 and acquired Swedish citizenship. For many years he shuttled between
Arsta, a suburb of Stockholm, and Storrs, where his wife, who survives him,
taught American literature at the University of Connecticut.

Mr. Charters published poetry collections, including ''Things to Do Around
Piccadilly'' and ''What Paths, What Journeys,'' and novels, among them
''Louisiana Black'' and ''Elvis Presley Calls His Mother After the Ed Sullivan
Show.'' He also translated works by Swedish authors, including the poet Tomas
Transtromer, who in 2011 won the Nobel Prize in Literature, and wrote a book in
Swedish, ''Spelmannen,'' about Swedish fiddlers.

In addition, Mr. Charters wrote two books with his wife, an expert on the
literature of the Beat Generation as well as a pianist and photographer: a
biography of the Russian poet Vladimir Mayakovsky and ''Brother Souls: John
Clellon Holmes, Jack Kerouac and the Beat Generation.''

Mr. Charters wrote about jazz and blues until the end of his life. His book ''A
Language of Song: Journeys in the Musical World of the African Diaspora,'' a
series of essays on the evolution of music in places like the Caribbean, Brazil
and the Georgia Sea Islands, was published in 2009. Two other books, ''Songs of
Sorrow,'' a biography of Lucy McKim Garrison, who in the mid-19th century
compiled the first book of American slave songs, and ''The Harry Bright
Dances,'' a novel about roots music set in Oklahoma, are scheduled for
publication next month.

Besides his wife and his daughter Mallay, a psychiatrist, Mr. Charters is
survived by another daughter, Nora Charters, a photographer, and a son, Samuel
V, a naval architect, from his marriage to Mary Louise Lange, which ended in
divorce. Mr. and Mrs. Charters donated much of their vast collection of
recordings, sheet music, books, photographs and other documents to the
University of Connecticut.

''For me, the writing about black music was my way of fighting racism,'' Mr.
Charters said in his interview with Mr. Ismail. ''That's why my work is not
academic, that is why it is absolutely nothing but popularization: I wanted
people to hear black music.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/arts/music/samuel-charters-foundational-schola
r-of-the-blues-dies-at-85.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel Charters, shown in 1963, pursued overlooked and
traditional music and artists on four continents for more than 50 years, writing
to spread the word and performing for the fun of it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN
CHARTERS)
 An album of little-known songs was released  in tandem with Mr. Charters's
book. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RBF RECORDS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MUSIC (90%); COUNTRY
MUSIC (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); HISTORY (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%);
WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); LEUKEMIA (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(77%); BLOOD DISORDERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Can't Stand Losing You,' Andy Summers's Version of the Police

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 311 words


The most exciting moment in Andy Grieve's rather dull documentary, ''Can't Stand
Losing You: Surviving the Police,'' comes when we learn that Sting's can of hair
spray exploded in his face right before a 1978 television appearance. Had the
actual detonation been recorded, it would have livened up a movie singularly
lacking in rock-doc unpredictability and verve.

Recounted in droning voice-over by the band's guitarist, Andy Summers (working
from his 2006 memoir, ''One Train Later''), the Police's stuttering attempts in
the late 1970s to find a London audience and a signature sound -- finally
settling on a smooth fusion of jazz, pop and reggae -- also suggest the artistic
fissures that would do in the band. Yet the personal frictions that placed the
Police on Rolling Stone's list of the 10 Messiest Band Breakups are barely
evident here. Neither Sting nor the drummer Stewart Copeland contributed to the
film, and no former managers or crew are around to comment. Passing references
to Sting's ''moody arrogance'' and ''dictatorship'' drop into the film like
appetizers for a meal we never get to eat.

This is Mr. Summers's show all the way: his memories (eating magic-mushroom
omelets with John Belushi in Bali); his tour photographs (naked groupies draped
enticingly across hotel-room furniture); and his face dominating footage of the
band's 2007-8 reunion tour. But as the movie plods repetitively from Britain to
America, past to present, it's his pre-Police career that begs for more than a
flyover -- the years in the 1960s when he cycled through magnificently protean
bands like Eric Burdon and the Animals. The talented Lancashire lad who began
life in a Gypsy wagon seems now, at 72, to be finally claiming the limelight for
himself.

CAN'T STAND LOSING YOU

Surviving the Police

Opens Friday

Directed by Andy Grieve

1 hour 23 minutes; not rated




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-cant-stand-losing-you-andy-summe
rss-version-of-the-police.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Stewart Copeland, Andy Summers and Sting in the
documentary ''Can't Stand Losing You: Surviving the Police.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
WATAL ASANUMA/CINEMA LIBRE STUDIO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%);
PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Butler Wins Few Style Points but Defeats Texas

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MIDWEST: BUTLER 56, TEXAS 48; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 412 words


PITTSBURGH -- If their game on Thursday were a Dr. Seuss book, Butler and Texas
would have taken shots in a house; they would have taken shots with a mouse.
They would have shot from here or there; they would have shot from anywhere.

They also would have missed. Had they gone to a shooting range, the bullet would
have traveled sideways. But No. 6 Butler made enough to edge No. 11 Texas,
56-48, in a Midwest Region game at Consol Energy Center.

Over one span, the Bulldogs went nearly 11 minutes between field goals. That
could have doomed Butler, of course, if not for the Longhorns' embarking on a
seven-minute drought of their own. It was not until Kellen Dunham, who had a
game-high 20 points, drilled a 3-pointer with 1 minute 18 seconds remaining that
the Bulldogs could feel confident in the outcome.

The Longhorns' loss extended a miserable day for the Big 12. The conference lost
two No. 3 seeds, Iowa State and Baylor, to upsets, and although Texas was seeded
11th in the Midwest Region, it was perceived in many precincts -- including in
Las Vegas sports books -- as the favorite on Thursday.

Perhaps that was because of the Longhorns' conference affiliation, or their
enviable talent, or their arduous schedule -- only one of Texas' 13 losses came
against a team that failed to make the N.C.A.A. tournament -- but Butler
(23-10), still vying for respect after all these years, considered it a slight.

As its coach, Chris Holtmann, said, Butler had played big teams like Georgetown
and Xavier, but no one that protected the rim like Texas, which led Division I
with 260 blocked shots. The Bulldogs are savvy, though, and they countered
Texas' height by taking smart shots to avoid getting caught in transition.

What Butler failed to do, for a while, was make those smart shots, missing 15
straight while going nearly 11 minutes without a field goal. Trailing by 26-15
with 4:24 left in the first half after a Dunham 3-pointer, Texas closed on a 9-0
run and led by 30-28 before Dunham swished a jumper that helped Butler regain
its equilibrium.

Then it was the Longhorns' turn to struggle, missing 11 in a row -- and 13 of 16
-- as the Bulldogs offset the temporary absence of their second-leading scorer,
Roosevelt Jones, who missed about eight minutes after leaving the court with an
apparent leg injury, by getting baskets from the reserve forward Kelan Martin.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/butler-wins-few-style-po
ints-but-defeats-texas.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%);
TOURNAMENTS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOL ENERGY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUTLER UNIVERSITY (87%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); BAYLOR
UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: CNX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%); SIC1221
BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (57%)

STATE: MIDWEST USA (88%); IOWA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe; Armenia and Azerbaijan Clash Over Separatist Region

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 98 words


At least three Armenian soldiers were killed in clashes with troops from
Azerbaijan on Thursday near the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh, but the
two sides gave conflicting accounts about who was to blame. Nagorno-Karabakh is
inside Azerbaijan but is controlled by its majority ethnic Armenian population.
The two neighbors fought a war over it in the 1990s. Defense officials in
Nagorno-Karabakh said three Armenian soldiers were killed in an attack by
Azerbaijani commandos. Azerbaijan accused separatists of setting off the clash
and said 20 Armenian soldiers were killed or wounded.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/middleeast/armenia-and-azerbaijan-clash-
over-separatist-region.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS
(86%)

COUNTRY: ARMENIA (98%); EUROPE (92%); AZERBAIJAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Science and Health; Coverage of Arctic Sea Ice Shrinks to a Winter Low

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 130 words


There was less sea ice coverage in the Arctic this winter than in any year since
satellite measurements began nearly four decades ago, researchers said Thursday.
The National Snow and Ice Data Center, a government-sponsored research group,
said that in late February ice cover in the Arctic Ocean reached its maximum
extent, 5.61 million square miles, which is about 7 percent less than the
average from 1981 to 2010 and about 1 percent less than the previous lowest
year, 2011. The center said that changes in the jet stream created warmer than
normal conditions on the Pacific side of the Arctic. While the extent of Arctic
sea ice is naturally variable, it has been generally declining over the past
several decades as the region warms more quickly than other parts of the planet.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/science/coverage-of-arctic-sea-ice-shrinks-to-
a-winter-low.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%)

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%)

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Yelp Shares Fall Sharply After Claim In Film Trailer

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 127 words


Shares of Yelp fell more than 4.7 percent on Thursday after the trailer of an
unfinished documentary posted on the fund-raising website Kickstarter made the
claim that Yelp, the consumer review website operator, was extorting money from
small businesses. Yelp said the claims in the film, ''Billion Dollar Bully,''
had no merit and that the film's director, Kaylie Milliken, had a history of
trying to mislead consumers about Yelp. The claims ''have been repeatedly
dismissed by courts of law, investigated by government regulators, including the
F.T.C., and disproven by academic study,'' Yelp said by email. Analysts at
Barclays and Cowen said Yelp had successfully defended itself against similar
accusations. Its shares came off lows to close down 3.5 percent.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/business/yelp-shares-fall-4-7-percent-after-cl
aim-in-film-trailer.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROWDFUNDING (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); FUNDRAISING
(88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); FILM
DIRECTORS (72%); EXTORTION (56%)

COMPANY: YELP! INC (91%)

TICKER: YELP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Life Sentences for Juveniles Thrown Out

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 256 words


The State Supreme Court unanimously ruled Thursday that all of Florida's
juvenile killers who received automatic sentences of life in prison must be
resentenced under a law passed in 2014. The long-awaited ruling answers the
question of whether the United States Supreme Court's 2012 decision in Miller v.
Alabama, which effectively banned automatic life sentences for juvenile killers,
applies retroactively. An estimated 250 state prisoners, 17 of them from Lee and
Collier Counties, are serving life sentences for murders committed before they
turned 18. Under Florida's 2014 law, passed to conform with the Supreme Court
decision, only juveniles who committed homicides after July 2014 were subject to
a revised sentencing structure, which required a judge to consider several
factors before determining a prison term.

For about 20 years before the law's passage, Florida mandated a life sentence
for juveniles convicted of first-degree murder. After the law passed, Florida
trial and appeal courts have grappled with whether juveniles who killed before
July 2014 and received automatic life sentences should receive the same
consideration. The state's five appeals courts gave conflicting opinions.
Justice Barbara J. Pariente wrote in the opinion handed down Thursday, ''The
patent unfairness of depriving indistinguishable juvenile offenders of their
liberty for the rest of their lives, based solely on when their cases were
decided, weighs heavily in favor of applying the Supreme Court's decision in
Miller retroactively.''



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/us/politics/florida-life-sentences-for-juvenil
es-thrown-out.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (95%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%);
JAIL SENTENCING (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); SUPREME
COURTS (91%); CORRECTIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); APPEALS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOMICIDE
(78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS
(78%); JUVENILE CRIME (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Good Wife, With Caveats

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 884 words


HAUSFRAUBy Jill Alexander Essbaum 324 pages. Random House. $26.  Have you heard
the one about the only time a Swiss train runs late? Punch line: ''When someone
jumps in front of one.'' That bit appears on the second page of Jill Alexander
Essbaum's ''Hausfrau,'' and I wish it were supposed to be funny only when
considering what she really intends. Ms. Essbaum has named her married,
dissatisfied heroine Anna, as in Karenina. So the train reference qualifies as
an earnest literary allusion. And like all the rib-elbowing indications that
this Anna has destructive traits, from promiscuity to pyromania, it qualifies as
one of this graceless book's ideas of foreshadowing. Big time.

''Hausfrau,'' with a smattering of graphic sex scenes, seems positioned to ride
a wave of comparisons to the erotic stylings of E. L. James, and a consensus
that Ms. Essbaum, who not once uses Ms. James's beloved catchphrase ''Holy
crap!,'' must therefore be a better writer. Let's just say the two are very
different. Ms. Essbaum has far more sophistication, but she tethers it to the
tale of a morose, insufferable American narcissist who is bored by her Swiss
husband, Bruno Benz, and the bourgeois life outside Zurich that name subtly
implies. They have three children, two boys and a baby girl, and Anna is none
too interested in them, either.

Among the secrets Anna winds up sharing with her Jungian analyst, Doktor
Messerli, whose specialties are hairsplitting semantics and literal-minded dream
interpretation, is that the little girl is not actually Bruno's child. This is
what Ms. Essbaum means when she begins her book with the coy line ''Anna was a
good wife, mostly.''

Reader, admit it: The ''mostly'' is the part of this story you've signed on for.
You've opened this book to learn how blithely Anna lies to Bruno about her
whereabouts and goings-on, then makes herself damply available to anyone who
pursues her. She takes a German-language course and takes up with a Scottish
student, Archie. It begins very easily, since Anna's answer to Archie's initial
come-on, ''What are you doing this afternoon?'' is ''You.''

Naturally, there are risks to such liaisons: One day, Anna's mother-in-law,
Ursula, catches her furtively talking to Archie on her cellphone in the
supermarket while Ursula vets nectarines. If you think this is a rare, banal
setting for ''Hausfrau,'' take a look at that title. Then think again.

Actually, Ms. Essbaum doesn't waste much time on Anna's housewifely activities.
Anna doesn't, so why should she? But Ms. Essbaum hasn't got much of a plot in
mind either, so the book meanders from sexual liaisons -- which quickly develop
a perfunctory sameness and have nothing like the superlucrative kinks of Ms.
James's books -- to psychoanalysis appointments to those dreadful moments when
Anna has time to slow down and contemplate herself. Whatever links this book
means to have with Tolstoy's ''Anna Karenina'' and Flaubert's ''Madame Bovary,''
it also has a whiff of the contemporary author Herman Koch (''The Dinner''), who
specializes in seeing the loathsomeness that we hide behind the bland and drab.

Here's a sampling of Ms. Essbaum's prose, which can have all the charm of a sink
full of dishwater: ''Anna examined herself in the mirror. She was neither too
tall nor too short, neither too fat nor too thin. Her hair fell in easy but
shaggy shoulder-length waves. It was the color of top dirt and it was graying
around her forehead (she dyed it). What do they see in me, men? She wasn't being
modest. She truly didn't know.''

O.K., she knows nothing. But sooner or later someone in this book has to wise up
about Anna's secret life. And when that happens Anna will experience trial by
fire. Perhaps she will come alive in ways that all those therapy sessions have
not forced her to do. As her exasperated doctor finally tells her: ''You
recognize each consequence. You do the damage anyway.''

This may be hard to believe, but Anna becomes even more myopic and selfish in
the book's later stages. Bruno becomes more interesting, she grows less so, and
still she snivels at center stage, whining about her bad luck and mistreatment.
A few notes to book clubs: If you really must put yourselves through this thing,
good luck finding the hot parts. But you can lift lofty-sounding questions
directly out of Anna's therapy sessions. (''What's the difference between
passivity and neutrality?'') And if you turn out to have a member who feels
everything that Anna says and does is marvelous, do feel justified in getting a
replacement member.

At least ''Hausfrau'' has a trace of rogue humor. Only some of this is
intentional, as when Archie from German class deliberately horrifies two nuns on
a train by loudly and graphically telling Anna what he's going to do to her once
he gets her alone. (All talk and no action: By the time they get there, he's
worn himself out.) In the unintentional department, consider Bruno's violent
reaction to the news that his daughter is the child of another man. Regardless
of whether you think this unjustified domestic violence, Bruno lets his rage
take physical form. But it is only minutes after he breaks her nose that Anna
thinks to herself, ''So Bruno knew.'' Then she thinks ''Huh.'' Then, Ms. Essbaum
writes, ''nothing more.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/books/review-jill-alexander-essbaums-hausfrau-
a-good-wife-with-a-few-caveats.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C21)
 Jill Alexander Essbaum (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEGAN SEMBERA PETERS) (C29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%);
INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (50%)

CITY: ZURICH (58%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Body of Reporter Missing for Year Is Pulled From a New Jersey River

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 270 words


A body pulled from the Passaic River in New Jersey this week was identified on
Thursday as that of a reporter for The Wall Street Journal who disappeared in
January 2014 while out walking near his home, officials said.

The identification of the reporter, David Bird, ended a missing-persons case
that stretched for more than a year, spawned several theories about Mr. Bird's
disappearance and led to the creation of a web page -- finddavidbird.info --
devoted to his safe return.

Still unknown, however, was how Mr. Bird died, precisely when, and whether the
authorities believe foul play was involved.

Those are among the ''good questions'' that relatives of Mr. Bird, including his
widow, Nancy, would, ''like answers to as well,'' Heide Alexander, the
administrator of the website, said in an email.

In a joint statement issued on Thursday, Frederic M. Knapp, the prosecutor in
Morris County, and Michael Mazzeo, the chief of the Long Hill Township police,
said the county medical examiner's investigation into the ''cause and manner of
death is ongoing.''

It was on Wednesday that emergency responders retrieved the body of a man from
the Passaic River after two men canoeing around 5 p.m. saw a red jacket in some
branches and called the police, officials said. Mr. Bird was wearing a bright
red jacket with two yellow zippers, bluejeans and sneakers when he was last seen
last on Jan. 11, 2014. He had told his wife that he planned to go for a brief
walk through the wooded trails around their home.

The body was positively identified as Mr. Bird's through dental records, the
officials said in their statement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/body-of-missing-reporter-david-bird-i
s-pulled-from-passaic-river.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSING PERSONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%);
CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (75%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (73%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Map, No G.P.S. and Not Exactly Loaded for Bear

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 676 words


For most of its 91 tense, uneven minutes, ''Backcountry'' plays on your nerves
like a kid flicking you with a rubber band. You feel the sting (thwack, thwack),
but it doesn't bother you. Over time, though, the kid grows meaner, and the
flicks grow harder, faster, too, and you realize that they're keeping time with
the thudding of your heart (thump, thump). The writer and director Adam
MacDonald was born in 1977, two years after ''Jaws'' (chomp, chomp) forced
everyone out of the water. He's set out to have you now steer clear of the
lovely, dark and deep woods, too.

Mr. MacDonald's ability to notch up dread moment by moment -- with a rustle of
leaves, the snap of a twig -- is all the more impressive given that it takes a
while to warm up to the two souls he cuts loose in those woods. You first meet
Jenn (a good Missy Peregrym) and Alex (Jeff Roop) en route to a backpacking trip
in the Canadian wilds. They're attractive if bland and, it becomes clear when
they check in with a ranger (Nicholas Campbell), terribly ill equipped for their
adventure. They may have the gear, including water purification (if not enough
water!), but when Alex, a self-professed park expert, tells the ranger they
don't need a map, the couple's fate is as good as sealed.

Watching characters make stupid choices can be pleasurable and useful, as
countless Farrelly brothers chuckleheads show. Too many dumb decisions by a
good-guy stiff like Alex, a Dudley Do-Right whom Mr. MacDonald tries to make
sympathetic, tends to mean that a filmmaker hasn't done the necessary hard work.
In ''Wild,'' when Cheryl Strayed sets off on her trek with too much gear and
ill-fitting boots, it makes sense for her personality and becomes part of her
journey. By contrast, Alex's mistakes -- and he makes several forehead-slapping
doozies -- don't register as expressions of character but rather as specific
narrative strategies because, without a map or a compass (never mind G.P.S.) and
nowhere near enough water, he and Jenn have nowhere to go but down, down, down.

It's diverting, unnerving fun watching their descent, at least for a while.
Making the most of the beautiful surroundings, the camera sweeping over the
quiet grandeur of the crystalline lake and dense forest, Mr. MacDonald and his
nimble-footed director of photography, Christian Bielz, make a convincing visual
case for why Alex and Jenn (who has little camping experience) have made the
trip. During the couple's short canoe ride to the trailhead, the pristine park
looks vast yet inviting, and as deceptively manageable as the boat itself. Once
they hit the trail in earnest, though, that initial sense of expansiveness (and
manageability) begins to disappear along with the friendly faces of other
hikers. The forest begins to progressively close in around them like a hand -- a
giant, furry, clawed one.

Tales of man against nature tend to be more exciting than those about man with
nature, and so it is here. ''Backcountry'' includes a brief notice that it's
based on a true story, and Mr. MacDonald has said he was partly inspired by an
Ontario couple's real-life wilderness nightmare. He teases out the exact nature
of the attack with insinuating cracks and creaks, a foreboding dead bird, a lot
of neck-swiveling double takes and a sly, amusingly testy encounter with another
hiker, Brad (Eric Balfour). Something wicked this way comes -- or maybe not.
When the worst finally does arrive, Mr. MacDonald trades in his timing and
discretion to go full-bore gore, gleefully painting the screen red with blood
and guts in an ugly scene that proves, yet again, man really is the most
dangerous animal.

Backcountry

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Adam MacDonald; director of photography, Christian
Bielz; edited by Dev Singh; music by Frères Lumières; production design by
Pierre Bonhomme; produced by Thomas Michael; released by IFC Midnight. Running
time: 1 hour 31 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Missy Peregrym (Jenn), Jeff Roop (Alex), Eric Balfour (Brad) and Nicholas
Campbell (Ranger).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/movies/review-backcountry-a-wilderness-surviva
l-thriller.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Roop, left, and Missy Peregrym as two highly unprepared
hikers in ''Backcountry,'' directed by Adam MacDonald. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDSAY
SARAZIN/IFC MIDNIGHT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BACKPACKING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS
(77%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (67%); CAMPING (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); BOATING &
RAFTING (60%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Huge Day of N.C.A.A. Upsets, Not to Be Taken Sitting Down

BYLINE: By TOM SPOUSTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; GEORGIA STATE 57, BAYLOR 56; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words


JACKSONVILLE, Fla. --  The N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament, that annual
rite that delivers agony in the form of a bracket, has produced many darlings
over the years. The one who emerged from a thrilling opening day Thursday might
be the unlikeliest yet.

Ron Hunter, the coach of 14th-seeded Georgia State, worked the sideline from a
chair with wheels; he had injured his Achilles' tendon in jubilation when his
team secured a berth in the tournament. Unable to stand, he rolled left, he
rolled right, shouting directions at his players.

And then he fell out of his chair.

Hunter's son, R. J., had just made a 30-foot shot with 2.6 seconds left to
defeat Baylor, knocking off a No. 3 seed that operates within an athletic
department that has a nearly $100 million budget.

The Panthers subsist on a roughly $20 million athletic budget at a university
with 32,000 students. Mostly a commuter school, Georgia State was making only
its third N.C.A.A. tournament appearance in university history.

''It's one of those March Madness historic moments that everybody should be
proud of,'' the university's president, Mark Becker, said. ''Everybody wants to
be part of a winning team. America loves a winner. Fans who don't know anything
about Georgia State are rooting for us.''

When the Panthers secured their unlikely ticket to the tournament, Hunter, 50,
put off surgery, and his left leg was placed in a cast. On Thursday morning, he
awoke with swelling in his leg and could hardly move. A doctor and an athletic
trainer used a saw and pliers to remove the top part of the cast and alleviate
the pressure. He was devouring pain pills and feeding off the adrenaline and
emotions of a moment he had vowed not to miss.

''First of all, it was a great game,'' Hunter said as he turned toward R. J.,
who was seated to his right. ''But I'm not going to be a coach, I'm going to be
a dad right now.''

He continued, referring to the complicated relationship between a father and son
who have struggled at times to balance the roles of coach and player: ''This is
my son. Proud of him, so I wanted to say that. I haven't been able to do that
for three years, so I just wanted to say I'm proud of him. Now to the game ...
''

And what a game it was. Thursday's bittersweet victory surely made the ups and
downs along the way worth it as the Panthers advanced to face No. 6 Xavier on
Saturday. About an hour earlier, the University of Alabama at Birmingham,
another No. 14 seed, eliminated No. 3 Iowa State, 60-59. Now Iowa State, a
trendy pick to win the tournament, will be home in Ames before the next round
even begins.

There were close calls, too. Notre Dame, another No. 3 seed, was in a battle
late against No. 14 Northeastern, but survived to win, 69-65, on clutch free
throws. No. 13 Harvard, which made the tournament by winning a playoff game
against Yale, kept its momentum going and nearly ousted one of the premier
programs in college basketball, No. 4 North Carolina. The Tar Heels won, 67-65.

A No. 3 seed losing its opening game is not uncommon: 18 have been beaten by No.
14 seeds in tournament history. But within one surreal hour Thursday, Georgia
State and U.A.B. made it 20.

Baylor Coach Scott Drew, whose brother Bryce pulled off a similar dramatic shot
in 1998 as Valparaiso upset Mississippi, knows the highs and lows of the
tournament well.

''I've been a part of one of the best moments in college basketball in the
N.C.A.A. tournament,'' he said. ''And I've been part of one of the worst that
I'll remember, R. J. hitting that shot.''

Before Georgia State's game, Hunter had his left leg propped on a four-wheel
scooter, and he maneuvered around by pushing himself with his right leg. Once
the game began, he put the contraption to the side, forgoing it for the
now-famous rolling chair.Hunter, who took over at Georgia State in 2011, had
entered Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena with a towel slung over his
shoulder and his index finger pointed as if to say ''We're No. 1'' as he passed
several hundred fans and Georgia State's band on his way to the bench. But the
talent disparity between No. 3 and No. 14 seeds are easily blurred in these
opening N.C.A.A. tournament games.

Indeed, the gritty Panthers refused to buckle even after they hit a cold stretch
that veered toward permafrost. With 2 minutes 54 seconds to play, they trailed,
56-44, and mounted an improbable rally in which Baylor would not score again.
Georgia State finished the game with a 13-0 run, and R. J. Hunter, a 6-foot-6
junior who is projected as a late first-round N.B.A. draft pick, scored 12 of
those points.

As the closing seconds ticked down for Georgia State, R. J. Hunter eyed the shot
clock and dribbled toward the top of the key. Around him, the Panthers looked
uncertain and unorganized, but Hunter was undaunted.

He took a couple of calm dribbles and rose up about 30 feet from the basket,
well beyond the 3-point arc, lifting Georgia State into N.C.A.A. tournament
history.

Ron Hunter was so elated he leaned back on his stool, caught his balance for a
second, but then tumbled onto his right side. He hit the court with a huge smile
on his face and slapped the hardwood in celebration as the athletic trainer
scrambled to help him up. He was then loaded onto a four-wheel scooter that he
promptly wheeled toward his celebrating players, waving a towel and pumping a
fist as he pushed.

''I saw him cannonball off his chair,'' R. J. Hunter said as his father
playfully slapped his shoulder. ''They've got to get him a chair with a back or
something because that wasn't going to work.''

The Hunters at last were able to relax and reap the rewards of an often
complicated relationship.

''There are a lot of coaches that get to the Elite 32 or the Final Four, but
when you get to do it with your son, you can watch your son hit a half-court
shot, I can't tell you how I feel inside,'' Hunter said. ''That's unbelievable.
I wish every dad in America could have that opportunity, what I just experienced
with my son.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/georgia-states-long-3-po
inter-eliminates-no-3-baylor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Georgia State's R. J. Hunter hit the winner against Baylor.
(A1)
 Coach Ron Hunter, center  right, celebrating 14th-seeded  Georgia State's 57-56
victory  over No. 3-seeded Baylor on a  day full of upsets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
KEVIN C. COX/GETTY IMAGES) (B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS
(90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL
TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (89%); BUDGETS (88%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (91%)

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (89%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Board Chairman at El Museo del Barrio

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words


El Museo del Barrio, the oldest museum in the United States devoted to Latino
art, is appointing a new board chairman. It said Michael J. Garcia, a former
United States attorney who has served on the board since 2010, will succeed Tony
Bechara, who is stepping down after leading the museum's board for 15 years.

Mr. Garcia, 53, has been the board's vice chairman since 2013.

Mr. Bechara will stay on with the title of chairman emeritus.

Mr. Garcia, a partner in the law firm Kirkland & Ellis who served as the United
States attorney for the Southern District of New York from 2005 to 2008 and was
in that role at the time of the resignation of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New
York, will assume the new role at the institution on June 3. The museum, at
Fifth Avenue and 104th Street, is considered a major center for Latino art and
culture, but it has gone through a few years of money troubles and the departure
of senior staff.

A new director, Jorge Daniel Veneciano, took over last year.

The news was reported by The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/new-chairman-for-el-museo-del-barri
o/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); LAWYERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%);
APPOINTMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR
US LAW FIRMS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%)

COMPANY: KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Hamilton' Has Strong Advance Ticket Sales

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words


''Hamilton,'' the buzzy musical biography of an American founding father, is off
to a strong start at the Broadway box office.

The show, which concludes a sold-out Off Broadway run at the Public Theater on
May 4, has sold $6.5 million worth of tickets in its first 11 days of Broadway
availability, and has orders from groups for another $4 million worth of seats,
according to Jeffrey Seller, its lead producer.

Created by and starring Lin-Manuel Miranda, the musical uses hip-hop music and a
largely nonwhite cast to explore American history through a contemporary lens.

It has broken box office records at the Public, where it began performances on
Jan. 20, opened Feb. 17, and has been extended three times.

But instead of rushing to Broadway before this season's Tony Awards deadline,
producers decided to wait and open in the summer, allowing time for the show to
be revised but risking a loss of momentum.

Whether the box office returns will quiet doubters, or simply demonstrate the
passion of loyal theatergoers wanting to see a critically acclaimed show,
remains to to be seen.

But Mr. Seller knows what he thinks.

''Every so often a show comes around that everybody wants to see,'' Mr. Seller
said. ''This show is striking a chord.''

''Hamilton'' is scheduled to begin Broadway performances on July 13 at the
Richard Rodgers Theater, and to open on Aug. 6.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/hamilton-off-to-hot-start-at-broadw
ay-box-office/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); TONY AWARDS (78%); MOVIE
REVENUES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RAP MUSIC (73%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); THEATER
(58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%); HISTORY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hip-Hop Revue Is Planned for Broadway

BYLINE: By ANDREW R. CHOW

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 317 words


The pioneering rap impresario Russell Simmons is aiming to bring a hip-hop revue
to Broadway late next year. The musical, currently titled ''The Scenario,'' will
feature renditions of classics from the 1980s and '90s.

Mr. Simmons is producing the revue through Def Pictures alongside Scott Prisand,
who produced the jukebox hit ''Rock of Ages,'' which recently closed on Broadway
after a lengthy run. Dan Charnas, an author and hip-hop historian (''The Big
Payback''), has signed on to write the show's book.

''The Scenario,'' named after a song by A Tribe Called Quest, will most likely
feature a love story while also addressing the sociopolitical challenges of
early hip-hop, Mr. Simmons explained in a phone interview Thursday.

''I've never been so sure about anything I've produced in my entire life,'' he
said. ''This is squarely in the middle of what Broadway needs.''

Mr. Simmons helped bring hip-hop to the mainstream in the 1980s as a co-founder
of Def Jam Records. The show's soundtrack has yet to be finalized, but Mr.
Simmons said there is a good chance that songs from the label will appear.

''It would be nice to have some 'Raising Hell' in there,'' he said, referring to
the 1986 Run-DMC album that he co-produced. ''But it's driving me crazy. There's
so much music -- Kurtis Blow to Kanye West.''

''The Scenario'' will follow two other recent hip-hop-inflected musicals. One,
''Hamilton,'' which features original songs, is moving to Broadway this summer
after its current sellout run at the Public Theater.  But ''Holler if Ya Hear
Me,'' based on the music of Tupac Shakur, closed quickly after lukewarm reviews
and meager ticket sales.

Mr. Simmons said it would be wrong to compare his project and the Shakur show.
''That was a Greek tragedy, this is a celebration of hip- hop,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/19/russell-simmons-plans-musical-on-ea
rly-days-of-hip-hop/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL THEATER
(78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%);
WRITERS (76%); TICKET SALES (62%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Art

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 4179 words


Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of
recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other
art shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Museums

? Asia Society: 'Buddhist Art of Myanmar' (through May 10) In 1962, Myanmar,
once known as Burma, closed its doors to the world and threw away the key for
almost 40 years. Under surveillance-obsessed military rule, little from outside
could get in, and little from inside could get out, including art. Recently, the
country has re-established international contact, and even made efforts to
advertise its cultural riches. They couldn't have made a more persuasive case
than with this splendidly designed exhibition of some 70 sculptures and
paintings, from small portable eighth- and ninth-century Buddha statuettes, each
basically a mobile communication device, a spiritual smart phone kept close for
use on the road or at home; to a single towering 19th-century lacquered wood
shrine, glinting with gilt and cut glass and rising, tier upon tier, to the
ceiling. Welcome to Bliss City. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, 212-517-2742,
asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)

? Brooklyn Museum: 'Kehinde Wiley: A New Republic' (through May 24) You can love
or hate this artist's bright, brash, history-laden, kitsch-tinged portraits of
confident, even imperious young black men and women usurping heroic roles from
the generally lily-white history of Western painting. No matter, the two-decade
survey of his extravagant, mind-teasing canvases rewards. His career seems to be
one of ceaseless ambition, socially conscious generosity and an uncanny skill
that he is still harnessing. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park,
718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)

? Brooklyn Museum: 'Judith Scott -- Bound and Unbound'  (through March 29)
Judith Scott's mesmerizing sculptures sit like large, unopened bundles, contents
mysterious, in the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn
Museum. In a few, solid forms can be made out under wrappings of yarn, string
and fabric strips; others suggest gift-wrapped boulders. You can call them
abstract and stop there, or go further and connect them to art history,
specifically the history of fiber art, or go further and consider them in the
light of Ms. Scott's history: She was born in 1943 with Down syndrome, started
making art only in her early 40s and kept making it until her death at 61.
However approached, the work is complex and brilliant. 200 Eastern Parkway, at
Prospect Park, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)

? Cooper Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum (continuing) The stately doors of the
1902 Andrew Carnegie mansion, home to the Cooper Hewitt, are open again after an
overhaul and expansion of the premises. Historic house and modern museum have
always made an awkward fit, a standoff between preservation and innovation, and
the problem remains, but the renovation has brought a wide-open new gallery
space, a cafe and a raft of be-your-own-designer digital enhancements. Best of
all, more of the museum's vast permanent collection is now on view, including an
Op Art weaving, miniature spiral staircases, ballistic face masks and a dainty
enameled 18th-century version of a Swiss knife. Like design itself, this
institution is built on tumult and friction, and you feel it. 2 East 91st
Street, at Fifth Avenue, 212-849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Cotter)

? Guggenheim Museum: 'On Kawara -- Silence'  (through May 3) The first
retrospective of this Conceptual Art giant turns the museum's spiral into a
vortex suffused with the consciousness of time, life's supreme ruler, in all its
quotidian daily unfoldings, historical events and almost incomprehensible
grandeur. The presentation of date paintings, ''I Got Up'' postcards and ''I Am
Still Alive'' telegrams echoes Mr. Kawara's exquisite sense of discipline and
craft. This is an extraordinary tribute. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street,
212-423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)

Institute for the Study of the Ancient World: 'From Ancient to Modern:
Archaeology and Aesthetics' (through June 7) Small but bursting with ideas, this
show tells a fascinating tale about the 20th-century excavation and
interpretation of some ancient Sumerian artifacts. It focuses on about 50
objects that were unearthed in the 1920s and '30s in Mesopotamia, including
sumptuous jewelry and wide-eyed, bearded men carved from stone. Along with these
are profuse archaeological documentation; paintings and sculptures by
20th-century artists like Willem de Kooning and Henry Moore who were inspired by
Sumerian art; and politically fraught works by two contemporary artists, Jananne
al-Ani and Michael Rakowitz. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15
East 84th Street, Manhattan, 212-992-7800, isaw.nyu.edu. (Ken Johnson)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Plains Indians: Artists of Earth and Sky'
(through May 10) Some of the earliest surviving art by native North Americans
left America long ago. Soldiers, traders and priests, with magpie eyes for
brilliant things, bundled it up and shipped it across the sea to Europe. Painted
robes, embroidered slippers and feathered headdresses tinkling with chimes found
their way into cupboards in 18th-century London and Paris, and lay there
half-forgotten. Now, with the arrival at the Met of this traveling show, some of
those wondrous things -- truly world masterpieces -- have come home in an
exhibition context that carries the Native American story from 100 B.C. into the
21st century. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ennion: Master of Roman Glass' (through April 13)
Active sometime between A.D. 1 and A.D. 50, Ennion is the first known artisan to
produce mold-blown glass: objects made by blowing bubbles of molten glass into
patterned molds. His elegant cups, bowls, beakers, jugs and flasks decorated
with geometric and botanical motifs were sought after by wealthy Romans and
traded throughout the Mediterranean world. Today only about 50 to 55 Ennion
pieces are known to have survived. This exhibition presents 22 of them, along
with fragments of two others. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Reimagining Modernism: 1900-1950' (continuing)
One of the greatest encyclopedic museums in the world fulfills its mission a
little more with an ambitious reinstallation of works of early European
modernism with their American counterparts for the first time in nearly 30
years. Objects of design and paintings by a few self-taught artists further the
integration. It is quite a sight, with interesting rotations and fine-tunings to
come. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Thomas Hart Benton's ''America Today'' Mural
Rediscovered' (through April 19) The prickly American Regionalist Thomas Hart
Benton had his share of detractors. But even they would probably acknowledge
that his early mural ''America Today'' is the best of its kind, a raucous,
cartwheeling, wide-angle look at 1920s America that set the standard for the
Works Progress Administration's mural program and has remained a New York City
treasure. Now installed at the Met in a reconstruction of its original setting
(a boardroom at the New School for Social Research), it captivates with period
details (from the cut of a flapper gown to the mechanics of a blast furnace) and
timely signs of socioeconomic and environmental distress (exhausted coal miners
and hands reaching for coffee and bread). 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Karen
Rosenberg)

? Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Warriors and Mothers: Epic Mbembe Art' (through
Sept. 7) If a dozen masterpiece Renaissance sculptures, done in an unknown and
wildly unorthodox style, suddenly turned up in the Italian countryside, the find
would make the news. You'll encounter the equivalent of such a discovery in this
show of spectacular weatherworn, wood-carved figures, some dating to before the
17th century, that were made by the Mbeme in southeastern Nigeria and taken to
Paris by an African dealer in the early 1970s. They caused a sensation among
collectors and scholars at the time, and you can see why. But the effort to find
more of them proved fruitless. The examples at the Met, which include the
original dozen, represent all the fully intact stand-alone Mbembe figures known
to exist. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

MoMA PS1: 'Samara Golden: The Flat Side of the Knife' (through Sept. 7) Standing
at a railing where you look into the museum's two-story-tall Duplex Gallery, you
behold a confoundingly complicated interior architecture with furniture,
stairways, musical instruments, wheelchairs and many other domestic items
rendered in silvery, foil-clad foam board. The gallery's floor is covered by a
grid of large mirrors so that everything is doubled. What you think is up may
really be down and what you take to be real might be a virtual reflection of the
real. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens,
718-784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)

? Museum of Biblical Art: 'Sculpture in the Age of Donatello: Renaissance
Masterpieces From Florence Cathedral' (through June 14) This terrific 23-piece
show features three major works by the early Renaissance sculptor Donatello
(1386-1466), including the life-size statue of a bald prophet known as ''lo
Zuccone'' or ''Pumpkin Head,'' which is widely considered the sculptor's
greatest work. Along with a half-dozen other works by or attributed to Donatello
are sculptures by Nanni di Banco (circa 1386-1421), Donatello's main competitor,
including his monumental representation in marble of St. Luke. With the addition
of a series of octagonal marble reliefs by Luca della Robbia and wooden models
of the Florence Cathedral's enormous dome attributed to its designer, Filippo
Brunelleschi, the exhibition amounts to a tightly cropped snapshot of the birth
of the Renaissance. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street, 212-408-1500, mobia.org.
(Johnson)

Museum of Modern Art: 'Björk' (through June 7) More than most, an exhibition
devoted to the Iceland phenomenon -- the most avant-garde popular singer of her
time -- needs to justify its place in a major museum. But MoMA was clearly
unable to commit in terms of space, curatorial imagination or a serious catalog.
The result is something of a shambles, but at least the music videos --
projected on a large screen with surround sound -- confirm the visual side of
Björk's complex sensibility and achievement. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'The Forever Now: Contemporary Painting in an Atemporal
World' (through April 5) Despite being predictable and market-oriented in its
choice of 17 artists, this museum's first painting survey in decades is well
worth seeing. About half the artists are exceptional and the rest are
represented by their best work. Based on the premise that all historical
painting styles are equally available today, the exhibition has been smartly
installed to juxtapose different approaches: figurative and abstract, digital
and handmade, spare and opulent. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'Jean Dubuffet: Soul of the Underground' (through April
5) ''Look at what lies at your feet!'' Jean Dubuffet wrote in a 1957 essay. ''A
crack in the ground, sparkling gravel, a tuft of grass, some crushed debris,
offer equally worthy subjects for your applause and admiration.'' In MoMA's
stimulating show, drawn entirely from its collection, we can see how Dubuffet's
earthbound gaze nourished his reinvention of the painted surface. On view are
several canvases smeared with a mixture of oil, putty, sand and gravel, some of
them with incised drawings that seem to equate painting with plowing.
212-708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)

? Museum of Modern Art: 'Modern Photographs from the Thomas Walther Collection,
1909-1949' (through April 19) Overflowing with prints by Berenice Abbott, Andre
Kertesz, Edward Weston and other luminaries from the first half of the 20th
century, this exhibition would seem to be a straightforward look at
photography's past. But the show, packaged with a book, a symposium and an
engrossing interactive website, is really a bold attempt to visualize the future
of photography inside the museum as it reckons with the unwieldy,
image-saturated culture outside the galleries. With works by Aleksandr
Rodchenko, Ms. Abbott, Alvin Langdon Coburn and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy that explore
cities from unusual angles or abstract their infrastructure, the show's largest
section, ''Dynamics of the City,'' best encapsulates the Walther Collection's
distinctly urban, peripatetic take on Modernism. 212-708-9400, moma.org.
(Rosenberg)

Museum of the City of New York: 'Everything Is Design: The Work of Paul Rand'
(through July 19) You may not know the name Paul Rand (1914-96), the immensely
influential advertising art director, illustrator and graphic designer, but it's
a safe bet you're familiar with some of his works. After shaking up American
advertising and book cover design in the 1940s and '50s, he created logos for
UPS, IBM, Westinghouse and other American corporations. His admirers called him
''the Picasso of graphic design.'' This show tracks his six-decade career with
150 examples of vintage magazines, book covers, three-dimensional containers,
children's books and books by Mr. Rand about principles of design. Fifth Avenue
at 103rd Street, 212-534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)

? Neue Galerie: 'Egon Schiele: Portraits' (through April 20) Of the
approximately 125 items in this terrific show, there are only 11 oil paintings,
which is a good thing. Except for a large picture of his wife, Edith, in a
colorful striped dress, Schiele's works on canvas are dark and turgid. But his
drawings are nimble and nuanced. Working on paper with pencil, charcoal, ink,
gouache, watercolor and crayons, he portrayed himself and others with infectious
avidity. There's hardly a single sheet here that doesn't warrant close looking
for its virtuoso draftsmanship and psychological acuity. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at
86th Street, 212-628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)

? New Museum: 'Surround Audience: 2015 Triennial' (through May 24) If you're fed
up with big joke-shop sculpture, diva spectacle and brain-dead abstraction, this
museum's 2015 Triennial will come as a break in the clouds -- not a full flood
of new light, but a pull in a different direction. It's a glimpse of terrain
composed almost entirely of border crossings in media, art disciplines,
ethnicities, genders and species. The in-between as an aesthetic is no surprise
given the curators: Lauren Cornell of the New Museum, who has been paying astute
attention to digital art and the Internet for years, and the artist Trecartin,
whose laptop-generated, YouTube-distributed, hourslong pop-epic videos add up to
some of the most thoroughly genre-collapsing art of the past decade. If nothing
by the 51 artists from 25 countries is as genius as his work, there is still a
lot to ponder in a show that represents a welcome shift to microgravity flux
within a gross-objects industry. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side,
212-219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)

? New-York Historical Society: 'Freedom Journey 1965: Photographs of the Selma
to Montgomery March by Stephen Somerstein' (through April 19) Almost 50 years
ago, the picture editor of a campus newspaper at City College of New York
assigned himself a breaking story: covering what promised to be a massive march
in Alabama, led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., to demand free-and-clear
voting rights for African-Americans. On short notice the editor, Stephen
Somerstein, grabbed his cameras, climbed on a bus and headed south. The 55
pictures of black leaders and everyday people in this show, installed in a
hallway and small gallery, are some that he shot that day. The image of Dr.
King's head seen in monumental silhouette that has become a virtual logo of the
film ''Selma'' is based on a Somerstein original. 170 Central Park West, at 77th
Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

? Rubin Museum of Art: 'The All-Knowing Buddha: A Secret Guide' (through April
13) This show presents 54 paintings that illustrate step-by-step instructions
for followers of Tibetan Buddhism. Delicately painted on 10-by-10-inch paper
sheets, most of the pages depict a monk having fabulous visions in a verdant
landscape. Thought to have been commissioned by a Mongolian patron and executed
by unidentified artists in a Chinese workshop sometime in the 18th century, it
is a fascinating and remarkably thorough manual for seekers of higher
consciousness. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, 212-620-5000, rubinmuseum.org.
(Johnson)

Sculpture Center: 'Araya Rasdjarmrearnsook'  (through March 30) A pre-eminent
artist in Southeast Asia, this Thai video maker addresses topics like death, the
insane, East-West cultural differences, the disenfranchisement of women and the
rights of animals, often in provocatively discomfiting ways. In a set of three
videos, she gives professorial lectures about death to sets of real human
corpses. Many of her most recent works have to do with dogs. In them, she
protests the abuse of dogs and hints at a holistic vision of people in tune with
nature and the cosmos. 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens,
718-361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)

Galleries: Uptown

? Jeff Koons: 'Jim Beam -- J.B. Turner Engine Six Individual Cars' (through
March 28) In 1986, Mr. Koons produced a series of cast stainless steel replicas
of novelty liquor decanters made by Jim Beam. Among these was a set of seven
model railroad cars on a single track, and within each car was a fifth of Jim
Beam whiskey with a tax-stamped top. This beautiful time capsule of a show
presents casts of the individual cars on separate tracks. Each is spotlighted on
its own gray pedestal. Like reliquaries in a minimalist chapel, they invite
hushed meditation on luxury and addiction. Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd
Street, Manhattan, 212-570-1739, starr-art.com. (Johnson)

? Peter Saul: 'From Pop to Punk' (through April 18) This selection of paintings
and drawings owned by Allan Frumkin (1927-2002), Mr. Saul's longtime dealer (30
years), brings a new clarity to Mr. Saul's early development -- when he moved
from oil to acrylic and from a garrulous, if lushly painted, variation on Pop
Art to paintings that fuse the figurative, the abstract and the scathingly
political with a force that has few equals. Venus Over Manhattan, 980 Madison
Avenue, at 76th Street, 212-980-0700, venusovermanhattan.com. (Smith)

Galleries: Chelsea

Barry Gerson: 'The Parting of the Clouds' (through March 28) Barry Gerson was a
well-known member of the generation of 1960s and '70s experimental filmmakers.
The films on view here were shot on rich 16-millimeter Ektachrome film, but only
one is projected large scale, as a video, against the wall. Three others appear
on small video monitors. Alongside these is a wall of ''constructions'' --
basically collages --with images cut from National Geographic magazine and
photographs made with the obsolete Nimslo 3-D camera. Like the films, the
constructions pique your desire to see more of Mr. Gerson's oeuvre. Thomas Erben
Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, 212-645-8701, thomaserben.com. (Martha
Schwendener)

Subodh Gupta: 'Seven Billion Light Years' (through April 25) Like all highly
successful global art, the work here is sleek, smart and familiar yet exotic; a
local (in this case Indian) variation on well-worn international strategies of
1970s art, whether in sculpture, installation, film or painting. Liberal use is
made of found objects that connote hard work and impoverished lives. What's
missing is anything beyond the generic, anything truly personal, as opposed to
cavalier. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, 212-794-4970, hauserwirth.com.
(Smith)

? 'In the Studio: Paintings'  (through April 18) Organized by a veteran scholar
and curator of modern art, this show roams across several centuries and between
academic and advanced, well-known and rarely-seen. Full of gems and telling
juxtapositions, it explores the studio as subject, beloved sanctuary, container
for art and stand-in for the artist. Do not miss it. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West
21st Street, 212-741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)

Galleries: Other

'The Gee's Bend Tradition' (through April 24) A show of 14 quilts by seven
artists, all made since 1990, and an accompanying exhibition of photographs,
demonstrates what makes the Gee's Bend tradition so compelling. Unlike most
quilts in the European-American tradition, which favored uniformity, harmony and
precision, Gee's Bend quilts, made by generations of African-American women,
include wild, improvisatory elements: broken patterns, high color contrasts,
asymmetry and syncopation. They came into being alongside gospel, blues and
jazz. The photographs document how the quilts are historically linked to
slavery, Depression-era politics and the Civil Rights Movement, and the rich
landscape in which they germinated and thrived. Lehman College Art Gallery,
Lehman College, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, the Bronx, 718-960-8731,
lehman.edu/gallery. (Martha Schwendener)

Out of Town

? National Museum of African Art: 'Conversations: African and African American
Artists in Dialogue'  (through early 2016) For its 50th anniversary, this museum
has brilliantly thread together work from two sources: its own holdings in
African material and the Camille O. and William H. Cosby Jr. collection of
African-American art. The Cosby collection, weighted toward canonical figures
like Romare Bearden and Charles White, will bring in the crowds, but it is the
curators and museum itself, which is in a period of renaissance, that have made
the show rise well above predictability. Smithsonian Institution, 950
Independence Avenue SW, Washington, 202-633-4600, africa.si.edu. (Cotter)

Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts: 'Peter Blume: Nature and Metamorphosis'
(through April 5) Though not well-known today, Blume (1906-92) was a famous
American artist during the 1930s and '40s. For many years his painting ''The
Eternal City'' (1934-37) was one of the most memorable artworks displayed in the
permanent collection galleries of the Museum of Modern Art. A weird, technically
dazzling mix of Magic and Social Realism that envisioned Rome under the Fascist
reign of Mussolini, it's among the highlights of this exhibition of more than
150 works dating from 1924 to 1990. 128 North Broad Street, Philadelphia,
215-972-7600, pafa.org. (Johnson)

Last Chance

Claudia Comte: 'No Melon No Lemon' (closes on Saturday) The American debut of a
Swiss-born, Berlin-based artist mixes painting, sculpture and design into an
environment that is an undeniably stylish visual delight, even if its references
to modern precedents -- Brancusi, Arp, Frank Stella and Daniel Buren as well as
McDonald's golden arches -- are overly obvious. The easy command of materials,
scale and proportion suggests that she has more up her sleeve. Gladstone
Gallery, 530 West 21st Street, Chelsea, 212-206-7606, gladstonegallery.com.
(Smith)

? Drawing Center: 'Tomi Ungerer: All in One' (closes on Sunday) This ambitious
survey resurrects the French-born polymath ''drawer'' (his word) who made a big
splash in New York in the late 1950s and '60s before disappearing. But it skimps
on his brilliant children's books and overindulges on his rather ordinary
erotica. Feast on his childhood renderings of Nazis, his acerbic social cartoons
and the amazing animations of the children's books. Savor the real thing in the
gift shop. 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, 212-219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Smith)

? Jewish Museum: 'Helena Rubinstein: Beauty Is Power' (closes on Sunday) The
first museum show devoted to the life and art collection of the cosmetics
magnate Helena Rubinstein is a master class in modernism-as-marketing -- one
that comes with a strong female perspective on 20th-century visual culture. It
shows how Rubinstein adapted Cubism, Surrealism and other avant-garde art and
design movements for her personal brand, highlighting new and different
standards of beauty and exhorting women to control their images through makeup
and grooming. Mixing biography, business, art, fashion and décor, it recreates
rooms from Rubinstein's salons and reassembles parts of her diverse collection,
which included African, pre-Columbian and Oceanic artworks. 1109 Fifth Avenue,
at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)

Museum of Modern Art: 'The Paris of Toulouse-Lautrec: Prints and Posters'
(closes on Sunday) In his printed works, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec chronicled
and publicized the music halls, theaters, circuses, operas and cafes of Paris
with terrific verve, sly wit and surprising subtlety. This enthralling show
presents approximately 100 examples drawn from the museum's permanent
collection. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/museum-gallery-listings-for-march-
20-26.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY
(89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ART HISTORY (89%); PAINTING (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (79%); VISUAL ARTS (78%);
BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); RELIGION (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); MOBILE DEVICES
(68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); FABRICS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (53%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); DOWN SYNDROME (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arkansas Avoids the No. 5 Jinx by Edging Wofford

BYLINE: By TOM SPOUSTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST: ARKANSAS 56, WOFFORD 53; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 209 words


JACKSONVILLE, Fla. --  Few teams cherish having a No. 5 seed, a position that
seems cursed with upsets against opponents with nothing to lose. So Arkansas was
in a tough spot Thursday night as it tried to fend off the 12th-seeded Wofford
Terriers, who were looking for their first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in four
appearances.

The Terriers had plenty of chances, but with an opportunity to send the game to
overtime, they missed two 3-point attempts, and the Razorbacks escaped with a
56-53 victory.

With 1 minute 40 seconds left in the second half, Alandise Harris hit a short
shot and was fouled, and he made the free throw to put Arkansas ahead by 3
points. It was the 18th and final lead change in a game in which neither team
led by more than 5. Michael Qualls led the Razorbacks with 20 points, and Bobby
Portis scored 15.

Arkansas advanced to face North Carolina, the West Region's No. 4 seed, here on
Saturday.

Wofford, the champion of the Southern Conference, entered with its best seed,
having reached the tournament in four of the past six years. Spencer Collins
scored 16 points, and John Swinton and Karl Cochran each added 12 for the
Terriers.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/arkansas-avoids-the-no-5
-jinx-by-edging-wofford.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN CONFERENCE (53%); SOUTHERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (53%)

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (74%)

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Shoots Past Texas Southern

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WEST: ARIZONA 93, TEXAS SOUTHERN 72;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 486 words


PORTLAND, Ore. --  The weight of national championship aspirations did not slow
second-seeded Arizona on Thursday, as the Wildcats breezed to a 93-72 victory
over No. 15 Texas Southern.

The Wildcats (32-3) zipped to a 15-2 lead in the game's first five minutes,
snuffing any possible drama and turning the game into a bench-emptying
exhibition of Arizona's depth. By halftime, it was 54-33, and Arizona had made
20 of 29 field-goal attempts (69 percent) and all 12 of its free throws. The
Wildcats shot 60 percent for the game.

Still, Arizona prides itself as a top defensive team, and Coach Sean Miller,
happy with the result, was not satisfied with the method, which allowed Texas
Southern's guard-heavy lineup to shoot 47 percent from the field.

''I know we won by a big margin,'' Miller said. ''But we have high aspirations,
and in this tournament, you don't get a second chance.''

Rondae Hollis-Jefferson led Arizona with 23 points, 16 in the first half, and 10
rebounds. Stanley Johnson added 22 points as all five Arizona starters finished
in double figures.

Texas Southern's Madarious Gibbs led the Tigers with 15 points. But once behind
minutes after tip-off, the Tigers never mustered a meaningful run to reverse
Arizona's momentum.

''They just overwhelmed us with length, size, athleticism in the first half,''
Texas Southern Coach Mike Davis said.

Arizona, the Pacific-12 Conference regular-season and tournament champion, will
meet No. 10 Ohio State on Saturday for a slot in the round of 16.

Last year, Arizona was a No. 1 seed and lost in overtime to Wisconsin in the
round of 8. But that team was without the 6-foot-9 forward Brandon Ashley, whose
midseason foot injury kept him out of the postseason.

Ashley, fully healthy, was the outstanding player in Arizona's romp through the
Pacific-12 tournament last week. Against Texas Southern (22-13), he scored 14
points and grabbed 4 rebounds.

Texas Southern, from the Southwestern Athletic Conference, represented a
potential land mine for the Wildcats. Coach Mike Davis spent six seasons at
Indiana, succeeding Bobby Knight, and led the Hoosiers to the national
championship game in 2002.

Davis created one of the most difficult nonconference schedules in the country,
with road games against the likes of Gonzaga, Baylor, Florida and Indiana. Among
a slew of experience-building losses were a couple of upsets in late December,
at Kansas State and at Michigan State.

Arizona's Miller watched the game against Michigan State on television that
night, and said he felt a bit of anxiety three months later when he saw his team
matched against the Tigers.

But any suspense disappeared in a hurry, leaving Arizona to focus on bigger
teams and bigger games. Its winning streak is now 12 games. Anything short of 17
would be considered a disappointment.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/sports/ncaabasketball/arizona-shoots-past-texa
s-southern.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(50%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OREGON, USA
(92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'The Porcelain Thief' Chronicles a Trip to Unearth Chinese Heirlooms

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES;
Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1028 words


JOURNEY TO UNEARTH A FAMILY TREASURE

The writer Huan Hsu grew up in Utah paying almost no attention to family
anecdotes about his ancestors' porcelain heirlooms, said to have been buried in
a Chinese village during World War II. Mr. Hsu, 37, has turned his adult efforts
to recover the treasure into a new memoir, ''The Porcelain Thief: Searching the
Middle Kingdom for Buried China'' (Crown). His quest, starting in 2007, called
for impersonating a tree deliveryman, fleeing cockroaches, uncovering forged
documents, coping with stonewalling bureaucrats and gathering eyewitness
testimony of horrific political persecutions.

Family members disagreed about what his great-great-grandfather, Liu Feng Shu,
actually owned at his estate in southeast China, and what might have survived
wars and postwar reconstruction. But in the end, Mr. Hsu's preliminary shallow
excavations at the estate, now subsumed by factory buildings, turned up nothing
connected to his family. ''I still have in my mind the desire to go back there
and do a proper archaeological investigation,'' he said in an interview, ''and
there's another part of me that's kind of O.K. with not knowing.''

Still, his journey did turn up some great stories, both about his family and
other topics, he said, and they are a main subject of his book. He learned, for
example, about China's venerable tradition of producing fakes. In one row of
workshops not far from his ancestral town, he writes, ''The narrow alleys echo
with the chimes of pumice stone working over porcelain to dull their finishes,
after which vendors brush on thin brown paint and refire the pieces at low
temperatures to achieve an aged tint.'' He describes forgers who ''sink new
objects into the sea to cover them with barnacles so they can pass them off as
recovered shipwreck items.''

''I've never stopped being surprised at the ingenuity of Chinese commerce,'' he
said. ''They can be so reactive to what they see other people buying.''

If the book causes some schemers from the Liu hometown to contact him about
supposed rediscoveries of lost troves, he said: ''I would probably fall for it.
I'm a sucker for these things.''

SHIRLEY TEMPLE COLLECTION

Shirley Temple, who died last year at 85, stored away tap shoes, dresses, dolls
and memorabilia from her childhood days as a movie star. Starting next month,
part of her collection will travel to museums as previews for a July 14 sale
organized by the Maryland auction house Theriault's.

The pieces were kept in cases at her childhood home in the Brentwood section of
Los Angeles. The family rarely lent them for public display. ''She never really
disclosed what she had over the years,'' Stuart Holbrook, the president of
Theriault's, said. ''It was painstakingly preserved.''

Some dolls headed to the July sale are wearing outfits made to match the
actress's costumes. Theriault's will also offer Temple's Steinway piano and a
car that she drove around the movie-studio lots.

The auction preview show, titled ''Love, Shirley Temple,'' will appear at the
Strong/National Museum of Play in Rochester, N.Y., from April 30 to May 3 and
then at the Wenham Museum in Wenham, Mass., and the Morris Museum in Morristown,
N.J. The July sale will be in Kansas City, Mo., in conjunction with doll
collector conventions.

At auction and preview events, Mr. Holbrook said, bartenders will be encouraged
to serve Shirley Temples.

The high estimates will be in the five figures, but Mr. Holbrook said he could
not really predict how bidders would behave, given Temple's adorability and
enduring fame.

''Gauging emotional buying is an impossible thing,'' he said.

OF DEATH AND BURIAL

Curators are turning coffins into educational tools this spring.

On Wednesday, the exhibition ''A Tale of Three Coffins: Living and Dying in 17th
Century St. Mary's City'' opens at the Maryland Historical Society in Baltimore.
The lead coffins on view were made for a Maryland governor, Philip Calvert, who
died around 1683; his wife, Anne Wolseley, who died around 1680; and a
malnourished baby who was probably a daughter of Philip's second wife, Jane
Sewell.

The society will also show some Calvert bones, rosary beads and rosemary sprigs
from the graves, which were excavated in 1990. Few other artifacts found at St.
Mary's City, a colonial settlement, can be traced to particular families.

''These are people whose story otherwise would never be told,'' Alexandra
Deutsch, the society's chief curator, said.

She added that the society had been careful not to play up ghoulish aspects of
the topic. ''This is not for shock value,'' she said. In a gallery painted a
subdued gray, a partition has been built around the coffins. ''They have their
own sort of sanctuary within the exhibit,'' she said.

This fall, after the Baltimore display closes, the coffins and remains will be
reinterred in a chapel at St. Mary's City.

Scholars believe that Calvert somehow stayed plump and sedentary, despite the
deprivations of Chesapeake life. Anne was malnourished, lost almost all her
teeth and limped on a fractured leg with festering wounds. Burton K. Kummerow,
the historical society's president, said that the underweight infant buried
beside the couple ''never really had a chance to survive.''

This spring, the historical society will also show a fragment taken from George
Washington's coffin, for bicentennial celebrations of the Washington Monument in
Baltimore. Another souvenir piece of that founding father's coffin is on view
through May 17 at the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers, N.Y., in the exhibition
''Promoting the President.''

The Museum of Death, established two decades ago in Hollywood, is opening a New
Orleans branch, where displays will include an 18th-century coffin containing a
prostitute's skeleton. Through Sunday, a white pine coffin that held the
shrouded corpses of paupers during cemetery processions is on view at the
Concord Museum in Concord, Mass., in the exhibition ''Behind Closed Doors:
Asleep in New England.'' The interior of the pine box is scratched; it was never
used for an actual burial, and a farmer eventually adapted it into a chicken
feed trough.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/arts/design/the-porcelain-thief-chronicles-a-t
rip-to-unearth-chinese-heirlooms.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liu Feng Shu, left, great-great-grandfather of the ''Porcelain
Thief'' author, Huan Hsu. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUAN HSU)
 Shirley Temple in a costume  from the movie ''Curly Top.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY
THERIAULT'S)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%);
PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); COUNTERFEITING (75%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); AUCTIONS
(73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); POSTWAR
RECONSTRUCTION (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
(68%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (63%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (63%); TESTIMONY (55%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amazon Wins Approval to Test Delivery Drones Outdoors

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words


SEATTLE --  Federal regulators have given Amazon a green light to begin testing
drones, but it will most likely take years before the online retailer can start
delivering packages from the air to peoples' homes.

The Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday gave Amazon permission to
conduct test flights of its drones outdoors, as long as the company obeys a host
of rules like flying below 400 feet and only during daylight hours.

In a sign of how far Amazon has to go before its vision for its drone-delivery
service is realized, the company's drones for now will have to be operated by a
pilot with a certificate to fly a private manned aircraft. Amazon has envisioned
its drone-delivery service, which it calls Amazon Prime Air, to be autonomous,
consisting of buzzing fleets of miniature helicopters soaring far beyond the
view of Amazon warehouses.

While the F.A.A. has announced plans to allow more commercial uses of manned
drones in American skies, it has not said when it will permit the use of
autonomous drones by companies like Amazon. The agency's main concern is making
sure that drones, which everyone from farmers to cinematographers have shown
interest in using for business purposes, can be operated safely.

Still, even getting permission to test drones outdoors with a pilot counts as
progress for Amazon, which has been lobbying the F.A.A. for approval to do so
for months. The company has previously been forced to test drones indoors near
its headquarters in Seattle. It has also started outdoor tests outside the
United States and has warned federal regulators that jobs and investment dollars
will leave the country if they do not relax their current drone restrictions.

Now Amazon will be able to test drones in the skies over a piece of private
property, which it has previously disclosed is somewhere in rural Washington
State.

The type of approval the F.A.A. granted Amazon wasn't the company's first
choice. Called an experimental airworthiness certificate, it is normally granted
to aerospace companies like Boeing and others that are conducting research and
development on new drone technologies.

In a letter to the F.A.A. last December, Paul Misener, the vice president for
global public policy at Amazon, said the company had applied for the
experimental certificate at the suggestion of the F.A.A., but complained of
restrictions that would prevent it from rapidly experimenting.

Amazon has also requested a different type of approval from the F.A.A. that
would give it more flexibility in its drone tests, it said. The F.A.A. has
granted similar approvals for Hollywood film studios and other groups that want
to use drones in their work.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/technology/amazon-wins-approval-to-test-delive
ry-drones-outdoors.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL DRONES (92%); APPROVALS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%);
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES (90%); AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING
(77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION
LAW (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); HELICOPTERS
(73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY
(72%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Powerful Afghan Police Chief Is Killed in Targeted Suicide Attack

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED; Taimoor Shah contributed reporting from Kandahar,
Afghanistan, and Jawad Sukhanyar from Kabul.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 911 words


KABUL, Afghanistan --  Matiullah Khan, whose rise from local militia commander
to powerful regional police chief left him one of the wealthiest and most
powerful men in southern Afghanistan, was killed on Wednesday in a targeted
suicide bombing in Kabul, officials said on Thursday.

From his beginnings as an illiterate highway patrol commander in Oruzgan
Province, Mr. Khan started a militia operation that made millions of dollars
securing military coalition supply convoys through a decade of war and turmoil.
He obtained so much influence during his years as a private commander that even
before 2011, when he was anointed police chief of Oruzgan by President Hamid
Karzai, who hailed from his Popalzai tribe, he could freely appoint government
officials in the province.

The Afghan government remained silent about Mr. Khan's death on Wednesday night
and through much of Thursday, referring all questions to the spokesman for the
Interior Ministry, who did not respond to requests for comment. Accounts of Mr.
Khan's killing obtained from members of Parliament and other officials varied,
though Mr. Khan was said to be in Kabul on official business, staying at a
downtown hotel, the Safi Landmark.

Around 8 p.m., he was walking in the streets of Kabul's Police District 6 when a
person wearing a burqa approached and detonated a suicide vest, according to a
senior Afghan security official in Kabul, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss a continuing investigation. Officials who saw Mr. Khan's
body said his chest had been wounded by shrapnel.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack on Thursday afternoon, a
seeming insurgent success after trying to kill Mr. Khan at least six other
times. Still, while the attack bore all the hallmarks of an insurgent hit job,
some warned that Mr. Khan had numerous rivals within the government.

An outpouring of condolences followed news of Mr. Khan's death, even from people
who in the past might have criticized his heavy-handed influence.

Dost Mohammad Nayab, the spokesman for the governor of Oruzgan, said it ''will
take 14 years to fill the gap he leaves behind.'' Hajji Mohammad Essa, an elder
in Tirin Kot, said, ''He was like a mountain for us.''

For years, Mr. Khan enjoyed unparalleled influence in Oruzgan, where he gained a
reputation as a fierce enemy of the Taliban. Villagers and elders came to ask
his assistance or seek his guidance.

He became a classic symbol of the American-backed strongman turned government
official, a hallmark of the long war in Afghanistan.

Like his counterpart in Kandahar Province, Lt. Gen. Abdul Raziq, who is widely
accused of human rights abuses and running illicit businesses, Mr. Khan enjoyed
the support of coalition military officials, who found him an indispensable ally
in their fight against the Taliban.

''He was representative of a new breed of warlords,'' said Anand Gopal, the
author of the book ''No Good Men Among the Living: America, the Taliban, and the
War Through Afghan Eyes.'' ''These are people entirely created by the
international presence.''

Mr. Khan first came to power as a commander for the now defunct Afghan highway
police. When that group was disbanded, he retained the loyalty of a number of
its members who continued working for him as private security along the highway.

During those years, Mr. Khan worked extensively with the American and Australian
Special Operations forces who fought in Oruzgan. He helped secure the highway
that countless convoys traversed, earning millions in contracts to safeguard the
international forces who shuttled goods between Kandahar and Tirin Kot, the
capital of Oruzgan. He also sent his men on missions with them to upend
Taliban-controlled areas.

But Mr. Khan was dogged by accusations of aiding, and profiting from, drug
smugglers who traveled the same highways, and of running an unregistered,
illegal protection force. Over the years, he denied both allegations.

Mr. Khan came to dominate the local government even before he was folded into
it, undermining the very institutions that the Americans were trying to build in
Afghanistan. Some locals fear what will happen now that he is gone.

''The death of Matiullah Khan is a big blow to the people of Oruzgan,'' said
Hajji Sayed Ali, an elder from the Dehrawoud district. ''He was strong against
the Taliban and actually secured the province.''

Like others, Hajji Ali saw Mr. Khan's absence as a harbinger of Taliban advances
in Oruzgan, which has been troubled by heavy violence in the past few months.

''The Taliban will come again, and the districts will fall into their hands,''
he said. ''He was not only good at security, but was good at resolving issues
among the tribes.''

But Mr. Khan's tribal relations were not always positive. His uncle, Jan
Muhammad Khan, a close ally of Mr. Karzai, presided over the crackdown on
several rival groups during his time as the governor of Oruzgan. But those ties
also brought Mr. Khan to the attention of the political elite in Kabul.

Despite his reputation as a strongman, Mr. Khan talked of reconciliation and
engagement with the tribes of Oruzgan. He was known to donate to various
charities in Tirin Kot, and tried to cultivate a reputation as a reformed
political leader.

But he also exemplified the struggle to cultivate a professional cadre of
leaders that the West has desperately tried to create, not merely those who have
the power and resources to rule.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/world/asia/powerful-afghan-police-chief-killed
-in-kabul.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matiullah Khan in 2010. He was killed in Kabul on Wednesday
after a person approached him and detonated a suicide vest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM
FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS
(90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); REBELLIONS &
INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALIBAN
(89%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (52%);
HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pastrami Piled High, and Prices to Match

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

Email: dwyer@nytimes.com Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 794 words


Short on dismal news? Have a look at this notice, taped to the counter at the
Yankee Tavern on 161st Street in the Bronx.

''Due to the increased price of pastrami,'' it began, unpromisingly, ''we at the
Yankee Tavern apologize for the increase in prices for the pastrami items.''

Pastrami is in crisis.

''I contemplated taking it off the menus,'' Joe Bastone, owner of the tavern,
said. ''I came very close to doing it. I decided to try passing it on.''

Last year, the average price of brisket -- an embryonic form of pastrami --
increased 47 percent over 2013. This year it is up 14 percent, according to Gary
Morrison, who follows beef prices for Urner Barry, a food trade publisher.

In the Bronx, where a pastrami sandwich could have been the coat of arms in its
days as a duchy of Jewish gastronomy, the hardy survivors say the centerpiece of
their menus is being battered.

''Our suppliers are killing us, so we raised prices about eight months ago,''
said Art Rabin, manager of Liebman's Kosher Delicatessen on West 235th Street.
''Every few months, we get a letter that the price is going up.

''We're not in Manhattan -- there's a ceiling to what people will pay. In
Manhattan, people expect to get whacked for a sandwich.''

What is behind this? ''Drought has put cattle inventory at its lowest level in
60 years,'' Mr. Morrison said.

Meanwhile, brisket is not just for Passover anymore. Arby's created a 13-hour
video commercial last year that showed, in real time, the smoking of its
brisket. Brisket is a basis for barbecue. Buying cooked brisket or ribs by the
pound, and eating them off butcher paper, has become a staple at some celebrated
restaurants in renaissance Brooklyn: dive chic.

Not that being cool confers protection against higher costs.

''Brisket prices have gone up almost 40 percent or more since I opened in
2013,'' Billy Durney, the owner of Hometown Bar-B-Que in Red Hook, said. ''I
think we increased prices a dollar a pound. We put some other products on the
menu that are not loss leaders. For us, brisket and beef are what people come to
Hometown for. We can't take it off the menu.''

But back to the beleaguered pastrami.

It began as the food of poor people in a new land. The German and Eastern
European Jews who immigrated to the United States in the 19th century made a
delightful discovery.

''Beef was more available in America than in any place Jews had ever lived,''
Harry Levine, a sociologist at Queens College, wrote in a 2007 article,
''Pastrami Land, the Jewish Deli in New York City,'' for the quarterly journal
Contexts. ''In America, the Jews became the people of the brisket.''

A long, tough cut from the breast, marbled with fat, brisket requires slow
cooking. Corned beef, which is brisket that has been pickled, was already widely
available in the United States. The new immigrants elaborated on it, smoking and
spicing the corned beef with techniques used in southeastern Europe to preserve
mutton and pork, according to Professor Levine.

Their creation was called pastrami.

''In the 1870s or 1880s, immigrant Jews really did create pastrami in New York
City,'' he wrote.

They also simultaneously introduced a series of permanent disputes in New York
as to which was the best and the most authentic, which bread it should be served
on, what kind of soda to drink with it, where the meat was piled highest,
machine-sliced versus hand-sliced, and so on. In 1979, Mimi Sheraton of The New
York Times collected 104 pastrami and corned beef sandwiches to conduct a taste
test.

To this day, no self-respecting pastrami slinger will concede to cutting corners
by even a millimeter. And they have all apparently been in the business since
birth or close to it as if they, too, were pickled and steamed in lore.

Mr. Bastone, 60, noted that he started working for his father at the Yankee
Tavern when he was 11. His supplier has recently raised pastrami prices from
about $5 a pound to more than $9, he said. He has started charging $12.95 for a
sandwich, an increase of $3. ''I could keep buying a lower quality for $5, but I
won't do that,'' he said.

You could practically hear the scoffing all the way from 231st Street in
Kingsbridge of Fredy Loeser, who has been in business at Loeser's since 1961,
and has the plaques on the wall to go with it.

''Yankee Tavern is not kosher!'' Mr. Loeser said.

Not that anyone said it was.

''I shouldn't brag,'' Mr. Loeser said.

Oh, go ahead.

''We treat the pastrami like you would treat your best girlfriend,'' he said.

Hmm. By comparison, how does Yankee Tavern handle its pastrami?

''You have to steam it for a few hours,'' Mr. Bastone said.

That may not be the perfect treatment for everyone's best girlfriend. But it
seems to make the pastrami happy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/nyregion/pastrami-piled-as-high-as-new-york-wi
th-prices-to-match.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A slab of pastrami at Yankee Tavern in the Bronx. The tavern
now charges $12.95 for a pastrami sandwich, an increase of $3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICES (90%); DRINKING
PLACES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BEEF (77%); FOOD PRICES
(77%); FAST FOOD (73%); PASSOVER (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (69%); PUBLISHING
(54%)

COMPANY: BAR-B-QUE INDUSTRIES INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5147 MEAT & MEAT PRODUCTS (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anyone Can Be a Teacher in This Online School

BYLINE: By JONAH BROMWICH

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words


Susan Orlean was considering giving up teaching. She had taught courses at New
York University and at the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference at Middlebury College
but was finding it difficult to maintain a consistent class schedule while
fulfilling her obligations as a staff writer for The New Yorker.

''I just started thinking, well, maybe there's a different way to do this that
doesn't tie me to a physical location,'' she said. ''And right around that time,
Skillshare contacted me.''

Skillshare is an online video platform that allows anyone to sign up and teach a
class. The company has proved adept at recruiting experts to teach on its
website. Aside from Ms. Orlean's class on creative nonfiction, the website has a
class on visual storytelling from the design maven Debbie Millman and a
marketing course taught by the entrepreneur Seth Godin. At one point, it even
offered screenwriting instruction from James Franco.

The company's business model does not depend solely on experts. Instead, those
behind the service are banking on the idea that amateurs will be inspired to
share their knowledge online. They envision the website as a kind of educational
YouTube: If you want to teach anyone anything -- how to use Photoshop, or even
how to chug a beer more efficiently -- Skillshare wants to host your classes.
Many users find that appealing. Since the platform was opened last September,
the number of courses offered has nearly doubled to about 1,000. Skillshare has
raised more than $10 million in venture capital.

Students pay $10 a month for unlimited access to Skillshare courses, and 850,000
are signed up, the company says. Frequently, thousands will sign up for a single
course. Jake Bartlett, a freelance motion-graphics artist who teaches digital
visual effects, says about 1,200 students signed up for his latest course.
Nearly 2,000 students are enrolled in Ms. Millman's visual storytelling class,
her first on the site.

Teachers with at least 25 students can enter a ''partner program'' in which they
are paid based on the number of subscribing students in their classes, and for
projects those students submit. Skillshare says that on average, teachers in the
program are paid $3,500 annually. Those with fewer than 25 students are not
paid.

Skillshare, which is based in New York, was developed in 2011 as an offline
enterprise, a form of alternative education that would teach practical skills to
students in local communities. But the legwork involved was taxing, so in the
summer of 2012 the company moved online. Last fall, it opened to anybody who
wanted to teach a course.

The company's chief executive, Michael Karnjanaprakorn, said that opening the
platform was essential in addressing how teaching and learning work online.

''The Internet is like this virtual town getting built,'' he said. ''Let's say
The New York Times is the newspaper, Twitter is a short form of communication,
Facebook is a town center and AOL built the roads. What we think is getting
built right now is the hospital and the school. And in order for those things to
be built, they have to keep in mind how the Internet works.''

He said building the Internet's school meant letting users determine the courses
they want to teach and take without creating many financial obstacles. The way
Skillshare accommodates its students academically and financially sets it apart
from its online competitors. Companies like Coursera and Udacity prepare
students for the work force in a more familiar fashion. For the most part,
Coursera hews closely to traditional college courses, and Udacity offers
''nanodegrees'' for digital skills that will appeal to prospective employers in
the technology sector.

Even Udemy, an online education platform that is also open to anyone who wants
to teach, allows instructors to set prices, which can make enrollment in
multiple courses difficult for students on a budget.

Most of the subjects that Skillshare offers resemble the abilities someone might
pick up after spending a couple of semesters in the company of art school
students. Colleen Sullivan Leh, 46, a graphic designer in Lake Orion, Mich., has
subscribed to Skillshare for about a year and has taken classes on typography
and photography. She said she liked being able to set her own pace without being
evaluated.

''It works for me because there are no grades involved,'' she said.

Because it does not field more traditional classes or award grades or
credentials, Skillshare is vulnerable to criticism that it masquerades as a
learning platform while it wastes users' time and money. But those who have
taken issue with other forms of ''edutainment'' are more accepting of a platform
that teaches practical skills.

Nathan Jurgenson, a graduate student in sociology at the University of Maryland
and a specialist in Internet culture, sees Skillshare as a ''stopgap measure,''
necessary to an economy in which skills can be more valuable than diplomas.
''It's far more suited to our economy than going to a graduate program,'' he
said. ''What Skillshare is doing is more in line with what our precarious work
force needs.''

Many instructors, including Ms. Millman and Ms. Orlean, emphasized that
Skillshare was not a replacement for traditional education, but more of a
complementary way to learn.

''The in-class dynamic is something that is very important to me, so I've been
very reluctant to get on the online teaching bandwagon,'' Ms. Millman said.

But Ms. Orlean found that in at least one way, teaching at Skillshare was more
positive than that in traditional academia.

''I always had good students, but I also think they're there to fulfill their
credit requirements so there's a little element of obligation,'' she said.
''Whereas people who are signing on for Skillshare really want to do it. And
they don't get anything for it except learning.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/anyone-can-be-a-teacher-in-this-onli
ne-school.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WEB CLASSROOM:   The Skillshare staff, top,  at work at the
company's  offices in New York.  Michael Karnjanaprakorn,  above, the chief
executive.  Skillshare allows users  to determine the courses  they want to
teach and  take. A thousand courses  are available for $10  a month.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEES (89%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); INTERNET VIDEO
(75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); FILM (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); PHOTO
& VIDEO SHARING (75%); WEBSITES (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS &
RECIPIENTS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

25 Minutes of Silence in the City of Angels

BYLINE: By JOHN HANC

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words


LOS ANGELES -- It's early afternoon in the city's Westwood section, a
neighborhood known for its youthful U.C.L.A. energy and horrendous traffic. Near
the busy intersection of Wilshire and Westwood Boulevards, nearly 200 locals
have gathered to tune out the distractions of modern Los Angeles -- and tune
into themselves.

At first glance, the pink leather seats of the Hammer Museum's Billy Wilder
Theater and the single chair and microphone on the stage would suggest the
appearance of a lunchtime stand-up comic. Instead, at 12:30, Diana Winston, an
instructor at U.C.L.A.'s Mindful Awareness Research Center, takes the stage. In
a voice warm and soothing enough to lower even the most harried studio
executive's blood pressure, she greets the attendees of the Mindfulness
Awareness meditation class, held every Thursday at this time.

Ms. Winston begins the session with a brief explanation and some guidance on
practicing mindful awareness, which she describes as ''the art of paying
attention to the present moment with openness and curiosity.'' She adds that
''it's really about teaching ourselves to live in the present moment and not to
be lost in the past or the future.''

It all sounds very Angeleno, particularly given recent pop culture buzz about
meditation (beloved of the cast and crew of ''Girls,'' the New York Knicks and
chief executives). You also wonder what the museum's founder, the Occidental
Petroleum chairman Armand Hammer, who died in 1990, would have thought of
holding a class in a place meant to showcase his personal art collection. Then
again, Mr. Hammer, a doctor by training (although he never practiced), would
have most likely appreciated the now-well-documented health benefits of
meditation, which include reduced stress, lower blood pressure and improved
sleep.

Regardless, response to this continuing education program has been strong and
sustained: Attendance at the weekly drop-in class at the Hammer has grown from
about 50 participants when it was first offered in 2008 to an average attendance
of 200 -- and has provided a template for similar programs at other museums.

The class was the idea of Susan L. Smalley, Ph.D., an anthropologist and the
founder of the Mindful Awareness Research Center. Ms. Smalley, a patron of the
museum, suggested the class to the Hammer's director, Ann Philbin, who
immediately agreed. ''I thought we had an audience for it,'' Ms. Philbin said.
But to reach the broadest possible audience, the museum opted to offer the class
during the day, holding it in the theater and keeping the duration to 30
minutes. (It also distributes the class as a podcast.)

''We decided to do it at lunch, make it easy, in and out,'' says Claudia Bestor,
the museum's director of public programs and one of the architects of the class.
''A man in a suit can come here and feel comfortable, and not feel like he needs
to be in yoga pants and sitting in the lotus position.''

Indeed, those who attend the class, which is free, represent a cross-section of
the area -- professionals, retirees, movie industry people, U.C.L.A. employees.
Some are longtime meditators; others are novices.

''I invite you to settle back in your seats in a comfortable position,'' Ms.
Winston purrs, as she concludes her introductory remarks. ''See if you can feel
your breath moving through your body.''

There is a palpable easing of tension in the audience. Then, that rarity in
urban life: silence. For nearly 25 minutes, it is interrupted only by the growls
of a hungry lunchtime stomach or the snores of someone who became a little
overrelaxed (neither is uncommon).

At 1 o'clock, the lights come up, and Ms. Winston thanks the audience, who --
some rubbing their eyes and yawning, others beaming beatifically -- drift out of
the theater. Those with time wander into the galleries or eat at the museum's
cafe. Still others head back to the office.

Elizabeth Merritt, director of the Center for the Future of Museums in
Washington, credits the Hammer's meditation class with setting a trend. Similar
classes are offered by other institutions, including the Frye Museum in Seattle
and the Asia Society in New York. Classes in yoga, meditation's cousin in the
world of so-called mind-body fitness, are also offered at many art museums
around the country, including the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Krannert
Art Museum at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

''You're creating relationships with people who now feel connected with you
because you helped improve their lives,'' Ms. Merritt said. ''They see you as an
essential community service.''

Andrew Vona, 34, called the Hammer class ''very relaxing.'' Mr. Vona, who works
in film production, has been attending the class since it was first offered.
''It helps in everyday life, dealing with people in work situations.''

Jeannette Orel, 92, lives near the museum and has been taking the class for
three years. ''It's given me a perspective,'' Ms. Orel said. Quoting Ms.
Winston, she added: ''Like she said today, 'You don't have to live in the past.'
Of course, like a lot of people my age, I was living in the past.''

''It has changed my life,'' said Brian Avery, a longtime film producer and actor
who appeared in ''The Graduate'' and ''Sleeper,'' who has been attending the
class for the last two years. Mr. Avery, 74, talked about how meditation helped
him in dealing with the daily conundrum of Los Angeles traffic. ''When someone
would try and cut me off on the 110, I'd floor it,'' Mr. Avery said, referring
to Route 110, one of the city's busiest freeways. ''But now I let big trucks get
in ahead of me. I'm much more tolerant.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/25-minutes-of-silence-in-the-city-of
-angels.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DE-STRESSING: Diana  Winston, director of  mindfulness
education  at U.C.L.A., leads about  200 people every week  in silent meditation
at  the Hammer Museum,  top. Above, Ms. Winston  after class. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDITATION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY
(76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ART COLLECTING (67%);
PODCASTING (50%)

COMPANY: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (93%); NEW YORK
NICKERBOCKERS (54%)

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%);
NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE
PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (54%);
SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You Can Know It All, How Come You Don't?

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words


Jonathan Haber majored in philosophy at Harvard University. And Yale. And
Stanford. He explored Kant's ''The Critique of Pure Reason'' with an Oxford don
and Kierkegaard's insights into ''Subjectivity, Irony and the Crisis of
Modernity'' with a leading light from the University of Copenhagen.

In his quest to meet all the standard requirements for a bachelor of arts degree
in a single year, the 52-year-old from Lexington, Mass., also took courses in
English common law, Shakespeare's late plays and the science of cooking, which
overlapped with the degree in chemistry he earned from Wesleyan in 1985.

Here's the brilliant part: Mr. Haber didn't spend a dime on tuition or fees.
Instead, he gorged from the smorgasbord of free courses offered by top
universities. He documented the project on his website, degreeoffreedom.org, and
in a new book exploring the wider phenomenon of massive open online courses, or
MOOCs. He didn't earn a degree -- the knowledge may be free but the sheepskin
costs dearly -- but he was satisfied.

''I wouldn't call myself a philosopher,'' he said, ''but I learned as much as
most undergraduates.''

Mr. Haber's project embodies a modern miracle: the ease with which anyone can
learn almost anything. Our ancient ancestors built the towering Library of
Alexandria to gather all of the world's knowledge, but today, smartphones turn
every palm into a knowledge palace.

And yet, even as the highbrow holy grail -- the acquisition of complete
knowledge -- seems tantalizingly close, almost nobody speaks about the rebirth
of the Renaissance man or woman. The genius label may be applied with reckless
abandon, even to chefs, basketball players and hair stylists, but the true
polymaths such as Leonardo da Vinci and Benjamin Franklin seem like mythic
figures of a bygone age.

They don't make geniuses like they used to.

Perhaps we need another Franklin to explain why. Thanks to the power of
technology and the brute force of demographics, the modern world should be
teeming with people of wide accomplishment. In Franklin's era, the world's
population was about 800 million; today it's seven billion people, many of whom
enjoy the brain-building blessings of good nutrition and access to education.
Indeed, the researcher James R. Flynn has found that I.Q. scores have been
rising around the world for decades. Known as the ''Flynn effect,'' it is
especially pronounced in developed nations such as the United States, where
average scores have increased about three points per decade since the early
1900s.

Nevertheless, it is much easier to feel like Sisyphus than Leonardo nowadays,
because one thing that has grown even faster than I.Q. scores is the amount of
information the brain must process. Google estimated in 2010 that there were 300
exabytes (that's 300 followed by 18 zeros) of human-created information in the
world, and that more information was created every two days than had existed in
the entire world from the dawn of time to 2003.

No doubt those numbers have increased vastly since then. But does it really
matter? Like the physicists' observation that the known universe has a diameter
of 92 billion light years, these numbers are so large that they defy human
comprehension; they are meaningless truths to just about everybody not named
Stephen Hawking. When it comes to aggregate information, we blew our minds long
ago.

Of course, not all information is equal. Those exabytes do include a few great
novels, stirring films and groundbreaking scientific discoveries. Most are
flotsam wrapped in jetsam: insipid blog posts and text messages, YouTube videos
of cuddly cats and pornographic acts, ignorance that poses as knowledge.

''We are overloaded with junk,'' said Daniel Levitin, a professor of psychology
and behavioral neuroscience at McGill University whose books include ''The
Organized Mind.'' ''It's becoming harder and harder to separate the wheat from
the digital chaff. The problem with the Internet is anyone can post, so it's
hard to know whether you are looking at a fact or pseudofact, science or
pseudoscience.''

That problem seems quintessentially modern; Alvin Toffler didn't popularize the
term ''information overload'' until 1970. But in the relative realm of human
experience, it is as constant and nettlesome as death and taxes. At least since
the heyday of ancient Greece and Rome, each generation has confronted the
overwhelming struggle to search, sift and sort growing piles of information to
make what is known useful. ''Papyrus, print or petabyte -- the history of
feeling overwhelmed by information always seems to go back further than the
latest technology.'' said Seth Rudy, a professor of English literature at Rhodes
College who explores this phenomenon in his new book, ''Literature and
Encyclopedism in Enlightenment Britain: The Pursuit of Complete Knowledge.''
''The sense that there is too much to know has been felt for hundreds, even
thousands, of years.''

In response, figures of expert erudition and taste -- such as the Roman Gaius
Petronius Arbiter, whose impeccable taste made his name a byword of discernment,
and the 19th-century critic Matthew Arnold, who defined culture as ''the best
that has been thought and known'' -- have helped distinguish the dross from the
gold.

Primitive search engines developed in the Middle Ages are still with us,
including indexes, concordances and tables of contents, while the dictionary and
the florilegium (a compilation of quotations and excerpts from other writings)
enabled busy people to sample the world's wisdom. This remains a thriving
business; a sales pitch of modern journalism is that reporters and critics do
the work (read the book, see the play, try the recipe, interview experts) so you
don't have to.

Encyclopedias rose in the Enlightenment. Tellingly, Mr. Rudy said, most early
works were created by one person and aimed to synthesize all knowledge into a
single, coherent body. Soon, they became collections of discrete articles
written by a team of experts. By the 20th century, the storehouse of useful
knowledge had grown at such a thrillingly alarming rate that the possibility of
mastering just one area of study, such as physics, literature or art -- much
less to become a Renaissance man who could make important contributions to
various fields -- became less aspiration than delusion.

Julianne Moore's character captured this sense in the Oscar-winning movie
''Still Alice'' when she joked about ''the great academic tradition of knowing
more and more about less and less until we know everything about nothing.''

That barb suggests a profound response to the explosion of information that has
transformed modern scholarship and innovation: the rise of intense
specialization and teamwork. ''Once upon a time you could be a biologist,'' said
Benjamin F. Jones, an economist at the Kellogg School of Management at
Northwestern University. ''Now the accumulation of knowledge is such that
biologists, for example, must specialize in an array of microdisciplines like
evolutionary biology, genetics and cell functions.''

''At the turn of the 20th century,'' he added, ''the Wright brothers invented
the airplane; today the design of the jet engine calls upon 30 different
disciplines requiring a vast array of specialized teams.''

If the information age makes knowledge seem like a straitjacket, David Galenson,
a professor of economics at the University of Chicago, notes that progress often
hinges on those rare individuals who have escaped its bonds. Artists from
Picasso to Bob Dylan and entrepreneurs including Bill Gates and Steve Jobs
changed the world by finding ''radically new ways of looking at old problems,''
Mr. Galenson said. ''They cut through all the accumulated stuff -- forget what's
been done -- to see something special, something new.''

It is why, Mr. Galenson added, the historian and physicist Stanley Goldberg said
of Einstein, ''It was almost as if he were wearing special glasses to make all
that was irrelevant invisible."

For many who don't share that kind of vision, the response to information
overload is simple: Just search and forget (repeat as necessary). Even more
ambitious absorbers of knowledge like Jonathan Haber will most likely find that
the key to lifelong learning is a human mediator, someone who has engaged in the
ancient task of searching and sorting through knowledge.

Until, of course, a modern-day Leonardo invents a machine that can do that too.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/in-the-age-of-information-specializi
ng-to-survive.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALL WISDOM HERE:   Our ancient ancestors  built the Library of
Alexandria to gather  the world's knowledge,  but smartphones turn  every palm
into a  knowledge palace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) (F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); DISTANCE
LEARNING (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (69%); SMARTPHONES (64%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); BASKETBALL (62%); NUTRITION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

More at Ease Online, Retirees Tap Free Courses

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words


Mary Lou Russell has a passion for learning. Since retiring 10 years ago, the
79-year-old former grant maker has taken more than a dozen classes on subjects
including classical music and appreciating Andy Warhol. She has attended most of
her classes from her Manhattan living room.

''I used to go up to Columbia, down to N.Y.U. and over to New School. I was all
over the place with my MetroCard,'' Ms. Russell said. ''Then I learned about
online courses and that has been so freeing for me. I call it the anti-aging
vitamin for those of us over 60 who want to stay relevant.''

Taking courses online is well suited for retirees, according to John Blair, 85,
a retired engineer in Wayland, Mass. He especially likes the accessibility to
top professors at elite universities. He adds that online courses have given him
a way to dive into subjects unrelated to engineering, like economics. ''By
jumping from Yale to Harvard to Stanford to M.I.T., I was able to sample
economics courses in a broad way,'' Mr. Blair said.

Colleges have been catering to online adult learners for years, often offering
video lectures and courses on their websites and posting popular lecture series
on YouTube and iTunes. Starting around 2011, the latest iteration of virtual
education, massive open online courses or MOOCs, hit the scene. Often free, many
of these classes take online learning a step further and provide interactive
video features like mini quizzes and student discussion forums.

Online learning has gained momentum from retirees' increasing comfort with
technology. In April 2014, the Pew Research Center reported that 59 percent of
adults over the age of 65 use the Internet, a six percentage point increase from
a year earlier. In addition, 47 percent say they have a high-speed broadband
connection at home. Of the older adults who use the Internet, 71 percent say
they go online every day or almost every day.

At Coursera, an education platform started in 2011 that teams with universities
worldwide to offer thousands of free online courses, 10 percent of students are
in the 60-plus age group. Sophie Vlessing, senior vice president at Kaplan
Higher and Professional Education, said that 10 percent of the students who took
online courses at Kaplan University were over 50.

Some more traditional educators point out drawbacks to taking courses online.
Retirees looking to build their social networks through classes may miss the
structure and camaraderie of the traditional continuing education classroom
experience, said Susan Hoffman, director of the Osher Lifelong Learning
Institute at University of California, Berkeley. (The Osher institute works with
colleges and universities to provide education for mature students.) What's
more, experts say, with thousands of courses available from hundreds of
institutions, it can often be a challenge to make sense of the online learning
world and find the right class for an individual's interest and learning style.

Aggregators like Coursera may help. EdX, the nonprofit started by Harvard
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Udacity, which
specializes in high-tech training, are other companies that pull together online
course offerings. Learningadvisor.com, a joint venture between Kaplan and AARP's
Life Reimagined, offers information on online and on-campus courses for adult
students.

Having a clear sense of purpose can also help, Ms. Hoffman said. Most continuing
education can be broken down into three categories: pursuing an advanced degree,
enhancing skills for the workplace and pursuing a passion. Retirees looking to
pursue a new career after age 65 may easily fit into the first two categories,
while others, like Ms. Russell and Mr. Blair, are focused on expanding their
knowledge. Adult students who know what end result they are pursuing will have
an easier time evaluating the offerings, Ms. Hoffman advises.

Jeffrey J. Selingo, author of ''MOOC U: Who Is Getting the Most Out of Online
Education and Why,'' offers the following advice: Don't get star-struck. While
it's tempting for retirees to sign up for a class at Harvard or Stanford just
because it's free, adult students should keep in mind that not all classes or
professors translate well online. ''In one of my classes, the professor just
stood there in front of the camera and talked,'' Ms. Russell recalled. ''That
wasn't my favorite class.''

It can be difficult for professors to teach an audience whose response they
cannot see. Research what you can about the professors before signing up,
including watching videos of their courses that might already be online.

Although the self-paced nature of online courses can be a plus, it's also easy
to fall behind because you do not necessarily have to show up for class and you
may not have classmates pushing you to keep up, Mr. Selingo said. An active
student forum and a professor schooled in online teaching can help.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/free-online-courses-keep-retirees-in
-the-know.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%);
RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (89%); INTERNET & WWW
(89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); ADULTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%);
NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); PHOTO
& VIDEO SHARING (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); BROADBAND (70%); SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%);
DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (52%);
NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (52%); NAICS511130
BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Managing Student Loan Debt as an Older Adult

BYLINE: By JOHN F. WASIK

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 862 words


Continuing your education is a lofty pursuit, but it could become an albatross
if you get too deep into student loan debt.

With the need to retool career skills or pursue new vocations, more Americans
are taking on loans to finance education later in life -- for new degrees,
certificates or course work called continuing education units to improve
knowledge in demanding professions.

According to the Government Accountability Office, student debt held by those 65
and older has risen significantly in recent years, growing to about $18.2
billion in 2013, from about $2.8 billion in 2005. While it's not known how much
of that is the result of college loans co-signed for children or grandchildren,
a good portion is for continuing education. Before the last recession, the
working-age population pursuing ''re-entry'' courses jumped 27 percent over a
decade, according to the Education Department.

With all that borrowing by older people, some loan trouble probably can't be far
behind. So how do you avoid it if you're a present or future retiree, since
Social Security or wages could be garnished if you default? One answer is your
employer might help pay for your education. Many employers will pick up some or
all of the costs of a graduate degree.

If you're paying for all of your education, look at it as an investment, said
Tom White, chief executive of iQuantifi, an online financial advice service. In
addition to asking yourself the reason for going back to school, he said, ''Do a
cost-benefit analysis. How will it maximize my earnings? Will I be able to
service the debt?''

Andrew Weber, a certified credit counselor in Athens, Ohio, went back to college
after obtaining a bachelor's degree. He advises those returning to school to
carefully consider their financial situation and career before going into debt.

''Evaluate your postgraduate payment plan,'' Mr. Weber suggests. ''What will
your salary be after graduation? Will there be an immediate payoff in terms of a
higher salary?''

For example, in some companies and professions -- like teaching -- getting a
master's degree leads to a guaranteed pay raise. Will your employer reward you
for a higher degree? If so, will your raise offset the cost of the degree and
debt incurred? Mr. Weber says in a previous job he could have received an
immediate $2- to $3-an-hour salary raise after earning a graduate degree.

You can overpay for a degree or certificate that will yield little career
advancement or salary increases. Mr. Weber warns against for-profit colleges
that market aggressively and says their programs and graduation rates should be
carefully vetted.

''For-profit institutions market heavily to an older demographic,'' Mr. Weber
said. ''They have sales agents and marketing budgets that are from one-quarter
to one-fifth of their total budgets. The reason why that number stands out for
the for-profit companies is because they spend so little of their budget on
their actual classes, teachers and materials versus executive pay and
advertising. Their entire corporate structure is built to generate profit
regardless of the outcome of the students that are enrolling.''

In a prominent case, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau late last year
sued Corinthian Colleges Inc., one of the largest for-profit chains in North
America, saying that it had ''lured tens of thousands of students to take out
private loans to cover expensive tuition costs by advertising bogus job
prospects and career services.''

But what happens after you're out of school with continuing education debt if
you can't increase your income or don't start earning money right away?

If you have federal loans, you can qualify for a break from payments until you
can start paying them down. See the Education Department's federal student aid
website to explore the options.

Another option is income-based repayment, available only for federally
guaranteed loans. Private loans are the least flexible in terms of repayment.

Karen McCarthy, senior policy analyst for the Washington-based National
Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, says a viable education
financing strategy means thinking ahead.

''If you're at or near retirement, your income may be lower, which may affect
your ability to repay your loan,'' she said. ''There is income-based repayment
available, which can make repayment more manageable, but can also extend the
repayment period, leading to more interest accrual. It's something to keep in
mind as you plan for the future.''

If you can project your income -- and gauge whether you can afford your loan
repayments -- that's a good start. Also ''only borrow the amount you need to
cover the student debt,'' Ms. McCarthy adds.

Whatever route you take, you can always apply for grants or work-study programs,
which do not have to be repaid. There's no age limit for applying for financial
aid. You may even qualify based on your income, number of children in college,
being a single parent and other circumstances.

To see what might be available, file the Free Application for Federal Student
Aid (Fafsa), which needs to be submitted from Jan. 1 to June 30 every year.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/managing-student-loan-debt-as-an-old
er-adult.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SÉBASTIEN THIBAULT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); CHILDREN (90%);
STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); WAGES
& SALARIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%);
EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT
COUNSELING (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); FINANCIAL
PLANNING (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); MATURE MARKET (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ADULTS
(73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%);
GRANDCHILDREN (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

You Too Can Learn to Draw, Online

BYLINE: By GEORGE GENE GUSTINES

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words


Anyone who remembers the 1970s Tippy the Turtle ''Draw Me'' advertisements on
matchbooks, in magazines and on television would be amazed how much times have
changed. Then, amateur artists would mail their submissions to the Art
Instruction Schools in Minneapolis and could begin a correspondence class to
learn still life drawing.

These days, the digital world is booming with resources to help enthusiasts who
want to become comic book professionals, learn the tools of the trade or improve
their craft.

Comics Experienceis an e-business dedicated to teaching the core disciplines of
making comics: writing, illustration, coloring and lettering. It was founded by
Andy Schmidt.

''This was a way I could combine my two loves -- teaching and comics,'' he said.

Mr. Schmidt, 38, started the operation in 2007 as he was leaving a job as an
editor at Marvel Comics. He began with two introductory classes -- comic book
writing and art -- in a traditional classroom environment. In 2009, he took it
online, and he now offers a rotation of 25 courses.

''This is my thing: helping creative people achieve their goals,'' Mr. Schmidt,
who is based outside San Diego, said in a telephone interview.

But comic books are also a business, and that is another area where Comics
Experience helps enrollees get prepared. In October, the course ''Comic Book Law
for Creators,'' led by Joe Sergi, a lawyer, was introduced. It offers an
overview on contracts, defining terms like trademark and copyright and
explaining the difference between projects that are creator-owned (the creator
earns the rewards) and those that are work-for-hire (the publisher is king).
''It doesn't mean you shouldn't use a lawyer, but it'll give you the background
to know what you're talking about when you do,'' Mr. Schmidt said.

For those lucky enough to break into the industry -- and break out of the pack
with a hit that draws the attention of television or film producers -- the
rewards can be substantial. In 2013, overall sales of comics, whether single
issues, collected editions or digital downloads, were $870 million, according to
estimates on Comichron, an online resource for comics research. Digital sales
were $90 million.

The virtual classrooms at Comics Experience are set up differently depending on
the course. Art classes use most of the screen to show illustrations. Writing
workshops are less dynamic, primarily offering views of the instructor, unless
students want to turn on their web cameras to see one another. All sessions are
recorded and are available for review during the term of the class. Beginner
courses cost $495 to $595 and run for six weeks. There are also occasional
daylong ''Master Seminars,'' for $295, where a comic book professional -- like
the writer Peter David or the artist David Finch -- focuses on one topic.

Comics Experience also has a Creators Workshop -- think of it as a development
lab -- with a distribution deal tied to the comic publisher IDW. The first comic
to come from this process, ''Creature Cops'' by Rob Anderson and Fernando Melek,
had its premiere in January, and a collected edition of the three-issue series
is coming in June. Workshop members (who pay $30 a month or $150 for six) can
submit, at least twice a year, material to be considered for publication. Some
of the pricing can be prohibitive for those just starting, so the website also
includes free how-to podcasts and an archive of comic book scripts.

Another free resource for would-be professionals is the Comic Archive, whose
founder, Mike Furth, 34, describes it as a virtual museum. The mission of the
site is to capture how the comic industry is being transformed by digital
innovation.

''Comics didn't change the way they were made for 70 years. In the last 10
years, all of that has been upended,'' he said. ''I wanted to start documenting
the old way of doing it. That's why I call it an archive -- an archive of the
process and the tools of the trade.''

The site has a collection of video interviews with writers, artists and editors
about the comic book industry. Recent entries include interviews with Simon
Fraser, the editor of Act-I-Vate Comix, a collective of online comics creators,
and John D. Roberts, a founder of Comixology, the iTunes of comics, which allows
creators to sell their work digitally. There have also been interviews about
diversity -- in material and readership. The artist videos often have
annotations to help viewers find the equipment being discussed.

''Since I do focus a lot on tools and techniques, there are a large number of
people who come to the site because they are themselves trying to learn to make
comics,'' Mr. Furth said.

One of the best places to find creators talking about their craft is social
media, where followers can often receive a behind-the-scenes look at work in
progress.

Todd McFarlane, one of the founders of Image Comics, a company created in 1992
that became a model for creators retaining the financial rewards earned from
their characters, is an active presence on Facebook. The posts vary among
advance looks at pages from ''Spawn'' (his original creator-owned series from
Image, which continues today), promotion for his new toys or guest appearances
and helpful hints (usually in capital letters and with multiple exclamation
points) for budding artists.

Last month, he critiqued his own pinup of Marvel's Iron Man with the
introduction, ''Here's an example of what not to do when sending in your comic
book drawing for review.'' He explained that publishers want to see sequential
storytelling ability, not just static poster shots.

In January, he revealed the secret to his success: ''Practice!!!!!'' The daily
repetition, Mr. McFarlane, 54, wrote, improved his abilities and gave him the
confidence to submit his work to the publishers that gave him his first break.

Even the ''Draw Me'' art test has moved online. The Art Instruction Schools has
assessment and scholarship opportunities available at FreeArtTest.com, which
began last October. One of the most famous graduates of the school, founded in
1914, is the ''Peanuts'' creator Charles M. Schulz, who enrolled as a student in
1940 and spent four years as an instructor. Many of the Peanuts characters were
based on people he met there. Fittingly, he learned of the school through a
''Draw Me'' ad his mother found in a newspaper.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/more-options-for-comics-artists.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRAWING CLASS: Clockwise from top left, screen shots from
drawing lessons taught by the illustrator Todd McFarlane on YouTube
an old ''Draw Me'' ad for Art Instruction Schools
  and the cover of ''Creature  Cops,'' created by Rob  Anderson, who
participated  in the workshop program  on Comics Experience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ART
INSTRUCTION SCHOOLS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); TEACHING &
TEACHERS (77%); CREATIVE WRITING (77%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (76%); AUDIO &
VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); FILM (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%)

COMPANY: ART INSTRUCTION SCHOOLS (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not Digital Art, but Art Learned Digitally

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Continuing Education; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words


Having worked as an art teacher for 50 years, Lois DeWitt decided to try
offering drawing and painting classes online. So in 2008 she established a
website -- Free Online Art Classes -- that now attracts about 15,000 visitors a
month from places like Indonesia, Africa and Germany to courses that include
instruction in watercolors, oil painting and ''artful lighting.'' (Ms. DeWitt
also happens to work in the lighting department of a Home Depot store on
Sundays.)

''I have it all in my brain, and I want to share this,'' said Ms. DeWitt, 72, in
a telephone interview from her home in Wilmington, N.C. ''Brick and mortar is
hard -- having a gallery and having a building -- and the Internet is wonderful
that way.''

Ms. DeWitt's online courses, which attract advertising, are among a growing
number of efforts by schools, distance learning companies, entrepreneurs and
even museums that are experimenting with how to help people become artists
without entering a classroom.

''The studio is no longer confined to the four walls that you're in,'' said Joel
Towers, the executive dean of Parsons the New School for Design. ''The teaching
in art and design hasn't kept up with the way the practice has evolved in order
to figure out pedagogically, how do you go about teaching design in an online
environment?''

The advantages are clear: Online courses can make it possible for aspiring
artists to learn without having to travel great distances or pay for costly
studio space. The emphasis on visual learning -- through video demonstrations --
can also bridge language barriers. But still unclear is whether fine art can
effectively be taught remotely.

''There's a difference between being digitally native and learning how to learn
online,'' Mr. Towers said. ''We all know we have to figure it out.''

Various organizations are dipping their toes into this arena. The Fashion
Institute of Technology recently started offering an online course in basic
drawing. Parsons offers online credit and noncredit courses in topics like
graphic design and color theory. The New York Institute of Photography went
completely online last year.

The Museum of Modern Art is one of a few museums that have gotten into the act,
with seven online courses, including a collage class, which combines studio
technique demonstrations with study of the works in MoMA's collection.

''Watch exclusive videos -- shot in MoMA's galleries -- about works by some of
the masters of collage, including Pablo Picasso, Joseph Cornell, Hannah Höch,
Robert Rauschenberg, Mark Bradford and others,'' the museum's website says.
''Detailed demonstrations will show you how to make your own collages, inspired
by the ways in which these masters pushed the boundaries of representation and
materials.''

The Fashion Institute of Technology course was developed to enable students to
learn from distant locations; one student, for example, participated in the
course from Milan. Students submit their work to a Dropbox file, and the
teacher, John Allen, responds with his critique.

''I usually give them feedback within the same day,'' Mr. Allen said. ''It's
very satisfying in terms of the number of students who really do succeed in the
program.''

But the process is also more time-consuming. ''It takes a lot of energy to
really look at what they're doing and not be able to do it in an instantaneous
way with a whole class,'' said Mr. Allen, who has taught art for more than 20
years. ''It's less efficient than to look at everyone's work in the room
together.''

The prices and duration of these courses vary. The New York Institute of
Photography charges a total of $1,299 for monthly billing, or $949 if paid
upfront in full. Students can enroll anytime and have up to two years to finish
the program.

MoMA charges $139 for its collage class ($125.10 for museum members and
students), and students must buy their own materials and supplies. A digital
camera is required to photograph and post work for weekly discussions.

Others have yet to take the leap. What became Art Instruction Schools, based in
Minneapolis, has run a correspondence course since it was established in 1914 by
a private company, the Bureau of Engraving Inc., to train illustrators for the
printing industry, sending materials to students all over the world. While it
recently put its venerable art test online as a pilot, it has yet to develop an
online component for a new 27-lesson course on the fundamentals of art (total
cost: $4,285).

''It's really difficult to teach the tactile elements of art without ultimately
marks on paper -- brush, paint, ink,'' said Patrick Stuart, the company's
president. ''I think you have to learn it tactilely first -- doing it on paper
and seeing the techniques. Then you adapt that skill to the technology that's
there. This stuff has only been around a few years.''

Indeed, the technology -- simulating a paintbrush or pen and ink on a computer
-- can be a wrench in the works. Right now the exercise is still more like
finger painting. And computers, of course, can malfunction, forcing art teachers
to also develop technological expertise to help students through such problems.

''A pencil breaks, you grab another one,'' Mr. Stuart said. ''When the iPad
doesn't connect to the Internet, then we have to support it.''

Ms. DeWitt in North Carolina said she started simply, providing her students
with simple step-by-step instructions that she eventually augmented with photos
and videos. In running her website, she teams up with Google, YouTube and Amazon
(for example, linking to supplies her students can get on Amazon).

''Sometimes you have to demonstrate,'' she said. ''You've got to be in front of
them doing it rather than talking about it -- how to do a pen-and-ink drawing or
shade with a pencil.''

She continues to offer live art classes for a fee in her home, a space she calls
the Sun Room Studio. The classes typically attract about four students a
session. But she said she enjoyed being able to reach a much larger audience
through the web.

''It's exciting to me to be able to share what I know with the world,'' Ms.
DeWitt said. ''I think it's pretty darn cool.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/20/education/not-digital-art-but-art-learned-digi
tally.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ONLINE AND OFFLINE:   Lois DeWitt teaches art  classes at her
home in  Wilmington, N.C., usually  attracting about four  students a session.
But  she reaches a much  larger audience for art  instruction through her
website, Free Online  Art Classes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK COURTNEY FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (89%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (88%);
FILM (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); GRAPHIC
DESIGN SERVICES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); FASHION &
APPAREL (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (57%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (57%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS
(57%)

CITY: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (71%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); INDONESIA (88%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Accepting That Death Can't Be Controlled

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words


Percolating coffee drips into a pot at the front of the Chocolate Factory stage.
Boiling grounds are a familiar scent, burbling water a familiar sound, the sort
of routine you reach for when the world seems inexplicable, unmoored.

Sarah (Juliana Francis-Kelly), a character in Aaron Landsman's ''Running Away
From the One With the Knife,'' is the sort of woman who clings to habit. A
successful lawyer, she likes to clean, to organize, to control. ''I do my
billing in six-minute increments,'' she says. ''I'm fastidious about my time so
I can measure my life.''

But she can't control her volatile sister, Christina (the playwright Kate
Benson), who has made several attempts at suicide. Sarah tries to keep her from
harm, ordering an electric oven for her house and hiding the knives. It isn't
enough. After Christina's death, Sarah tries to bond and to pray with Guillaume
(James Himelsbach), the monk cum building super who also tried to save
Christina.

Of course this makes the play, directed by Mallory Catlett, sound simpler than
it is. The scenes are brief and flow into one another, and Christina is present
in a lot of them, alive or dead or somewhere in between.

Although Mr. Landsman has written some scenes as funny and some scenes as
serious and at least one as musical, there's a strange sameness that settles
over the piece. Mr. Landsman usually writes site-specific work, and the theater
seems to constrain him. The actors wheel pieces of Jim Findlay's translucent
white set around and write on it with charcoal or crayon, but then those words
are erased and the scenery shifts back to neutral. Even the death, when it
finally comes, feels oddly flat.

Maybe this is intentional, the sort of flattening that happens when people are
exhausted by pain, by life. Still, it's not exactly theatrical, and eventually
it becomes oppressive, though this might be intentional, too.

''I don't do miracles,'' Guillaume says. But you wish he could offer the play
and its audience just a little salvation.

''Running Away From the One With the Knife'' continues through March 28 at the
Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens; 212-352-3101,
chocolatefactorytheater.org.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/18/theater/review-in-running-away-from-the-one-wi
th-the-knife-a-suicide-pondered.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Running Away From the One With the Knife: Juliana Francis-Kelly
as  Sarah struggles with her sister's suicidal impulses in this play.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN ROGERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES
(78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (74%); THEATER (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials KETIVE, SAMUEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 25 words


KETIVE--Samuel. We can't believe it's been 1 year without you. There is still a
hole in our hearts. We will miss and love you forever. Your Girls 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ZAP, BERNICE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 49 words


ZAP--Bernice. The congregation of Temple Shaaray Tefila records with deepest
sorrow the death of our longtime, cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are
extended to her family. May God comfort her loved ones and may her memory be for
blessing. Rabbi Deborah A. Hirsch Michael Starr, President 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SILVERMAN, SOPHIE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 46 words


SILVERMAN--Sophie, 95, passed March 18th. Beloved wife of the late Philip.
Devoted mother of Michael (Carol) and Arthur (Meralee). Cherished grandmother of
Aimee, Ian, Peter and Kenny. Funeral Services Sunday 1:30pm at Schwartz
Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Forest Hills, NY. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROTH, LENKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 69 words


ROTH--Lenke. The leadership of the Maimonides Heart & Vascular Center extends
deepest condolences to our Advisory Board Chair and friend, Alex Rovt, on the
passing of his beloved mother. We deeply appreciate the vital support of Alex
and his wife Olga, and mourn with your entire family at this time of loss. Jacob
Shani, MD Greg Ribakove, MD Robert Rhee, MD Louise Valerio, VP Maimonides Heart
& Vascular Center 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROTH, LENKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 81 words


ROTH--Lenke. The Board of Trustees, doctors and staff of Maimonides Medical
Center mourn the loss of the beloved mother of our esteemed colleague Alex Rovt.
We extend heartfelt condolences to Alex and Olga and their sons who spared no
effort in caring for this courageous woman, survivor of the Holocaust and an
inspiration to her family and others whose lives she touched. Kenneth Gibbs,
Chair Martin D. Payson, Chair Emeritus Pamela S. Brier, President & CEO
Maimonides Medical Center 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HOLOCAUST (83%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RABINOVICH, SHEILA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 107 words


RABINOVICH--Sheila, on March 19th at the age of 89 of Boynton Beach, Florida and
formerly of Manhasset, NY. Beloved wife of the late Solomon Rabinovich, devoted
mother of Barry Rabinovich and his wife, Shelley, the late Alan Rabinovich and
Debra Rabinovich and her husband Darryl, loving grandmother of Aaron, Rachel,
Amy, Alexandra and David. Service Sunday at 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El of
Closter, 180 Piermont Road, Closter, NJ. Memorial contributions should be
directed to Rabbi's Discretionary Fund of Temple Beth Israel, 1 Temple Drive,
Port Washington, NY 11050 or Temple Emanu-El of Closter, 180 Piermont Road,
Closter, NJ 07624. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (83%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths PURDY, DANIEL V.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 83 words


PURDY--Daniel V.,age 31, died at home on March 18th, 2015, surrounded by loved
ones, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Daniel is survived by his daughter,
Eliza, his partner, Alexandra Genco, his parents, Catherine and Victor Purdy,
sister Alicia Purdy, brother-in-law Jacob Schauer, niece Mila and nephew Rowan.
Visitation is Friday, March 20th from 2-4 and 7-9pm at the Horn & Thomes Funeral
Home, Pawling, NY. Mass will be celebrated on Saturday, March 21st at 10am at
St. John's Pawling. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths PITLER, ROBERT M

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 210 words


PITLER--Robert M. It is with profound sadness that we announce the passing of
Robert M. Pitler, adored husband, father, brother, uncle, friend and mentor.
Born in the Bronx in 1941, Bob stayed true to his roots (a Yankee fan) through a
lifetime of accomplishments. He was a distinguished Professor of Law at Brooklyn
Law School, his alma mata, for more than 25 years, where he taught with a
passion for his profession and a desire to infuse his love of the law to his
many students. He was a man of extraordinary integrity. Prior to teaching at
Brooklyn Law School, he served the public with distinction for thirteen years as
an Assistant District Attorney in the Manhattan District Attorney's office,
heading the Appeals Bureau and the Investigations Division. Bob previously
taught law at Syracuse University Law School, and the University of Colorado Law
School. He served as Senior Law Clerk to Chief Judge Charles Brietel of the New
York State Court of Appeals, and was also the Chairman of the New York State Law
Revision Commission. Bob will be sorely missed by his family, his many friends,
and by the students he inspired over the years. There will be a memorial tribute
to Bob at Brooklyn Law School open to all on April 27th, in the late afternoon.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
(90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JUDGES (69%); APPEALS COURTS
(68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW YORK
COURT OF APPEALS (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MOULTON, PAUL RICHARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 82 words


MOULTON--Paul Richard, born November 7, 1971, died March 19, 2015 from
pneumonia. Beloved son of Harriet Hayflick Moulton and the late A. Conant
Moulton. Brother of Merion Estes, Roger Conant Moulton, Pamela Moulton, John
Moulton, and Emily Elizabeth Moulton. Paul afflicted at birth with
hydrocephalus, was nurtured at home for 43 years by his loyal mother who never
gave up. RIP Paul. Memorial service on Sunday, March 22, 2015, will be at Frank
E. Campbell Funeral Chapel. 81st and Madison. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); PNEUMONIA (85%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (84%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MINTZ, ANITA FRANZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 196 words


MINTZ--Anita Franz, On March 16, 2015. Beloved wife of Morton Mintz, beloved
mother of Margaret (John Birdsall), Roberta (Harry Levine) and Daniel (Meredith
Berkman), and much loved grandmother to Jules, Sophia, Emilia, Peter, Jesse,
Isaac, Noa, Caleb, Avital and Yael. Born in Springfield, Ill., February 28, 1925
to the late Herman R. and Anna Levinson Franz. She attended Grinnell College and
graduated from the University of Michigan. She was a writer for the Michigan
Daily where she met Morton the day he returned from his WW II naval service.
They married three months later, and remained happily married for 69 years.
Never unkind, never prejudiced, she defined sweetness. Always thoughtful, she
was an avid book reader. She will remain forever in our hearts. After a private
burial service on March 18, the family is sitting Shiva in Washington D.C. and
Manhattan. Contributions in Anita's memory may be made to American Jewish World
Service at http://ajws.org/get--involved/ donate, or to the Anita Mintz Memorial
Fund of the International Rescue Committee, Attn: Donor Services, 11th Floor,
122 East 42nd St., New York, NY 10168, https:// engage.rescue.org/donate 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WRITERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); AMERICAN JEWISH WORLD SERVICE (55%);
INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (87%); DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MEADE, THOMAS FRANCIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 529 words


MEADE--Thomas Francis, age 80, passed peacefully on March 14 surrounded by his
loving family. Tom was born on September 17, 1934 and raised in Bellerose, NY.
He was the youngest of six children born to Kathryn and James Meade.

Tom was a long time resident of Brookville, NY, having served as President of
the Brookville Taxpayers Association, as a volunteer firefighter in the Jericho
Fire Department and as a lector for 40 years at St. Paul the Apostle Church - a
parish he loved and helped to build. Tom attended Manhattan College, graduating
in 1956 with a B.S. He began his career at Bankers Trust Company while earning
an MBA from New York University. After working on the Municipal Bond desk at
Smith Barney, Tom joined Bear Stearns as a talented and spirited fixed income
salesman. He loved the bond business and was a passionate mentor to many young
professionals heading to Wall Street. Ultimately retiring from Bear Stearns as a
Senior Managing Director, Tom earned the respect and, most importantly, the
friendship of customers, colleagues and competitors. Tom loved, and was beloved
by, his family and his friends. He would often regale them with stories of his
shenanigans in school and stickball in the street. All who knew him were touched
by his kindness, his generous spirit and his enormous heart. Tom was always an
optimist and quick with an encouraging word whenever one was needed. Tom shared
his time, talent and treasure with many charitable organizations. Over the
years, he served as a Trustee of St. Francis College in Brooklyn, NY, and was a
fundraiser for The Ronald McDonald House, The Boy Scouts of America, The
Archbishop's Council for the Laity and many others. He sold thousands of boxes
of Girl Scout Cookies and was the long-time "official Santa" at Bear Stearns.
Tom's true love was his family. He was an amazing husband, father and
grandfather. He and his loving wife Joan were married for 58 years. His three
children, Paul (Bernadette), Charlie (Julie) and Regina (Anthony) and the loves
of his life, his eight grandchildren, Lauren, Gregory, Courtney, Marielle,
Perry, Gracie, Tommy and Xavier were adored by him. An avid reader of United
States history, Tom enjoyed being surrounded by books and maps. He enjoyed
classic WWII movies with his favorite treat, Junior Mints. He loved golf, always
commiserating about his game with his buddies. When not on the golf course, he
was often spotted with his leaf-blower, making sure the driveway was pristine. A
summer barbecue, a dip in the pool, a Macanudo cigar in his hand while pushing a
grandchild on a swing made a perfect day for Tom and that is how his family will
always remember him. Tom was surrounded with love and laughter throughout his
life and in his final days. His brilliant light will live on in our hearts
forever. Please keep him in your prayers. Donations may be made in his honor to:
St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital, Memphis or to the charity of your
choice. A Mass of Resurrection will be held at 12:30pm, Saturday, March 21 at
St. Paul the Apostle Roman Catholic Church, Brookville, NY. He will be interred
at the Locust Valley Cemetery in Locust Valley, NY. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); BONDS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GRANDPARENTS
(78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS
(76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); MUNICIPAL
BONDS (74%); GOLF (73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%);
RELIGION (70%); CHARITIES (64%)

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%);
BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MCGOVERN, MICHAEL HARRY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 78 words


McGOVERN--Michael Harry. Renaissance man, world traveler, graduate of SUNY
Albany, University Massachusetts Amherst and Princeton. Lover of French mystery
novels, Star Trek, physics and Indian food. He will be missed terribly by all
who love him. Family will receive friends on Friday, March 20th, 5pm to 8pm at
Chas. Peter Nagel Funeral Directors, 352 E. 87th St., NYC. Memorial Mass at Our
Lady of Good Counsel Church, 230 E. 90th, NYC, Saturday, March 21st at 10am. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HOLMAN, THOMAS SETH (BORN APRIL 21

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 207 words


HOLMAN--Thomas Seth (born April 21, 1953 died March 16, 2015) died in Manhattan
of respiratory failure. He was born in Manhattan the second son of Adele and the
late Merton Holman of Teaneck, NJ. Tom as he was known had a lifelong career as
an art historian, author and private art advisor. Tom earned his bachelor's
degree at Macalester College '76 and his master's degree from the University of
Chicago '78 as well as studying at Oxford University and University of Vienna.
During the past 40 years he served as Chief Curator at the Norton Museum of Art,
Curator of Collections at the Minnesota Museum of American Art, Associate
Director at Forum Gallery, and Executive Director at the Hudson River Museum,
Albany Museum of Art, and Marietta/Cobb Museum of Art. He assembled an extensive
42-year collection of Grand Tour souvenirs that were recently auctioned at the
Skinners Gallery in Boston. Tom is survived by his mother Adele Holman of
Teaneck, NJ, brother Bert Holman and sister-in-law Randy Sue Foster of Waban, MA
and nieces Mollie Jo of New York City and Ella of Washington, DC. Graveside
service will be private on Friday. The family will be receiving family and
friends on Sunday from 1 to 4pm, at 580 Rutland Avenue Teaneck, NJ 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (90%); HISTORY (76%); ART HISTORY (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (76%); ART COLLECTING (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%);
CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%);
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HARWOOD, LOWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 49 words


HARWOOD--Lowell. A dear friend and business associate. A giant in the parking
industry, well known for his foresight. Noted for his warmth and good humor. Our
deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Toby, their children, Leslie and Craig,
and their grandchildren. Margy and Elliot Brownstein 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); GRANDCHILDREN (83%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HAMMERMAN, BENJAMIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 81 words


HAMMERMAN--Benjamin. UJA-Federation of New York mourns the passing of Benjamin
Hammerman, whose family carries on a tradition of exceptional Jewish
philanthropy. We extend our condolences to Ben's wife, Lorelei; his children
Deborah (Dr. Richard Born), Judy (Dr. Lawrence Weiss), and Dr. Hillel Hammerman
(Caren); his brother, David; his grandchildren; his greatgrandchildren; and the
entire family. Alisa R. Doctoroff, President; Linda Mirels, Chair of the Board;
Eric S. Goldstein, CEO 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HAMMERMAN, BENJAMIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 38 words


HAMMERMAN--Benjamin. Our deepest sympathy and much love go to the family of
Benjamin Hammerman. Our heartfelt condolences to Lorelei, Deborah, Judith, Hilel
and the entire Hammerman, Born, and Weiss families. Gale and Ira Drukier 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GARLAND, DR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 165 words


GARLAND--Dr. Paul Griffith. Griff Garland, as he was known, passed away
peacefully, surrounded by his family, on March 16, 2015. He was born in Moscow,
Idaho to JV and Rachel Garland on April 30, 1930. He was married to Joan Marie
Bruder on August 28, 1954. He earned his B.A. from Yale University in 1952 and
his law degree from Harvard in 1955. He earned his Brazilian law credentials in
Sao Paulo and practiced international corporate law for 35 years, also writing
three books including Doing Business in and with Brazil. During the last 20
years of his life, he worked extensively on family genealogy, and traveled the
world with his wife Joan. He is survived by his wife Joan, his sons Patrick and
John, his daughter and son-in-law, Cathy Garland and Michael O'Hanlon, and his
grandchildren Grace and Lily. He was predeceased by his daughter Bonnie and his
brother John. The family invites visitors at Edwin Bennett Funeral Home in
Scarsdale, NY from 1-3 and 5-7 on Saturday, March 21. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%);
GENEALOGY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (70%)

STATE: IDAHO, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BARON, LEONARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 124 words


BARON--Leonard, loving father, grandfather, father-in-law, friend passed away
peacefully on March 16 at his home in Palm Beach, FL. He was born April 23, 1919
in NYC, graduated from Columbia Grammar, UNC Chapel Hill and Harvard Business
School. He served in the US Navy during WWII and was one of the first to land on
Normandy Beach. He spent his career leading Royal Paper Corp of New York/New
Jersey, a family owned business. He is survived by his two daughters Marcia
Hershey and Lisa Schenker, her husband Gregg, four grandchildren; William, Emma,
Nicholas and Olivia. Joan his beloved wife of 54 years predeceased him. He lived
longer than he ever dreamed, but much shorter than his family hoped. A family
service will be held graveside. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (88%);
GRANDCHILDREN (88%); WORLD WAR II (87%); FAMILY COMPANIES (87%); BUSINESS
EDUCATION (71%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials BARNHART, L. IRVIN, BORN MARCH 6, 1943, PASSED AWAY MARCH
17TH AT HOME WITH FAMILY SURROUNDING HIM. OBITUARY AND PRIVATE SERVICES TO
FOLLOW. 1

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 23 words


BARNHART--L. Irvin, born March 6, 1943, passed away March 17th at home with
family surrounding him. Obituary and private services to follow. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SCHNEIDER, DANIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 62 words


SCHNEIDER--Daniel. It is with profound sorrow that the partners and staff of
Lipsky, Goodkin and Company, P.C. mourn the loss of our longtime, esteemed,
former partner and friend. A mainstay of our firm, respected and admired by all,
he will always be remembered. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Janice, his son
Ronald, his daughters Jackie and Julie and their families.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RIGGIN, GLORIA ANN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 63 words


Riggin--Gloria Ann. Born October 18, 1923, died March 18, 2015. Retired NYC
Teacher, Navy WAVE Veteran of WWII. Predeceased by beloved husband William H.
Riggin. Loving mother of Kathleen, Patricia, Michael, William, and their
spouses, Don, David, Brenda, and Teresa. Dear grandmother of David, Andrew,
Sean, Chris, Michael, Corinne, Alexandra, and Billy. Johann & Sons 718-359-0276

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WORLD WAR II (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MIDDLEBROOKS, WINDELL THE BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 72 words


MIDDLEBROOKS--Windell The Board, staff and membership of Iraq and Afghanistan
Veterans of America (IAVA) are saddened by the passing of our dear friend. His
commitment to the veterans community was personified in his iconic role as the
Miller High Life Delivery Man. A constant at our VetTogether events, he filled
our hearts with joy and laughter. We extend our condolences to his family and
friends. Paul Rieckhoff, Founder & CEO

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (72%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HARWOOD, LOWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 38 words


HARWOOD--Lowell. Mentor, Friend, Teacher, Parking Industry Leader
Philanthropist, Family Organizer, Sports Enthusiast. Politician, Fighter for
Justice. Most of all Beloved Uncle. Brett, Margie, Jamie, Shawn and Virginia
Harwood

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FRESCHMAN, DAVID JAY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 262 words


FRESCHMAN--David Jay. Age 52, of Hockessin, DE, passed away peacefully on
Tuesday, March 17, 2015, surrounded by his loved ones after losing his battle
with pancreatic cancer.

Born in Wilmington, DE to Rachael and Morris Freschman, he received a BS in
Accounting from the University of Delaware and a MBA from Loyola University.
David was a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a Charted Global Management
Accountant (CGMA) and an astonishing venture capitalist. With a mix of
entrepreneurship, creativity and immense passion for the world of business,
David became a veteran in the Venture Capital Industry. Some positions from his
astounding resume include the founder of Delaware Innovation Fund, Early Stage
East, ARC Angel Fund, Innovation Capital Advisors and FashInvest. David was a
consultant for the hit television show, Shark Tank on ABC. He was also a
professor and board member at LIM College where he enjoyed spreading knowledge
and educating future entrepreneurs. David is survived by his wife, Robin; two
children, Samara and Jared; parents, Morris and Rachael; brother, Neil; sister,
Iris Harris (Ken); many nieces and nephews; and many great friends. Funeral
services will be 1:00pm, Thursday, March 19, 2015 at Congregation Beth Emeth,
300 W. Lea Boulevard, Wilmington, DE 19802. Shiva will be observed 7:00pm,
Thursday, Saturday and Sunday evenings at the late residence. In lieu of
flowers, the family suggests contributions in David's memory to the Pancreatic
Cancer Action Network (www.pancan.org), Congregation Beth Emeth or a charity of
your choice.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACCOUNTING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%);
VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (77%); CANCER (77%); BUSINESS
EDUCATION (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%);
TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (58%)

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (91%)

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
