
                               1 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carmakers Take a Hint From Tablets

BYLINE: By JOHN R. QUAIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words


Reaching an apogee of confusion, car dashboards have become a bewildering array
of screens, buttons and knobs to control functions like the radio, ventilation,
advanced safety systems and Internet services.

Looking to simplify such cockpitlike controls, automakers are starting to take
design cues from a familiar household device, the tablet computer.

Ford, for example, announced last month that it would adopt a new touch-screen,
tablelike system to replace its much-criticized connected-car designs. It's a
reflection of the radical transformation of vehicles as automakers wrestle with
how to integrate smartphones and online services into cars without increasing
driver distraction -- and frustration.

''We looked at what aspects of tablets made sense,'' said Don Butler, Ford's
executive director for connected vehicles and services, referring to the Sync 3,
the next generation of the company's in-dash system, which will appear in models
this year. Ford plans to offer Sync 3 across its entire line in the United
States by the end of 2016.

It's a marked shift for Ford, whose seven-year partnership with Microsoft
produced several systems that were often criticized for being too complex and
balky.

The new system will be based on software from QNX Software Systems, a Canadian
company with extensive experience in the automotive industry. Even though QNX is
owned by BlackBerry, Ford took its inspiration for Sync 3 not from the parent
company's smartphones but from Apple's iPad.

Based on an eight-inch touch screen, Sync 3 uses fewer and larger icons that can
be recognized at a glance. The touch-sensitive areas are bigger, and drivers can
use more than one finger at a time, allowing for gestures like pinching to zoom
in on a map. A bar along the bottom of the screen always displays primary
functions like climate control, navigation and audio.

But moves that may be convenient for a tablet user lying on a couch can be
deadly for drivers.

Tesla Model S owners, for example, can view a reverse camera angle of the car
while driving forward, as well as view other information, all of it illuminated
on a vast 17-inch touch screen.

''But the bigger size is better because it means the buttons can be larger,''
said Todd Lockwood, a Model S owner in South Burlington, Vt. Mr. Lockwood said
he could adjust braking and suspension settings while driving, which is easier
on the big screen.

Conversely, Cadillac has been criticized for its iPad-like CUE system, which has
a touch-sensitive slider to adjust the volume. Ford endured similar disdain from
many drivers over a touch-sensitive volume button in some MyLincoln Touch
systems.

To Ford, the message was clear: The volume knob stays.

Mr. Butler said that Ford was sensitive to the problem of driver distraction. So
some gestures common in tablets and smartphones are not migrating to the
dashboard.

''When you scroll through a list, the list continues to roll normally on a
tablet, but that inertial spinning is not ideal for a vehicle environment,'' Mr.
Butler said. That move will not be in Sync 3 so that drivers do not become
mesmerized spinning playlists, for example.

Ford said that it was keeping an eye on voluntary guidelines set in 2013 by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which recommend that any single
interaction not take more than two seconds. In that time, a car can travel 176
feet at 60 miles an hour.

One of the most anticipated new touch-screen systems is coming from Volvo, which
has made safety one of its biggest selling points. The centerpiece of its new
XC90 sport utility vehicle, coming early this year, is a new connected-car
system that has a nine-inch touch screen.

''Everybody's used to touch screens,'' said Thomas Müller, Volvo's vice
president for electrical and electronic systems engineering. ''You see them in
modern kitchens; simple laptops come with a touch screen. It's become mainstream
and a normal thing to do.''

As a result, there will be only eight buttons in the Volvo system, including
what the industry calls hard controls for front and rear defrost, skip track,
pause and a mandatory hazard warning light switch. And, yes, there is a large
knob that can control the volume.

Mr. Müller argues that because consumers are so accustomed to touch interfaces,
it's the safest design for connected-car systems, with some caveats.
''Interactions on the screen should not lead to misinterpretation,'' he said,
''because while driving it can be devastating.''

So other ways of interacting with the system need to be deployed, like improved
voice control. In the new Volvo system, drivers will be able to say, ''I'm
cold,'' and the heat will come on, Mr. Müller said.

One of the most positively reviewed connected-car systems of the last year has
been the Chrysler brand's Uconnect, another QNX-based system. It uses an
8.4-inch touch screen in its top-of-the-line system. The graphics look less like
a tablet, but the controls are simple and unembellished.

''When customers see a large screen, they think it provides an opportunity to
touch and control,'' said Joni Christensen, Chrysler's head of global marketing,
Uconnect systems and services. But there are also hard or physical controls for
heat and air-conditioning and voice recognition that can switch radio stations
or get a weather report. ''It helps people adapt to the new technology at their
own pace,'' she said.

Andrew Poliak, global director of business development at QNX, said that
different types of controls, like the volume knob, were needed for different
tasks.

Not all automakers are embracing touch screens, including Audi.

Anupam Malhotra, Audi's senior manager for connected vehicles, said that rather
than using a single iPad-like screen, multiple touch screens might be a better
solution. (Audi is about to introduce its next-generation connected-car system,
but it would not say whether it will adopt a touch screen.)

Nevertheless, many automakers are clearly on a tablet track. What's less clear
is how they will work with the companies behind those tablets. Nearly every car
manufacturer insists it is working closely with Apple and Google, each of which
will be promoting its own software -- CarPlay and Android Auto -- this year.

While that happens, the tablet revolution rolls on.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/automobiles/to-tame-dashboard-chaos-carmakers-
take-a-hint-from-tablets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With Sync 3, the  next generation  of Ford's in-dash  system,
drivers  can use two-fingered  gestures  for tasks like  zooming in on a  map.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD MOTOR COMPANY) (B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPUTER
SOFTWARE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%);
DISTRACTED DRIVING (89%); HAPTIC TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (78%);
INTERNET & WWW (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); SMARTPHONES (75%); HOLDING
COMPANIES (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); QNX SOFTWARE SYSTEMS LTD (55%); MICROSOFT CORP
(55%); BLACKBERRY LTD (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ)
(55%); BB (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER
CAR BODIES (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE
PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%)

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

James to Miss at Least Two Weeks With Injuries

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 509 words


LeBron James's homecoming season has hit a hurdle.

James, the four-time most valuable player who returned to the Cleveland
Cavaliers from the Miami Heat in the off-season, is expected to miss at least
the next two weeks with injuries to his left knee and back. The news is another
blow to the Cavaliers (18-14), who have been jarred by a rash of medical
problems and have failed to live up to the big expectations that followed
James's re-signing as a free agent.

The team said Thursday that James had knee and back strains and that he would be
treated with ''anti-inflammatories, rehabilitation, training room treatments and
rest.''

If he is out for just the predicted time, he will return for a Jan. 15 game in
Los Angeles against the Lakers. In 11 professional seasons, James, who turned 30
on Dec. 30, has never missed more than five straight games, but this absence
could reach 10 games or more.

He missed his second straight game on Wednesday, a home loss to Milwaukee that
followed a road loss to Atlanta.

BULLS 106, NUGGETS 101 Derrick Rose scored 13 of his 17 points in the fourth
quarter, and host Chicago rallied past Denver.

Jimmy Butler led the Bulls (23-10) with 26 points, and Pau Gasol had 17 points,
9 rebounds and a career-high 9 blocks.

The late surge by Rose lifted Chicago to its 11th win in 13 games. Rose, the
2011 most valuable player, missed his first eight shots, including seven while
failing to score in the first half, but he dominated down the stretch, coming up
with one big basket after another.

Wilson Chandler led Denver (13-20) with 22 points, Ty Lawson added 20, and Arron
Afflalo had 19 points. Kenneth Faried combined 18 points with 19 rebounds.

KINGS 110, TIMBERWOLVES 107 Rudy Gay had 21 points, 6 rebounds and 5 assists,
and struggling Sacramento handed visiting Minnesota its 10th straight loss.

DeMarcus Cousins had 19 points and 7 rebounds after being ejected one night
earlier, and each of the starters for the Kings scored in double figures. Darren
Collison led them with 21 points.

The rookie Andrew Wiggins had 27 points and 9 rebounds, and Gorgui Dieng added
15 points and 10 rebounds for the Timberwolves, but they could not take
advantage when Cousins and Gay fouled out in the fourth quarter.

CURRY STILL NO. 2 IN VOTING LeBron James and the Warriors' Stephen Curry remain
the leading N.B.A. All-Star vote-getters after the second tally of fan ballots.
James leads all with 775,810 votes at the Eastern Conference frontcourt spot.
Curry has 755,486, good for second in the league and tops among the Western
Conference guards.

The Bulls' Pau Gasol and the Knicks' Carmelo Anthony follow in the East
frontcourt. The Wizards' John Wall remains the East's leading vote-getter in the
backcourt, followed by the Heat's Dwyane Wade.

Kobe Bryant of the Lakers is second to Curry in the West backcourt. The
frontcourt is led by the Pelicans' Anthony Davis, the Clippers' Blake Griffin
and the Grizzlies' Marc Gasol.

Voting runs through Jan. 19, and starters for the Feb. 15 game at Madison Square
Garden will be announced Jan. 22.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/basketball/lebron-james-may-miss-two-we
eks-with-knee-and-back-injuries.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LeBron James missed a loss Tuesday in Atlanta, above, and
another Wednesday to Milwaukee as the Cavaliers fell to 18-14. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%);
ATHLETES (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (93%); MIAMI HEAT (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (82%);
LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (93%); CARMELO ANTHONY (79%); DERRICK ROSE (79%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA
(70%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%); DENVER, CO, USA (70%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); OHIO, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); WISCONSIN,
USA (70%); COLORADO, USA (70%); WEST USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

20 Shows to Watch

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S
NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words


When did winter become the season of television's most distinguished content?
The fall season, with its organized and heavily publicized broadcast-network
premieres, still gets the attention, but a greater number of interesting shows
now arrive on cable, broadcast and online in the first quarter of the year.

More than 110 new and returning series made the shortlist for this roundup
before being whittled down to the 20 that appear here. (And that's without the
HBO shows ''True Detective,'' which is being moved to later in the year, and
''Game of Thrones,'' ''Veep'' and ''Silicon Valley,'' whose April premiere dates
haven't been announced.) From a ''Breaking Bad'' spinoff, to the return of
''Broadchurch,'' to the final season of ''Justified,'' the winter is high season
for the serious TV watcher.

THE BRIDGE (Hulu, Friday) The second season of this Danish-Swedish crime drama
(the source for FX's recently canceled series of the same name) once again
involves the Oresund Bridge connecting the two countries.

DOWNTON ABBEY (PBS, Sunday) Season 5 begins with new blows to Lord Grantham's
self-esteem and the somewhat Victorian touch of an illegitimate baby hidden away
in a cottage. For those who haven't already pirated the British broadcasts or
read the recaps, let's just say that the first episode involves a very heated
situation.

EMPIRE (Fox, Wednesday) The filmmaker Lee Daniels (''Precious,'' ''Lee Daniels'
The Butler'') is behind this new hip-hop soap opera starring Terrence Howard as
a rap mogul with a terminal disease.

BABYLON (Sundance, Thursday) James Nesbitt, recently seen as the obsessed father
of a long-vanished child in ''The Missing,'' shows up here in a very different
role: as a calculating old-school police commissioner who hires an American
public-relations expert (Brit Marling) to update the image of Scotland Yard.
Danny Boyle (''Slumdog Millionaire'') created this satirical drama, which bears
some resemblance to Armando Iannucci's political comedy film ''In the Loop.''

TOGETHERNESS (HBO, Jan. 11) HBO's Sunday night comedy block already covers
early-20-something New York women (''Girls,'' beginning its fourth season the
same night) and late-20-something San Francisco gay men (''Looking,'' beginning
its second). Now it adds 30-something Los Angeles straight people in this
sometimes bleakly comic half-hour from Jay and Mark Duplass, the brothers behind
quirky films like ''The Puffy Chair'' and ''Baghead.'' Mark Duplass and Melanie
Lynskey play a married couple sharing a house with his best friend (Steve
Zissis) and her sister (Amanda Peet).

BROAD CITY (Comedy Central, Jan. 14) Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson return for a
second season of satirizing the poses, compromises and sheer physical grossness
of life in New York when you're underemployed and self-absorbed.

THE NIGHTLY SHOW WITH LARRY WILMORE (Comedy Central, Jan. 19) Mr. Wilmore's
topical comedy show replaces ''The Colbert Report'' at 11:30 p.m. and represents
the latest opportunity to introduce some diversity to late-night programming. No
pressure there!

JUSTIFIED (FX, Jan. 20) The series-long love-hate relationship between Deputy
Marshal Raylan Givens (Timothy Olyphant) and his friend and nemesis Boyd Crowder
(Walton Goggins) will be resolved, one way or another, in the show's sixth and
final season.

BACKSTROM (Fox, Jan. 22) Last year, Fox tried a show about a self-destructive
lawyer (''Rake,'' starring Greg Kinnear) that was based on an Australian TV
series. That didn't work, but now the network is trying a show about a
self-destructive detective (played by Rainn Wilson of ''The Office'') that's
based on a series of Swedish novels. The show was created by Hart Hanson, who
was responsible for the Fox series ''Bones,'' but in the pilot Mr. Wilson's
Backstrom looks a lot more House-like than Bones-like.

THE AMERICANS (FX, Jan. 28) Season 3 of this terrific blend of Cold War spy
thriller and family drama begins with Washington's K.G.B. contingent feeling the
weight of the Soviet war in Afghanistan. Frank Langella joins the cast as the
new handler for the show's husband-and-wife agents, replacing Margo Martindale's
Claudia. (Making its premiere eight days later: NBC's ''Allegiance,'' about
Russian spies embedded in the United States. Huh.)

FOYLE'S WAR (acorn.tv, Feb. 2) After nabbing the final three episodes of
''Agatha Christie's Poirot'' last year, the streaming service Acorn TV scores
another coup in the field of traditional British mysteries with the American
premiere of this superior show's ninth season. Starring Michael Kitchen as
Christopher Foyle, a detective as honorable as he is shrewd, the series has
morphed over the years from a provincial home-front cop show to a le Carré-like
Cold War thriller. New episodes involve the Nuremberg trials and Britain's role
in Palestine.

FRESH OFF THE BOAT (ABC, Feb. 4) A Chinese-American family adjusts to life in
mid-'90s Florida in this culture-clash comedy based on a memoir by the
restaurateur and food-and-travel-show host Eddie Huang. Hudson Yang plays the
11-year-old hip-hop wannabe Eddie, and Randall Park (Kim Jong-un in ''The
Interview'') plays his father, proud proprietor of a suburban steakhouse.

BETTER CALL SAUL (AMC, Feb. 8) Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould's ''Breaking Bad''
spinoff is probably the most anticipated new series of the winter. Starring Bob
Odenkirk as the crooked lawyer Saul Goodman, the show is set before the action
of ''Breaking Bad,'' so any appearances by Bryan Cranston or Aaron Paul would be
cameos at best. But the audience favorite Jonathan Banks reprises his role as
the phlegmatic enforcer Mike Ehrmantraut.

JINX: THE LIFE AND DEATHS OF ROBERT DURST (HBO, Feb. 8) Andrew Jarecki
(''Capturing the Friedmans'') directed this six-part documentary series with the
cooperation of Mr. Durst, the New York real estate scion linked to several
killings and the unsolved disappearance of his first wife.

THE SLAP (NBC, Feb. 12) Jon Robin Baitz and Lisa Cholodenko are producers of
this adaptation of an Australian mini-series about the fallout from a momentary
loss of control at a backyard birthday party. The impressive cast includes Peter
Sarsgaard, Uma Thurman, Thandie Newton, Brian Cox and Melissa George (who also
appeared in the original).

HOUSE OF CARDS (Netflix, Feb. 27) Netflix's political grand guignol gets a
13-episode third season. Kim Dickens of ''Treme'' joins Kevin Spacey and Robin
Wright in the cast, and two members of Pussy Riot will make a guest appearance.

BATTLE CREEK (CBS, March 1) What a difference a hit makes. Vince Gilligan wrote
a pilot script for this frenemy-cop show more than a decade ago, before he was
Vince Gilligan, creator of ''Breaking Bad'' (and ''Better Call Saul''). Now it's
being made into a series with a 13-episode guarantee from CBS. Dean Winters
(''Law & Order: SVU,'' ''30 Rock'') plays a local detective and Josh Duhamel
(''Las Vegas'') a slick F.B.I. agent who work together, uneasily, in the Cereal
City of Battle Creek, Mich.

BROADCHURCH (BBC America, March 4) David Tennant returns in the second season of
this evocative British mystery, playing Detective Alec Hardy again (after a
season as Detective Emmett Carver in the American remake, ''Gracepoint''). With
the British premiere scheduled for Monday, the producers have begun to talk a
little about the show's top-secret Season 2 story line, and fans may not like
what they hear: Chris Chibnall, the creator and writer, told a British magazine,
''It's not another crime case.'' Olivia Colman returns as Detective Ellie
Miller, while Charlotte Rampling and Marianne Jean-Baptiste join the cast.

CANCER: THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES (PBS, March 30) Barak Goodman (''Scottsboro:
An American Tragedy,'' ''My Lai'') is the director and Ken Burns is an executive
producer of this six-hour series based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning book ''The
Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer'' by Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee.

WOLF HALL (PBS, April 5) In the season's most promising piece of casting, Damian
Lewis (''Homeland'') will play Henry VIII and the two-time Tony Award winner
Mark Rylance will play Thomas Cromwell in this ''Masterpiece'' adaptation of the
popular Hilary Mantel historical novels.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/television/a-winter-bounty-for-serious-tv
-fans.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael McKean, right, with Bob Odenkirk of ''Breaking Bad,''
in ''Better Call Saul.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN LEUNER/AMC) (C1)
In HBO's ''Togetherness,'' Melanie Lynskey and Mark Duplass play a married
couple living with his best friend and her sister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAIMIE
TRUEBLOOD/HBO): Rainn Wilson stars in ''Backstrom,'' a Fox show about a
detective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI BACHLAKOV/FOX)
 ''The Nightly Show With Larry Wilmore'' takes over Stephen Colbert's time slot.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YANG/COMEDY CENTRAL) (C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION
(78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); COMEDY FILMS (69%); HIP HOP
CULTURE (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); POLICE FORCES (61%);
PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%)

PERSON: TERRENCE HOWARD (79%); STEPHEN COLBERT (50%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Mahendra Singh Dhoni Retires From Test Cricket

BYLINE: By HUW RICHARDS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 940 words


Mahendra Singh Dhoni, captain of India's test cricket team, has retired from
test cricket on the heels of his team's third-match draw against Australia.

Though he will be dearly missed, his departure is not quite the end of an era.
That will come when he also steps down from the two shorter formats of the game.

Although he has long been the team's leader, Dhoni's exit from the test game had
been forecast some time ago. And he left with a successor in place -- Virat
Kohli, who will lead India in the fourth and final test of its series against
Australia when it starts Tuesday in Sydney.

But it still came as a surprise. ''I spoke to him just yesterday. He didn't say
anything,'' Dhoni's manager, Arun Pandey, told the Indian Express newspaper.

''I was a bit taken aback by the suddenness of the statement,'' Sanjay Patel,
general secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India told the Press
Trust of India.

Dhoni, 33, went out on a personal high. In dismissing nine Australian batsmen in
the third test at Adelaide, he set an all-time record for Indian wicketkeepers.
Then, at the end of the match, his defiant batting deprived Australia of victory
and a shot at a sweep in the series, which it leads 2-0.

He reportedly broke down when telling his teammates of his retirement. But his
decision, due to ''the strain of playing in all forms of cricket,'' according to
a B.C.C.I. press statement, was no sudden impulse.

''We had spoken about it before the test,'' Patel told the Press Trust of India.
''I can tell you that it wasn't a decision taken in haste. It was done after due
deliberation.''

And not many are arguing that it was the wrong decision.

Over 55 percent of voters in an online poll in the Indian Express agreed that
his departure was ''not really'' a blow to Indian test cricket.

Ian Chappell, the former captain of Australia, wrote, after being impressed with
Kohli's play and leadership during the first test of the present series, that it
was time for a change. Saurav Ganguly, one of Dhoni's most successful
predecessors as India's captain, wrote in the Hindustan Times, ''I feel the
decision to give up captaincy was right, though I think the decision not to play
test cricket is an incorrect one.''

While he has quit midseries, Australia's 2-0 lead with one to play makes the
final test a moot point and gives Kohli and Wriddiman Saha, his stand-ins as
captain and wicketkeeper respectively, an early shot at their roles.

Few would disagree with Ganguly's description of Dhoni as India's greatest
captain in one-day cricket. He is also a formidable player in the shorter
formats, perhaps the best ''finisher'' in run chases the game has seen. As Ian
Bishop, the former West Indian fast bowler who became a commentator, has said,
''If 15 runs are needed off the last 6 balls, pressure is on the bowler and not
on M.S. Dhoni.''

Yet the remarkable calm that served him so well amid the frantic excitement of
the shorter formats too often looked more like passive fatalism as India
suffered defeat after defeat in test matches outside Asia.

Michael Clarke, Australia's captain, posted on Twitter that Dhoni was ''not only
a tremendous player, but one of the nicest guys I have played against.''

Kohli, 26, will represent a change in style, much closer to the feisty
combativeness of Ganguly than the calm, placid Dhoni. He has batted brilliantly
in the first three tests, playing three innings of more than 100 runs, but he
has also been embroiled in two on-field confrontations with Australian players.

Dhoni's wicketkeeping role will pass initially to Saha, his backup on the
current tour, but the long-term successor may well be the 20-year-old Sanju
Samson.

Dhoni, though, is the definitive hard act to follow in any of his roles. The
fame that landed him on Forbes' list as the world's fifth most valuable athlete
in 2014, which with a brand value of $20 million put him ahead of such giants as
Usain Bolt, Cristiano Ronaldo and Rafael Nadal, rests on his achievements in the
shorter formats. He led India to world championships in Twenty20 cricket in 2007
-- a triumph that paved the way for the game-transforming India Premier League
-- and in the World Cup in 2011. He will lead India's World Cup defense, which
starts at Adelaide on Feb. 15.

Yet his record in the longer game should not be downplayed. His 90 tests are the
most by any Indian wicketkeeper. His 60 tests and 27 wins as India's captain are
also records. Next on the list of wicketkeeper captains from any country is
Mushfiqur Rahim of Bangladesh, with a mere 19 matches.

He scored nearly 5,000 runs in tests at an average of more than 38 runs per
dismissal, which rose to more than 40 during the matches when he was captain. He
did all of this while coping with the enormous mental and physical strain
imposed on all wicketkeepers.

''One of the things I liked about M.S. was, what you saw was what you got. Very
uncomplicated, always led by example,'' Rahul Dravid, a former teammate of Dhoni
who is considered one of the game's greatest batsmen, told ESPN Cricinfo. ''He
never asked you to do anything that he himself didn't do.''

Australia recalls Agar

Australia has recalled Ashton Agar, a 21-year-old spin bowler, to its squad for
the Sydney test that starts Tuesday, Reuters has reported.

In 2012, as a teenager making his debut against England at Nottingham, Agar came
within two runs of becoming the first ever No.11 batsman to score 100 runs in a
test inning and shared a then world-record final wicket stand of 163 with
Phillip Hughes, the Australian batsman who was killed after being struck in the
head while playing in a match at Sydney in November.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/cricket/mahendra-singh-dhoni-retires-fr
om-test-cricket.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRICKET (95%)

PERSON: MAHENDRA SINGH DHONI (94%)

CITY: ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mario Cuomo, 82, Dies; Three-Term Governor Was a Liberal Beacon

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4167 words


Mario M. Cuomo, the three-term governor of New York who commanded the attention
of the country with a compelling public presence, a forceful defense of
liberalism and his exhaustive ruminations about whether to run for president,
died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.

His family confirmed the death, which occurred only hours after Mr. Cuomo's son
Andrew M. Cuomo was inaugurated in Manhattan for a second term as governor. The
cause was heart failure.

Mario Cuomo led New York during a turbulent time, 1983 through 1994. His
ambitions for an activist government were thwarted by recession. He found
himself struggling with the State Legislature not over what the government
should do but over what programs should be cut, and what taxes should be raised,
simply to balance the budget.

Still, no matter the problems he found in Albany, Mr. Cuomo burst beyond the
state's boundaries to personify the liberal wing of his national party and
become a source of unending fascination and, ultimately, frustration for
Democrats, whose leaders twice pressed him to run for president, in 1988 and
1992, to no avail.

In an era when liberal thought was increasingly discredited, Mr. Cuomo, a man of
large intellect and often unrestrained personality, celebrated it, challenging
Ronald Reagan at the height of his presidency with an expansive and affirmative
view of government and a message of compassion, tinged by the Roman Catholicism
that was central to Mr. Cuomo's identity.

A man of contradictions who enjoyed Socratic arguments with himself, Mr. Cuomo
seemed to disdain politics even as he embraced it. ''What an ugly business this
is,'' he liked to say. Yet he reveled in it, proving himself an uncommonly
skilled politician and sometimes a ruthless one.

He was a tenacious debater and a spellbinding speaker at a time when political
oratory seemed to be shrinking to the size of the television set. Delivering the
keynote address at the 1984 Democratic National Convention in San Francisco, he
eclipsed his party's nominee, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, seizing
on Reagan's description of America as ''a shining city on a hill'' to portray
the president as unaware of impoverished Americans. ''Mr. President,'' he said,
''you ought to know that this nation is more a 'tale of two cities' than it is
just a 'shining city on a hill.' ''

The speech was the high-water mark of his national political career, making him
in many ways a more admired figure outside his state than in it.

He enjoyed victories in New York. He closed the Shoreham nuclear plant on Long
Island, ending a long and divisive fight over its potential dangers. He signed
ethics legislation under a cloud of scandals involving state lawmakers and their
employees.

But he may be remembered more for the things he never did than for what he
accomplished. His designs on the presidency became just flirtations. He
encouraged President Bill Clinton to consider him for a seat on the Supreme
Court but pulled back just as the offer was about to be made in 1993. For all
his advocacy of an activist government, he did not always practice it, or could
not, because of the fiscal obstacles he encountered in Albany.

Always given to self-doubt and second-guessing, Mr. Cuomo said that if he had
any regrets about his governorship, it was that he had never identified himself
with a large initiative that might have been his legacy, as the expansion of the
State University of New York was for Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.

Mr. Cuomo noted that he had built more prison cells than any chief executive in
the state's history. But he added, ''What I didn't do was pick one thing and
keep saying it over and over again, so I could have gotten credit for it.''

He had a pointed sense of humor. When an engine failed in a puff of smoke on a
state-owned Gulfstream G-1 jet one morning with the governor aboard, he barely
noticed, and kept talking about national politics until he noticed that a
reporter across the way had stopped taking notes and had turned ashen. ''What's
the matter?'' he asked. ''Aren't you in a state of grace?''

Mr. Cuomo served longer than any of his 51 predecessors except Rockefeller and,
in the early years of the republic, George Clinton. He might have surpassed
Rockefeller, but in seeking a fourth term in 1994, he was defeated by George E.
Pataki, a little-known Republican state senator from Peekskill. Mr. Cuomo's
advisers had counseled him not to run again, but he overruled them.

Andrew Cuomo, a former housing secretary under President Clinton, sought to
become governor himself in 2002, but withdrew from the Democratic field amid an
uproar over remarks he had made questioning Governor Pataki's leadership after
the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. He ran again in 2010 and was elected. It was a
redemptive moment for the Cuomo family, and the first time in New York's history
that a father and son had been elected chief executive. Andrew Cuomo was handily
re-elected in November.

Mario Cuomo, a lawyer by profession, could trim his sails in the face of
opposition, but he held to more than a few positions that went against the grain
of public opinion. Most prominent was his opposition to the death penalty, an
unpopular view that contributed to his defeat by Edward I. Koch in the 1977
mayoral primary in New York and that nearly derailed his first bid for governor.
His annual veto of the death penalty became a rite, and he invoked it as a
testimony to his character and principles.

He was similarly resolute when he defied his church in 1984 by flying to the
University of Notre Dame to proclaim that Roman Catholic politicians who
personally opposed abortion, as he did, could appropriately support the right of
a woman to have an abortion.

Mr. Cuomo's essentially liberal view of government never wavered, even after he
effectively lost the argument when Democrats embraced the centrist Mr. Clinton.
Years afterward, Mr. Cuomo would produce a copy of a speech he delivered to the
progressive New Democratic Coalition in 1974, reading passages aloud with the
same electric spirit and rolling cadences that had made him so evocative a
speaker.

In the end, two images of Mr. Cuomo endure. The first is of him, as governor,
commanding the lectern at the 1984 Democratic convention, stilling a sea of
delegates with his oratory. The second is of two chartered airplanes on the
tarmac at the Albany airport in December 1991, waiting to fly him to New
Hampshire to pay the $1,000 filing fee that would put his name on the state's
Democratic primary ballot for president.

Mr. Cuomo, whose tortuous deliberations over whether to seek the White House had
led pundits to call him ''Hamlet on the Hudson,'' put the decision off until 90
minutes before the 5 p.m. filing deadline. Then he emerged from the Executive
Mansion to announce to a news conference at the Capitol that he would not run.
The demands of negotiating a stalled state budget, he said, prevented him
entering the race.

''It seems to me I cannot turn my attention to New Hampshire while this threat
hangs over the head of the New Yorkers that I've sworn to put first,'' he said.

That explanation failed to persuade even his closest friends, and in the years
to come they would recall the two planes sitting forlornly on the tarmac as
symbols of the governor's unrealized promise.

First Love Was Baseball

Mario Matthew Cuomo was born in Queens on June 15, 1932, the fourth child of
Andrea and Immaculata Cuomo. His parents, penniless and unable to speak English,
had come to the United States from the province of Salerno, south of Naples,
settling at first in Jersey City.

Mario grew up in the Queens neighborhood of South Jamaica, where the family had
moved and opened a grocery store. Mario worked in the store and on Saturdays
served as the ''Shabbos goy'' for an Orthodox synagogue up the street, providing
services as a non-Jew that the faithful were not allowed to do for themselves on
the Sabbath. South Jamaica -- an ''Italian-black-German-Irish-Polish
neighborhood,'' as Mr. Cuomo described it -- provided him with a career's worth
of anecdotes.

It was baseball, not politics, that first engaged him, and he proved as
aggressive in one as in the other. After graduating from St. John's Preparatory
School in Brooklyn in 1949, he played on the freshman baseball team at St.
John's University.

A strapping six feet tall, 190 pounds at age 19, he signed a contract to play
center field for the Class D Brunswick Pirates in Georgia in 1952, reportedly
receiving a $2,000 signing bonus, sizable for that time. Mr. Cuomo ''plays
hard'' and ''will run over you if you get in his way,'' a Pirates scout wrote.

His baseball career was short-lived. Knocked in the head with a 3-and-2 fastball
that summer, he was left blind for a week and forced to give up the game --
leaving with a .244 batting average.

Mr. Cuomo went back to St. John's and graduated in 1953, having majored in Latin
American studies, English and philosophy. By then he had settled on a law career
and married Matilda N. Raffa, a fellow student. On a scholarship he enrolled in
St. John's Law School; while he studied there, his wife, who survives him,
supported them as a teacher.

Besides her and Andrew Cuomo, Mr. Cuomo is survived by four other children, Dr.
Margaret I. Cuomo, Maria Cuomo Cole, Madeline Cuomo O'Donohue and Christopher
Cuomo, a journalist at CNN; and 14 grandchildren.

Mr. Cuomo's first job in the law was as the confidential assistant to Judge
Adrian P. Burke of the New York State Court of Appeals, which Mr. Cuomo would
reshape 30 years later by appointing all seven members, including Judith S.
Kaye, the first woman to serve as chief judge.

His job with Judge Burke and his law school success -- he graduated at the head
of his class -- led Mr. Cuomo to assume that in entering private practice he
would have his pick of New York's leading law firms. Instead, one after another
rejected him, in his view because he was Italian-American. ''I obviously am the
original ethnic from Queens: my hands, my face, my voice, my inflections,'' he
said. One lawyer with whom he spoke suggested that he change his name to Mark
Conrad, he said. The experience fed a lifelong disdain for anybody who struck
Mr. Cuomo as elitist.

He joined a Brooklyn law firm, Corner, Weisbrod, Froeb & Charles, in 1963 and
entered public life the next year, when he took up the case of junkyard dealers
whose property had been condemned; the planner Robert Moses wanted the land, 67
acres, to expand the site of the 1964 World's Fair. Mr. Cuomo won a suit
prohibiting the use of state funds for the project, and three years later the
city decided against seizing the property for parkland.

That victory brought him to the attention of 69 families facing eviction from
their homes in a blue-collar Italian-American neighborhood in Corona, Queens,
where the city wanted to build a school. Mr. Cuomo pressed the city and the
courts into a compromise -- a smaller school -- that preserved 55 of the homes.
And in 1972 Mayor John V. Lindsay recruited him to mediate a far more volatile
city-neighborhood dispute, in Forest Hills, Queens, where middle-class families
were trying to block construction of low-income public housing. Mr. Cuomo forged
a compromise that cut the project in half.

Entering Elective Politics

His successes impressed state Democratic leaders, and in 1974 Mr. Cuomo, at 42,
entered elective politics as the party's choice for lieutenant governor. He was
challenged in a primary, however, by Mary Anne Krupsak, a state senator from
upstate, who defeated him and was elected as the running mate of Hugh L. Carey,
a Democratic congressman from Brooklyn.

Mr. Carey, a fellow St. John's alumnus, named Mr. Cuomo secretary of state, a
relatively low-profile job in which Mr. Cuomo settled a rent strike at Co-op
City in the Bronx and mediated a land dispute involving a Mohawk reservation.

It was Mr. Carey who urged Mr. Cuomo to run for mayor of New York in 1977.
Accepting the challenge with some trepidation, he found himself in a primary
brawl with six brash New York politicians, among them Mr. Koch and Bella S.
Abzug. In the first round Mr. Cuomo came within a percentage point of the
winner, Mr. Koch, and the two headed into a runoff.

It was a harsh campaign. In one instance placards appeared in middle-class
neighborhoods proclaiming, ''Vote for Cuomo, Not the Homo.'' (Mr. Koch declined
to answer questions about his sexual orientation.)

Mr. Cuomo and his son Andrew, a campaign adviser, denied having anything to do
with the placards, though Mr. Koch said he never fully believed it. At the same
time, Mr. Koch was hammering Mr. Cuomo for his opposition to the death penalty.
Mr. Cuomo replied that mayors had no vote on the issue and that in any case he
supported a life sentence without parole for capital offenses. Mr. Koch won the
runoff handily.

Mr. Cuomo, on the Liberal Party line as well, was pressed to step aside in the
general election. He refused, and lost to Mr. Koch for the third time. But he
had learned a lesson. ''I swore when it was over, to myself and everyone else,
that I would never do that again,'' he said. ''I will never run a race that I
don't have my whole heart in.''

Despite friction between Mr. Cuomo and Governor Carey, the two needed each other
in 1978, when Lieutenant Governor Krupsak withdrew from the Carey re-election
ticket and announced she would challenge the governor for the Democratic
nomination, portraying him as incompetent. Mr. Carey asked Mr. Cuomo to be his
running mate, and they won easily, in both the primary and the general election.

Mr. Cuomo's chance for the governor's mansion came when Mr. Carey announced he
would not seek a third term, in 1982. Declaring his candidacy, Mr. Cuomo once
again found himself in a race with Mr. Koch. Though the mayor was the party
favorite, Mr. Cuomo won enough votes at the Democratic convention in Syracuse to
force a primary.

Mr. Koch's candidacy was undermined from the start by the publication of an
interview in Playboy magazine in which he disparaged life upstate and in the
suburbs as ''sterile'' and lamented the prospect of living in the ''small town''
of Albany.

Mr. Cuomo proceeded to overwhelm Mr. Koch with muscular campaigning and a
command of New York politics resulting in part from his years in Albany building
a support network of state party leaders, local officials and union organizers.

But he did not win over Mr. Carey, whose relationship with Mr. Cuomo remained
strained. The governor endorsed Mr. Koch. But it did not matter in the end: Mr.
Cuomo defeated Mr. Koch by almost 100,000 votes.

In the general election, amid a national recession, Mr. Cuomo tied his
Republican opponent, the businessman Lewis E. Lehrman, to President Reagan's
economic policies and pounded him in debates, noting that Mr. Lehrman was rich
enough to finance much of his campaign. At one point Mr. Cuomo theatrically
fixed his gaze on Mr. Lehrman's wristwatch and remarked, ''That's a very
expensive watch, Lew.''

On Nov. 2, 1982, at age 50, Mr. Cuomo became the 52nd man to be elected New
York's governor, defeating Mr. Lehrman by about 180,000 votes out of more than
five million cast.

Mr. Cuomo was sworn in on Jan. 1, 1983, before 2,600 people in the convention
center of the Nelson A. Rockefeller-Empire State Plaza in Albany. (It was the
first time since 1929 that the ceremonies were not held in the ornate but far
smaller Assembly chamber.)

His inaugural address struck a familiar theme, calling on state government to
''be a positive source for good.'' But for a national audience it also offered a
critique of Reagan policies and a liberal vision for the country. Fiscal
prudence, Mr. Cuomo asserted, did not prevent government from providing
''shelter for the homeless, work for the idle, care for the elderly and infirm,
and hope for the destitute.''

With his mother seated onstage with him, Mr. Cuomo finished his speech by urging
his audience to ''pray that we all see New York for the family that it is.''
Then he glanced up and invoked his father, who died in 1981 at 79, saying,
''Pop, wherever you are -- and I think I know -- for all the ceremony and the
big house and the pomp and circumstance, please don't let me forget that.''

From the start, Mr. Cuomo was a storm of energy and ideas. Within days, in the
role of mediator again, he faced down a prison strike at Ossining -- the old
Sing Sing -- in which 19 guards were held hostage. After 53 hours, the hostages
were freed. He went on to veto the death penalty.

But Mr. Cuomo could not satisfy everyone's hopes. He responded to an inherited
$1.8 billion deficit by proposing tax increases and deep cuts in the state
payroll, stunning the labor unions that had supported him. Many other supporters
grew disenchanted.

He seemed inexhaustible, though. Reporters and legislators discovered that he
was apt to pick up his own phone if they called his office on a Friday evening.
''I'm sleeping less and less,'' he said. ''I work all the time. I'm not saying
that's a virtue.''

He displayed a restless intellect and a love of learning. He liked to cite the
French theologian and Jesuit priest Teilhard de Chardin (1881-1955), who wrote
that endeavors should be based not on personal ambition, which can be a sin, but
on a desire to contribute to the greater good of mankind and God.

There were other clues to Mr. Cuomo's manner. His precise parsing of an argument
suggested indecision or even disingenuousness and sometimes brought him
ridicule. Once, while fencing with reporters, he walked himself into the
unlikely position of denying that the Mafia existed. ''You're telling me that
the Mafia is an organization,'' he said, ''and I'm telling you that's a lot of
baloney.''

In public he might respond to criticism with expressions of indignation and
frustration; in private, with rage, often directed at legislators and reporters,
often expressed in obscenity-laden early-morning telephone calls. The problem,
he said in an interview at the time, was that people were not paying close
enough attention to his words.

Taking On Reagan

By 1984, a presidential election year, there was a different view of Mr. Cuomo
outside New York. An eloquent spokesman for liberal politics, he stood out in a
relatively barren field of Democrats with national stature. And behind the
scenes, two close advisers, his son Andrew and Tim Russert, who went on to host
''Meet the Press,'' saw an opportunity. They successfully lobbied the party to
invite Mr. Cuomo to deliver the keynote speech at the Democratic National
Convention in San Francisco.

On the night of July 16, as the lights at the Moscone Center were dimmed -- a
bit of stage management orchestrated by the two advisers -- Mr. Cuomo seized his
moment, depicting President Reagan as having turned his back on struggling
Americans.

''A shining city is perhaps all the president sees from the portico of the White
House and the veranda of his ranch, where everyone seems to be doing well,'' Mr.
Cuomo said. ''But there's another part to the shining city. In this part of the
city there are more poor than ever, more families in trouble, more and more
people who need help but can't find it.''

He became the story of the convention, overshadowing the nominee, Mr. Mondale,
and an instant prospective candidate for president in 1988 should Mr. Mondale
fail, as he was widely expected to do (and did).

In the excitement of the evening, many Democrats failed to notice that the
object of this attention had left for the airport, for a flight back to Albany.
Mr. Cuomo liked to sleep in his own bed.

That fall, with Mr. Mondale on his way to a crushing defeat, Mr. Cuomo
volunteered that if he decided to seek the presidency in 1988, he would not seek
a second term as governor in 1986. The declaration reflected how much interest
there was in the governor at the time. It was also perceived as undercutting Mr.
Mondale in the last weeks of his campaign, which many Democrats assumed was Mr.
Cuomo's intention.

By then Mr. Cuomo, who kept a full-time pollster on his staff, had realized that
every time there was speculation about his presidential ambitions, his
popularity at home soared. Preparing for his own re-election campaign in 1986,
he kept his hand in national politics, traveling across the nation and preparing
for overseas travel.

His re-election campaign should have been a triumph; instead it was by all
appearances an unhappy passage. Until the final week he had declined to debate
his overmatched Republican opponent, Andrew P. O'Rourke, the Westchester County
executive, and had been irate at suggestions that such behavior was
unsportsmanlike. He won a record 65 percent of the vote, but rather than
celebrating, he retreated to his office in a quarrelsome mood. A few weeks
later, he said to a reporter for The New York Times: ''You set out to hurt me,
and you succeeded. I hope you sleep well.'' The next morning, he called the
reporter back at home, offering an apology from ''an old man with a bad back.''

The election behind him, Mr. Cuomo announced a new schedule of national travel,
encouraging renewed speculation about his interest in the White House. So it
came as a surprise one evening in February 1987 when Mr. Cuomo, making his
regular appearance on a radio call-in show, declared that he would not run.

Power Declines at Home

Mr. Cuomo turned his attention to Albany. He and the Legislature agreed to a new
ethics code governing state and local government officials and state employees.
He proclaimed 1988 the beginning of the decade of the child, 1989 the year to
fight drug abuse and 1990, when he was up for re-election again, the year of the
environment.

But after Vice President George Bush, the Republican nominee for president,
defeated Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the Democrat, in 1988, speculation about Mr.
Cuomo inevitably grew again.

But he was no longer the formidable figure in New York he had been. His
popularity ratings had dropped. State legislators, who had never been fond of
him, were emboldened to challenge him. He pinned the blame for this erosion of
support on the way the news media had covered his response to all the talk about
a presidential run.

''You've done everything but call me a liar,'' he told The Washington Post,
speaking generally of the press. ''You said that I was cute. You said that I
misplayed the game. You said that I was really waiting for another scenario.
Well, the net result of that is it costs me credibility, because you spent all
those months saying I was conning people.''

Recession, too, was looming and state revenues were declining. Still, in 1990,
he won a third term. His Republican opponent, Pierre A. Rinfret, a financial
consultant and economics adviser to presidents, had not been taken seriously
even by his own party.

It was a convincing but unsatisfying victory: Mr. Cuomo had done better against
Mr. O'Rourke four years before.

When he returned to Albany to deliver his ninth State of the State address, Mr.
Cuomo suggested diminished ambitions for his next term. ''This is a wonderful
year for raw truth,'' he said. ''We don't have any money.''

But he had one more presidential flirtation left in him: in October 1991, while
on a trip to Chicago, he said he was ''looking at'' a run. Many of his
supporters had grown weary of such talk, some viewing it as a ruse to
reinvigorate his sagging political image. And that December, with the planes
waiting on the runway, he announced again that he would not be a candidate for
president.

It always bothered him, Mr. Cuomo said years later, that no one had taken him at
his word. He would have run, he said in an interview for this obituary, had
Republicans simply agreed to his request to pass a budget.

''I somehow got this reputation of diddling and dithering,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''I
don't remember dithering at all.''

Stunned by Pataki

Mr. Cuomo's remaining years in Albany were a series of grim footnotes as he
struggled to keep the government afloat in worsening times. Mr. Clinton was on
the verge of naming him to the Supreme Court when he asked that his name be
withdrawn; Mr. Cuomo later said that he had never wanted the job.

When the 1994 election season began, he seemed unaware of how much his
popularity had eroded. He was stunned, he said, that someone like Mr. Pataki
could pose a serious challenge to someone with his credentials. Mr. Pataki
defeated him by five percentage points.

Mr. Cuomo returned to Manhattan to work for the law firm of Willkie Farr &
Gallagher, write books and give speeches. He grew wealthy and, he said, happy.
He was always attuned to how he was perceived by the public, and when invited to
sum up his own life for this obituary, he characteristically turned to
self-deprecating humor.

''People asked me what I want as an epitaph,'' Mr. Cuomo said. He then reprised
a line he had used many years earlier traveling across upstate New York, a fresh
public figure displaying astonishing talent and obvious potential.

''He tried,'' Mr. Cuomo said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/mario-cuomo-new-york-governor-and-lib
eral-beacon-dies-at-82.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mario Cuomo in 1995. He died the day his son Andrew began his
second term as governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD) (A1)
Clockwise from top: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1994, just before losing his bid for
a fourth term
campaigning that year from a bus
with Representative Edward I. Koch in 1977 before a debate between the mayoral
hopefuls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILLIAM E. SAURO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Cuomo family in 1977, from left: Madeline, 13
Margaret, 22
Christopher, 7
Maria, 15
Mario
Matilda
and Andrew, 19. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
Governor Cuomo nominating Bill Clinton for president at the 1992 Democratic
National Convention in New York. Mr. Cuomo later withdrew his name from
consideration for the Supreme Court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
   Mr. Cuomo, second from right, celebrated the re-election of his son Andrew to
the governorship on Nov. 4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LIBERALISM (91%); GOVERNORS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT
BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); US
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS
(67%); ETHICS (60%); SCANDALS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CLOSINGS
(50%); RELIGION (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); ANDREW CUOMO (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'There Is No Small Solution to Big Problems'

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 647 words


Following are excerpts from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's inaugural address, as
transcribed by The New York Times.

It's time to be bold, my friends, because there is no small solution to big
problems ... Because in many ways, the most severe problems we face go beyond
the borders of our state, and the challenges are profound. We've seen the
national unrest and the national discord. The American promise itself is being
questioned. The offer of fairness and opportunity that was the American compact
is now in doubt. Americans are disheartened, disappointed by the economic
climate, and rightly so. We are told the recession is over. We read reports that
say the economic numbers are going up, up and up -- but we work harder, and we
earn less. ...

Too many Americans are questioning the long-held belief that their children's
future will be better than their own. For too many, the dream of economic
mobility has been replaced with the nightmare of economic stagnation.

For previous generations our education system offered hope. It was the escalator
out of poverty. The public education system could take an Italian immigrant's
son from the back of a grocery store in South Jamaica to become the governor of
the State of New York ... But that was yesterday's public education system.
Today, we have two education systems if we want to tell the truth: one for the
rich, and one for the poor. And if you happen to be born in the wrong ZIP code
and go to a failing school, you will get left behind and never catch up. Public
education that was the great equalizer in the society has become in some
communities the great discriminator.

â-

Our national symbol of justice, Lady Justice, carries a sword, a set of scales,
and she also wears a blindfold. Why? To signify objectivity. Objectivity that
one's wealth, one's class, one's race are irrelevant to the pursuit of justice.
But today, sadly, too many people are questioning if the blindfold is still
intact, or does the justice system now see black and white, or black and blue,
or rich and poor?

The world saw an African-American man in Staten Island die. And people are
confused, disappointed and angry. Law-enforcement officials have been wrongfully
targeted, and even assassinated. The situation has devolved into one which
everyone is talking but no one is listening. ...

â-

The truth is: The justice system does need review. The truth is: There are
troubling questions that have been raised that must be answered. The truth is:
Police officers do need more safety and need more protection. The truth is: Law
enforcement needs to respect the community as much as the community needs to
respect law enforcement. The truth is: It is our obligation as leaders to
provide the reforms necessary to ensure safety. This is a New York City issue,
it is a Buffalo issue, it is a Ferguson issue, a Los Angeles issue, but it is
also our responsibility to solve it here, in the state of New York. And that is
a challenge that we are up to. When Americans questioning our economic system.
When they're questioning whether or not they have economic mobility. When
they're questioning whether or not their children are going to do better. When
they're questioning whether or not the public education system is working for
them. When they're questioning our justice system and whether or not our justice
system is fair. They are questioning the essence of everything we believed in.
Those are the primary democratic institutions of this country. ...

And that is the challenge before us: to be fearless enough to admit the truth.
To talk about these problems no matter how difficult, because you will never
solve a problem you are unwilling to admit. And then we must act, and we must
perform, and we must deliver results that answer these questions and right these
wrongs and restore confidence in what America is all about and what New York is
all about. ...

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); PUBLIC
SCHOOLS (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%);
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'There Is No Small Solution to Big Problems'

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 3490 words


Following is a transcript of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's inaugural address on
Thursday, as recorded by The New York Times.

Thank you very much. First, to Lieutenant Governor Bob Duffy, who said it all.
Bob and I have had a heck of a four years together. A lot of late nights, a lot
of stress. A lot of bad days, a lot of good days. And in going through the
situation that we went through, you really learn a lot about the other person.
And a finer public servant, a finer man I have never worked with in my life than
Bob Duffy. He epitomizes everything the administration is about. He is hard
work. He's integrity. He's performance. And he's in the business for all the
right reasons. We're really going to miss him. We love him. Let's give him a big
round of applause, Lieutenant Governor Bob Duffy.

So we really did have big shoes to fill, literally and metaphorically, when we
had to replace Bob Duffy. And we found a superstar, and you heard from her now.
The more you see her, the more you're going to love her. She is great. Former
congresswoman from Buffalo, N.Y., and Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. Let's
give her a round of applause.

I want to thank Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam, who is very impressive. Court of
Appeals judge. I wonder who appointed her. Oh, I did. That's right. Let's give
her a round of applause, Sheila Abdus-Salaam.

My good friend for many years, Mayor Bill de Blasio. Thank you very much for
being with us, Mayor.

We have our friends from the congressional delegation. Senator Chuck Schumer,
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Congressman Pete King, Congressman Engel, I see.
Congressman Gregory Meeks -- that's too good-looking to be Gregory Meeks. Is
that Gregory? The congressional delegation is very important to the way we do
business, for the state to do what it needs to do -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey!
-- for the state to do what it needs to do as aggressively as we've been doing
it. We really need the federal government to be part of it and to be working
with us, and they have been there every step of the way. I call Senator Schumer
sometimes; I ask him for some things and I can hear the shock on the other end
of the phone. But he never says no, and he always goes to it, and they have
delivered for us time and time again -- whether it's money for Hurricane Sandy,
$60 billion, money for the Tappan Zee Bridge that Congresswoman Lowey got us.
Time and time again, they've been there. We couldn't do what we do without them.
Let's give them a round of applause. We thank them very much.

And Speaker Silver and Senator Marty Golden who represent the Senate and the
Assembly for us today, who are our partners every step of the way: Pleasure to
be with you. Thank them.

Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins: Pleasure to be with you, Andrea. Thank you for
your leadership.

County Executive Mangano, County Executive Bellone, and Linda Mangano, pleasure
to be with you.

You heard from Reverend Karim Camara, who gave us the opening prayer. He's also
a fantastic, fantastic assemblyman. Pleasure to be with you, Reverend Karim
Camara.

Rabbi Michael Miller, who did the opening. He also brought us to Israel right at
the time of the intifada, when Israel was really going through a period of
violence. We said that was the best time to go because we wanted to make a
statement. Some people didn't understand that logic immediately, but it was the
best time to go in terms of a show of solidarity. And I knew Michael in New York
and how great he was in New York. You see him in Israel, he's even stronger. And
I was so proud as the governor of New York to lead a delegation that went and
visited Israel when Israel really needed friends, and New York was there for
Israel, and we always will be. Thank you very much, Michael Miller.

You're going to hear from Reverend A.â[#x20ac][0/00]R. Bernard who's been a
great friend and is a great inspirational leader for thousands and thousands of
New Yorkers -- he is going to be doing the closing benediction. Thank you very
much, Reverend A.â[#x20ac][0/00]R. Bernard.

Bob Duffy used the word ''team'' when he talked about my family -- he was right.
You don't become governor without a team. You can't manage the state without a
team. And my administration's all about a quality team. I'm just the good looks
of the operation, I want you to know, they really -- yeah, then we'd be really
in trouble. But it is about my team. Both my professional team and my family,
that is a team. And you saw Sandy and Cara and Mariah who are here. I have
brothers and sisters. Madeline's here, Maria's here, Margaret's here, Aunt
Nancy, Uncle Bob, Lisa, Larry Belinsky, Howard Maier, Uncle Brian and -- uh,
what's your name? I see you on CNN every morning. You look just like me, just
not as good looking -- oh, Chris Cuomo is here! My little brother is here. So
they are my family, and they've been great all through this.

We're missing one family member. My father's not here with us today. We hoped
that he was going to be able to come. He's at home, and he's not well enough to
come. We spent last night with him. We changed the tradition a little bit. We
weren't in Albany last night. We stayed at my father's house to ring in the New
Year with him. I went through the speech with him. He said it was good --
especially for a second-termer. See? My father's a third-termer. But, he sends
his regards to all of you. He couldn't be here physically today, my father. But
my father is in this room. He's in the heart and mind of every person who's
here. He's here, and he's here, and his inspiration and his legacy and his
experience is what has brought this state to this point. So let's give him a
round of applause.

And I want to thank you all very much for taking the time to be here on a New
Year. It's fitting. When we begin a new year, it's a natural point of
reflection. We review the past, we plan for the future, we make great
resolutions on how we're going to do even better. I want you to know that my
resolutions are still intact. It's been 12 hours, which is a new record for me.

Four years ago, when I took office, as you heard from Kathy and you heard from
Bob, New York was a much, much different place. And we were facing daunting
challenges. More people unemployed than at any time since the Great Depression,
when we took over. Upstate New York was hemorrhaging young people. You'd go to
the airports, and you'd see young people getting on planes because they believed
there was no future left in upstate New York. The state government, that was
supposed to help, was supposed to be solving problems, was all about gridlock
and all about dysfunction. And there was a pervasive, foreboding sense that the
best days of New York were behind it, and that it was getting worse. And you
felt that sense growing. I said at my first inauguration that we can't
underestimate the severity of the times, that this was not a moment for more
speeches. It was about action. It was about results, and it was not about
rhetoric. And that is what we did. We made the government work. We restored the
economy. We created 500,000 private-sector jobs. This state today has 7.6
million jobs, more jobs than have ever existed in the history of the State of
New York. That's what we have today.

We turned a $10 billion deficit into a $5 billion surplus. We put cranes in the
sky in places that thought they were extinct. We expanded affordable housing. We
passed universal pre-K. We gave hard-working families a tax cut. We expanded
health care to cover -- 1.5 million more New Yorkers are covered now than there
were before. We made New York fairer with marriage equality. We made New York
safer by passing sensible gun control. We set a national standard and committed
this state to be the first state in the nation to end the AIDS epidemic in the
next decade, and we're going to do it.

We did this. And the emphasis is on the ''we.'' We are the upstate business
people who chose to stay and continue to hope. We are the public employees --
the teachers, the police, the firefighters who serve and protect. We are the
members of the New York State Assembly. We are the members of the New York State
Senate. We are the colleagues in the federal delegation. We are Republicans and
Democrats who put New York first and political parties second, even in this age
of hyperpartisanship, because we remembered what we were there to do -- which
was to serve the public and not serve our political interests. We are the New
Yorkers who put aside our differences to find commonality to move this state
forward.

Now, even with all we have done, our task is far from complete. We have much
more to do. We have to rebuild the upstate economy, all across upstate New York,
by replicating the successful model that we've used in Buffalo. We must address
chronic high poverty in this state in many of our urban areas, from the South
Bronx to Rochester. We must demand that the value of an hour's work -- the
minimum wage -- is sufficient to mean that you don't have to choose between
paying the rent and putting food on the table. We still lock up too many young
people in prisons, at too young an age, at too great a cost. And that has to
stop.

Women are still too often victims of violence and are still trapped under a
glass ceiling and still need a full Women's Equality Act to give them full
equality in this society.

We must maintain our fiscal discipline and continue to provide tax relief for
struggling families and growing businesses.

We must do more for ethics reform to build trust, which is the lifeblood of any
government.

Our education system, while better than it was, is far from what we need to lead
the global economy. We have new and growing challenges we didn't have before,
such as climate change and extreme weather, which have brought New York
tornadoes, hurricanes, snowstorms and floods. Seven feet of snow in Buffalo,
more than ever before, that's saying something. I wouldn't be surprised to see
locusts next, coming up Broadway. We have new challenges to our public health
system, like the Ebola virus. We have new challenges to our public safety
system, where 13 years after 9/11 terrorism has metastasized from Africa to
Asia, from Hamas to ISIS.

These are challenges, to be sure. But the past four years have renewed our
confidence and have shown us what we can accomplish when we work together.
Remember how far we've come. It's time to be bold, my friends, because there is
no small solution to big problems. We can do all this that I've mentioned, and
we can do more. And we must.

Because in many ways the most severe problems we face go beyond the borders of
our state, and the challenges are profound. We've seen the national unrest and
the national discord. The American promise itself is being questioned. The offer
of fairness and opportunity that was the American compact is now in doubt.

Americans are disheartened, disappointed by the economic climate, and rightly
so. We are told the recession is over. We read reports that say the economic
numbers are going up, up and up -- but we work harder, and we earn less.

Income inequality is at the highest point in over a century. While American
capitalism never guaranteed success, it did guarantee opportunity. And too many
Americans are questioning the long-held belief that their children's future will
be better than their own. For too many, the dream of economic mobility has been
replaced with the nightmare of economic stagnation.

For previous generations our education system offered hope. It was the escalator
out of poverty. The public education system could take an Italian immigrant's
son from the back of a grocery store in South Jamaica to become the governor of
the State of New York. It could take an African-American boy from the Bronx and
see him become the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It could take a child of
Bedford-Stuyvesant and make that person the C.E.O. of a Fortune 500 bank.

But that was yesterday's public education system. Today, we have two education
systems, if we want to tell the truth: one for the rich, and one for the poor.
And if you happen to be born in the wrong Zip code and go to a failing school,
you will get left behind and never catch up. Public education that was the great
equalizer in the society has become in some communities the great discriminator.
Today's high-tech advanced manufacturing economy, demanding lifelong learning,
has squeezed the middle class, and people feel left out and left behind. And
that's not all.

If the American dream of economic opportunity was a basic component in the
compact defining America, than the second component was our justice system. And
our justice system ensured the promise of fairness and security for all. Our
national symbol of justice, Lady Justice, carries a sword, a set of scales, and
she also wears a blindfold. Why? To signify objectivity. Objectivity that one's
wealth, one's class, one's race are irrelevant to the pursuit of justice.

But today, sadly, too many people are questioning if the blindfold is still
intact, or does the justice system now see black and white, or black and blue,
or rich and poor? The world saw an African-American man in Staten Island die.
And people are confused, disappointed and angry. Law-enforcement officials have
been wrongfully targeted, and even assassinated. The situation has devolved into
one which everyone is talking but no one is listening.

It must stop, and it's time for the truth.

The truth is: The justice system does need review. The truth is: There are
troubling questions that have been raised that must be answered. The truth is:
Police officers do need more safety and need more protection. The truth is: Law
enforcement needs to respect the community as much as the community needs to
respect law enforcement. The truth is: It is our obligation as leaders to
provide the reforms necessary to ensure safety. This is a New York City issue,
it is a Buffalo issue, it is a Ferguson issue, a Los Angeles issue, but it is
also our responsibility to solve it here, in the State of New York. And that is
a challenge that we are up to.

Yesterday a young gentleman congratulated me on my re-election, and he said,
''You know, I wish you good luck, governor,'' with a sort of sad face. And I
said, ''Why is that?'' And he said, ''Well, you're going to govern in very
troubled times.'' He told the truth, and he was right. These are troubled times.

When Americans questioning our economic system. When they're questioning whether
or not they have economic mobility. When they're questioning whether or not
their children are going to do better. When they're questioning whether or not
the public education system is working for them. When they're questioning our
justice system and whether or not our justice system is fair. They are
questioning the essence of everything we believed in. Those are the primary
democratic institutions of this country. That was the essential compact we made,
and that's what they're questioning.

And that is the challenge before us: to be fearless enough to admit the truth.
To talk about these problems no matter how difficult, because you will never
solve a problem you are unwilling to admit. And then we must act, and we must
perform, and we must deliver results that answer these questions and right these
wrongs and restore confidence in what America is all about and what New York is
all about.

We can do this. We can create economic opportunity for all. We can raise the
minimum wage. We can create good jobs. We can get minority youth the training.
We can use job-training credits. We can create the best education system in the
world. We can beat the bureaucracy. We can get results. We can make the changes
that we need to make. We can get the resources that we need. And we can restore
confidence and trust in the justice system, both in perception and in reality.

Now you can say: ''Well, governor, those are big challenges. Those are big
challenges, and I don't know if we can do it.'' Yes they are big challenges, and
yes they will be hard to accomplish. But my friends, that is what New Yorkers
do. And that is what we have always done. We have always taken on the big
challenges -- taken them on first, gotten them done, and then created an example
for the rest of the nation.

We started with the Erie Canal in 1812. Here in New York City you think New York
City made New York City. No, the Erie Canal made New York City. Governor DeWitt
Clinton had a dream. The question was who was going to open up access to the
West. How could you get goods by water to the West? And Thomas Jefferson and
Washington and Virginia were trying to dig a series of canals that would get you
to the Mississippi and that would open the West. And that would have made
Virginia the main port. And DeWitt Clinton said: ''No, I have a great idea.
We'll use New York. And you can come up the Hudson River and you get to Albany
and then you make a left and you go through the state and you come out in
Buffalo, and once you're in Buffalo, you are in the Great Lakes. And then you
could go wherever you want to go.'' They said: ''Governor, one question, when
you make the left at Buffalo -- at Albany -- how do you get to Buffalo?'' He
said, ''No problem, we'll dig a canal.'' Dig a canal? Five hundred and
twenty-four miles. Eighteen-twelve. Built that canal. No hydraulics. Men, women
and mules, they dug that Erie Canal. It made New York what it was. They came
through New York City to go up the Hudson River to get to the Erie Canal. When
DeWitt Clinton started that project, they wanted to impeach him because they
thought he lost his mind. Literally. They said it can't be done. It's too
ambitious. They did it. They did it on time. They did it on budget. It worked.
It made New York State what New York State is, and it accelerated the whole
development of the United States. That's who we are. That's the stock we come
from.

When they were talking about a dream of women's rights and women's suffrage,
where did they go? They went to New York. And Elizabeth Cady Stanton said, 'Yes,
we can do this,' and it is the New York women who came together and organized
and got women the right to vote. When they stood up and said in the '60s, gays
deserve equal rights, it was us, at Stonewall, who stood up and said, 'That's
right, gay people deserve equal rights.' New York was there first. When a big
state had to pass marriage equality because we were discriminating against gay
people, and not letting them marry was just another source of discrimination,
and you needed a big state to stand up and pass it -- and it was hard -- it was
New York that passed marriage equality. And it resonated all across the country.

After Sandy Hook, when we saw the massacre and we saw the children killed and we
said, 'Enough is enough with this lunacy of guns,' and you needed a state to
pass sensible gun control, who did it? The State of New York did it. We did it
first. That is who we are, and that's where we come from.

Frederick Douglass once said, ''If there is no struggle, there is no progress.''
We know that in New York. Nothing comes easy. None of the ones worth it come
easy. If it comes easy, you didn't need it in the first place. And this is a
uniquely New York moment. Because when things are at their worst, New Yorkers
are at their best. And to any of those who have a question about our capacity,
just look at where we are today: the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere.
The high point of New York, on the same site as the low point of New York at
9/11. Why? Because that's who we are. That's what this site says, that's what
this building says: You knock us down, we get up twice as tall. You give us
adversity, we turn it into opportunity. You try to divide us, and we come back
more unified and tighter than ever before. And that's what these challenges are
asking us to do: to take that great diversity that is New York, and to find the
commonality and to come together for the good of New York.

And once again, the emphasis is on ''we.'' We, as my father said so well, we are
the family of New York, he called it, a collection of the most daring, bold,
accepting people from every country on the globe. Every color, every creed is
here in New York. Gay and straight, upstate and downstate, working together to
make our diversity a source of strength and not of weakness, and to find our
commonality, all for the same mutual goal of making New York a better state.

We will do this, and we will lead the nation by our example once again, because
this is New York, and we are New Yorkers, and this is what we do.

E.â[#x20ac][0/00]B. White said, New York is to the nation what the white church
spire is to the village. The visible symbol of aspiration and faith. The white
plumes saying the way is up. That is New York. The symbol forward. The symbol
that shows us the direction that is up.

Thank you, and God bless you.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/the-family-of-new-york-cuomos-inaugur
al-address.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%);
JUDGES (70%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%); GREGORY W MEEKS (66%); BILL DE BLASIO (58%); KATHY
HOCHUL (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); NITA M LOWEY (50%);
ELIOT L ENGEL (50%); PETER T KING (50%)

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mario Cuomo, 82, Dies; Three-Term Governor Was a Liberal Beacon

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4167 words


Mario M. Cuomo, the three-term governor of New York who commanded the attention
of the country with a compelling public presence, a forceful defense of
liberalism and his exhaustive ruminations about whether to run for president,
died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.

His family confirmed the death, which occurred only hours after Mr. Cuomo's son
Andrew M. Cuomo was inaugurated in Manhattan for a second term as governor. The
cause was heart failure.

Mario Cuomo led New York during a turbulent time, 1983 through 1994. His
ambitions for an activist government were thwarted by recession. He found
himself struggling with the State Legislature not over what the government
should do but over what programs should be cut, and what taxes should be raised,
simply to balance the budget.

Still, no matter the problems he found in Albany, Mr. Cuomo burst beyond the
state's boundaries to personify the liberal wing of his national party and
become a source of unending fascination and, ultimately, frustration for
Democrats, whose leaders twice pressed him to run for president, in 1988 and
1992, to no avail.

In an era when liberal thought was increasingly discredited, Mr. Cuomo, a man of
large intellect and often unrestrained personality, celebrated it, challenging
Ronald Reagan at the height of his presidency with an expansive and affirmative
view of government and a message of compassion, tinged by the Roman Catholicism
that was central to Mr. Cuomo's identity.

A man of contradictions who enjoyed Socratic arguments with himself, Mr. Cuomo
seemed to disdain politics even as he embraced it. ''What an ugly business this
is,'' he liked to say. Yet he reveled in it, proving himself an uncommonly
skilled politician and sometimes a ruthless one.

He was a tenacious debater and a spellbinding speaker at a time when political
oratory seemed to be shrinking to the size of the television set. Delivering the
keynote address at the 1984 Democratic National Convention in San Francisco, he
eclipsed his party's nominee, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, seizing
on Reagan's description of America as ''a shining city on a hill'' to portray
the president as unaware of impoverished Americans. ''Mr. President,'' he said,
''you ought to know that this nation is more a 'tale of two cities' than it is
just a 'shining city on a hill.' ''

The speech was the high-water mark of his national political career, making him
in many ways a more admired figure outside his state than in it.

He enjoyed victories in New York. He closed the Shoreham nuclear plant on Long
Island, ending a long and divisive fight over its potential dangers. He signed
ethics legislation under a cloud of scandals involving state lawmakers and their
employees.

But he may be remembered more for the things he never did than for what he
accomplished. His designs on the presidency became just flirtations. He
encouraged President Bill Clinton to consider him for a seat on the Supreme
Court but pulled back just as the offer was about to be made in 1993. For all
his advocacy of an activist government, he did not always practice it, or could
not, because of the fiscal obstacles he encountered in Albany.

Always given to self-doubt and second-guessing, Mr. Cuomo said that if he had
any regrets about his governorship, it was that he had never identified himself
with a large initiative that might have been his legacy, as the expansion of the
State University of New York was for Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.

Mr. Cuomo noted that he had built more prison cells than any chief executive in
the state's history. But he added, ''What I didn't do was pick one thing and
keep saying it over and over again, so I could have gotten credit for it.''

He had a pointed sense of humor. When an engine failed in a puff of smoke on a
state-owned Gulfstream G-1 jet one morning with the governor aboard, he barely
noticed, and kept talking about national politics until he noticed that a
reporter across the way had stopped taking notes and had turned ashen. ''What's
the matter?'' he asked. ''Aren't you in a state of grace?''

Mr. Cuomo served longer than any of his 51 predecessors except Rockefeller and,
in the early years of the republic, George Clinton. He might have surpassed
Rockefeller, but in seeking a fourth term in 1994, he was defeated by George E.
Pataki, a little-known Republican state senator from Peekskill. Mr. Cuomo's
advisers had counseled him not to run again, but he overruled them.

Andrew Cuomo, a former housing secretary under President Clinton, sought to
become governor himself in 2002, but withdrew from the Democratic field amid an
uproar over remarks he had made questioning Governor Pataki's leadership after
the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. He ran again in 2010 and was elected. It was a
redemptive moment for the Cuomo family, and the first time in New York's history
that a father and son had been elected chief executive. Andrew Cuomo was handily
re-elected in November.

Mario Cuomo, a lawyer by profession, could trim his sails in the face of
opposition, but he held to more than a few positions that went against the grain
of public opinion. Most prominent was his opposition to the death penalty, an
unpopular view that contributed to his defeat by Edward I. Koch in the 1977
mayoral primary in New York and that nearly derailed his first bid for governor.
His annual veto of the death penalty became a rite, and he invoked it as a
testimony to his character and principles.

He was similarly resolute when he defied his church in 1984 by flying to the
University of Notre Dame to proclaim that Roman Catholic politicians who
personally opposed abortion, as he did, could appropriately support the right of
a woman to have an abortion.

Mr. Cuomo's essentially liberal view of government never wavered, even after he
effectively lost the argument when Democrats embraced the centrist Mr. Clinton.
Years afterward, Mr. Cuomo would produce a copy of a speech he delivered to the
progressive New Democratic Coalition in 1974, reading passages aloud with the
same electric spirit and rolling cadences that had made him so evocative a
speaker.

In the end, two images of Mr. Cuomo endure. The first is of him, as governor,
commanding the lectern at the 1984 Democratic convention, stilling a sea of
delegates with his oratory. The second is of two chartered airplanes on the
tarmac at the Albany airport in December 1991, waiting to fly him to New
Hampshire to pay the $1,000 filing fee that would put his name on the state's
Democratic primary ballot for president.

Mr. Cuomo, whose tortuous deliberations over whether to seek the White House had
led pundits to call him ''Hamlet on the Hudson,'' put the decision off until 90
minutes before the 5 p.m. filing deadline. Then he emerged from the Executive
Mansion to announce to a news conference at the Capitol that he would not run.
The demands of negotiating a stalled state budget, he said, prevented him
entering the race.

''It seems to me I cannot turn my attention to New Hampshire while this threat
hangs over the head of the New Yorkers that I've sworn to put first,'' he said.

That explanation failed to persuade even his closest friends, and in the years
to come they would recall the two planes sitting forlornly on the tarmac as
symbols of the governor's unrealized promise.

First Love Was Baseball

Mario Matthew Cuomo was born in Queens on June 15, 1932, the fourth child of
Andrea and Immaculata Cuomo. His parents, penniless and unable to speak English,
had come to the United States from the province of Salerno, south of Naples,
settling at first in Jersey City.

Mario grew up in the Queens neighborhood of South Jamaica, where the family had
moved and opened a grocery store. Mario worked in the store and on Saturdays
served as the ''Shabbos goy'' for an Orthodox synagogue up the street, providing
services as a non-Jew that the faithful were not allowed to do for themselves on
the Sabbath. South Jamaica -- an ''Italian-black-German-Irish-Polish
neighborhood,'' as Mr. Cuomo described it -- provided him with a career's worth
of anecdotes.

It was baseball, not politics, that first engaged him, and he proved as
aggressive in one as in the other. After graduating from St. John's Preparatory
School in Queens in 1949, he played on the freshman baseball team at St. John's
University.

A strapping six feet tall, 190 pounds at age 19, he signed a contract to play
center field for the Class D Brunswick Pirates in Georgia in 1952, reportedly
receiving a $2,000 signing bonus, sizable for that time. Mr. Cuomo ''plays
hard'' and ''will run over you if you get in his way,'' a Pirates scout wrote.

His baseball career was short-lived. Knocked in the head with a 3-and-2 fastball
that summer, he was left blind for a week and forced to give up the game --
leaving with a .244 batting average.

Mr. Cuomo went back to St. John's and graduated in 1953, having majored in Latin
American studies, English and philosophy. By then he had settled on a law career
and married Matilda N. Raffa, a fellow student. On a scholarship he enrolled in
St. John's Law School; while he studied there, his wife, who survives him,
supported them as a teacher.

Besides her and Andrew Cuomo, Mr. Cuomo is survived by four other children, Dr.
Margaret I. Cuomo, Maria Cuomo Cole, Madeline Cuomo O'Donohue and Christopher
Cuomo, a journalist at CNN; and 14 grandchildren.

Mr. Cuomo's first job in the law was as the confidential assistant to Judge
Adrian P. Burke of the New York State Court of Appeals, which Mr. Cuomo would
reshape 30 years later by appointing all seven members, including Judith S.
Kaye, the first woman to serve as chief judge.

His job with Judge Burke and his law school success -- he graduated at the head
of his class -- led Mr. Cuomo to assume that in entering private practice he
would have his pick of New York's leading law firms. Instead, one after another
rejected him, in his view because he was Italian-American. ''I obviously am the
original ethnic from Queens: my hands, my face, my voice, my inflections,'' he
said. One lawyer with whom he spoke suggested that he change his name to Mark
Conrad, he said. The experience fed a lifelong disdain for anybody who struck
Mr. Cuomo as elitist.

He joined a Brooklyn law firm, Corner, Weisbrod, Froeb & Charles, in 1963 and
entered public life the next year, when he took up the case of junkyard dealers
whose property had been condemned; the planner Robert Moses wanted the land, 67
acres, to expand the site of the 1964 World's Fair. Mr. Cuomo won a suit
prohibiting the use of state funds for the project, and three years later the
city decided against seizing the property for parkland.

That victory brought him to the attention of 69 families facing eviction from
their homes in a blue-collar Italian-American neighborhood in Corona, Queens,
where the city wanted to build a school. Mr. Cuomo pressed the city and the
courts into a compromise -- a smaller school -- that preserved 55 of the homes.
And in 1972 Mayor John V. Lindsay recruited him to mediate a far more volatile
city-neighborhood dispute, in Forest Hills, Queens, where middle-class families
were trying to block construction of low-income public housing. Mr. Cuomo forged
a compromise that cut the project in half.

Entering Elective Politics

His successes impressed state Democratic leaders, and in 1974 Mr. Cuomo, at 42,
entered elective politics as the party's choice for lieutenant governor. He was
challenged in a primary, however, by Mary Anne Krupsak, a state senator from
upstate, who defeated him and was elected as the running mate of Hugh L. Carey,
a Democratic congressman from Brooklyn.

Mr. Carey, a fellow St. John's alumnus, named Mr. Cuomo secretary of state, a
relatively low-profile job in which Mr. Cuomo settled a rent strike at Co-op
City in the Bronx and mediated a land dispute involving a Mohawk reservation.

It was Mr. Carey who urged Mr. Cuomo to run for mayor of New York in 1977.
Accepting the challenge with some trepidation, he found himself in a primary
brawl with six brash New York politicians, among them Mr. Koch and Bella S.
Abzug. In the first round Mr. Cuomo came within a percentage point of the
winner, Mr. Koch, and the two headed into a runoff.

It was a harsh campaign. In one instance placards appeared in middle-class
neighborhoods proclaiming, ''Vote for Cuomo, Not the Homo.'' (Mr. Koch declined
to answer questions about his sexual orientation.)

Mr. Cuomo and his son Andrew, a campaign adviser, denied having anything to do
with the placards, though Mr. Koch said he never fully believed it. At the same
time, Mr. Koch was hammering Mr. Cuomo for his opposition to the death penalty.
Mr. Cuomo replied that mayors had no vote on the issue and that in any case he
supported a life sentence without parole for capital offenses. Mr. Koch won the
runoff handily.

Mr. Cuomo, on the Liberal Party line as well, was pressed to step aside in the
general election. He refused, and lost to Mr. Koch for the third time. But he
had learned a lesson. ''I swore when it was over, to myself and everyone else,
that I would never do that again,'' he said. ''I will never run a race that I
don't have my whole heart in.''

Despite friction between Mr. Cuomo and Governor Carey, the two needed each other
in 1978, when Lieutenant Governor Krupsak withdrew from the Carey re-election
ticket and announced she would challenge the governor for the Democratic
nomination, portraying him as incompetent. Mr. Carey asked Mr. Cuomo to be his
running mate, and they won easily, in both the primary and the general election.

Mr. Cuomo's chance for the governor's mansion came when Mr. Carey announced he
would not seek a third term, in 1982. Declaring his candidacy, Mr. Cuomo once
again found himself in a race with Mr. Koch. Though the mayor was the party
favorite, Mr. Cuomo won enough votes at the Democratic convention in Syracuse to
force a primary.

Mr. Koch's candidacy was undermined from the start by the publication of an
interview in Playboy magazine in which he disparaged life upstate and in the
suburbs as ''sterile'' and lamented the prospect of living in the ''small town''
of Albany.

Mr. Cuomo proceeded to overwhelm Mr. Koch with muscular campaigning and a
command of New York politics resulting in part from his years in Albany building
a support network of state party leaders, local officials and union organizers.

But he did not win over Mr. Carey, whose relationship with Mr. Cuomo remained
strained. The governor endorsed Mr. Koch. But it did not matter in the end: Mr.
Cuomo defeated Mr. Koch by almost 100,000 votes.

In the general election, amid a national recession, Mr. Cuomo tied his
Republican opponent, the businessman Lewis E. Lehrman, to President Reagan's
economic policies and pounded him in debates, noting that Mr. Lehrman was rich
enough to finance much of his campaign. At one point Mr. Cuomo theatrically
fixed his gaze on Mr. Lehrman's wristwatch and remarked, ''That's a very
expensive watch, Lew.''

On Nov. 2, 1982, at age 50, Mr. Cuomo became the 52nd man to be elected New
York's governor, defeating Mr. Lehrman by about 180,000 votes out of more than
five million cast.

Mr. Cuomo was sworn in on Jan. 1, 1983, before 2,600 people in the convention
center of the Nelson A. Rockefeller-Empire State Plaza in Albany. (It was the
first time since 1929 that the ceremonies were not held in the ornate but far
smaller Assembly chamber.)

His inaugural address struck a familiar theme, calling on state government to
''be a positive source for good.'' But for a national audience it also offered a
critique of Reagan policies and a liberal vision for the country. Fiscal
prudence, Mr. Cuomo asserted, did not prevent government from providing
''shelter for the homeless, work for the idle, care for the elderly and infirm,
and hope for the destitute.''

With his mother seated onstage with him, Mr. Cuomo finished his speech by urging
his audience to ''pray that we all see New York for the family that it is.''
Then he glanced up and invoked his father, who died in 1981 at 79, saying,
''Pop, wherever you are -- and I think I know -- for all the ceremony and the
big house and the pomp and circumstance, please don't let me forget that.''

From the start, Mr. Cuomo was a storm of energy and ideas. Within days, in the
role of mediator again, he faced down a prison strike at Ossining -- the old
Sing Sing -- in which 19 guards were held hostage. After 53 hours, the hostages
were freed. He went on to veto the death penalty.

But Mr. Cuomo could not satisfy everyone's hopes. He responded to an inherited
$1.8 billion deficit by proposing tax increases and deep cuts in the state
payroll, stunning the labor unions that had supported him. Many other supporters
grew disenchanted.

He seemed inexhaustible, though. Reporters and legislators discovered that he
was apt to pick up his own phone if they called his office on a Friday evening.
''I'm sleeping less and less,'' he said. ''I work all the time. I'm not saying
that's a virtue.''

He displayed a restless intellect and a love of learning. He liked to cite the
French theologian and Jesuit priest Teilhard de Chardin (1881-1955), who wrote
that endeavors should be based not on personal ambition, which can be a sin, but
on a desire to contribute to the greater good of mankind and God.

There were other clues to Mr. Cuomo's manner. His precise parsing of an argument
suggested indecision or even disingenuousness and sometimes brought him
ridicule. Once, while fencing with reporters, he walked himself into the
unlikely position of denying that the Mafia existed. ''You're telling me that
the Mafia is an organization,'' he said, ''and I'm telling you that's a lot of
baloney.''

In public he might respond to criticism with expressions of indignation and
frustration; in private, with rage, often directed at legislators and reporters,
often expressed in obscenity-laden early-morning telephone calls. The problem,
he said in an interview at the time, was that people were not paying close
enough attention to his words.

Taking On Reagan

By 1984, a presidential election year, there was a different view of Mr. Cuomo
outside New York. An eloquent spokesman for liberal politics, he stood out in a
relatively barren field of Democrats with national stature. And behind the
scenes, two close advisers, his son Andrew and Tim Russert, who went on to host
''Meet the Press,'' saw an opportunity. They successfully lobbied the party to
invite Mr. Cuomo to deliver the keynote speech at the Democratic National
Convention in San Francisco.

On the night of July 16, as the lights at the Moscone Center were dimmed -- a
bit of stage management orchestrated by the two advisers -- Mr. Cuomo seized his
moment, depicting President Reagan as having turned his back on struggling
Americans.

''A shining city is perhaps all the president sees from the portico of the White
House and the veranda of his ranch, where everyone seems to be doing well,'' Mr.
Cuomo said. ''But there's another part to the shining city. In this part of the
city there are more poor than ever, more families in trouble, more and more
people who need help but can't find it.''

He became the story of the convention, overshadowing the nominee, Mr. Mondale,
and an instant prospective candidate for president in 1988 should Mr. Mondale
fail, as he was widely expected to do (and did).

In the excitement of the evening, many Democrats failed to notice that the
object of this attention had left for the airport, for a flight back to Albany.
Mr. Cuomo liked to sleep in his own bed.

That fall, with Mr. Mondale on his way to a crushing defeat, Mr. Cuomo
volunteered that if he decided to seek the presidency in 1988, he would not seek
a second term as governor in 1986. The declaration reflected how much interest
there was in the governor at the time. It was also perceived as undercutting Mr.
Mondale in the last weeks of his campaign, which many Democrats assumed was Mr.
Cuomo's intention.

By then Mr. Cuomo, who kept a full-time pollster on his staff, had realized that
every time there was speculation about his presidential ambitions, his
popularity at home soared. Preparing for his own re-election campaign in 1986,
he kept his hand in national politics, traveling across the nation and preparing
for overseas travel.

His re-election campaign should have been a triumph; instead it was by all
appearances an unhappy passage. Until the final week he had declined to debate
his overmatched Republican opponent, Andrew P. O'Rourke, the Westchester County
executive, and had been irate at suggestions that such behavior was
unsportsmanlike. He won a record 65 percent of the vote, but rather than
celebrating, he retreated to his office in a quarrelsome mood. A few weeks
later, he said to a reporter for The New York Times: ''You set out to hurt me,
and you succeeded. I hope you sleep well.'' The next morning, he called the
reporter back at home, offering an apology from ''an old man with a bad back.''

The election behind him, Mr. Cuomo announced a new schedule of national travel,
encouraging renewed speculation about his interest in the White House. So it
came as a surprise one evening in February 1987 when Mr. Cuomo, making his
regular appearance on a radio call-in show, declared that he would not run.

Power Declines at Home

Mr. Cuomo turned his attention to Albany. He and the Legislature agreed to a new
ethics code governing state and local government officials and state employees.
He proclaimed 1988 the beginning of the decade of the child, 1989 the year to
fight drug abuse and 1990, when he was up for re-election again, the year of the
environment.

But after Vice President George Bush, the Republican nominee for president,
defeated Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the Democrat, in 1988, speculation about Mr.
Cuomo inevitably grew again.

But he was no longer the formidable figure in New York he had been. His
popularity ratings had dropped. State legislators, who had never been fond of
him, were emboldened to challenge him. He pinned the blame for this erosion of
support on the way the news media had covered his response to all the talk about
a presidential run.

''You've done everything but call me a liar,'' he told The Washington Post,
speaking generally of the press. ''You said that I was cute. You said that I
misplayed the game. You said that I was really waiting for another scenario.
Well, the net result of that is it costs me credibility, because you spent all
those months saying I was conning people.''

Recession, too, was looming and state revenues were declining. Still, in 1990,
he won a third term. His Republican opponent, Pierre A. Rinfret, a financial
consultant and economics adviser to presidents, had not been taken seriously
even by his own party.

It was a convincing but unsatisfying victory: Mr. Cuomo had done better against
Mr. O'Rourke four years before.

When he returned to Albany to deliver his ninth State of the State address, Mr.
Cuomo suggested diminished ambitions for his next term. ''This is a wonderful
year for raw truth,'' he said. ''We don't have any money.''

But he had one more presidential flirtation left in him: in October 1991, while
on a trip to Chicago, he said he was ''looking at'' a run. Many of his
supporters had grown weary of such talk, some viewing it as a ruse to
reinvigorate his sagging political image. And that December, with the planes
waiting on the runway, he announced again that he would not be a candidate for
president.

It always bothered him, Mr. Cuomo said years later, that no one had taken him at
his word. He would have run, he said in an interview for this obituary, had
Republicans simply agreed to his request to pass a budget.

''I somehow got this reputation of diddling and dithering,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''I
don't remember dithering at all.''

Stunned by Pataki

Mr. Cuomo's remaining years in Albany were a series of grim footnotes as he
struggled to keep the government afloat in worsening times. Mr. Clinton was on
the verge of naming him to the Supreme Court when he asked that his name be
withdrawn; Mr. Cuomo later said that he had never wanted the job.

When the 1994 election season began, he seemed unaware of how much his
popularity had eroded. He was stunned, he said, that someone like Mr. Pataki
could pose a serious challenge to someone with his credentials. Mr. Pataki
defeated him by five percentage points.

Mr. Cuomo returned to Manhattan to work for the law firm of Willkie Farr &
Gallagher, write books and give speeches. He grew wealthy and, he said, happy.
He was always attuned to how he was perceived by the public, and when invited to
sum up his own life for this obituary, he characteristically turned to
self-deprecating humor.

''People asked me what I want as an epitaph,'' Mr. Cuomo said. He then reprised
a line he had used many years earlier traveling across upstate New York, a fresh
public figure displaying astonishing talent and obvious potential.

''He tried,'' Mr. Cuomo said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/mario-cuomo-new-york-governor-and-lib
eral-beacon-dies-at-82.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mario Cuomo in 1995. He died the day his son Andrew began his
second term as governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD) (A1)
Clockwise from top: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1994, just before losing his bid for
a fourth term
campaigning that year from a bus
with Representative Edward I. Koch in 1977 before a debate between the mayoral
hopefuls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILLIAM E. SAURO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Cuomo family in 1977, from left: Madeline, 13
Margaret, 22
Christopher, 7
Maria, 15
Mario
Matilda
and Andrew, 19. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
Governor Cuomo nominating Bill Clinton for president at the 1992 Democratic
National Convention in New York. Mr. Cuomo later withdrew his name from
consideration for the Supreme Court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
   Mr. Cuomo, second from right, celebrated the re-election of his son Andrew to
the governorship on Nov. 4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LIBERALISM (91%); GOVERNORS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT
BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); US
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS
(67%); ETHICS (60%); SCANDALS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CLOSINGS
(50%); RELIGION (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); ANDREW CUOMO (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Flu Season Is Shaping Up as Intense, With a Low Vaccination Rate

BYLINE: By MARGOT SANGER-KATZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; DISEASE CONTROL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 861 words


At Nazareth Academy, a Catholic high school just outside Chicago, a full quarter
of the 780 students were out with the flu in early December, along with more
than a dozen teachers. Officials at the school closed it for two days and
disinfected the property.

The principal, Deborah Tracy, said it was the first time in her 15 years there
that such a measure had been necessary. ''It just really was unprecedented for
here,'' she said.

Nationwide, we're on track for a nasty flu season, with both a large number of
cases and many severe ones that require hospitalizations, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It declared an influenza epidemic
this week, a status achieved at some point nearly every year, though not usually
this early in the season. Twenty-two states and Puerto Rico are reporting high
flu intensity. In some parts of the country, flu infections have outpaced those
from each of the last few years, according to data from the C.D.C.

Google Flu Trends, which measures flu intensity using search terms, shows a
similar pattern of high flu activity.

The worrisome outlook is the result of a confluence of factors: an early start
to the flu season, with more people sick in December than usual; a strain that
tends to make people sicker; a relatively low vaccination rate; and a mismatch
between this year's flu vaccine and the virus that's making people sick.

''We're already above the peak that we saw last year, and we're increasing,''
said Dr. Michael Jhung, a medical officer at the Influenza Division of the
C.D.C. who predicts it will be several more weeks before flu infections peak.

The C.D.C. tracks flu deaths, hospitalizations and the percentage of doctors'
visits for flulike illness. The detailed, public data make it easy to watch the
flu take off this year. Google Flu Trends tells a similar story, although its
algorithm has been criticized for overestimating the prevalence of the flu. But
it has also been endorsed by epidemiologists and published in medical journals,
and a new Google flu tool allows you to look at the misery down to the level of
the city.

Columbia, S.C., for example, is suffering one doozy of a season, according to
the Google data. Dr. Helmut Albrecht, the chief of infectious disease at the
University of South Carolina, confirms as much. ''We call it a bad flu season
when 5 to 6 percent of our emergency room visits are for flulike illness,'' he
said. ''We are between 17 and 20 percent.''

Dr. Anna-Kathryn Rye, the director of pediatric infectious diseases at Palmetto
Health Children's Hospital, says flu infection rates among children are two to
three times what she sees in a typical year. She said her pediatrician friends
had posted on Facebook ''that they are tired, and can't wait for the flu to go
away.''

''They are busy, and they are overbooked,'' she said. ''They have seen a lot of
kids -- and they all have the flu.''

For most people who catch it, influenza is unpleasant but not serious. But the
disease can cause as many as 40,000 deaths a year, primarily among older people
and those with compromised immune systems. The flu that's circulating this year
is a type called H3N2, which tends to spread widely and can cause serious
illness.

Right now, the flu is spreading fastest in the Southeast and the Midwest.
Dayton, Ohio, and Knoxville, Tenn., are some of the places experiencing intense
flu seasons, according to the Google data. But because the flu tends to move
around the country, places that have been spared so far may just end up with
more sick people next year.

Doctors know more than ever about where the flu is and how fast it is spreading,
but Dr. Jhung said the medical system still had not made much headway in
reducing the toll of influenza. Though the C.D.C. now recommends vaccination for
everyone older than 6 months, vaccinations remain at less than 50 percent of the
population. With so few people protected, it's still relatively easy for the
virus to spread each year; there are lots of susceptible people, and the
airborne virus moves around quickly.

This year, that problem may be worse than usual. Though the vaccine includes an
H3N2 flu, the strain it targets isn't a perfect match for the one that's going
around. That means that the vaccine is less effective than normal. Ideally, with
a weaker vaccine, you'd want more people to be inoculated. But some people,
hearing the message about the vaccine's limited effectiveness, may have skipped
it this year. There are other flu strains circulating, too, and people who don't
get a shot may be at risk of catching another variety as well.

Flu seasons wax and wane, Dr. Jhung said, but the intensity of a flu season
typically depends more on the particular bug in a given year than anything else.
Two years ago, another H3N2 virus was prevalent, and the flu season was also
quite severe. Last year was milder, in part because a different flu strain
predominated.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our weekly
newsletter here.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/31/upshot/as-feared-its-a-season-of-high-flu-inte
nsity.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:   Residents of Oakland, Calif., received free flu shots during a
clinic at Allen Temple Baptist Church in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN
SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (97%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (90%); VACCINES (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); VACCINATION &
IMMUNIZATION (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRENDS (89%); PEDIATRICS (85%); EPIDEMICS (78%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%);
ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%);
ANTIVIRALS (69%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(84%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (71%); OAKLAND,
CA, USA (59%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Rescue Economy, Japan Turns to Supermom

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SOBLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1482 words


TOKYO -- When she was pregnant with the first of her three sons, Chiaki
Kitajima, an advertising executive here, said her bosses were shocked that
rather than accept reduced hours and a demotion after maternity leave, she made
a presentation on why the company should subsidize child care.

''I had to fight to convince them that supporting me was a good investment,''
she said. Ms. Kitajima, 47, is now the creative director of her advertising
agency but says mothers at her professional level remain rare.

The Japanese prime minister would like to change that. And he has a fix for his
country's troubled economy: the supermom.

These days, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been encouraging Japanese women to
have it all. A rewarding career. Children, preferably more than one.

In a country where juggling work and family has long been especially difficult,
Mr. Abe has pledged to ease the way for women like Ms. Kitajima, with more
state-funded child care and other measures to foster ''a society where all women
shine.'' Tackling the nation's shrinking population and declining labor force by
encouraging working women is part of his broader effort to re-energize the
economy, which is looking especially unsteady after Japan unexpectedly fell into
a recession last quarter.

His promises, though, will be difficult to put into practice, given entrenched
societal and corporate norms. While the share of working women has been steadily
growing -- and now exceeds the level in the United States -- they tend to earn
significantly less than men. Mothers, in particular, are more likely to drop out
of the work force.

Mr. Abe must overcome an entrenched corporate culture that prizes long and
inflexible hours favoring men, and the prime minister's own conservative party
makes for an unlikely champion of women.

A decade ago one of his predecessors, Yoshiro Mori, said women who delayed
giving birth in order to work were selfishly ''exulting in freedom,'' suggesting
that those without children should be disqualified from receiving public
pensions. A health minister in Mr. Abe's first government, which lasted from
2006 to 2007, described women as ''baby-making machines.''

This summer, a ruling-party member of the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly had to
apologize for taunting a female legislator with calls of ''Get married'' and
''Can't you have a baby?''

At a campaign stop before the recent special parliamentary election that gave
his government a renewed majority, Mr. Abe's gaffe-prone finance minister, Taro
Aso, said Japan's demographic problems were caused by ''not having children.''
Although he did not specify who was at fault, the comment elicited an outcry.
The leader of the largest opposition party said ''statements that appear to
blame women who cannot have children are unforgivable.''

The United States and Europe face similar challenges. National policies have
largely failed to address pay inequalities or create broad support systems for
working mothers.

But the gender gap in Japan is more pronounced. The national birthrate is just
1.4 children per woman, among the lowest in the world and well below the level
needed to ward off a sharp decline in population in the coming decades. And when
Japanese women do have children, they quit their jobs more often than mothers in
other industrialized countries, leaving a hole in an already dwindling work
force.

While many mothers start working again once their children reach school age,
most take up low-paid part-time or contract jobs. This, experts say, helps
explain why Japanese women earn 40 percent less than men on average and occupy
only one in 10 management-level positions.

In September, the head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde,
said significant steps to close the gender gap could increase Japanese economic
growth by a quarter of a percentage point. That is not small in a country that
has averaged less than 1 percent growth for the last two decades.

''Japan is using only half its population, so how can it compete
internationally?'' said Mikiko Fujiwara, a former investment banker who runs
career seminars for female employees at businesses and local governments. Demand
for her services, she said, has increased since Mr. Abe began pushing his
message of female empowerment on corporate executives. ''They didn't think it
was worth the money to specifically train women before, but that's changed.''

Mr. Abe's record so far is mixed. In September, he appointed five women to his
cabinet, equaling the largest number on record. Yet the majority belonged to the
most socially conservative wing of his party, which opposes feminist causes like
changing Japan's male-only royal succession and allowing husbands and wives to
keep separate surnames. Two of the women resigned in October, facing
campaign-funding scandals.

One of Mr. Abe's initial proposals has also come under fire. He outlined plans
to extend unpaid maternity leave for up to three years, an idea that appeared to
reflect the once-common belief in Japan that women need to ''hug their children
close'' until they are toddlers. But such a long absence from work can also
derail a career.

''The idea of taking three years off is absurd; nobody asked for that,'' said
Rumi Sato, a journalist and author of ''Sugo-haha,'' or ''Amazing mothers,'' a
study of working mothers in Japan. ''Women want to know that they can get back
on track when they return.''

Mr. Abe's most concrete policy moves have focused on child care, which is in
short supply in major cities. His government is trying to eliminate nursery
school waiting lists by creating 400,000 new spaces by March 2018. It is also
working to loosen immigration restrictions that have limited foreign nannies and
housekeepers.

The government is also debating whether to change tax rules that favor
single-income families over those with two incomes. An exemption dating from the
1960s lowers taxes on men whose wives earn less than 1 million yen, or about
$8,300. Kaku Sechiyama, a specialist in gender studies at the University of
Tokyo, estimates that as many as 80 percent of married working women are in
part-time jobs that keep them just under the threshold.

''It's rational for them, but it discourages work,'' Professor Sechiyama said.
''It's basically a subsidy for housewives.''

Compounding the problem, women still have a tough time getting ahead at most
companies. The demands on employees for long hours and after-work socializing
are still pervasive, creating a double bind for working mothers since husbands
are less available for child care.

Mr. Abe has set ambitious goals. He has revived a largely forgotten, decade-old
target of having women occupy 30 percent of ''supervisory positions'' in
business and government by 2020. He is also pressuring -- though not requiring
-- stock-market-listed companies to appoint at least one woman to their boards.

But Mr. Abe is mainly leaving businesses to set their own course, and there is a
long way to go. Over 80 percent of Japan's more than 3,600 public companies have
no female directors.

Some businesses have been proactive, by breaking down the strict division
between job tracks in Japan that limits opportunities for clerical and other
''noncareer'' staff, a disproportionately female group. KDDI, a mobile phone
company, has started assigning two deputies -- one female and one male -- to
each senior executive, an idea it borrowed from IBM.

The company is also offering more flexibility. Kaname Utsumi, 43, the manager of
a team of 15 in KDDI's human resources department, says she was the first woman
of her level to return to a management job after maternity leave, three years
ago.

Her husband, who also works for the company, drops their son off at day care and
sometimes picks him up. She leaves work early twice a week, at 5:30 p.m., though
she says she usually puts in additional hours at home.

''It's hard,'' Ms. Utsumi said. ''But when you find a job you like, you don't
want to give it up.''

Nonetheless, it can still be tough to breach the upper ranks.

Shinobu Nagasako, 52, is suing her employer, Chugoku Electric Power Company, for
discrimination, claiming that she was passed over for a management job because
of her gender. Two-thirds of her male colleagues with the same amount of
experience and education are now managers, she says, but only 12 percent of
similarly qualified women are.

Chugoku Electric argues that the gap is because of differences in ambition. Many
women, the company says, have intentionally chosen shorter hours and lighter
responsibilities. While lower courts have sided with the company, the case is
now before the Supreme Court.

''All the H.R. policies look gender-neutral on paper, but there's a lot of
discretion in who gets promoted,'' Ms. Nagasako said. ''Men are supposed to
work, and women are supposed to take care of the home. So when you're a woman,
you start from a huge disadvantage.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/international/in-economic-revival-eff
ort-japan-turns-to-its-women.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chiaki Kitajima, an advertising executive, picking up her son
Daido at a child care center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has vowed to make it easier  for women to
work, including supplying more child care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUYA SHINO/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); WOMEN (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%);
MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%);
INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%);
WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); CHILD CARE (77%); BANKING &
FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS
(75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
(70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CORPORATE CULTURE (69%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%); TARO ASO (55%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Friday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 749 words


9 P.M. (13) BILLY JOEL: THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS GERSHWIN PRIZE Mr. Joel adds
this lifetime achievement prize -- which honors living songwriters whose work,
according to the library, exemplifies ''the standard of excellence associated
with George and Ira Gershwin'' -- to his 33 Top 40 hits and 23 Grammy
nominations. Justice Sonia Sotomayor of the Supreme Court and Representative
Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, were among those who bestowed the award on
Mr. Joel on Nov. 19 at Constitution Hall in Washington. That celebration,
presented here, features Tony Bennett performing ''New York State of Mind,''
LeAnn Rimes singing ''Lullabye (Goodnight, My Angel),'' Josh Groban rendering
''Always a Woman'' and John Mellencamp covering ''Allentown.'' Then it's Mr.
Joel's turn with renditions of ''Movin' Out,'' ''Vienna,'' ''You May Be Right''
and, with Kevin Spacey, ''Piano Man.''

4:05 P.M. (Starz Cinema) AMOUR (2012) A French couple, portrayed by Jean-Louis
Trintignant and Emmanuelle Riva (above) find their love tested when she has a
stroke and he becomes her caregiver in this Oscar winner for best
foreign-language film, directed by Michael Haneke. Isabelle Huppert plays their
self-centered daughter -- like her parents, a musician -- whose questions about
what she can do to help as her mother becomes increasingly incapacitated ring
hollow. Manohla Dargis, writing in The New York Times, called this film ''a
masterpiece about life, death and everything in between.'' And while some
viewers may find the movie cold and even cruel, she added, ''there's another
point to be made here, namely that all the violence in 'Amour' is crucial to Mr.
Haneke's rigorous, liberatingly unsentimental worldview, one that gazes on death
with the same benevolent equanimity as life. All of which is to say: Bring
hankies. This is a film that will make you weep not only because life ends, but
also because it blooms.''

8 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS The Sea Shepherds head back to Antarctica for
a 10th mission to stop whaling but without their leader, Capt. Paul Watson,
after a court ruling that limits how he can interact with Japanese vessels. This
three-hour Season 7 special follows Capt. Peter Hammarstedt as he undertakes
Operation Relentless by trying to intervene before the whaling season even
begins -- and lets the Japanese hunters know that the Sea Shepherds' endeavor
won't ease up just because Captain Watson isn't at the helm.

10 P.M. (TLC) NEW BODY, NEW STYLE In this collaboration with People magazine,
the style and beauty expert Mary Alice Stephenson shows two women who have each
shed half their body weight how to best accentuate their new physiques.

10:45 P.M. (Starz) CAPTAIN PHILLIPS (2013) Tom Hanks (above center with Barkhad
Abdirahman) stars as Richard Phillips, the commander of the Maersk Alabama, an
American container ship with a crew of 20 sailors and a cargo including supplies
from the United Nations World Food Program that was seized in the Indian Ocean
in April 2009 by four armed Somalis. Barkhad Abdi, a first-time actor who
received an Oscar nomination, plays Muse, their leader, whose actions lead to
the arrival of the American military and its warships. ''The existential
realities that inform contemporary Somali piracy turn out to be one of the
unexpected themes of 'Captain Phillips,' which begins as something of a
procedural about men at work and morphs into a jittery thriller even as it also
deepens, brilliantly, unexpectedly, into an unsettling look at global capitalism
and American privilege and power,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times about this
best picture nominee, adapted by the director Paul Greengrass from Mr.
Phillips's book, ''A Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALs, and Dangerous
Days at Sea.'' ''Phillips is unambiguously a heroic figure, but he's scarcely
the sole point of interest in a movie that steadily and almost stealthily
asserts the agonized humanity of his captors.''

1 A.M. (13) THEATER TALK Charles Isherwood of The New York Times, Jesse Green of
New York magazine and Elisabeth Vincentelli of The New York Post recap the 2014
theater season and reveal the one show they're all looking forward to this
spring.

What's Streaming Now

WHALE WARS Through Jan. 19, every episode from the previous six seasons of this
Animal Planet series chronicling the efforts of Capt. Paul Watson and his Sea
Shepherd Conservation Society to combat Japanese whaling is available for
streaming. (animalplanet.com) KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/whats-on-tv-friday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARIUS KHONDJI/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS
 JASIN BOLAND/COLUMBIA PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SONG
WRITING (89%); ECOTERRORISM (85%); MARINE MAMMALS (84%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES
(78%); LIBRARIES (78%); GRAMMY AWARDS (78%); MUSIC (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); SUPREME COURTS
(76%); ACADEMY AWARDS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); FILM (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); FILM
DIRECTORS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); WHALING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%)

PERSON: KEVIN SPACEY (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top 2 Executives Resign From Thruway Authority

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 502 words


The top two executives of the New York State Thruway Authority abruptly quit
this week, the latest sign of turmoil at the agency as it faces a deep budget
shortfall and difficulty financing the construction of a new Tappan Zee Bridge.

The authority's executive director, Thomas J. Madison, and its chief operating
and financial officer, John M. Bryan, resigned without warning on Wednesday and
surprised the authority's board of directors, said Donna J. Luh, the acting
chairwoman.

''We were caught off guard like everyone else was,'' Ms. Luh said during a
telephone interview on Thursday. ''Both have done a very good job.''

Their departures followed the resignation in early December of Howard P.
Milstein as chairman of the authority's board and the announcement two weeks ago
that the authority faced a deficit of $36 million for 2015.

The New York Post, which first reported the resignations on Thursday, suggested
that a coming report by the state inspector general's office on the authority's
operations might have prompted the departures.

Messages to the inspector general's office were not returned on Thursday, the
New Year's Day holiday. Ms. Luh said she had no knowledge of the scope or focus
of the report but was aware through news accounts that ''one is obviously being
compiled.''

In an email to the Thruway staff on Wednesday, she suggested that the departures
were ''part of a natural transition of government'' as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo
begins his second term in office.

The independent authority operates and maintains the Thruway's 570 miles of
highway, the Erie Canal and 809 bridges. Its biggest bridge -- the Tappan Zee,
which crosses the Hudson River between Rockland and Westchester Counties -- is
currently being replaced, a project championed by Mr. Cuomo.

The governor's plan to pay for the $3.9 billion project suffered a major setback
in September, when the federal Environmental Protection Agency rejected most of
the state's request for a $511 million low-interest loan. The state had argued
the project would enhance the environment, a position the federal agency
rejected.

The authority had already been contemplating toll increases throughout its
network of bridges and roads. Without that federal financing, the state may have
to sell more bonds to cover construction costs, taking on more debt that could
result in even higher toll increases.

The authority's seven board members are appointed by the governor, with approval
of the State Senate. Of the six current members, five were appointed before Mr.
Cuomo took office. He chose both Mr. Madison and Mr. Milstein, a wealthy banker
and real estate developer, for their posts in 2011.

Mr. Cuomo's office declined to comment on the latest departures. Mr. Bryan, who
had worked at the authority for a decade, did not respond to messages left on
Thursday.

Mr. Madison released a two-sentence statement in which he said it had been an
honor to serve in the Cuomo administration ''during such a pivotal time in the
history'' of the authority.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/top-2-thruway-authority-executives-qu
it-without-warning.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas J. Madison Jr., center, and John M. Bryan, right,
abruptly quit the New York State Thruway Authority this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHAEL P. FARRELL/THE TIMES UNION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BUDGET
DEFICITS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS
(78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (78%);
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INTERVIEWS
(77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CONSERVATION (62%); ENVIRONMENT &
NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Syria Deaths in 2014 Hit a New High, Group Says

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and MOHAMMAD GHANNAM; Rick Gladstone reported from New
York, and Mohammad Ghannam from Beirut, Lebanon.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 441 words


More than 76,000 people died in Syria's civil war in 2014, including more than
3,500 children, a monitoring group reported on Thursday. The figures would make
last year the deadliest in Syria since the conflict began in March 2011.

The figures from the monitoring group, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights,
put the total number of dead in the conflict as of Wednesday at 206,603.

The group, based in Britain, uses a network of contacts inside Syria to tally
casualties, and its figures cannot be independently corroborated. The United
Nations, which once regularly documented the numbers of dead and wounded in
Syria, discontinued the practice some time ago.

But the United Nations said in December that more than 200,000 people had been
killed in the conflict, which began as an uprising against President Bashar
al-Assad and has since evolved into a civil war that has destabilized the Middle
East.

The Syrian Observatory's 2014 casualty figures include 17,790 civilians, among
them 3,501 children.

The rest include Syrian soldiers and allied militia members, rebel fighters and
members of jihadist militant organizations that have joined the fighting.

The Syrian Observatory's total of 76,021 deaths for 2014 compared with its total
of 73,447 in 2013, 49,294 in 2012 and 7,841 in 2011.

The number of wounded in the Syria conflict has been even harder to determine,
partly because of restricted access to combat zones and the collapse of the
country's public health system.

Last month, the World Health Organization's Syria representative, Elizabeth
Hoff, said the cumulative number of wounded was approximately one million.

Ms. Hoff made the estimate as part of a United Nations annual appeal for funding
at a donors conference in Berlin. The organization said it was seeking $8.4
billion in 2015 to help nearly 18 million victims of Syria's conflict, mostly
displaced civilians and refugees.

The 2014 casualty figures were issued as Syria's state-run news agency reported
that Mr. Assad, in a New Year's Eve morale-boosting gesture, had visited
soldiers on the front lines in Jobar, an embattled suburb of Damascus. Images
posted on the news agency's website showed Mr. Assad, minus his signature
mustache, greeting his troops.

Antigovernment activists said that they doubted that Mr. Assad had ventured into
Jobar, which they said was contested or rebel-controlled, and that the images
shown by the state media appeared to be from Zablatani, a government-held area
nearby.

Some images showed a building with a sign that read Damascus Transportation
Department, and several Damascus residents said they knew of such a building in
Zablatani, not in Jobar.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/middleeast/syrian-civil-war-2014-deadlie
st-so-far.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carrying milk for sale in the Old City of Aleppo, Syria. A
monitoring group said over 3,500 children were among more than 76,000 civil war
fatalities in 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMOUD HEBBO/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SYRIAN CRISIS (91%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR &
CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES
(89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); DISPLACED
PERSONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); REFUGEES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
(69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ALEPPO, SYRIA (78%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Year of Columns, a Memorable Trove of Characters

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words


HANGING OVER HIS FUTURE For Zachary Warren, the 30-year-old magna cum laude
graduate of Georgetown Law School caught up in the 2012 collapse of the big law
firm Dewey & LeBoeuf, probably the best thing that can be said about 2014 is
that it's over.

In March, Mr. Warren was indicted by a grand jury in Manhattan on multiple
felony counts based on allegations that he helped mastermind an extensive fraud
at the once-prestigious law firm, where he was a low-level ''client relations
manager.''

Just about everyone who knew him was shocked. Mr. Warren was just 24, fresh out
of Stanford, when he applied for a job as a paralegal at Dewey. He left the firm
to attend law school, well before the 2010 bond offering at the heart of the
fraud charges. And the three others charged -- the law firm's former chairman,
executive director and chief financial officer -- were top-ranking
administrators.

Why prosecutors decided to throw the book at Mr. Warren remains a mystery.
Although it's obvious he infuriated them at his interrogation, where he perhaps
unwisely testified without a lawyer to defend him, little evidence related
directly to him has emerged in pretrial motions. About the worst that has been
said is that he was in a room with others on one occasion when elements of the
plan were discussed.

But simply being indicted in a prominent fraud case has damaged his
once-promising legal career. Williams & Connolly, the prestigious law firm based
in Washington known for its white-collar criminal defense work, withdrew a job
offer. Mr. Warren had expected to work there after finishing his clerkship on
the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit this summer. (A partner
at Williams & Connolly said the firm did not comment on personnel matters.)

The judge in Mr. Warren's case did grant a motion to sever his trial, which
means he won't suffer any guilt by association with his far higher-ranking
co-defendants. But it also means he won't be tried until after they are, which
prolongs the time a cloud will hang over his future.

In the meantime, he's working as a consultant to a small Pittsburgh firm. If
there's any silver lining to his predicament, it's that he's getting an
immersion in criminal law and procedure that no law school could teach. ''He's
resilient and optimistic,'' said William J. Murphy, one of his lawyers and a
partner at Zuckerman Spaeder. ''He believes in the criminal justice system, and
he's convinced the evidence will show he didn't do anything wrong.''

PULLED BACK IN For Paul J. Taubman, the one-man investment bank, the most
important deal of the year may turn out to be the one he negotiated for himself.

When I spoke to Mr. Taubman in April, he was operating out of an extra office at
the law firm of Weil Gotshal & Manges while single-handedly accounting for a
staggering $175 billion in deals.

Once a leading contender to run Morgan Stanley, where he had spent his entire
career before leaving in 2012, Mr. Taubman, 53, was poised to start a boutique
firm, PJT Partners. He was negotiating for office space on the block of West
57th Street that's become investment banking row, and he'd brought on board
several partners.

He thought he'd finally found ''clarity'' about his future, he recently told me.
And then, just days after committing to a lease on the new office space,
Hamilton E. James, president and chief operating officer of Blackstone, called
Mr. Taubman with an unexpected proposition: Blackstone had decided to spin off
its client advisory businesses, including M.&A. advising, restructuring and Park
Hill, its fund placement business. It wanted Mr. Taubman to run the new company.
''There went the clarity,'' Mr. Taubman said.

After several months of due diligence and frequent meetings with Mr. James, the
Blackstone co-founder Stephen A. Schwarzman, and other top officials, they
reached a handshake deal by Labor Day. Mr. Taubman will vault from his one-man
office to a new publicly traded company with about 400 employees and offices
around the world. He'll be chairman and chief executive.

If the initial public offering takes place as scheduled early this year, ''this
may set a new speed record from conception to I.P.O.,'' Mr. Taubman said.

'AND THEN THERE WERE TWO' In June, John Browne, a former chief executive of the
British oil giant BP, became the first chief executive (either current or
former) of a listed company to acknowledge in public being gay. In his memoir,
''The Glass Closet,'' he told the sometimes painful story of his experiences as
a closeted gay chief executive, which culminated in his being outed by a British
tabloid. ''My greatest regret in life is that I wasn't honest while I was chief
executive,'' Mr. Browne, 66, who is Lord Browne of Madingley, told me when we
met last summer.

He also said he wrote the book in part to encourage others to be open. In that
sense, ''it's been a remarkable year,'' he said. ''A great year.''

On Aug. 14, Trevor Burgess, chief executive of Florida-based C1 Financial, rang
the opening bell of the New York Stock Exchange to celebrate his company's first
day of trading. In the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Mr. Burgess disclosed he has a husband, Gary Hess, who owned shares
in the company. He also contacted Out Leadership, an advocacy group for gay,
lesbian, bisexual and transgendered executives, which issued a release drawing
attention to Mr. Burgess's status as a publicly gay chief executive.

In response, he received an email from Jason Grenfell-Gardner, chief executive
of a pharmaceutical concern, IGI Laboratories, who is also gay and the chief
executive of a publicly traded company. ''And then there were two,'' Mr.
Grenfell-Gardner wrote.

Today there are more.

In late October, Tim Cook, chief executive of Apple Inc., disclosed that he is
gay in an essay published in Bloomberg Businessweek. He said his motives were
similar to Mr. Browne's: ''If hearing that the C.E.O. of Apple is gay can help
someone struggling to come to terms with who he or she is, or bring comfort to
anyone who feels alone, or inspire people to insist on their equality, then it's
worth the trade-off with my own privacy,'' Mr. Cook said.

''For Tim Cook to come out is an incredibly important step,'' Mr. Browne said
when I reached him recently in London. ''But constant vigilance is needed. Look
at Russia and Uganda. There are too many forces in the world pushing in the
opposite direction.''

Still, Mr. Browne said he'd been ''overwhelmed'' by positive reaction to his
book. At a book signing in Henley-on-Thames, a couple asked him to autograph a
copy for their son. ''We hope this will encourage him to come out,'' they told
him.

HAVE TENT, WILL TRAVEL When I spoke to Derek De Armond just before Thanksgiving,
he was in a multiroom tent with a screened porch outside a Best Buy in Fort
Myers, Fla., whiling away the time with his flat-screen television, tiki bar and
fully decorated Christmas tree.

After camping for two weeks waiting for Best Buy's 5 p.m. Thanksgiving opening,
Mr. De Armond, 55, a press operator for The News-Press in Fort Myers, landed the
door buster he was aiming for -- a Panasonic 50-inch LED TV for $199. He has
donated it to a local children's hospital for a fund-raising auction.

But Mr. De Armond didn't waste time getting into another line. The Monday after
Thanksgiving, he set up camp outside JetBlue Park for season tickets to Red Sox
spring training games. He had to wait only five days for those.

When Mr. De Armond and his son recently attended a Miami Dolphins game, some
people recognized him from media coverage of his pre-Thanksgiving vigil and
asked to have their picture taken with him. Mr. De Armond said his son was
embarrassed. ''When you do this next year, could you wear a mask?''

Mr. De Armond said he received calls from other national retailers hoping he
would camp outside one of their stores next year. ''My friends are asking me
what I'll do next year to top this,'' he said. (One possibility: pitching his
tent in Times Square for New Year's Eve.)

I figured Mr. De Armond might have run out of lines to colonize in 2014, but he
said a few days before Christmas that he was taking his family to Walt Disney
World on Christmas Day, without his tent. ''We'll be waiting in lines just like
everybody else,'' he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/a-year-of-columns-a-memorable-trove-o
f-characters.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Zachary Warren, caught up in a fraud
case
Derek De Armond, a Black Friday shopper
Paul Taubman, a fund manager
and John Browne, an openly gay chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLO
ALLEGRI/REUTERS
EVE EDELHEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Timothy Cook, left, Apple's C.E.O., publicly came out as gay, as did Trevor R.
Burgess, the chief executive of C1Bank. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS

 BRIAN BLANCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES
(90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); FRAUD &
FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); PARALEGALS (78%); PROFESSIONAL
WORKERS (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (76%); GRAND JURY (76%); TESTIMONY (76%);
FELONIES (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS
(72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); BONDS (68%); BOND ISSUES
(68%); CUSTOMER RELATIONS (55%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (91%); WILLIAMS & CONNOLLY LLP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (59%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Richard Sandomir's Top 10 Sports Films

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 636 words


1. ''Raging Bull'': A brilliantly directed epic about misanthropy that is
propelled by a great story, more-than-credible action and fascinating, doomed
relationships. And Robert De Niro won an Oscar as best actor.

2. ''Hoosiers'': Understated prototype of the inspirational sports film --
plucky teenage underdogs, a coach (Gene Hackman) with a subtly effective pregame
speech and a cast that plunges you back into 1950s small-town Indiana.

3. ''Bull Durham'': An easygoing comedy and love triangle, this 1988 film offers
a realistic picture of minor league baseball, terrific game action and
intelligent screenwriting.

4. ''Million Dollar Baby'': A twist on the conventional boxing story -- a woman
at its center and a late-career Clint Eastwood as a nurturer -- that makes you
cheer and cry. It won four Academy Awards in 2005: for best picture, best
director (Eastwood), best actress (Hilary Swank) and best supporting actor
(Morgan Freeman).

5. ''Rocky'': From 1976, a great underdog story that inspired many others; it
makes moviegoers believe that a downtrodden pug can stand toe to toe with the
Ali-like Apollo Creed.

6. ''Field of Dreams'': I love the inventiveness and whimsy in this 1989 film. I
love when the players enter and depart from the corn field. I love James Earl
Jones's speech and Burt Lancaster's philosophical doctor. But I've never loved
the plot device that sets up Ray Kinsella (Kevin Costner) playing catch at the
end with his ghost father.

7. ''A League of Their Own'': An abundance of memorable characters (if nothing
else, think of the maturation of homely Marla Hooch) and great relationships
(Geena Davis and Lori Petty as the sisters at the heart of the story who are
driven by different motivations) make for a compelling film from 1992. And Tom
Hanks's boozy Jimmy Dugan is one of the best portraits of a manager or coach in
cinema.

8. ''The Natural'': Barry Levinson's golden-hued 1984 film, where good (Robert
Redford as Roy Hobbs) defeats evil (the gambler, the team owner and the
columnist/cartoonist played by Robert Duvall) works as a fairy tale -- but as
you watch, you have to forget that Bernard Malamud's novel ends in shame, not
glory.

9. ''The Pride of the Yankees'': Some of it feels hokey, but it still has a good
story, a loving portrait of a marriage and Lou Gehrig's ''luckiest man'' speech,
delivered by Gary Cooper. More than 70 years after its release, in 1942, it
remains memorable despite its many liberties with the truth.

10. ''The Hustler'': A matchup of young and old pool sharks (Jackie Gleason, who
was an underrated dramatic actor, and Paul Newman) is a dark and crackling story
with the tension of a prizefight set amid a collection of indelible characters.

To be honest, I struggled with No. 10. I thought of putting ''Cinderella Man''
into that slot, or the Academy Award-winning ''Chariots of Fire,'' with its ear
worm theme music and slow-motion running. ''Seabiscuit,'' ''Moneyball'' and
''Remember the Titans'' were viable options, too. I wondered about ''Brian's
Song,'' a made-for-TV movie that has some of the makings of a classic -- the
emotional bromance between Gale Sayers and Brian Piccolo and Sayers's speech
that asked an audience to love Piccolo as he loves him. But for various reasons,
such as ''Titans'' seeming to have had a checklist for every possible element
that should be included in a sports film, these movies fail to make the cut.

Had I included documentaries, ''Hoop Dreams'' would have supplanted one of the
top 10. Finally, I also considered ''Caddyshack,'' but in a recent viewing I
felt that the snobs versus snobs plot was not consistently funny (Rodney
Dangerfield was better and more central in ''Back to School'') and that the
romantic subplot was tepid. More than anything, I wished for more of Bill
Murray's improvisations.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/richard-sandomirs-top-10-sports-films.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%);
FILM (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); WRITERS (73%);
BASEBALL (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (89%); ROBERT REDFORD (79%); CLINT EASTWOOD (72%); TOM
HANKS (57%)

STATE: INDIANA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Web Freedom Seen Growing as an Issue

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL and ANDREW E. KRAMER; Vindu Goel reported from San
Francisco and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Government censorship of the Internet is a cat-and-mouse game.
And despite more aggressive tactics in recent months, the cats have been largely
frustrated while the mice wriggle away.

But this year, the challenges for Silicon Valley will mount, with Russia and
Turkey in particular trying to tighten controls on foreign-based Internet
companies. Major American companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google are
increasingly being put in the tricky position of figuring out which laws and
orders to comply with around the world -- and which to ignore or contest.

On Wednesday, Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, signed the latest version
of a personal data law that will require companies to store data about Russian
users on computers inside the country, where it will be easier for the
government to get access to it. With few companies expected to comply with the
law, which goes into effect Sept. 1, a confrontation may well erupt.

The clumsiness of current censorship efforts was apparent in mid-December, when
Russia's Internet regulator demanded that Facebook remove a page that was
promoting an anti-government rally. After Facebook blocked the page for its 10
million or so Russian users, dozens of copycat pages popped up and the word
spread on other social networks like Twitter. That created even more publicity
for the planned Jan. 15 event, intended to protest the sentencing of Aleksei A.
Navalny, a leading opposition figure.

Anton Nosik, a prominent Russian blogger whose work has been censored by
regulators, said it was absurd for a government to think it could easily stamp
out an article or video when it can be copied or found elsewhere with a few
clicks. ''The reader wants to see what he was prevented from seeing,'' Mr. Nosik
said in an interview. ''All that blocking doesn't work.''

Instead, that prompted the government to switch tactics, moving Mr. Navalny's
sentencing to Dec. 30 with little notice in an attempt to diminish protests.

The Turkish government faced similar embarrassment when it tried to stop the
dissemination of leaked documents and audio recordings on Twitter in March. The
administration of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was then prime minister and is now
president, ordered the shutdown of Twitter within Turkey after the company
refused to block the posts, which implicated government officials in a
corruption investigation.

Not only did the government lose a court fight on the issue, but while Twitter
was blocked, legions of Turkish users taught one another technical tricks to
evade the ban, even spray-painting the instructions on the walls of buildings.

''We all became hackers,'' Asli Tunc, a professor of communication at Istanbul
Bilgi University, said in a phone interview. ''And we all got on Twitter.''

Despite such victories for free-speech advocates, governments around the world
are stepping up their efforts to control the Internet, escalating the
confrontation.

''The trendlines are consistent,'' Colin Crowell, Twitter's global vice
president of public policy, said in a phone interview. ''There are more and more
requests for removal of information.''

Pakistan, for example, bombarded Facebook with nearly 1,800 requests to take
down content in the first half of 2014, according to the company's most recent
transparency report. Google's YouTube video service has long been blocked there.
And the government briefly succeeding in getting Twitter to block certain
''blasphemous'' or ''unethical'' tweets last year until the company re-examined
Pakistani law and determined the requests didn't meet legal requirements.

It's not just autocratic regimes that are pressing for limits on free speech. In
the European Union, a court ruling last year established a ''right to be
forgotten,'' allowing residents to ask search engines like Google to remove
links to negative material about them. Now privacy regulators want Google to
also delete the links from search results on the non-European versions of its
service because anyone in Europe can easily get access to the alternate sites.

Free-speech activists view Facebook, the world's largest social network with
1.35 billion monthly users, as the company most inclined to work with
governments and do whatever is necessary to keep its service up and running.

Last spring, while Twitter was blocked in Turkey and YouTube was shut down,
Facebook removed contested content and continued to operate. It has a dedicated
team of outside lawyers who field censorship requests from the Turkish
government and then recommend to corporate officials whether content should be
blocked.

''Facebook can be quite important to the people who use it, so we try to make
sure it remains accessible,'' a company spokesman said. ''We aggressively push
back on unlawful or overly broad government requests.''

Twitter, which has about 284 million monthly users, styles itself as the world's
town square and a global champion of free speech, conforming to the letter of
censorship laws while winking at workaround strategies, like users changing the
location listed on their profile to evade specific blocks that apply in a
particular country.

For Turkey's opposition movement, Professor Tunc said, Twitter ''basically
created an opening, a refreshing alternative, especially during the protests.
And they know that. They act like a defender of freedom.''

As the biggest player, Google, whose YouTube service seems to draw the
particular ire of foreign governments, has been forced into fights on many
fronts. It is still viewed by many as a hero for its decision to pull out of
China in 2010 rather than continue to censor search results there.

The company explained its philosophy at that time: ''We have a bias in favor of
people's right to free expression. We are driven by a belief that more
information means more choice, more freedom and ultimately more power for the
individual.''

While China remains a thorn in the side of most Western Internet companies --
Facebook and Twitter are basically blocked there -- Russia is the current flash
point in the censorship wars.

Over the summer, the Russian government began demanding that anyone with at
least 3,000 daily visitors follow rules similar to those applying to a media
company and face content restrictions. So far, Twitter and Facebook are simply
passing those requests along to their users without making sure anyone complies.
Many do not, but so far the Russian government has not pressed the issue.

But the pressure may intensify later this year. Starting Sept. 1, foreign
technology companies are supposed to store data about Russian users on computers
located in Russia and make a software key available to the government that could
be used to unscramble and monitor private Internet communications.

That would give the government leverage in showdowns with tech companies, since
it could simply raid the facility or arrest local employees.

Most Western technology companies have no data centers in Russia and no plans to
change that.

''Our data centers are all in the United States,'' said Mr. Crowell of Twitter.
''It's unlikely that our first data center outside the United States will be in
Russia.''

Google, whose search engine is the No. 2 player in Russia after the local Yandex
service, has gone further, announcing recently that it will close its
engineering offices in Russia. Although the company said it had been
consolidating such offices globally, one factor in the closure is the risk of a
raid by Russian authorities.

''If what's going to happen is that Russians will show up and stick an AK-47 in
an engineer's nostril, Google is going to make sure that no one in Russia has a
Google engineering logon,'' said Ross J. Anderson, a professor of security
engineering at Cambridge University in Britain, who studies privacy and
censorship issues and did some work for Google in the past.

A Google spokesman declined to comment on its Russia strategy, saying only, ''We
are deeply committed to our Russian users and customers and we have a dedicated
team in Russia working to support them.''

Twitter and Facebook have more room to maneuver. With far fewer users in Russia
and virtually no advertising there, they can resist the government's demands
with fewer repercussions.

Robert Shlegel, a member of the Russian Parliament active in shaping the
Kremlin's Internet policies, said in a phone interview that the Russian
regulations were in many ways a response to the revelations of the former
American intelligence contractor, Edward J. Snowden, about American government
spying through Silicon Valley companies.

''This problem was created by the United States,'' Mr. Shlegel said. Mr. Snowden
lives in Russia, which granted him residency as the United States government
sought to arrest him for his leaks.

Russia's first preference, Mr. Shlegel said, is to persuade other nations to
form a common, international set of rules for social networking sites and
crowdsourced news, clarifying when countries could block pages to comply with
national laws.

He said that Russian authorities had no intention of blocking American Internet
companies for failing to follow the data storage law. ''What we need to do is
have a dialogue,'' he said.

And given Western sanctions and the collapse in the ruble's value, Russia needs
foreign business support, at least in part to prevent its online economy from
grinding to a halt. If strictly enforced, the personal data law, for example,
would close most Internet hotel and airline bookings, sending Russians to stand
in line at travel agencies instead.

Mr. Nosik, the Russian blogger, said that the country's Internet regulator,
Roskomnadzor, was unlikely to ban American companies like Facebook, if only for
fear that millions of Russians who suddenly lost access to years of photographs,
family memories, love letters and contacts with friends would blame the Kremlin.

Only Mr. Putin could decide to cut off access, he said. ''The moment Putin wants
it done, it will be done within minutes and no law will be required,'' Mr. Nosik
said. ''On the other hand, so long as Putin doesn't give the command to block
them, they will not be blocked.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/international/web-freedom-is-seen-to-
be-growing-as-a-global-issue-in-2015.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of anti-corruption figure Aleksei Navalny in Moscow.
The government had Facebook block a page on a planned rally, but copycat pages
popped up. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IVAN SEKRETAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Top, Aleksei Navalny broke house arrest to attend a rally in his support. Above
left, Colin Crowell, Twitter's global vice president of public policy, said,
''There are more and more requests for removal of information.'' A sticker of
President Vladimir Putin of Russia with the word ''Obey!'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTON
BELITSKIY/REUTERS
TROY HOLDEN
 DENIS SINYAKOV/REUTERS) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CATS (90%); INTERVIEWS
(89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); INTERNET SERVICE
REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%);
COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL
NETWORKING (76%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); POLITICAL
CORRUPTION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); SENTENCING (69%); CORRUPTION (64%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: TWTR (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(84%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (89%);
MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Movies

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 4111 words


Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English
subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases: nytimes.com/movies.

'American Sniper' (R, 2:14) In this film, based on the memoir by Chris Kyle, a
Navy SEAL sniper who served four tours of duty in Iraq, Clint Eastwood's
direction is as blunt and effective as ever, and Bradley Cooper's performance as
Kyle is a remarkable feat of transformation. But as a movie about recent
history, the film is troublingly blurry, and heavy with unacknowledged political
bias. (A.O. Scott)

'Annie' (PG, 1:58) In spite of the charm of its star, Quvenzhané Wallis, this
updating of the beloved musical (based on the long-running comic strip) is
lifeless and labored. The musical numbers are poorly executed, and the story has
been stripped of its sweetness, its sentiment and its social conscience. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'The Babadook' (No rating, 1:35) Jennifer Kent's feature debut is a
deceptively simple, effectively scary tale of a storybook demon that comes to
life and torments a young mother and her 6-year-old son. It's a minor
masterpiece of the psychological horror genre. (Scott)

'Barbecue' (No rating, 1:38, in French) Eric Lavaine's French comedy about a
circle of middle-aged friends facing mild irritations is the kind of forgettable
local product that doesn't usually get an American release. It's aimless and
inconsequential, but the very Gallic life challenges might raise a smirk.
(Nicolas Rapold)

&#x2605; 'Beyond the Lights' (PG-13, 1:56) A swooning, touching -- and
occasionally silly, but none the worse for that -- romance about a pop star
(Gugu Mbatha-Raw) who falls for the police officer (Nate Parker) who saves her
life. Written and directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, the movie is canny about
celebrity, smart about feminism and also unafraid to embrace melodrama. It also
features Minnie Driver as one of the modern screen's scariest stage mothers.
(Scott)

'Big Eyes' (PG-13, 1:44) In this double portrait, directed by Tim Burton, Amy
Adams and Christoph Waltz play Margaret and Walter Keane, known in the 1960s for
paintings of saucer-eyed waifs. Margaret made the art, while Walter promoted and
took credit for it. An interesting marriage, perhaps more so than this stylish
and superficial movie allows. (Scott)

'Big Hero 6' (PG, 1:45) This bright, visually sumptuous computer-animated
feature from Walt Disney Studios is a superhero movie with a story from a Marvel
comic book, if one rendered with the wit and texture often associated with
Pixar. Set in the future, it turns on a geeky 14-year-old orphaned boy, a
beautiful, bouncy robot and a Scooby Doo-like posse, who face down a villain
and, ta-da, save the day. (Manohla Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Birdman' (R, 1:59) This funny, frenetic, rambunctiously showboating
entertainment from the director Alejandro G. Iñárritu (''Babel'') stars a
blissed-out Michael Keaton as a Hollywood has-been turned Broadway
second-chancer who's about to open a play based on the Raymond Carver story
''What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.'' The crack supporting cast
includes Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, Andrea Riseborough, Amy Ryan, Emma
Stone, Naomi Watts and Lindsay Duncan. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Boyhood' (R, 2:45) Radical in its conceit, familiar in its everyday
details, Richard Linklater's masterpiece follows a boy, Mason (Ellar Coltrane),
who's 6 when the story opens and 18 when it ends. In between, he goes to school;
argues with his sister, Samantha (Lorelei Linklater, the director's daughter);
and watches his mother, Olivia (Patricia Arquette), struggle with work and men,
including her ex-husband, Mason Sr. (Ethan Hawke). Shot over 12 consecutive
years, the film exists at the juncture of classical cinema and the modern art
film without being slavishly indebted to either tradition. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Citizenfour' (R, 1:54) Laura Poitras's documentary about Edward
Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who revealed the
startling extent of the United States government's electronic surveillance
activities, is a sharp and scary fable about the often invisible power of the
modern state, and the vulnerability of individuals. (Scott)

'Dumb and Dumber To' (PG-13, 1:49) Dumbier, not funnier. (Dargis)

'Exodus: Gods and Kings' (PG-13, 2:30) Ridley Scott has convened the bloodiest,
costliest, most tedious and least Jewish Passover Seder ever, with Christian
Bale as Moses and (to be fair) some pretty awesome digital plagues. Joel
Edgerton is Ramses, poor guy. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'Force Majeure' (R, 1:58, in Swedish) This brilliant, viciously amusing
takedown of bourgeois complacency, gender stereotypes and assumptions, and the
illusion of security, rubs your face in human frailty as relentlessly as any
Michael Haneke film. (Stephen Holden)

&#x2605; 'Foxcatcher' (R, 2:14) In this eerie horror story about one American
have and one have-not, the director Bennett Miller revisits -- with mixed
results and superb performances -- a catastrophically violent episode that
upended the lives of the heir John Eleuthère du Pont (Steve Carell), and the
Olympic wrestler Mark Schultz (Channing Tatum). A terrific Mark Ruffalo co-stars
as Mark's loving brother, Dave. (Dargis)

'The Gambler' (R, 1:51) This remake directed by Rupert Wyatt features a
skeletonized Mark Wahlberg, wearing a mop of greasy hair and an abject look, as
a guy who's a glutton for criminally high stakes and for punishment. Based on
the terrific lowdown and gritty 1974 movie of the same title starring James
Caan, ''The Gambler'' lacks what made the original so pleasurably idiosyncratic.
(Dargis)

'A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night' (No rating, 1:47, in Farsi) By the time the
vampire in the chador is skateboarding down a dark, desolate street, the
director Ana Lily Amirpour has ensured that her debut feature will roll on in
your memory. She can fill a wide-screen frame, and if you don't mind narrative
repetition and passages in which nothing much happens, beyond pretty people
staring at other pretty people, you may not mind that she has trouble filling
this overlong movie. Still, she gives you much to look at in this
black-and-white film that was shot for what seems like two well-spent dollars
and change. (Dargis)

'Gone Girl' (R, 2:25) At its strongest, David Fincher's adaptation of the
Gillian Flynn's best seller -- a woman (Rosamund Pike) has gone missing and her
husband (a very good Ben Affleck) may be to blame -- plays like a queasily, at
times gleefully, funny horror movie about a modern marriage, one that's partly
disintegrated because of downward mobility and lost privilege. But it's
depressing to see Mr. Fincher splashing around in these shallows. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Goodbye to Language' ('Adieu au Langage') (No rating, 1:10, in French)
Late Godard in 3-D, as puzzling and enchanting as ever, and as intent on
redrawing the boundaries between word and image, thought and feeling, cinema and
life. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'The Grand Budapest Hotel' (R, 1:39) Wes Anderson's latest film is
whimsical, fussy and ingenious -- a Wes Anderson film, in other words -- but it
is also a sly and touching engagement with some of the ugliest parts of
20th-century European history. Ralph Fiennes plays a hotel concierge in the
fictional Central-European republic of Zubrowka in the fateful year of 1932. The
frames are beautifully composed, the production design exquisite and a large
cast is dispatched on a complex caper. But all the fun is shadowed by -- and is
a brilliant protest against -- some very cruel realities. (Scott)

'The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies' (PG-13, 2:24) Peter Jackson's vexing
conclusion to his three-part adaptation of the J.R.R. Tolkien children's classic
reduces Bilbo Baggins to a supporting player in a story of war and destruction
in gray, grim lands. Here comes everybody: Elves, Orcs and others converge on
Dwarfs holed up in Erebor for a battle royale in an adventure with its share of
computer-generated spectacle and hoary sentiments. (Rapold)

'Horrible Bosses 2' (R, 1:48) One of the sloppiest and most unnecessary
Hollywood sequels ever made, this film (starring Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis
and Jennifer Aniston) isn't dirtier or more offensive than its 2011 forerunner.
But it is infinitely dumber and not half as funny. (Holden)

'The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1' (PG-13, 2:03) A war movie from teary start
to unsettling end, the third chapter of this popular franchise finds Katniss
(Jennifer Lawrence) gearing up for the big battle to come in ''Part 2.'' The
director Francis Lawrence does a serviceable job again of pulling the parts
together, though if you haven't seen the earlier movies, you may get lost. It
doesn't matter: the movie is streamlined, blunt and easy. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Ida' (No rating, 1:20, in Polish) Set in Poland in 1962 and shot in
haunting, narrow-screen black-and-white, Pawel Pawlikowski's new film (his first
made in his native land and language) is a fable about memory, forgetting and
the tragic weight of history. Two women -- a teenage novice about to take her
vows as a nun (Agata Trzebuchowska) and her aunt (Agata Kulesza), a cynical
Communist official -- search for the truth about what happened to their family
during World War II. The two Agatas are unforgettable, and Mr. Pawlikowski tells
his relatively simple, small-scale story with such clarity and nuance that it
expands before your eyes. (Scott)

'The Imitation Game' (PG-13, 1:54) Benedict Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing, the
British mathematician whose research paved the way for modern computing and
whose code-breaking work during World War II contributed to the defeat of
Germany, in this well-made, by-the-numbers biopic. (Scott)

'Inherent Vice' (R, 2:28) In Paul Thomas Anderson's cinematic love-in, a
note-perfect Joaquin Phoenix plays a Los Angeles shamus in Jesus sandals
trucking through the sunshine and noir like a stoner Philip Marlowe. Based on
the 2009 Thomas Pynchon novel, and set in 1970, the film is a good fit for Mr.
Anderson, a Los Angeles son who knows California's plagues and pleasures well.
He has condensed the book with surgical precision, ditching certain subplots and
characters while retaining its sociopolitical tug, barbed asides and chokingly
funny details. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Interstellar' (PG-13, 2:49) Christopher Nolan filters earthbound
anxieties about climate change and human extinction into a big, rousing
outer-space adventure, with Matthew McConaughey as an astronaut spinning through
space and time in search of a future and Jessica Chastain as his daughter,
crunching the numbers down below. (Scott)

'The Interview' (R, 1:52) Seth Rogen and James Franco star as a pair of goofy
bros who set off for North Korea to interview Kim Jong-un. Who could possibly be
offended. Really, though: Who could possibly be offended? (Scott)

&#x2605; 'Into the Woods' (PG, 2:04) This splendid Disney screen adaptation of
the Stephen Sondheim-James Lapine musical infuses new vitality into the tired
marketing concept of entertainment for ''children of all ages.'' That usually
translates to mean only children and their doting parents. But with ''Into the
Woods,'' you grow up with the fairy-tale characters, young and old, in a
lifelong process of self-discovery. (Holden)

'Leviathan' (R, 2:21, in Russian) This Russian drama is something of a monster
movie. It turns on a modern-day Job who endures trials and tribulations in an
Arctic town in northern Russia. The director, Andrey Zvyagintsev, has a heavenly
eye but a leaden hand, and his movie is as heavy as it is transporting, filled
with stirring shots of the natural world and deep dives into a human realm
flooded with tears and vodka. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Mr. Turner' (R, 2:29) As the 19th-century British painter J.M.W.
Turner, Timothy Spall snorts, bellows and grunts his way through a galvanic
portrayal of a genius at work. Casting aside the usual mythology of the
tormented artist, the director, Mike Leigh, grounds Turner's work in the
material life of his times, showing the making of art as a social and physical
activity. The cinematography, by Dick Pope, uncannily captures the world as
Turner saw and painted it. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'A Most Violent Year' (R, 2:05) The year is 1981, the violence is more
implicit than overt, and J.C. Chandor's third film is a tough and trenchant
portrait of the soul of man under capitalism. Oscar Isaac is Abel Morales, the
ambitious owner of a heating-oil business, who finds himself besieged by
competitors, the assistant district attorney (David Oyelowo) and, at times, his
own wife (Jessica Chastain). (Scott)

'My Old Lady' (PG-13, 1:47) As revelations about the past tumble out in this
talky family drama, adapted by Israel Horovitz from his 2002 play, its dialogue
and carefully parceled-out zingers feel increasingly stagy. But the performances
by Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas and especially Kevin Kline go a long way
toward camouflaging the clunky mechanics. (Holden)

'Night at the Museum 3: Secret of the Tomb' (PG, 1:37) The director Shawn Levy
and the writers David Guion and Michael Handelman throw together enough gags to
ensure a diverting end to the franchise in which museum exhibits come alive, and
Ben Stiller has to deal with them. It's a chronically underachieving movie, but
still amusing for its comedian-filled cast and quaint wish fulfillment. (Rapold)

'Nightcrawler' (R, 1:57) Jake Gyllenhaal plays a creepy videographer who combs
the streets of Los Angeles for images of atrocity in this overwrought,
undercooked blend of film noir and media satire directed by Dan Gilroy. (Scott)

'The Penguins of Madagascar' (PG, 1:32) Although it might look like a
down-market spinoff of the ''Madagascar'' movie franchise, this entry promises a
reasonable share of wit the minute it opens with a voice-over by Werner Herzog.
The lack of originality is offset by sheer silliness. (Ben Kenigsberg)

'St. Vincent' (PG-13, 1:42) A big, sloppy wet kiss of a movie about an old
grouch, a sweet kid and their odd-couple friendship, ''St. Vincent'' has a few
things going for it, mostly Bill Murray in codger mode. The writer and director
Theodore Melfi knows his way around actors and his dialogue can have the cadence
of life, but too many of his scenes feel canned. Melissa McCarthy and Jaeden
Lieberher co-star. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Selma' (PG-13, 2:07) In her meticulous recounting of the events
leading up to the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery in March 1965,
Ava DuVernay has made a rousing historical film that bristles with present-day
political relevance. David Oyelowo's sly and dignified performance as the Rev.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. provides a dramatic anchor, but the movie is less the
portrait of a (flawed, doubt-plagued) great man than the snapshot of a movement.
An essential movie. (Scott)

'The Tale of the Princess Kaguya' (PG, 2:17, both subtitled Japanese and dubbed
into English) The Studio Ghibli stalwart Isao Takahata (''Grave of the
Fireflies'') returns with his first animated feature in over a decade.
Exquisitely drawn with watercolor delicacy and an expressive line, the film
finds a moving undertow of feeling in a venerable Japanese folk tale about a
country girl discovered in a bamboo flower. (Rapold)

'The Theory of Everything' (PG-13, 2:03) The theoretical physicist Stephen
Hawking gets the standard biopic treatment in James Marsh's film, a tactful
portrait of a British marriage with fine performances (from Eddie Redmayne as
Hawking and Felicity Jones as his wife, Jane) and not much to say about science
or ideas. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'Top Five' (R, 1:41) This fast and blisteringly funny film by Chris
Rock is also a romantic comedy that riffs on art, identity, authenticity and
what it means to be a black entertainer. One of the ideas that Mr. Rock teases
throughout ''Top Five'' is whether the stakes are different when the funnyman
with that gift is black. That becomes prime fodder for the interview his
character does with a wonderful Rosario Dawson, portraying a reporter for The
New York Times assigned to write a profile of him. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Two Days, One Night' (PG-13, 1:35, in French) In this film by
Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne, Marion Cotillard plays a Belgian factory-worker
whose fight to keep her job is also a struggle for dignity, identity and
solidarity. (Scott)

'Unbroken' (PG-13; 2:17) It took four marquee writers -- Joel and Ethan Coen,
Richard LaGravenese and William Nicholson -- to wrestle Laura Hillenbrand's best
seller about Louis Zamperini's harrowing World War II experiences into a movie.
It's scarcely enough time for any life, but it's impossible when each chapter in
that life could itself be a book, and the strain shows. As director, Angelina
Jolie, like a lot of actors turned directors, is good with the performers, even
when platitudes gush from their mouths along with the blood. (Dargis)

&#x2605; 'Whiplash' (R, 1:45) Miles Teller is an ambitious young drummer and
J.K. Simmons is his intense -- or maybe insane -- mentor in Damien Chazelle's
energetic and ingenious psychological thriller about the pursuit of greatness
and its cost. (Scott)

&#x2605; 'Wild' (R, 1:59) Based on Cheryl Strayed's best-selling memoir of her
1,100-mile trek along the Pacific Crest Trail, this movie avoids both self-help
clichés and the traps of conventional movie plotting to create a moving, funny,
honest portrait of a woman in the throes of grief and self-discovery. Reese
Witherspoon, appearing in nearly every frame of the movie, is excellent,
unpredictable company. (Scott)

Film Series

An Ava DuVernay Retrospective (Saturday through Monday) Much of the attention
paid to the new film ''Selma'' has been devoted to the seemingly out-of-nowhere
ascent of its director, Ava DuVernay. As is almost always the case, this
overnight success has been years in the making, as this retrospective makes
clear. ''This Is the Life'' and ''My Mic Sounds Nice,'' hip-hop documentaries
she made while working as a film publicist, make up a double bill on Saturday at
2:30 p.m., and the features ''Middle of Nowhere'' (Sunday at 2:30 p.m.), with
her ''Selma'' star David Oyelowo, and ''I Will Follow'' (Saturday at 6 p.m.)
will also be shown. On Monday at 7 p.m., the series wraps up with a gala
screening of ''Selma'' at which Ms. DuVernay will appear; tickets for that event
are $25. Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria,
Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us. (Eric Grode)

Cronenberg (through Feb. 21) This tribute to David Cronenberg, Canada's reigning
master of the disquieting, promises to do a number on what is already a short
night's sleep. (The films screen at midnight each weekend.) Even Mr.
Cronenberg's recent swerves into studio fare (''A History of Violence,''
''Eastern Promises'') have shed surprisingly little of the perverse ambition
that spurred him to tackle such seemingly unfilmable adaptations as ''Naked
Lunch'' and ''Crash.'' Midnight staples like ''Scanners'' and ''Videodrome''
(Friday and Saturday) are obvious choices, and his 1986 remake of ''The Fly''
remains an unsurpassed combination of the romantic and the repulsive. The
retrospective culminates with a screening of his latest film, ''Maps to the
Stars,'' and the upstairs hallway will feature a collection of Mr. Cronenberg's
international movie posters throughout the run, including a doozy of a ''Naked
Lunch'' poster from Japan. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street,
Greenwich Village, 212-924-7771, ifccenter.com. (Grode)

'Enchanted' (Thursday) This 2007 charmer drew much of its appeal from the idea
of an actual Disney princess (Amy Adams, never better) plunked down in
modern-day Manhattan. An only slightly less jarring interpolation comes from
Sugarcube, an inflatable pop-up arts site that has landed next to the clam
shacks and sunglass vendors at the South Street Seaport. It's playing host to,
among other things, D.J. sets, cartoon workshops, used-record marketplaces (the
site is curated by the 100m Records music label) and a quartet of movie
screenings. ''Enchanted'' is the first of these free screenings (all of which
start at 7 p.m.), followed on Jan. 15 by a very different fish-out-of-water tale
set in New York, ''Little Fugitive.'' Then mutants take over, with ''Toxic
Avenger'' (Jan. 22) and ''Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the
Ooze'' (Jan. 29). More details: sugarcube.nyc. (Grode)

Let There Be Light: The Films of John Huston (through Jan. 11) When the
seemingly inimitable voice of John Huston came roaring back in ''There Will Be
Blood,'' courtesy of Paul Thomas Anderson (in terms of sweeping, gimlet-eyed
conception) and Daniel Day-Lewis (in terms of the actual, honey-and-sandpaper
speaking voice), it was a sobering reminder of just what Hollywood lost in 1987
with Huston's death. This extensive Film Society of Lincoln Center retrospective
covers early masterpieces (including ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre,'' for
which his father received an Oscar) and the late ones (''Prizzi's Honor,'' for
which his daughter received one), as well as such curiosities as ''Victory,''
starring Michael Caine and Pelé, and the James Bond satire ''Casino Royale,''
with Peter Sellers, Orson Welles, Woody Allen and others. ''There Will Be
Blood'' will also make an appearance, along with Clint Eastwood's more overt
homage, ''White Hunter, Black Heart.'' Elinor Bunin Munroe Film Center, Lincoln
Center, 144 West 65th Street, and Walter Reade Theater, Lincoln Center, 165 West
65th Street. More details: filmlinc.com. (Grode)

Orson Welles (through Feb. 3) How do you follow up directing, producing,
co-writing and starring in the greatest film ever made, especially when you did
that in your mid-20s? Film Forum is wasting no time celebrating the centenary of
Orson Welles (1915-85), who spent the next 44 years after the release of
''Citizen Kane'' trying to figure out the answer to that question. (''Citizen
Kane'' will kick off this series, running through Thursday.) Before-and-after
versions of ''Macbeth'' (with dubbed voices!) and ''Touch of Evil'' show just
how much the studio cuts differed from Welles's; tragically, no such comparison
is possible for ''The Magnificent Ambersons,'' a masterpiece even in its
tampered form. Of particular note will be a Feb. 2 screening and reading of
''Too Much Johnson,'' a Mercury Theater production for which a pre-''Kane''
Welles shot about 40 minutes of footage. The production never made it to New
York, and the filmed material was believed to have been lost forever until it
was found and preserved in 2013. Maybe there's hope for an intact ''Ambersons''?
209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village,
212-727-8110, filmforum.org; $13. (Grode)

Robert Altman (through Jan. 17) American film's greatest maverick gets the
deluxe treatment, with no fewer than 50 programs in this retrospective. The
offerings go well beyond Altman's canonical works (''MASH,'' ''Nashville'' and
the prescient HBO mockumentaries ''Tanner '88'' and ''Tanner on Tanner'') and
cult favorites (the spellbinding Richard Nixon tour de force ''Secret Honor,''
the pairing of Harold Pinter and John Travolta in his adaptation of Pinter's
''The Dumb Waiter,'' and the severely underrated ''Kansas City'') to include
1950s industrial films and episodes of ''Bonanza'' and ''Alfred Hitchcock
Presents.'' All of this and ''Health,'' the 1980 political satire that Ronald
Reagan called ''the world's worst movie.'' Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta
Titus Theaters, 212-708-9400, moma.org; $12. (Grode)

Robert Herridge: TV's Forgotten Auteur (Thursday through Jan. 12) You want to
talk about TV's golden era? Robert Herridge oversaw television adaptations of
works by Dostoyevsky, Edgar Allan Poe, Tennessee Williams, Bret Harte and Robert
Penn Warren -- all in one year (1958, to be precise). All five of these will be
on display in this intriguing tribute to Herridge, a producer, writer and
director who was the mastermind behind what Nat Hentoff once called ''the single
most original body of work in television history.'' Of particular note to
cineastes will be a trilogy of Williams one-acts directed by Sidney Lumet (Jan.
10 and 12); among them is the early work ''Moony's Kid Don't Cry,'' featuring
Lee Grant and, fresh off playing Brick in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' on Broadway,
Ben Gazzara. In addition, the Paley Center for Media and the New York Public
Library for the Performing Arts will screen many of Herridge's music- and
dance-themed productions over the next month. Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second
Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, 212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org.
(Grode)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/movies/movie-listings-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY AFRICAN-AMERICAN FILM FESTIVAL RELEASING MOVEMENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS
(89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%);
HORROR FILMS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%);
ANIMATED FILMS (73%); ANIMATION (73%); PAINTING (70%); POP & ROCK (69%);
LITERATURE GENRES (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: BRADLEY COOPER (92%); AMY ADAMS (79%); CLINT EASTWOOD (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jeb Bush Leaves Boards, Edging Closer to a '16 Run

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 561 words


Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida has resigned from each of his corporate and
nonprofit board positions, an aide confirmed Thursday, the latest indication
that he is moving toward starting a presidential campaign.

Mr. Bush, a Republican, gave up positions at an online education firm, his own
education foundation and his post on the board of Michael R. Bloomberg's
philanthropic foundation this week, the latest nonpolitical commitments from
which he has detached himself as he looks toward the 2016 race.

Last month, he severed ties with Barclays, the London-based bank where he had
made more than $1 million a year as a consultant, and stepped down from the
boards of two other corporations, Tenet Healthcare and Rayonier, a timberland
and real estate concern.

''This is a natural next step as he turns his focus toward political activity in
the new year,'' said Kristy Campbell, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bush.

In a Facebook post last month, Mr. Bush announced that he was ''actively
exploring'' a White House bid and setting up a political organization to raise
money for his travel and expanding his staff.

He has already begun the process of adding fund-raising and legal advisers, and
some of his backers are also considering the creation of a ''super PAC'' on Mr.
Bush's behalf.

Though Mr. Bush has not committed to a campaign yet, his step to cut ties with
his outside financial and nonprofit positions, which was first reported by The
Washington Post, is a sign to Republican donors and activists that he is
seriously considering the race. In addition to the education groups, Mr. Bush
also left the board of the Bloomberg Family Foundation this week. Mr. Bloomberg
informed the board Wednesday of Mr. Bush's departure.

What Mr. Bush has not done yet, however, is engage much with potential
Republican primary voters. Unlike most of his potential intraparty rivals, he
has spent little time in Iowa and New Hampshire, the states that start the
presidential nominating process.

He will not attend the Iowa Freedom Summit, a gathering hosted by Representative
Steve King, Republican of Iowa, next month. A number of likely candidates,
including Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, have committed to attending the
forum, one of the first high-profile events for Republican White House
prospects.

Mr. Bush and his son Jeb. Jr. still work together at Jeb Bush and Associates, a
business consulting firm in Coral Gables, Fla. The former governor also retains
a stake in Britton Hill Partnership, the business vehicle he has used to set up
private equity investments in the past two years.

An aide said he was reviewing these commitments, but was not immediately moving
to detach himself because they are not part of a larger enterprise and therefore
are more reliant on his involvement.

Working in real estate, he had a net worth of about $2 million when he was
elected governor in 1998. After leaving office, he earned money through his
consulting work, directorships and by delivering paid speeches.

Mr. Bush's biggest passion in his post-governor years, however, may be his work
on education reform efforts through the Foundation for Excellence in Education,
which he founded and until this week headed.

An aide said he left the foundation because they have an excellent board and
staff in place, and he was concerned about ''a time commitment'' given his
coming political activity.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/politics/jeb-bush-resigns-from-board-seats-
possibly-edging-closer-to-presidential-run.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2008 (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); REAL
ESTATE (89%); CHARITIES (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL
ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); POLITICS (77%);
PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%);
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (54%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%); GHC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (94%); CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%); STEVE KING (58%); MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG (57%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Global Artists Seek Out Real Sound in Paris

BYLINE: By ASSIA LABBAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 873 words


PARIS -- Behind a dark red door in Montmartre, a long driveway leads to an
unlikely hidden space: a full-fledged recording studio so sought after that it
is attracting a growing list of big names in the music industry, including Kanye
West, Pharrell Williams, Phoenix and Cat Power.

Called Motorbass, the 2,200-square-foot space, built in 1979, is one of only a
few recording studios in Paris. Most studios are on the periphery of the city
because of high rents.

The space's main attraction is its owner, the producer Philippe Zdar, a D.J. and
half of the electro band Cassius with Hubert Blanc-Francard.

Mr. Zdar, 47, whose real name is Philippe Cerboneschi, does not rent out his
studio and works only with the artists he chooses. ''I don't want to have bad
music here,'' he said. ''I have the feeling that it might enter the walls. I
believe in vibes.''

One of the things that makes the studio special is Mr. Zdar's commitment to
authentic analog sound, using real instruments, instead of computers. ''It
changes everything,'' he said. ''I can hear the difference. We are not using
sounds from computers that everybody is using.'' He said he chose his
instruments ''with love'' -- including a piano, seven guitars and two drum sets,
along with seven amplifiers and 18 synthesizers. ''I know I can do everything
with them,'' he said.

Mr. Zdar's guiding hand has won over performers. ''The thing is mostly
Philippe,'' Laurent Brancowitz, a guitarist in the French band Phoenix (which
recorded two albums at Motorbass), said in a telephone interview. ''If he wasn't
there, it would lose its charm.''

Ryan Tedder, the lead singer of the American rock band OneRepublic, as well as a
producer and songwriter who has worked on hits for Beyoncé and Adele, went to
Motorbass for the production of two songs on the OneRepublic album ''Native,''
released in 2013. (The studio is named after Mr. Zdar's 1990's house band with
Étienne de Crécy.)

''There is a French sound that no one in America knows how to do,'' Mr. Tedder
said in a video interview with the French website off.tv. ''I don't know if it
is in the water or the croissants, but you can't get it in Los Angeles or New
York. So we come here.''

Luke Jenner, the lead singer of the Rapture, who did work at the studio in 2009
for his band's album ''In the Grace of Your Love,'' said of Mr. Zdar, ''All he
cares about is the vibes. He knows how to make things technically sound good.''
He continued, ''At the end of the day, he is a D.J. and the work of a D.J. is to
create vibes and energy.''

The studio has benefited from a renewed interest in ''French Touch,'' the French
electronic music movement that found global success in the 1990s and 2000s and
that has resurged recently as American artists like Mr. West and Mr. Williams
have collaborated with bands that were leaders of the movement, like Daft Punk
and Cassius.

Mr. Zdar rose to wider prominence in 2010, when the album ''Wolfgang Amadeus
Phoenix,'' which Phoenix recorded at Motorbass in 2008, won the Grammy award for
best alternative music album. (The trophy is displayed at the studio.) Soon Mr.
Zdar found himself working with major U.S. acts like the Beastie Boys, the
Rapture and Cat Power. Mr. West visited Motorbass in 2011 when he worked on the
song ''Why I Love You,'' inspired by the Cassius song ''I Love You So,'' for his
album with Jay-Z, ''Watch the Throne.''

Lately, Mr. Zdar has been working at Motorbass on his latest album as half of
Cassius. The band has brought in previous collaborators, among them Mr. Tedder
and Mr. Williams, who sang on two of the new tracks. In November, he took a
break from recording to produce a track for the first album of Flo Morrissey, a
young Irish singer who has been compared to Lana Del Rey.

Mr. Zdar bought the studio, on the Rue des Martyrs in the 18th Arrondissement,
in 2001, drawn by its location and history. Dominique Blanc-Francard, a sound
engineer and producer -- and the father of Hubert Blanc-Francard of Cassius --
had rented the space in the early 1980s and worked with some legendary French
musicians there, including Serge Gainsbourg, who produced albums for his former
companion Jane Birkin and for the actress Isabelle Adjani. In an interview, Mr.
Blanc-Francard, 70, said Tom Hidley, a well-known music studio designer, worked
on the studio using materials that included rocks from the island of Java to
enhance acoustics.

Mr. Zdar first came to the studio in 1998 to record Cassius's first album,
''1999.'' (By then it had been taken over by another manager, Christian
Gulluni.) He thought it was ''magical,'' he said. ''When the owner told me he
wanted to sell it a few years later, I thought that I had to buy it.''

Hubert Blanc-Francard of Cassius, who often visited the studio in his youth, had
the same reaction. ''Something musically happened,'' he said. ''I don't know
what was here 1,000 years ago, but there is something in this place.''

After he purchased the space, Mr. Zdar hired the designer Gérard Pibiri to
rebuild the studio, which had fallen into ruin. ''It took me seven years to
renovate it because I didn't have enough money,'' he said.

It was worth the wait. Its first project? In 2008, the studio was used to record
Phoenix's award-winning album.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/international/international-artists-seek-
out-real-sound-in-paris.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%);
RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%);
MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (85%); POP & ROCK (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS
(77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); SONG WRITING
(72%)

PERSON: PHARRELL WILLIAMS (91%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (57%); KANYE WEST (57%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Government Spending, Edging Up, Is a Stimulus

BYLINE: By DIONNE SEARCEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words


NAPLES, Fla. -- For a long stretch, government spending cutbacks at all levels
were a substantial drag on economic growth. Now, finally, relief is in sight.

For the first time since 2011, local, state and federal governments are
providing a small but significant increase to prosperity.

''There's not a lot of positive contribution coming from the government sector,
but when you're talking about economic growth, less of a negative is a
positive,'' said Chris Varvares, senior managing director and co-founder of
Macroeconomic Advisers.

And so on a recent windswept afternoon, John Lynch, armed with a police radio
and a giant net, stood along a fishing pier in Naples, on guard for pelicans
that might become entangled in fishing lines.

''That's my job, to try and get them to safety,'' said Mr. Lynch, a retired
banker with a snowy beard whose uniform was a fisherman's cap and shorts.

Mr. Lynch is one of the latest additions to the city's payroll. His is the kind
of government job this Gulf Coast town never would have even contemplated during
the recession.

''When everybody else is cutting back, you don't hire people,'' said Ann Marie
S. Ricardi, the finance director for the city of Naples, about 130 miles south
of Tampa.

Across the nation, state and local governments, Democratic and Republican alike,
are spending on projects that were stalled. Teachers, who were laid off in
droves in recent years, are being hired again. Even federal spending in some
sectors is on the rise.

But no one is making plans for spending sprees, said Donald J. Boyd, senior
fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government. Many officials were
spooked by the most serious economic downturn since the 1930s, he said, and
these are still tough times for many states and localities.

''It's just in comparison to what they were, they're great,'' Mr. Boyd said.

Since the stimulus programs approved in 2008 and 2009, Republicans in Washington
have pushed to cut federal spending; even the $1.1 trillion budget bill that
Congress recently passed to keep the government operating through September
abides by spending caps and includes further trims.

But there is less of a political drive to slash spending as the federal deficit
has declined sharply, said Ron Haskins, a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in Washington. The Congressional Budget Office now projects an
annual deficit of 3 percent of total economic activity or less through the end
of the decade, well under its post-World War II average. And with interest rates
at rock-bottom, the Treasury's cost of borrowing is barely 1.3 percent of gross
national product, an unusually low level that imposes little burden on
taxpayers.

''This new revenue, the increase in the economy, the increase in G.D.P. --
everything is looking good,'' Mr. Haskins said. ''It's releasing pressure to be
fiscally restrained.''

Federal spending for repair and construction of roads, schools and hospitals is
increasing. Medicare and Social Security spending is rising, too, though at a
comparatively modest rate, mostly because the previously relentless rise in
overall health care spending has markedly slowed. Looking ahead, some economists
are counting on spending on infrastructure and other capital investments to help
nudge the economy ahead.

''That's where the real momentum will be, longer term,'' said Diane Swonk, chief
economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago.

On the state level, signs of budget gaps and midyear budget cuts that were
typical during the recession have diminished. Still, state revenue is creeping
up, not booming, which translates to only incremental improvement.

More people are working in schools now than a year ago, for example, but there
are still nearly 300,000 fewer than before the recession, said Michael Heenan, a
spokesman for the American Federation of Teachers.

A recent report from the National Association of State Budget Officers found
that general fund expenditures in state budgets enacted for 2015 increased
collectively 3.1 percent from the same time frame a year ago. But that is less
than the typical increases in the years leading up to the recession.

''There has been some belt-tightening that looks like it's not going to be
loosened again,'' said Tara M. Sinclair, an associate economics professor at
George Washington University and economist for the online job site Indeed.
''People may be breathing a little easier. But there's not tons of money
sloshing around even for minor expenses.''

The recovery has been uneven for governments across the country. Some states are
being left behind altogether. Alaska, for one, has been stung by the plummeting
cost of oil after projecting that it would be much higher. Other oil-rich
states, like Texas, Oklahoma and North Dakota, are bracing for cutbacks.

By contrast, California has wound up with more revenue than expected, a
turnaround from a few years ago, prompting talk of more financing for education,
including community colleges.

Yet even in California, the celebrations of the end of hard times are
restrained.

''I caution that we've been through a difficult downturn here,'' said Michael
Coleman, fiscal policy adviser to the League of California Cities. ''Reserves
have been spent down, so we're skating on thin ice.''

Florida's governor, Rick Scott, signed a $77 billion budget this summer that
offers tax cuts while providing more money for education, museums, sewer
projects and a bicycle trail. In a statement after signing the budget, Governor
Scott referred to the economic wringer the state went through after the housing
bubble burst and Florida's unemployment rate rose to more than 11 percent. The
governor argued that the new budget ''will keep the great Florida turnaround
story going.''

For the city of Naples, it was clear the squeeze was over: For the first time
since the recession, it had a budget surplus.

That was one reason the city, after a long lobbying campaign from a conservation
organization, finally agreed to dedicate $10,000 for two part-time workers to
help trapped pelicans, birds whose constant presence hovering over the shore
makes them practically town mascots. At least three times in the last year,
concerned residents called firefighters to rescue some of the birds who were
dangling from the bushy branches of Australian pines, tangled in fishing line
discarded at the pier.

The Naples Pier outreach assistant job was a minor item in the $32.9 million
budget, but an important symbol that times were flush again.

During the hard years, Naples, with a population of 20,000 year-round residents
and an extra 15,000 during the balmy winter season, used its stash of reserves
to balance its budget. A wealthy town with a tax base of beachside mansions and
tourist dollars, Naples was cushioned from the body blows the recession dealt
nearby communities like Cape Coral and other cities plagued with foreclosures.

But even in Naples, the recession stung. Commercial development in the town
halted. Property values dropped as much as 18.5 percent.

Naples canceled its annual Easter egg hunt and haunted house. The city laid off
maintenance workers and let job openings go unfilled, shaving 60 spots from the
city payroll of about 500.

Now, a 220-unit condominium complex is underway at the site of a former
newspaper building. Single-family homes expected to bring as much as $2 million
each are being built alongside the Gordon River. The city is pitching in about
$5 million for a new mangrove-lined park, but spending will continue to be
tight, according to Ms. Ricardi, the budget director.

''Nobody wants to forget where we were and what happened,'' she said.

Still, there is more breathing room. The Naples Fire-Rescue Department just
bought two new emergency vehicles worth $196,000 each. One of the boxy red
trucks arrived last month, just in time to be steered gingerly down the route of
the city's annual Christmas parade, where palm trees were adorned in white
holiday lights and children darted for candy tossed from holiday-themed floats.

It is an event so precious to locals that the city kept it going during the
downturn, said John F. Sorey III, mayor of Naples.

''We've got to preserve the wow factor,'' he said, ''or all our tourists could
go somewhere else.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/economy/after-years-of-cuts-governmen
t-spending-is-starting-to-rebound.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, the city of Naples, Fla., recently hired John Lynch to
help pelicans in distress in a symbol that times are flush again. Above, Mayor
John Sorey III of Naples. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MELISSA LYTTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B4) CHARTS: A Small but Important Lift: Decreases in government spending had
been a drag on the economy. But last year, governments began to spend more
money, and that spending is now contributing to economic growth. (Sources:
Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Macroecnomic Advisers) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE
(90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGET
DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS
(89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); NATIONAL DEBT (84%);
TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC STIMULUS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%);
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LEGISLATION (72%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN LYNCH (88%)

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Enemy of Reform in New York Jails

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 587 words


The Justice Department's decision in December to join a class-action suit
against New York City's Correction Department has prepared the way for reforms
proposed by Mayor Bill de Blasio to root out corruption and brutality at the
notorious Rikers Island jail complex. Success depends heavily on the cooperation
of Norman Seabrook, the president of the politically powerful correction
officers' union and a longtime supporter of the disastrous status quo.

Mr. de Blasio's correction commissioner, Joseph Ponte, says that he and Mr.
Seabrook have come to an agreement on needed reforms. But the union leader's
record of bullying, his attempts to undermine Mr. Ponte's predecessors, and his
history of shielding abusive officers from justice suggests that he will not be
a willing partner in remaking what the Justice Department has described as a
''deep-seated culture of violence'' in the jail system. Which means this:
Federal oversight could well be needed to complete the job.

Mr. Seabrook's shameful record was set forth in detail in a recent report in The
Times by Michael Schwirtz and Michael Winerip. Among the many examples of his
stewardship was his vigorous campaign to undermine Florence Finkle, the
correction department's chief investigator who resigned in August after she
tried to replace a policy of handling brutality cases internally with a tougher
system that would have exposed offending officers to criminal prosecution by the
district attorney. Mr. Seabrook helped to scuttle some of Ms. Finkle's
investigations and arranged for the transfer one of her top deputies.

In a particularly brazen move in November 2013 apparently aimed at preventing an
inmate from testifying against two officers, Mr. Seabrook shut down the bus
service that ferried inmates back and forth to the courts, causing hundreds of
them to miss their court dates. When Ms. Finkle left the office, the de Blasio
administration replaced her with a former Police Department official -- and
childhood friend of Mr. Seabrook's -- who had no prosecutorial experience.

Criminal prosecutions of correction officers are rare, but Mr. Seabrook
apparently would prefer none at all. Thanks to his lobbying efforts, the State
Legislature in 2014 approved a bill that would move jurisdiction for Rikers
criminal cases from the office of the Bronx district attorney, whom, Mr.
Seabrook dislikes, to the district attorney in Queens, where he thinks the
officers will be treated more fairly. Gov. Andrew Cuomo, describing it as
unconstitutional, rightly vetoed the bill, which would have prevented Bronx
County from prosecuting offenses within its borders.

Mr. Seabrook was able to amass and wield enormous power because city officials
viewed the jail system as a low priority during most of his two decades as union
president. That began to change last summer when The Times published a grisly
account of 129 inmates who had been seriously injured in incidents with officers
during an 11-month period in 2013. Less than a month later, a much anticipated
investigation by the Justice Department revealed a harrowing story in which
adolescents were sadistically beaten by officers as a matter of routine. The
United States attorney in Manhattan has gone to court to make sure the city ends
these abusive practices.

Mr. Seabrook is intimately linked to these practices. For that reason alone,
federal officials now investigating the jail system should not hesitate to take
over direct supervision if the reform effort flags and the city is not up to the
job.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/an-enemy-of-reform-in-new-york-jails.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CLASS
ACTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CITIES (78%);
JURISDICTION (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AGREEMENTS (77%);
VETO (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); CORRUPTION
(72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Vital Nuclear Agreement, at Risk

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 709 words


There's much more to the deeply troubled Russian-American relationship than
Ukraine. Under the radar, tensions have also been brewing over compliance with a
number of arms control treaties that for decades have been vital to keeping the
peace between the two nuclear powers and setting an example for other countries.

Washington accuses Moscow of violating at least five of these agreements. A
failure to resolve the impasse could have extremely dangerous consequences for
the post-Cold War order, since even 20 years after the fall of the Soviet Union,
the two sides together possess more than 10,000 nuclear weapons, more than 90
percent of what exists in the world.

The most serious dispute centers on the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces
Treaty, which bans both sides from deploying ground-launched ballistic and
cruise missiles with a range of between 300 and 3,400 miles that carry nuclear
or conventional warheads. These were among the weapons America once stationed in
Europe to demonstrate a commitment to its allies and deter the Soviets from
aggression.

Under the treaty, signed by President Ronald Reagan and the Soviet leader,
Mikhail Gorbachev, America destroyed 846 missiles and the Soviets, 1,846
missiles. Both sides had come to see the systems as unacceptably risky to their
own forces since they would only have 10 to 15 minutes warning of an attack
compared to twice that in attacks involving long-range intercontinental
ballistic missiles. Mr. Gorbachev also was desperate to cut military spending.

Although the pact also prohibited the production and flight testing of new
I.N.F. systems, Russia, flush with oil money and pushing a more aggressive
foreign policy, began testing a new cruise missile as early as 2008. The Obama
administration raised the matter with the Russians in May 2013, and in July 2014
it formally alleged that the test violated the treaty. The Russians have refused
to even acknowledge conducting a missile test or to discuss potential solutions.
Instead, they have accused the United States of noncompliance, which the
administration denies.

A resolution is complicated by continued hostility over President Vladimir
Putin's invasion of Ukraine and concerns that Mr. Putin, determined to
reconstitute the Soviet Union, may be eager to face down the West. For some
time, Russia has seen NATO's presence on its borders as a threat. Meanwhile, the
Americans say Russia has failed to comply fully with at least four other
treaties, including those requiring the destruction of biological and chemical
arms.

There are other factors at work, too. Russia resents the fact that China, India
and Pakistan are building their missile arsenals without treaty constraints and
has attached greater importance to its nuclear forces as its conventional forces
have deteriorated.

Despite the dispute, it would be a huge mistake for the United States to
withdraw from the I.N.F. treaty, as some congressmen have demanded. That would
remove all restraints on Russia and seriously weaken a system of treaties that
has been remarkably effective over decades at curbing the spread of destructive
weapons.

It would also be a mistake for either side to reintroduce the banned weapons
onto their own territory or elsewhere. Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov,
recently asserted Moscow's right to put nuclear missiles in Crimea, while Brian
McKeon, a senior Pentagon official, told Congress this month that one response
to Russia's treaty violation could be to deploy American ground missiles in
Europe. New deployments would reverse a trend in which the two countries have
substantially reduced their huge arsenals in recent years.

The Obama administration should continue pursuing a diplomatic solution to the
treaty dispute and resist the growing pressure in Congress for quick
retaliation, which could make the situation worse. And it should explore other
forms of pressure, like economic punishment and deployment of new defenses
against cruise missiles.

So far, there is no evidence that Russia has deployed its new missiles, which
would be a serious escalation. The United States and its allies should make
efforts to bring Russia back into compliance with the treaty, and Russia needs
to know that defiance will come at a cost.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/a-vital-nuclear-agreement-at-risk.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL &
DISARMAMENT (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); 2014 UKRAINIAN
PROTESTS & UPRISING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); FOREIGN
POLICY (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UKRAINE (88%); PAKISTAN
(79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ferret Fanciers, Ruffled by Ban, Are Eager for City to Lift It

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1148 words


Since a bizarre incident in which Rudolph W. Giuliani verbally abused a ferret
enthusiast on the radio a decade and a half ago, New York City's ferret owners
have been dealing with two major problems.

One: They are, technically, criminals.

Two: Everyone thinks they are insane.

''People see it as a dumb, silly issue: 'Who cares, weasels?' '' said Veronica
F., whose two clandestine ferrets, Watson and Nacho, live with her in Queens.
''There's a notion that we all have some sort of mental problem.''

Now, ferret owners have a chance to change the law -- and maybe remedy their
reputation as well.

Last spring, perhaps trying to demonstrate the relative warmth and fuzziness of
the current mayor, or perhaps simply pandering to the all-important small-mammal
lobby, Mayor Bill de Blasio's administration proposed removing ferrets from the
city's banned-pet list, a zoological rogues' gallery that also includes
rhinoceroses, bats and poisonous centipedes. (A public hearing on the proposal
before the city's Board of Health is scheduled for Jan. 21.)

The possible policy shift sent a frisson of excitement through the city's
underground ferret community.

''I think of New York City as enlightened and progressive, and to have a rule in
place that is so backward -- I don't understand it,'' said Ariel Jasper, a
member of New York Ferrets, a pro-ferret lobbying group.

Ferrets are legal in many places around the country, including the rest of New
York State, she noted. But thanks to the ban, they remain hard to find and
little understood in the city. (The health department says it has no idea how
many there are.)

Ferrets are feisty, frisky, furry carnivores who have a unique musky smell and a
way of expressing their happiness by ''dooking'' -- making little noises of joy.
They are cousins of weasels, but not weasels per se, a misconception propagated
by Mr. Giuliani in 1999 when, speaking to an aggrieved ferret fancier in a
now-classic exchange on his radio program, he lost his temper, called the man
''deranged'' and exclaimed, among other things: ''This excessive concern with
little weasels is a sickness.''

Any change in ferret policy is subject to the approval of the Board of Health,
whose members were all appointed by former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. While no
one at the board's most recent meeting, on Dec. 9, accused anyone else of being
mentally ill, neither did members seem thrilled about the prospect of a city
teeming with pet ferrets.

''The issue of ferrets has come before the board several times during my
tenure,'' said one board member, Dr. Lynne D. Richardson, with some weariness.
''I'm trying to understand why this is something we would support. What's the
upside?''

Mario Merlino, an assistant health commissioner, responded that rabies vaccines
for ferrets were now much more effective than they had been in the past, and
also that, under the proposal, ferrets would be sterilized and thus unable to
produce baby ferrets.

But the board peppered him with anxious questions: Aren't they prone to biting
children? Isn't there a risk they could squeeze into tiny crevices in people's
houses and sneak outside, forming feral ferret colonies in the streets?

No, and no, Mr. Merlino responded. At least as far as he knew.

He seemed underwhelmed by the proposal himself, repeatedly mentioning the lack
of data on various issues and at one point saying that the health department was
''recommending that we open it up for public comment'' rather than ''arguing for
it so much.''

The temperature in the room seemed to lower by a couple of degrees when the
ferret portion of the meeting concluded. Introducing the next item, on a less
fraught topic, the city's registrar, Steven P. Schwartz, said: ''I will try to
bring the conversation back down to earth.''

Such levity is insulting to ferret owners, who take the issue very seriously
indeed. In Forest Hills, Veronica F., 27, explained why Watson and Nacho were
excellent pets, and nothing like the hypothetical ferrets described at the
hearing. (An illustrator for a video-game company, she insisted that her last
name not be used, for fear of having her ferrets confiscated by the
authorities).

Ferrets have the independence and walk-by-themselves tendencies of cats, but the
playfulness of dogs, she said. They are very affectionate and like to snuggle.
They weigh about two pounds and can fit easily into carrier bags. They sleep a
lot, up to 18 hours a day, so they make perfect city pets: Owners can put them
to bed in their cages and go to work without feeling guilty.

As for the notion expressed at the Board of Health meeting that ferrets might
slip out through fissures in the walls in order to band together into outdoor
gangs: Absurd, Veronica said.

''I was almost laughing out loud when they talked about the colonies,'' she
said. ''Watson is the laziest, clumsiest ferret. He takes three steps and he
just plops down. He crashes into walls. I can't imagine this creature surviving
two seconds on his own.''

Nacho and Watson, who are house-trained (and also deaf, a common ferret malady),
are indeed exceptionally cuddly, able to curl up small or stretch out long, like
Slinkies.

They are also eager to burrow into visitors' handbags. ''Ferrets like to collect
things,'' she said. ''Nacho has this stockpile of toys that he keeps. Watson
likes to take water bottles and hide them.''

Dean S., a 52-year-old ferret owner in Brooklyn who also insisted that his last
name not be used, said it was irksome and sad to have to keep his two ferrets a
secret. Unable to take them on the street, he said, he clips on their leashes
and walks them indoors.

''I don't want to advertise them, because of this stupid law that we have,'' he
said in a telephone interview. ''You might meet up with the wrong person
outside.''

Ms. Jasper, of New York Ferrets, said the law had created many problems for sub
rosa ferret owners. Some are afraid to take their animals to the veterinarian,
lest the vet report them, and so must contend with sick or dying ferrets. Vets
who do agree to treat them are often unschooled in ferrets' particular medical
needs, she said, adding that they tend to overcharge.

She also said that the unflattering image of ferret owners -- that they are a
little bit nuts -- was as much the fault of the angry ferret lobbyist who
sparred with Mr. Giuliani on the radio all those years ago as it was of Mr.
Giuliani himself. Rather than being loud and attention-seeking, she said, ferret
owners should fight the ban with cold, hard facts.

''The notion that they bite -- that's a really outdated view,'' Ms. Jasper said.
''You're more likely to be bitten by a Yorkie than by a ferret.''

She also pointed out that nothing particularly alarming had happened yet in any
of the many places where ferrets were legal.

''If there was a large outbreak of children being mauled by ferrets,'' she
added, ''I think we'd hear about it.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/ferret-fanciers-excited-at-chance-tha
t-new-york-city-may-lift-ban.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Veronica F., 27, lives in Forest Hills, Queens, with her two
clandestine ferrets, Watson and Nacho. Below, an owner with his pet outside the
Wagner Houses in East Harlem. Ferrets show happiness by ''dooking'' -- making
little noises of joy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (88%); LOBBYING (88%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (87%); PETS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS
(74%); APPROVALS (68%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Three Al Jazeera Journalists Remain in Jail After Egyptian Court Orders a
Retrial

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Merna Thomas contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1014 words


CAIRO -- Egypt's highest appeals court on Thursday ordered a retrial for three
imprisoned journalists from Al Jazeera's English-language service, implicitly
acknowledging critical procedural flaws in a case that rights advocates have
described, from the men's arrests to their convictions, as a sham.

But the decision offered no guarantees that the journalists, who have been
imprisoned for more than a year and now face a potentially lengthy second trial,
would be freed anytime soon.

The convictions of the three men, Mohamed Fahmy, Baher Mohamed and Peter Greste,
focused international condemnation on the government, drawing attention to a
sweeping crackdown on news media freedom and political dissent since the
military ouster of the country's first democratically elected president, Mohamed
Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood.

And from its beginnings, analysts say, the case has perhaps had little to do
with the actions of the journalists themselves. Instead, they suggest it
reflects a bitter dispute between Egypt's military-backed government, led by
President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, and Qatar, which owns Al Jazeera and has been a
strong backer of his Islamist opponents in the Muslim Brotherhood.

The men were convicted in June on charges that included conspiring with the
Muslim Brotherhood to broadcast false reports, though prosecutors presented no
evidence for such claims. All three were sentenced to seven-year prison terms,
but Mr. Mohamed received three additional years for possessing a spent bullet
casing that he picked up at an anti-government street protest.

The case has drawn special notice partly because the defendants had reputations
as experienced journalists and had in the past worked for other well-known
international news organizations. But their ordeal, which the men have outlined
in letters from prison and in messages sent through family members, has also
highlighted the plight of thousands of Egyptians -- including Islamists, leftist
activists and other journalists -- swept up by the authorities on charges that
are widely viewed as politically motivated.

As the families of the Al Jazeera journalists sifted through the meaning of the
latest court decision on Thursday, they applauded the court's apparent criticism
of the first trial but expressed disappointment that the judges had not granted
a request to suspend the men's sentences.

''We've learned not to expect anything,'' said Mr. Greste's father, Juris
Greste. ''We did expect a little better than this.''

Amal Clooney, a lawyer for Mr. Fahmy, noting what she said were numerous
irregularities with the first trial, said her client could not rely solely ''on
the Egyptian judicial system to give us a necessarily fair or speedy outcome.''

In addition to focusing on the court proceedings Mr. Fahmy's legal team was
''doubling its efforts on the political and diplomatic tracks,'' she said.
''That seems to be the most promising way to achieve the outcome that is just.''

Mr. Sisi has said that the journalists should have been deported rather than
stand trial, but he has so far insisted that the government does not interfere
in judicial decisions.

A recent thaw in relations between Egypt and Qatar, brokered by Saudi Arabia,
has raised hopes that the Egyptian president might be more willing to free the
men. In December, in a major concession, Qatar suspended the broadcast of an
Egyptian affiliate of Al Jazeera that had been sharply critical of Egypt's
government.

But the Qatari government has also refused to extradite Brotherhood leaders and
supporters wanted by the Egyptian government, a source of continuing tension,
according to Egyptian officials.

Although the appeals court did not give specifics for its decision, it is
regarded as among Egypt's most rigorous and independent legal bodies and may
have been eager to remove the stain on Egypt's judiciary after the spectacle of
the first trial.

It was unclear whether the ruling made it any more likely that Mr. Sisi would
step in before or during the retrial. The delay of a final decision could be
useful in diplomacy with Qatar, or it could be viewed as an obstacle if Egyptian
officials were quickly trying to rid themselves of a public-relations headache.

Mr. Sisi had issued a decree in November allowing him to deport non-Egyptians
convicted of crimes, in an apparent sign that his government was seeking
face-saving ways to end what has been an embarrassing case.

The decree could free Mr. Fahmy, who holds Canadian and Egyptian citizenship and
Mr. Greste, an Australian, but it would not help Mr. Mohamed, an Egyptian
citizen.

Ms. Clooney said that Mr. Sisi could act in several ways to free the
journalists, including by granting a pardon at any time, releasing them on
humanitarian grounds, or deporting Mr. Greste and Mr. Fahmy. ''There is no
reason this can't happen quickly, and today's decision doesn't change that,''
she added.

In their request for a new trial, lawyers argued that the previous case had had
procedural errors, including that a ''special court'' had been illegally
designated to hear the case, according to Negad el-Borai, another lawyer for Mr.
Fahmy. The prosecutor also requested a new trial, Mr. Borai said, though the
reasons have not been made public.

The defendants were not present Thursday, and reporters were barred from
entering the court until after the hearing. Relatives of the men spoke to
reporters after the decision and seemed stunned that they would not be released.

''I don't know what the next step is,'' said Marwa Omara, Mr. Fahmy's fiancée.
''It seems like it's a long battle.'' She added that Canadian officials needed
to ''do more.''

Lawyers said Thursday that the three journalists could still be granted bail at
the start of their new trial, which is expected to begin within a month.

In a statement after the court decision, Al Jazeera said that the Egyptian
authorities had a choice: ''Free these men quickly, or continue to string this
out, all the while continuing this injustice and harming the image of their own
country in the eyes of the world. They should choose the former.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/middleeast/egypt-al-jazeera-journalists-
trial.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marwa Omara, left, the fiancée of Mohamed Fahmy, one of the
three journalists imprisoned in Egypt, said, ''It seems like it's a long
battle.'' The journalists, from left, Peter Greste, Mr. Fahmy and Baher Mohamed,
have been detained for more than a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KHALED DESOUKI/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD (90%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); PRISONS (89%); MILITARY RULE (78%); SENTENCING (78%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%);
APPEALS COURTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM
(77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (78%); ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI (78%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cops and Crime Versus Crumpets: Two Shows Reveal Two Britains

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TV
WATCH; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 861 words


There is an antidote to ''Downton Abbey.''

A little-known British police thriller called ''Line of Duty'' is bracingly
different from ''Downton,'' the sumptuous soap opera that begins a fifth season
on PBS on Sunday: For one thing, there are no haughty peeresses, grand estates
or conniving footmen on this show -- just crime and cops, corrupt and less so.

''Line of Duty,'' a BBC2 series that is available through online sites like
Acorn.tv and iTunes, offers total immersion into brutal lawlessness and the
oppressive layers of inertia, special interest and political expedience that
hobble law enforcement. It's a little like ''The Shield,'' the FX show that
starred Michael Chiklis as a corrupt cop, but it's a lot more like ''Spiral,''
the sleek French crime series on Netflix that has a cult following in Britain
and the United States.

So basically, ''Line of Duty'' is the opposite of ''Downton Abbey,'' except in
certain elemental ways: an excellent cast, skillful writing and a knack for
making an exotic, unfamiliar world seem like the viewer's second home.

It's not about position and privilege, though, of course, there are flecks of
envy and class resentment even in this sodden underbelly of London. And it's not
about the erosion of manners and tradition in the early 20th century, though
early-21st-century politics and new media do eat away at police taboos and old
school loyalties on ''Line of Duty.''

There is no doughty Earl of Grantham trying to preserve and protect a way of
life, but there are a few police officers who want to buck the inertia and
jobbery of the system and actually preserve and protect lives.

The reason for highlighting this relatively obscure show is that it can serve as
methadone for viewers who keep getting sucked in and also a little sickened by
the never-ending British telenovela about wealthy aristocrats and their
servants: Season 5 of ''Downton Abbey'' is as manipulatively charming -- and
shamelessly repetitive -- as all the others.

The year is 1924, and while change is in the air and much commented upon, most
things seem very much the same. As Violet, the Dowager Countess, Maggie Smith is
once again filling her days with mischief and bons mots. ''There is nothing
simpler than avoiding people you don't like,'' she says. ''Avoiding one's
friends, that's the real test.''

As Russian aristocrats fleeing the Bolshevik Revolution seek refuge -- and tea
-- in church basements, Lord Grantham (Hugh Bonneville) is once again fuming
about progress, only this time it's Britain's first Labour government under
Ramsay MacDonald. Lady Edith (Laura Carmichael) is still mourning the
disappearance of her married boyfriend in Germany, while her sister, the widowed
Lady Mary (Michelle Dockery), has moved on and is once again choosing between
handsome, eligible suitors. Even Bates (Brendan Coyle), finally cleared of
murdering his estranged wife, is once again in trouble with the law.

Upstairs, guests are offered cocktails before dinner and marvel at a newfangled
form of entertainment, radio, while downstairs, the servants have to make do
with only one footman.

''Line of Duty'' is more focused on British incivility. Season 1 follows two
interwoven cases over five episodes, and begins after a terrorist raid goes
wrong, and one of its lead officers, Detective Sgt. Steve Arnott (Martin
Compston), is transferred to the AC-12 anti-corruption unit.

Steve and a colleague, Detective Constable Kate Fleming (Vicky McClure), are
given the unenviable assignment of looking into the dealings of Detective Chief
Inspector Tony Gates, played by Lennie James (''Jericho,'' ''The Walking
Dead''), one of the most admired officers on the force, who leads a small team
of ardent loyalists.

Gates's rivals, many of whom envy and mistrust his commendations and popularity,
want to nail him for padding his success rate, and it's not clear whether he is
a victim of bureaucratic infighting or a mastermind of more insidious misdeeds.
Steve is looking to incriminate Gates, but he, too, is under suspicion. Nothing
is obvious or straightforward, and no side has a monopoly on truth or even the
facts.

There are so many excellent British police shows available nowadays, and this
one, like ''Happy Valley,'' a crime series on Netflix, has to compete with so
many other more mainstream ones, including ''Broadchurch,'' which was remade for
American television as ''Gracepoint,'' on Fox. Yet despite all the competition
and duplication, ''Line of Duty'' stands out as original and surprising. Season
2 is, if anything, even more brutal and thrilling.

''Downton Abbey'' is supposed to be the quintessential British series, but it is
at heart very American, a sentimental soap opera in which love triumphs over
class divides, and masters can be heroes to their valets, and vice versa. ''Line
of Duty'' seems like a distinctively American kind of hard-boiled crime thriller
in the vein of ''Serpico'' and ''The Wire,'' only it takes place on the mean
streets of London.

For those who consume ''Downton Abbey'' as a frilly signature cocktail with too
many liqueurs, ''Line of Duty'' is a much-needed chaser, a jigger of single-malt
scotch, served neat.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/television/line-of-duty-compared-with-dow
nton-abbey.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martin Compston, left, and Adrian Dunbar in ''Line of Duty,'' a
BBC2 series available online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ACORN/RLJ ENTERTAINMENT)
 Maggie Smith as the Dowager Countess of Grantham in ''Downton Abbey.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK BRIGGS/CARNIVAL FILM & TELEVISION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (78%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (77%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CORRUPTION (76%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(57%)

PERSON: MAGGIE SMITH (92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

City's Pedestrian Fatalities Lowest on Record in 2014

BYLINE: By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 582 words


Pedestrian deaths in New York City fell to a historic low last year after a push
by the city to make streets less dangerous.

In 2014, 132 pedestrians died in traffic accidents, the lowest total for a year
since the city began keeping records a century ago, officials said. There were
180 pedestrian deaths in 2013, the highest number in a decade.

Overall traffic fatalities fell last year to 248, from 293 the previous year,
according to preliminary data from the city. There were 20 bicyclist fatalities
in 2014, an increase from 12 deaths in 2013, and 37 motorcyclist fatalities last
year, down from 42 deaths in 2013. Motor vehicle fatalities remained the same,
with 59 deaths in each year.

The decline in pedestrians' deaths comes as the city continues to put in place
Mayor Bill de Blasio's Vision Zero plan, a set of proposals intended to
eliminate traffic deaths. Modeled after a Swedish approach that treats all road
deaths and serious injuries as inherently preventable, the plan has an ambitious
goal of eliminating traffic deaths by 2024. The city lowered its default speed
limit to 25 miles per hour, from 30 m.p.h., and increased enforcement of
speeding laws, among other initiatives.

''There is no question we are moving this city in the right direction, thanks to
stepped up enforcement by the N.Y.P.D., strong traffic safety measures by the
Department of Transportation, new laws passed by our legislators and the work of
New Yorkers fighting for change,'' the mayor said in a statement this week.

The new speed limit for most city streets went into effect in November. It was
the first lowering of the general speed limit since 1964 and required state
legislation because of a mandate that local limits could not dip under 30 m.p.h.

The City Council has passed a dozen bills on traffic safety, including one
called Cooper's Law, which was named for a 9-year-old boy who was fatally struck
by a taxi on the Upper West Side in January. The bill allows the city to suspend
and revoke the license of a taxi driver or livery driver who kills or maims a
pedestrian who has the right of way.

In addition, the police have strengthened enforcement against dangerous driving,
increasing summonses for speeding by 42 percent and for failure to yield to
pedestrians by 126 percent, city officials said. More than 117,000 drivers were
given summonses for speeding last year, compared with about 82,000 in 2013.

New York in 2014 also had lower numbers in nearly every major category of crime,
including murder, according to Police Department statistics.

Paul Steely White, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an
advocacy group for pedestrians and cyclists, called the year's traffic
fatalities a ''historic reduction.''

''Even though we still have way too much preventable carnage on our streets,
it's very encouraging that we can move the needle,'' Mr. White said. ''The mayor
has made this a top priority, and I think that's the No. 1 factor in what has
led to this accomplishment.''

Mr. de Blasio has often spoken about Vision Zero in public and has frequently
met with the families of victims of fatal crashes, raising the visibility of the
issue, Mr. White said.

The city's transportation commissioner, Polly Trottenberg, said the campaign
faced more challenges.

''In 2015, we will continue to work with our Vision Zero partners and local
communities to make their neighborhoods safer and save more lives,'' Ms.
Trottenberg said in a statement, ''because our work is far from complete.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/new-york-pedestrian-deaths-are-lowest
-on-record.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the Upper West Side of Manhattan. There were 132 pedestrian
fatalities  last year, the lowest annual total since city records began a
century ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); TRAFFIC
ACCIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); CITIES (89%);
SPEED LIMITS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%);
POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); MURDER (78%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%);
DRIVER BEHAVIOR (71%); CRIME STATISTICS (64%); CYCLING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Dance

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1303 words


Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance. A searchable guide
to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Africa Umoja: 20 Years of Freedom and Democracy Tour (Tuesday through next
Friday) This colorful production, by the directors Todd Twala and Thembi
Nyandeni, celebrates the culture and history of South Africa through dance, song
and storytelling performed by a cast of 32. Its many offerings include
traditional gumboot dancing, a tribute to Nelson Mandela, and an array of
musical genres, including Zulu drums and kwaito, a club genre born in
post-apartheid Johannesburg. Tuesday through Thursday at 7 p.m., next Friday at
8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, 212-864-5400,
symphonyspace.org. (Siobhan Burke)

Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater (through Sunday) If any holiday dance
tradition can rival ''The Nutcracker,'' it's the Ailey company's winter season
at City Center. This year's five-week run wraps up with classics from the Ailey
repertoire and the evergreen ''Revelations'' concluding each program. Friday at
8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m., 131 West 55th
Street, Manhattan, 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org, alvinailey.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; American Realness (Thursday through Jan. 18) ''American Realness is
dead. Long live American realness.'' That's the slogan for the sixth edition of
this genre-crossing festival. According to the schedule -- 10 days packed with
performances, parties, discussions and workshops, mostly at Abrons Arts Center
-- it's very much alive. A pantheon of smart, subversive artists will be in the
building, including Miguel Gutierrez with the next installment of his ''Age and
Beauty'' suite (Thursday through Jan. 10); Liz Santoro with the return of her
hypnotic ''Relative Collider'' (Jan. 10 and 11); and Keith Hennessy, who annexes
Nijinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' in his new solo, ''Bear/Skin'' (Thursday through
Jan. 11). At various times, Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt
Street, Lower East Side, 866-811-4111, americanrealness.com. (Burke)

&#x2605; AUNTSforcamera (through Feb. 15) The New Museum hosts this exhibition
of nine video works dispersed throughout the building, a project of the protean
dance entity AUNTS. The entries deal with everything from dancing with drones to
mastering the original Harlem Shake. Grab a map and find your way among the
monitors and screens, or take an artist-led tour, offered on selected days.
Tours are free with a submission to Karl Scholz's interactive experiment
''#auntsforcamera.'' Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays through Sundays from 11
a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; New Museum, 235 Bowery, at
Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo (through Sunday) Since 1974, this
all-male ballet troupe, affectionately known as the Trocks, has been celebrating
and satirizing the cult of ballet with a delicious blend of cheeky humor and
true reverence. The pokes come from a place of love -- and knowledge. Its 40th
anniversary Joyce season spans a spectrum of dance history, including excerpts
from ''La Naiade et Le Pecheur,'' which dates to the mid-19th century, and smart
parodies of classics, like ''Swan Lake'' and ''Don Quixote.'' Friday at 8 p.m.,
Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at
19th Street, Chelsea, 212-242-0800, joyce.org. (Brian Schaefer)

Bodytraffic (Tuesday, Thursday and Jan. 10) Of the companies breathing new life
into Los Angeles's contemporary dance scene, this repertory troupe, directed by
Lillian Rose Barbeito and Tina Finkelman Berkett, is one of the most popular.
The ensemble visits the Joyce Theater with three pieces: a world premiere by the
Israeli choreographer Hofesh Shechter; a work combining break dancing and ballet
by Victor Quijada of Montreal; and Richard Siegal's ''The New 45,'' a duet to
jazz classics by Oscar Peterson and Clark Terry. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday
at 8 p.m., Jan. 10 at 2 and 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th
Street, Chelsea, 212-242-0800, joyce.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; Company XIV (through Jan. 31) The holiday season means an avalanche of
Nutcrackers around town, most rated G. For those looking for some spice with
that sugar, there's ''Nutcracker Rouge,'' a baroque-burlesque take on the
Christmas classic by Austin McCormick's Company XIV. The saucy fusion of dance,
theater, circus and song takes place in the company's intimate and opulent new
home in NoHo. Cocktails and coquetry abound for those 21 and older. Tuesday
through Sunday at 8 p.m., XIV, 428 Lafayette Street, between Astor Place and
East Fourth Street, 212-677-1444, companyxiv.com; many performances are sold
out. (Schaefer)

Faye Driscoll (Tuesday, and Thursday through Jan. 10) In ''Thank You for Coming:
Attendance,'' Ms. Driscoll transforms St. Mark's Church into a
theater-in-the-round where five fearless dancers fight, frolic and pull off one
of the stealthiest set-design maneuvers in recent dance history. What looks at
first like a wrestling match becomes a kind of utopian ritual. This raucous,
participatory piece (don't expect to get too comfortable) receives an encore run
at Danspace Project, where it had its premiere last spring. Tuesday, Thursday
and next Friday at 8 p.m., Jan. 10 at 5 and 9 p.m., 131 East 10th Street, East
Village, 866-811-4111, danspaceproject.org. (Burke)

Doug Elkins Choreography, Etc. (Wednesday, next Friday and Jan. 11) In his
latest work, ''Hapless Bizarre,'' Mr. Elkins stays true to both words in the
title while displaying his characteristic craftsmanship and wit. Inspired by new
vaudeville and silent comedy, with especially hapless roles for the physical
comedian Mark Gindick, the piece has its New York premiere alongside the catchy
''Mo(or)town/Redux,'' in which Mr. Elkins interprets José Limón interpreting
Shakespeare. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., next Friday at 8 p.m., Jan. 11 at 2 and
7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea,
212-242-0800, joyce.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; Molly Lieber and Eleanor Smith (Wednesday through Jan. 12) When Ms.
Lieber and Ms. Smith dance together, their connection seems telepathic. Their
latest duet, ''Rude World,'' presented as part of Performance Space 122's Coil
festival, is the third in a triptych exploring the intimacy of collaboration,
the results of unfettered improvisation and meticulous paring down. Wednesday at
6 p.m., Thursday and Jan. 10 at 5 p.m., next Friday at 7 p.m., Jan. 11 at 3
p.m., Jan. 12 at 4 p.m., Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City,
Queens, 866-811-4111, chocolatefactorytheater.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; Live Artery (Thursday through Jan. 11) If you missed some of the best
dance productions of 2014, now is the time to catch up. This series at New York
Live Arts, which coincides with the citywide Association of Performing Arts
Presenters conference, reprises several gems, including Beth Gill's starkly
luminous ''New Work for the Desert'' (Thursday at 7:30 p.m.) and John Jasperse's
fickle, densely packed ''Within Between'' (Jan. 10 at 5 p.m.). Also on deck are
previews of new works by Rashaun Mitchell and Okwui Okpokwasili. At various
times, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.org. (Burke)

&#x2605; New York City Ballet (Friday and Saturday) ''George Balanchine's the
Nutcracker'' had its premiere in 1954, and has returned to City Ballet's
repertory every year since. At 60, the holiday classic is still working its
charm on balletgoers of all ages. While the principals are sure to be divine,
the real stars are the two casts of 50 children from the School of American
Ballet. At 2 and 8 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, 212-496-0600,
nycballet.com. (Burke)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/dance/dance-listings-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSIC GENRES (76%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (76%); MUSIC (71%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: NELSON MANDELA (77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo Putting Big Challenges on His Agenda

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN and JESSE McKINLEY; Rebecca Bratek contributed
reporting from Buffalo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words


Beginning his second term only hours before the death of his father, Gov. Andrew
M. Cuomo on Thursday promised to confront some of the most deep-rooted
challenges facing New York and the nation: unfairness in the criminal justice
system, an eroded economic mobility and the distortion of the public education
system from a ''great equalizer'' during his father's youth into a ''great
discriminator'' for children born into poverty today.

Mr. Cuomo, in a speech that was hauntingly reminiscent of former Gov. Mario M.
Cuomo's oratorical style, invoked challenges that have stymied presidents, let
alone governors. ''The American promise itself is being questioned,'' he said.
''The offer of fairness and opportunity that was the American compact is now in
doubt.''

The governor's inauguration day began with an emotional nod to his father's
absence, and ended with word of his passing. ''He couldn't be here physically
today, my father,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''But my father is in this room. He's in the
heart and mind of every person who's here.''

Mr. Cuomo, 57, a Democrat, said New York should lead the way in solving urgent
social problems, just as it had opened up the heartland two centuries ago by
digging the Erie Canal and, in his own first year in office, had become the
biggest state to allow same-sex marriage at that time.

Yet the expansive ambitions laid out by Mr. Cuomo in his inaugural address stood
in contrast to the undeniable achievements of his first term, when he grappled
with issues, like property taxes and gun control, that were important but held
little mystery as to their solutions, which in many cases could be imported from
other states.

On Thursday, Mr. Cuomo called on lawmakers and ordinary New Yorkers to summon
the courage to tackle broader problems, ones with neither obvious nor easy
solutions, like reviving the upstate economy and addressing ''chronic high
poverty'' in urban areas from the South Bronx to Rochester.

Citing the killings of unarmed black men by police officers on Staten Island and
in Ferguson, Mo., he said that some people had lost faith in the American system
of criminal justice, and that it was New York's obligation to produce reforms.

Alluding to the blindfold worn by Lady Justice, the governor said, ''Too many
people are questioning if the blindfold is still intact -- or does the justice
system now see black and white, or black and blue, or rich and poor?''

He said the American education system, which once lifted up immigrants, had now
split into two, ''one for the rich and one for the poor,'' and needed
improvement.

And Mr. Cuomo appropriated themes espoused by Mayor Bill de Blasio, who won
election railing against what he called New York City's ''tale of two cities.''
The governor lamented the wide gap between the rich and the poor and the lack of
opportunity faced by hard-working people yearning for upward mobility.

''It's time to be bold, my friends, because there is no small solution to big
problems,'' the governor said.

Mr. Cuomo, whose re-election in November fell short of a coronation, celebrated
his inauguration on the 64th floor of 1 World Trade Center, the newly completed
downtown skyscraper, with the spiked elegance of Manhattan spread below.

He held a second ceremony later on Thursday at a museum in Buffalo, the home of
Mr. Cuomo's new lieutenant governor, Kathy Hochul, a former member of Congress.

In his address in Manhattan, Mr. Cuomo expressed confidence in New York's
ability to take on big challenges. He told the story of the construction of the
Erie Canal and invoked the state's leadership on issues like women's suffrage
and the gay rights movement, as well as two of the defining achievements of his
first term: legalizing same-sex marriage and tightening gun laws after the mass
shooting in Newtown, Conn.

Those votes showed Mr. Cuomo at his most skillful, seeing, and then seizing, an
opening, something he suggested he would do in the weeks to come on the issue of
criminal justice reform.

''He is very astute at reading public priorities, and he's very fleet of foot,''
said Kenneth Sherrill, a professor emeritus of political science at Hunter
College. ''He thinks about how to play the game all the time, and so he's a
master of it.''

As Mr. Cuomo promised to confront big challenges on Thursday, he offered little
hint as to how.

While he will provide more concrete proposals in his State of the State address
next week, the daunting nature of the work he promised to tackle was a departure
from past years. In his first term, he showed his mechanical mastery of Albany's
levers of power, but only sparingly tackled intractable societal issues.

Robert J. Bellafiore, who was a senior aide to Gov. George E. Pataki, a
Republican, said Mr. Cuomo now faced the challenge of determining how he defines
vast issues like inequality, and what concrete steps he can take to address
them.

''As everybody's mom always told them, actions speak louder than words,'' he
said, ''and it's the actual follow-up that will decide whether today is just a
good moment, or something that carries into 2015 and his whole second term.''

In fact, at times in his first term, Mr. Cuomo seemed to struggle to produce big
ideas. Others seemed reverse-engineered from the news releases his office
created to trumpet them.

Almost on a whim, Mr. Cuomo proposed building the nation's largest convention
center in Queens, a plan that quickly crumbled. He put enormous energy into
expanding casino gambling in upstate New York, even as analysts predicted the
economic benefits would not live up to the governor's hype. He is building a
replacement for the Tappan Zee Bridge over the Hudson River, but has not
explained how the state will pay for it.

Mr. Cuomo would very likely need to deploy all of the political skill he has
honed over a lifetime to solve the problems he delineated on Thursday. Yet in
his first term he sometimes entangled himself with his own restless maneuvering.
After a series of scandals involving legislators, he tried to burnish his image
as a corruption fighter by forming an investigative panel, called a Moreland
Commission, to unearth malfeasance. But Mr. Cuomo meddled with the commission's
work and then shut it down prematurely, and federal prosecutors began their own
investigation of his conduct. The episode became the biggest blemish on his
record.

At other times, Mr. Cuomo has contradicted himself. He promised not to extend a
tax surcharge on high earners, but then agreed to create a new high-income tax
bracket. He broke his promise to veto gerrymandered redistricting maps drawn by
legislators to aid them in their re-election bids. He told the Working Families
Party, a group of liberal activists and labor unions, that he would push for
Democrats to take control of the State Senate, then barely lifted a finger to
help them.

And sometimes Mr. Cuomo has contradicted his contradictions. He traveled to
Binghamton in 2013 to trumpet the virtues of building a casino in the area, then
said last month that a casino would not cure the region's economic woes, then
reversed course nine days later and called for a casino to be located there.

The constant motion can sometimes undermine Mr. Cuomo's credibility: This week,
he vetoed a bill that his own office had drafted.

All along, Mr. Cuomo showed little interest in ideas from others, an insularity
that frustrated some lawmakers.

''Great leaders incorporate other ideas, or are willing to listen to other
ideas,'' said the Assembly minority leader, Brian M. Kolb, a Republican from
Canandaigua.

On Thursday, though, Mr. Cuomo's eloquence in setting what could be an arduous
agenda evoked memories of the man under whom he studied.

Mr. Cuomo said he had spent New Year's Eve with his father, who served three
terms, and had gone through his speech with him Wednesday night.

''He said it was good,'' the governor recalled, ''especially for a
second-termer.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/cuomo-inaugurated-for-second-term-as-
governor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo embraced Mayor Bill de Blasio during  the
governor's inauguration ceremony Thursday in Manhattan. (POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY
CRAIG RUTTLE) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MEN (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION
(77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (68%); GUN CONTROL (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); GAYS &
LESBIANS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); BILL DE BLASIO (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Gene Editors

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words


Its first attempt to develop genetically engineered grass ended disastrously for
the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. The grass escaped into the wild from test plots
in Oregon in 2003, dooming the chances that the government would approve the
product for commercial use.

Yet Scotts is once again developing genetically modified grass that would need
less mowing, be a deeper green and be resistant to damage from the popular
weedkiller Roundup. But this time the grass will not need federal approval
before it can be field-tested and marketed.

Scotts and several other companies are developing genetically modified crops
using techniques that either are outside the jurisdiction of the Agriculture
Department or use new methods -- like ''genome editing'' -- that were not
envisioned when the regulations were created.

The department has said, for example, that it has no authority over a new
herbicide-resistant canola, a corn that would create less pollution from
livestock waste, switch grass tailored for biofuel production, and even an
ornamental plant that glows in the dark.

The trend alarms critics of biotech crops, who say genetic modification can have
unintended effects, regardless of the process.

''They are using a technical loophole so that what are clearly genetically
engineered crops and organisms are escaping regulation,'' said Michael Hansen, a
senior scientist at Consumers Union. He said the grass ''can have all sorts of
ecological impact and no one is required to look at it.''

Even some people who say the crops are safe and the regulations overly
burdensome have expressed concern that because some crops can be left
unregulated, the whole oversight process is confusing and illogical, in some
cases doing more harm than good.

In November's Nature Biotechnology, plant researchers at the University of
California, Davis, wrote that the regulatory framework had become ''obsolete and
an obstacle to the development of new agricultural products.''

But companies using the new techniques say that if the methods were not labeled
genetic engineering, novel crops could be marketed or grown in Europe and other
countries that do not readily accept genetically modified crops.

Freedom from oversight could also open opportunities for smaller companies and
university breeders and for the modification of less common crops. Until now, in
part because of the costs associated with regulation, crop biotechnology has
been dominated by Monsanto and a handful of other big companies working mainly
on widely grown crops like corn and soybeans.

''It enables small companies to develop products, and even university
start-ups,'' said Luc Mathis, chief executive of Cellectis Plant Sciences, which
recently received a regulatory exemption for a potato it says will make French
fries less unhealthy.

An industry-sponsored study said that the large companies spend an average of
$136 million on the development of a genetically engineered crop, including $35
million in regulatory costs. The Agriculture Department once took two to five
years to review applications, though it is trying to reduce that to 13 to 16
months.

Genetically engineered crops, popularly called genetically modified organisms or
G.M.O.s, typically have genes from other organisms inserted into their DNA. The
most popular ones, like Roundup-resistant soybeans and insect-resistant corn,
use genes from bacteria.

Under a framework announced in 1986, oversight of the crops is shared by the
Agriculture Department, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Food and
Drug Administration. Rather than enact new laws for genetically engineered
crops, the government covers them under existing statutes.

The Agriculture Department, which approves crops for commercial planting, is a
case in point. Its authority stems from its responsibility for protecting
American crops from plant pests, which typically are insects or pathogens.

That responsibility extends to certain G.M.O. crops because for many of them,
the foreign gene is inserted through the use of a bacterium, or the inserted DNA
contains a genetic ''on'' switch from a plant virus.

But companies can get around that oversight by avoiding components from plant
pests. In Scotts's newer grasses, for instance, the foreign genetic material
comes only from other plants and is inserted with a gene gun rather than by the
bacterium.

''If you take genetic material from a plant and it's not considered a pest, and
you don't use a transformation technology that would sort of violate the rules,
there's a bunch of stuff you can do that at least technically is unregulated,''
Jim Hagedorn, Scotts chief executive, told analysts in December 2013. He said
the company nearly shut its biotech program after the previous mishap, until it
hit upon the new strategy and created ''a stunning array of products that are
not regulated.''

The company recently started testing the grass on the lawns of its employees.
But a spokesman said the grass was years from reaching the market.

A spokeswoman for the Agriculture Department said the agency was acting within
the authority given to it by Congress and that even if it did not have oversight
of a particular crop, the F.D.A. or E.P.A. might still be involved.

Other companies, including Cellectis, are using new genome-editing techniques
that can change the plant's existing DNA rather than insert foreign genes.
Cibus, a privately held San Diego company, is beginning to sell
herbicide-resistant canola developed this way.

''With our technology, we can develop the same traits but in a way that's not
transgenic,'' said Peter Beetham, chief executive of Cibus, using a term for a
plant containing foreign genes.

Regulators around the world are now grappling with whether these techniques are
even considered genetic engineering and how, if at all, they should be
regulated.

''The technology is always one step ahead of the regulators,'' said Michiel van
Lookeren Campagne, head of biotechnology research at Syngenta, a seed and
agricultural chemical company.

Some researchers argue that using genome editing to inactivate a gene in a
plant, or to make a tiny change in an existing gene, results in a crop no
different from what could be obtained through natural mutations and conventional
breeding, though it is achieved more quickly.

''Those are basically comparable to what you get from conventional breeding,''
said Neal Gutterson, vice president for agricultural biotechnology at DuPont
Pioneer, a seed company. ''We certainly hope that the regulatory agencies
recognize that and treat the products accordingly.''

The gene editing, they argue, is also more directed and precise than the
existing technique of exposing plants to radiation or chemicals to induce random
mutations in hopes of generating a desirable change. This technique has been
used for decades and is not regulated, even though it can potentially cause
unknown and unintended changes to crops.

But critics of biotech crops say the genome-editing techniques can make changes
in plant DNA other than the intended one. Also, the gene editing is typically
done on plant cells or plant tissues growing in a dish. The process of then
turning those genetically altered cells or tissues into a full plant can itself
induce mutations.

Another category that some researchers say should receive less scrutiny is
so-called cisgenic crops, which are developed using conventional genetic
engineering but with the inserted genes from the same species as the crop.

An example is a potato developed by the J. R. Simplot Company that resists
bruising and makes a less unhealthy French fry. The Agriculture Department
reviewed the Simplot potato before approving it recently.

Jennifer Kuzma, co-director of the Genetic Engineering and Society Center at
North Carolina State University, said that there would soon be a flood of crops
seeking regulatory exemptions and that there needed to be a public discourse
about what should be regulated, in part to allay possible consumer anxiety.

''It's not that I think these are risky,'' she said of the crops escaping
regulation. ''But the very fact that this is the route we are taking without any
discussion is troubling.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/energy-environment/a-gray-area-in-reg
ulation-of-genetically-modified-crops.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A test plot of bioengineered grass in Gervais, Ore., is
examined by a scientist for the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK
BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Canola plants at Cibus in San Diego, which has made the plants
herbicide-resistant by changing their DNA instead of inserting foreign genes.
 Top, cells from a canola leaf during processing at Cellectis Plant Sciences.
Left, Peter Beetham, chief executive of  Cibus, which uses genome editing to
modify plants. Right, at Cellectis, creating a plant from a genome-edited cell.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%);
GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (91%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (91%); AGRICULTURE
(90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%);
BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT (89%); BOTANY (89%); BIOLOGY (87%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (86%); AGRONOMY (78%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%);
APPROVALS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); HERBICIDES (76%);
AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (70%); BIOFUELS (68%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (53%);
EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SCOTTS MIRACLE-GRO CO (91%); MONSANTO CO (51%); CELLECTIS SA (50%)

TICKER: SMG (NYSE) (91%); MON (NYSE) (51%); CLLS (NASDAQ) (50%); ALCLS (PAR)
(50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2873
NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (91%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS
(51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%);
SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
(51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%);
SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATIONS (50%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Comedy

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 561 words


For news about comedy and humor, including critical commentary:
nytimes.com/arts. A searchable guide to these and other shows is at
nytimes.com/events.

&#x2605; Michael Che (Thursday through Jan. 10) After writing for ''Saturday
Night Live'' last season, Mr. Che is now an anchor of ''Weekend Update.'' This
casually insightful stand-up, who kicks off a three-night run at Carolines next
week, is viewed as one of the brightest young comics in New York City. Thursday
at 7:30 p.m., next Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 10 p.m., Carolines, 1626
Broadway, at 49th Street, Manhattan, 212-757-4100, carolines.com. (Elise
Czajkowski)

'Goat' (Saturday) This brand-new improv show, made up largely of former members
of the sprawling, influential troupe Death by Roo Roo, promises an ''improvised
apocalypse.'' At 9 p.m., Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, 307 West 26th Street,
Chelsea, 212-366-9176, newyork.ucbtheatre.com. (Czajkowski)

'Kornfield & Andrews' (Sunday) Louis Kornfeld and Rick Andrews, veteran
performers and instructors at the Magnet Theater, debut their Sunday night
long-form improv show. At 9 p.m., Magnet Theater, 254 West 29th Street, Chelsea,
212-244-8824, magnettheater.com. (Czajkowski)

&#x2605; Louis CK (Wednesday and Jan. 14) He reigns among the greatest working
comics today: Not only has Louis CK won over comedy fans of all stripes with his
Emmy-winning FX series, ''Louie,'' but he is also noted for his devotion to the
craft of stand-up, regularly performing short sets at small clubs and theaters
to perfect his act. He headlines two shows on consecutive Wednesdays at Madison
Square Garden. At 8 p.m., 866-858-0008, thegarden.com. (Czajkowski)

&#x2605; Joe Machi (Friday and Saturday) A finalist on the most recent season of
''Last Comic Standing'' and winner of the New York's Funniest Stand-Up contest
in 2013, Mr. Machi is a memorable talent with an engaging style. At 7:30 and 10
p.m., Carolines, 1626 Broadway, at 49th Street, Manhattan, 212-757-4100,
carolines.com. (Czajkowski)

'Mike O'Brien: 45 Minutes of Things' (Friday) This writer for ''Saturday Night
Live'' performs a show of stand-up, sketch, short stories and silly
experimentation. At 7:30 p.m., the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater, 307 West
26th Street, Chelsea, 212-366-9176, newyork.ucbtheatre.com. (Czajkowski)

&#x2605; The Ninth Annual 50 First Jokes (Friday) John F. O'Donnell hosts this
annual show, in which 50 of New York's best stand-ups tell the very first joke
they've written in the new year. Performers this year include Aparna Nancherla,
Mike Lawrence, Nick Vatterott, Phil Hanley and Sasheer Zamata. At 8 p.m., the
Bell House, 149 Seventh Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn, 718-643-6510,
thebellhouseny.com. (Czajkowski)

' ''The Simpsons'' Backstage Tour with Mike Reiss' (Thursday) Mr. Reiss, a
longtime writer and producer of ''The Simpsons,'' looks back at his time at the
long-running show, with rare clips from the series as well as his other animated
shows ''The Critic'' and ''Queer Duck.'' At 8 p.m., Peoples Improv Theater, 123
East 24th Street, Manhattan, 212-563-7488, thepit-nyc.com. (Czajkowski)

Sheng Wang (Tuesday) One of the most reliably funny stand-ups in New York, Mr.
Wang headlines this night as part of Carolines' Breakout Artist Comedy Series.
At 7:30 p.m., Carolines, 1626 Broadway, at 49th Street, Manhattan, 212-757-4100,
carolines.com. (Czajkowski)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/comedy-listings-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS
(77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); THEATER
(54%); EMMY AWARDS (50%)

PERSON: LOUIS C K (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Moments, New Year's Revelry Became Fatal Crush in Shanghai

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words


SHANGHAI -- With a dazzling light show set to begin at midnight, a huge crowd of
revelers had gathered for an outdoor New Year's Eve in this city's historic
riverfront district. They began to grow unruly.

''We were just trying to walk up the steps to see the light show, and then
people at the top began pushing their way down,'' said a 20-year-old man. ''Then
I heard someone scream, and people began to panic.''

The man, who spoke while awaiting a friend at Shanghai No. 1 People's Hospital,
said, ''We got crushed.''

In an instant, a stampede trampled and asphyxiated dozens of people. So thick
were the crowds here that ambulances struggled to reach the victims, who had
been partying moments before and now lay suffering or lifeless, some with dirty
footprints on their clothes.

By Thursday afternoon, at least 36 people had died in the stampede and 47 were
known to be injured, and the police conceded that they had been ill prepared.

Even for China, the world's most populous country, with a history of fatal
stampedes and constant worries about crowd control, it was one of the worst
public tragedies. It was made more so because the stampede happened during a
celebration in a historic showcase area of Shanghai, its version of Times
Square.

Most of the victims were Chinese in their teens and 20s, who had hoped to ring
in 2015 partying in the area, the Bund, the city's famed riverfront promenade.

The stampede was a reminder of the challenges the authorities face in managing
China's megacities. Like other metropolises around the world, Shanghai has made
its New Year's Eve celebration a signature event, with light shows and
performances late into the night.

This year's big attraction was billed as a ''5D Light Show'' that was supposed
to project colorful blazes onto the Bund. The light-show festivities included
the city's newest landmark, the 2,074-foot Shanghai Tower, one of the world's
tallest buildings. But at least one of the shows had been canceled ahead of the
stampede, and word had not reached all the revelers.

Many people who had been milling around the Bund on Wednesday night said the
huge crowds simply overwhelmed the authorities and the event organizers in this
city of 25 million.

Among the dead were 25 women, aged 16 to 36, according to Xinhua, the official
news agency. Besides the Chinese residents, the authorities said the casualties
included one person from Taiwan and one from Malaysia.

A video posted on youku.com appears to show an enormous mass of celebrators
pushing and yelling and crushing young people under its weight.

Some participants said the crowd may have been even larger than the 300,000
people who, according to an official count, had attended a year ago.

After the stampede, and the ensuing chaos as ambulances tried to reach victims
sprawled in what is usually a busy traffic intersection, the remaining light
show was canceled. Police officers stood shoulder to shoulder to permit
ambulance access. But many victims died before reaching a hospital, the
authorities said.

President Xi Jinping ordered an immediate investigation. And by afternoon, the
police were even looking into reports that partygoers in a nearby building may
have contributed by tossing fake $100 bills into the area.

The police later ruled out that theory, saying that the phony currency had been
tossed after the stampede.

Still, they admitted having not anticipated such a problem. The Xinhua account
said ''the police expressed regret over their failure to effectively intervene
when the tourist flow 'increased irregularly' at 11:30 p.m.''

Stampedes are more than an occasional risk in China and are not confined to
cities, according to examples cited by Xinhua. Last September, six students were
killed because of a blocked stairway at a primary school in the southwestern
province of Yunnan. Last January, 14 worshipers were crushed at a mosque in
northwest China. Thirty-seven people were killed on a Beijing bridge in 2004
during a lantern festival.

On Thursday afternoon, four Shanghai hospitals were treating the injured while
friends and relatives waited. In the lobby of Changzheng Hospital, the mother of
a 16-year-old stampede victim dropped to her knees when told that her daughter
had not survived.

''I can't take it! I want to die,'' the woman cried as her relatives tried to
console her. ''I don't want to live. I can't go on!''

In China, New Year's Eve celebrations are a relatively new affair, far less
significant and theatrical than the annual Chinese New Year celebrations that
take place according to the traditional calendar, usually in late January or
early February. And yet, every year, the crowds that gather in major Chinese
cities on Dec. 31 seem to get bigger.

In Shanghai, the Bund is one of the most popular tourist spots, a strip of
hulking, pre-World War II buildings built largely by the British. Now elegantly
restored and illuminated at night, the buildings house banks, upscale
restaurants, nightclubs and five-star hotels, including the Peace Hotel and the
Waldorf-Astoria Shanghai.

The city spent $732 million between 2007 and 2010 to renovate the Bund,
expanding the promenade and making more room for tourists to delight in gazing
at the historic buildings or across the Huangpu River toward the new financial
district, filled with high-rise apartment buildings, office towers and oversize
advertising displays.

The makeover was so successful that much bigger crowds now tour the riverfront
day and night, so numerous that some of the luxury shops have relocated.

On Thursday, there were large crowds once again walking the Bund, but also
police cars and vans in the area near Chen Yi Square. Some visitors placed
bouquets near the statue of Chen Yi, a former military commander and onetime
Shanghai mayor.

At No. 18 on the Bund, police officers could be seen Thursday afternoon visiting
the building where a party was held and fake $100 bills were handed out. Inside
the building, and out on the street, crumpled bills could still be seen. Calls
to the police and the building went unanswered.

At Changzheng Hospital, there were tears and even scuffles as visitors demanded
information about relatives. A man who declined to give his name said he was at
the Bund on Wednesday evening with his 21-year-old cousin, who was crushed to
death. The man was comforting that cousin's older sister and describing what
happened.

''I was pushed down. I couldn't breathe,'' he said. ''I felt I was going to die
because I couldn't breathe. But I couldn't find my cousin. Now, I came to the
hospital. I've been here since last night. But now we know my cousin died.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/asia/witnesses-recall-panic-of-deadly-st
ampede-in-shanghai.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, revelers caught in a stampede during a New Year's Eve
celebration on the Bund, a waterfront promenade in Shanghai. In the aftermath, a
woman, above, wept for the victims. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS
 GREG BAKER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) MAPS (MAPS BY
DIGITALGLOBE VIA GOOGLE EARTH) (A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%);
EMERGENCY VEHICLES (69%); ADOLESCENTS (69%)

COMPANY: YOUKU TOUDU INC (83%)

TICKER: YOKU (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%)

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Age of Bibi

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 803 words


METULA, Israel -- If I were a political novelist, I'd try to write a novel about
Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister of Israel.

The story would be partly Nixonian. Netanyahu is surpassingly brilliant, as even
his opponents here concede. He knows the minute guts of Israeli politics and has
read deeply into big history and grand strategy. He is also said to be
suspicious, solitary and insular. It is hard to stay on good terms with him,
whether you are on his staff, or his nation's closest ally.

The story would be partly Kennedyesque. The Netanyahu clan was presided over by
Benjamin's brilliant father Benzion, the great medieval historian. The eldest
brother Jonathan was the golden child. When Jonathan died in the raid on Entebbe
in 1976, hopes shifted to Benjamin, who is known as Bibi. Political analysts
have spent decades psychoanalyzing the family dynamic, with mixed results, but a
novelist who studied Sophocles or Tolstoy might be able to make some sense of
it.

The story would be partly Churchillian. Netanyahu sees himself in world
historical terms, and admires Theodor Herzl and Winston Churchill -- two men who
saw dangers ahead of other people. Netanyahu obviously lacks many of Churchill's
qualities, like playful charm, but he has a profound nationalist passion and a
consuming historical consciousness.

Like Churchill, he is wisest when things are going wrong. He has been a
pessimist about the Arab world. As the Arab Spring has deteriorated, as
Palestinian democracy led to Hamas, as run of the mill extremists have lost
ground to the Islamic State, Bibi's instincts have basically been proved
correct.

The story would be part Shakespearean. Nearly every political leader has one
close friend or spouse, often female, who is widely hated. People can't blame
the leader for slights, so they blame her. In Israel, the role is played by
Netanyahu's wife, Sara, who has been the subject of fascination and scorn for
decades: She is often described as Lady Macbeth. Few know her exact role, but,
it is said, she exiles the disloyal, shapes his politics, mistreats servants and
distracts him when he is supposed to be running the country. Obviously, any
novel about Netanyahu and modern Israel would have to be told from her vantage
point. The narrative voice would be electric.

The story would be part ''Citizen Kane.'' Netanyahu rose to fame via CNN. His
rise and survival are intertwined with changes in media, with the decline of old
newspapers that are generally hostile, and the rise of new cable networks and
outlets that are often his allies. Ferociously tending his image, his wars with
his foes in the Israeli press have been epic.

Finally, the story would be part Machiavelli. The great Renaissance philosopher
argued that it is best to be both loved and feared, but if you have to choose
one, it is better to be feared. Netanyahu is not loved, especially by those in
his party. But he is feared and acknowledged, the way any large, effective
object is feared and respected.

I'm visiting Israel for the 18th or 19th time (my son is currently a member of
the Lone Soldiers Program, which allows people from around the world to serve in
the Israeli military). I asked a couple of smart Israelis what their coming
elections are about. They said that the elections are about one thing: What do
you think of Netanyahu? Such is the outsized role he plays in the consciousness
of this nation.

No one has a simple view of him. To some, he is a monster who has expanded the
settlements on the West Bank, which are a moral stain and do calamitous damage
to Israel's efforts to win support around the world. To some, he is the
necessary man in hard times, the vigilant guardian as the rest of the Middle
East goes berserk.

Both viewpoints have some truth. To me, his caution is most fascinating. For all
his soaring rhetoric and bellicosity, he has been a defensive leader. He seems
to understand that, in his country's situation, the lows are lower than the
highs are high. The costs of a mistake are bigger than the benefits of an
accomplishment. So he is loath to take risks. He doesn't do some smart things,
like improve life for Palestinians on the West Bank, but he doesn't do
unpredictable dumb things, like prematurely bomb Iran. He talks everything
through, and his decisions shift and flip as the discussions evolve.

If you think trends in the Middle East will doom Israel unless it acts, then
this defensiveness is a disaster. If you think, as I do, that Israel has to wait
out the current spasm of Islamist radicalism, then this caution has its uses.

Israeli voters haven't warmed to Netanyahu over the past quarter-century. But
they have come to think more like him, accepting that this conflict will endure,
digging in for a dogged struggle. For good and ill, he has refashioned the
national mind.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/david-brooks-the-age-of-benjamin-netan
yahu.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); WRITERS (91%); FICTION LITERATURE (91%);
POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HAMAS (78%); HISTORY (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%);
FAMILY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brazil's President Begins 2nd Term Vowing to Fight Graft

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 384 words


BRASÍLIA -- President Dilma Rousseff on Thursday was sworn in to her second term
in office, during which she will have to confront an expanding kickback scandal
at the state-run oil company, a moribund economy and less congressional support
for her governing coalition.

Ms. Rousseff's surprisingly narrow victory in October and the weakening of her
governing coalition among lawmakers will make it harder for her to tackle the
challenges she faces, experts said. Some also said she would have to change her
rigid management style and seek compromise.

But in a 40-minute inaugural speech before the National Congress, Ms. Rousseff
sharply defended her record, noted the great strides that Brazil had made in
addressing social inequities with her government programs and said she was ready
to fight graft and end impunity for the rich and powerful.

''The Brazilian people want even more transparency and more combat against all
types of crimes, especially corruption,'' she said. ''And they want the arm of
justice to reach everyone equally. I'm not afraid to face these challenges.''

Thiago de Aragão, a political analyst for the Arko Advice consulting firm, based
in Brasília, the capital, said Ms. Rousseff needed to ''solve the economy by
stimulating growth, fiscal responsibility and domestic and international
credibility.''

The scandal at the Petrobras oil company ''is the most tricky'' problem, Mr.
Aragão said, ''because it's not over yet and we don't know the range of
destruction it could cause.'' The accusations concern a graft scheme that could
be the biggest yet uncovered in Brazil's history, and it complicates what Mr.
Aragão said was the president's third big problem: keeping support among her
base in Congress.

A federal investigation into the accusations surrounding the kickback scheme has
already resulted in charges against 39 people, including top executives from
Brazil's biggest construction and engineering companies, and it is expected to
implicate dozens of politicians, many from the governing coalition, by the end
of February, according to Brazil's attorney general.

Challenges aside, Ms. Rousseff's inauguration on Thursday was the seventh
consecutive time that a directly elected president started a term in office,
something that had not happened in Brazil in nearly a century.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/americas/president-dilma-rousseff-of-bra
zil-begins-2nd-term-vowing-to-fight-graft.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Dilma Rousseff of  Brazil, who was narrowly reelected,
during her inauguration  on Thursday in Brasília. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERALDO
PERES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%);
CORRUPTION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ENGINEERING (66%); ATTORNEYS
GENERAL (62%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (58%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (58%); PBR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS
DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%);
SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (90%)

CITY: BRASILIA, BRAZIL (90%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

West-McCartney Single Drops Before the Ball

BYLINE: By ANDREW R. CHOW

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


It turns out 2014 wasn't a Kanye-less year after all. Before midnight on
Wednesday, Mr. West released a new single titled ''Only One,'' featuring Paul
McCartney, on his website and iTunes.

The song is a marked shift from Mr. West's last project, 2013's seething,
metallic and political ''Yeezus.'' Mr. West sings uplifting lyrics from the
perspective of his late mother over autotuned gospel harmonies and Mr.
McCartney's sparse keyboard chords. He also mentions his daughter: ''Tell Nori
about me,'' he implores at the end. Handwritten lyrics can be found in full on
Mr. West's website.

He has rapped extensively about his mother, Donda West, on songs like ''Hey
Mama'' and ''Never Let Me Down.'' As on those songs, she appears on ''Only One''
as an inspirational presence whose past struggles are intertwined with Mr.
West's current successes. ''I think the storm ran out of rain / The clouds are
moving,'' he sings.

Mr. West and Mr. McCartney have reportedly been involved in a more extended
collaboration. Interestingly enough, Mr. West owes one of his early successes in
part to Mr. McCartney: The sample on Jay Z's ''Encore,'' which Mr. West produced
in 2003, was pulled from John Holt's cover of Mr. McCartney's composition ''I
Will.''

And don't be surprised if 2015 brings much more Kanye: He has yet to release an
album that already had a listening party last year.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/a-kanye-west-paul-mccartney-single-
drops-just-before-the-ball/

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%)

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (91%); JAY-Z (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Selma, a Free Screening of 'Selma'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 248 words


''Selma,'' Ava DuVernay's film about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s 1965
civil rights marches in that small Alabama town, is making the rounds among
Oscar voters, who began casting ballots this week.

Now, as the film prepares for its wider rollout, Paramount Pictures, its
distributor, is also courting another specialized audience: the people of Selma
itself, who will be able to see the film free at the town's Walton Theater
beginning Jan. 9.

''The city and people of Selma welcomed the production with open arms this past
summer,'' Rob Moore, Paramount's vice chairman, said in a statement, ''and in
celebration of the film's national release on Jan. 9, we are incredibly excited
and very humbled to be bringing Ava's finished film to the community.''

The announcement comes as the film, which is nominated for four Golden Globe
awards, is drawing sharp criticism from some historians for what they consider
its inaccurate depiction of President Lyndon B. Johnson as a reluctant supporter
of black voting rights who unleashed the Federal Bureau of Investigation against
Dr. King in an attempt to shut down his campaign.

Neither Paramount nor Ms. DuVernay has offered detailed responses to the
criticism. But in a statement provided by Paramount, Selma's mayor, George P.
Evans, thanked the filmmakers before adding, ''We must keep in mind that the
movie is just that, a movie and not a documentary.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/selma-to-be-screened-free-in-selma/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%);
ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS (78%); MAYORS (77%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); HISTORY (75%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vanguard of Syrian Uprising, Now on the Run, Weighs a Bleak Future

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD; Karam Shoumali and Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ANTAKYA JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1103 words


ANTAKYA, Turkey -- The cigarette smoke in the hotel room grew as thick as the
cottony fog outside in this Turkish border town, as Syrian men, night after
night, told their war stories. Their memories veered from exhilaration to black
humor to terror, but mostly they told of what they had lost: Friends. A fiancée.
An arm. A country. None were out of their mid-20s.

Three were insurgents, or had been. One had helped capture an army tank; another
had hidden in tall grass as tank fire killed his raiding party. They told of
abandoning one insurgent group after another, finding commanders too violent,
too corrupt, too disorganized, too pious, not pious enough.

Three others, civilian antigovernment activists who broadcast war news on social
media, were on the run from Islamic State extremists. For them, the fog was a
comfort, shrouding their movements as they drove to the hotel. They had trekked
for days from the remote Syrian provincial capital of Deir al-Zour, holding
their breath at Islamic State checkpoints, hoping to find safety here in
southern Turkey.

But they still felt hunted, sure that the group had eyes and ears everywhere,
among bearded strangers in Syrian-run cafes or in hotels welcoming foreign
fighters. They did not tell friends where they were staying, and they did not
know when or whether they could go home.

Not long ago, these men would have felt secure here. Early in the Syrian
conflict Antakya, long a sleepy provincial town, became the high-octane hub of
an insurgency that thought it was winning. Back then, young fighters and
activists, including some of those recently huddling in the hotel room, filled
cafes to brainstorm, dreaming of new power and new freedoms.

But some of those flocking to Antakya would later become their enemies. The city
was becoming a way station for foreign jihadists, who spent lavishly, even
spurring a market for Taliban-style dress. They ultimately transformed Syria's
battlefield, many of them coalescing into the radical Islamic State group, which
routed or co-opted other insurgents and shifted the West's focus from ousting
President Bashar al-Assad to countering the extremist group's momentum. Now, the
group has turned violently against any Assad opponents who fail to flock to its
banner -- like the young men in the hotel room.

Those men are part of what is looming as a lost generation of young Syrians.
They are marooned in southern Turkey, unsure how to envision their future, and
their hopes are deflating as rapidly as Antakya's wartime boom.

The small sample of men who filed through the hotel room to talk discreetly to
reporters were from Syria's north, east and south, some of them old friends,
like the three from Deir al-Zour, others meeting for the first time. Yet all but
one, a hard-line Islamist, had reached the point of wondering whether armed
revolt -- or even the civil protest movement that preceded it -- had been a
mistake.

''I regret,'' said one civilian from Deir al-Zour, a web designer and English
literature graduate with a narrow, angular face and an intense gaze. ''The best
people in my country, they have been killed in this revolution. The worst people
have controlled the country. And the goal of our revolution is not
accomplished.''

''My best friends are dead,'' he went on. ''We lost things.''

His black ski jacket concealed the stump of his left arm. He was hit by shrapnel
while filming a battle, and drove to four hospitals in the desert province
before finding one with doctors and supplies; by then, his arm was
unsalvageable. Later, when the Islamic State took over his town, he said, the
extremists gave him a choice: Put his media skills to work for them, or die.

''I cannot see my family,'' he said, like most of the others, requesting
anonymity for his safety. ''Besides, our beautiful country was destroyed.''

One of his friends, who gave only a first name, Hazem, said that some things he
could never regret, like the thrill of his first protest, when his girlfriend
whispered in his ear her excitement at defying the authorities. (She later
married someone else because Hazem's activities were too risky.)

He long brushed away doubts, not wanting to betray his cause. But what brought
him to regret, he said, was the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL,
because it divided the rebellion, pitting brother against brother in battling
other insurgents.

Listening from the scratchy carpet was Tarek Fares, who had played a more direct
role, fighting on the front lines. But he flatly called the shift from protests
to armed revolt a mistake. It allowed the government to cast itself as fighting
terrorism, he said, and sowed divisions among insurgents over arms and money.

The man who lost an arm shot back that, with security forces shooting
protesters, ''we could not have won peacefully either.''

A first sergeant in Air Force intelligence from southern Syria, Mr. Fares
defected in 2011 and fled to Turkey. He made his way back to the Damascus
suburbs with arms for Ahfad al-Rasoul, part of the loose-knit, Western-allied
Free Syrian Army. But that group accused him of treachery for coordinating with
other insurgents, their putative allies.

He and some friends switched to an Islamist group. But its leader, he said, was
more interested in forcing them to pray than in fighting, and scolded them for
dancing to ''Gangnam Style'' in their makeshift barracks.

Mr. Fares started his own group. But because he and his fighters were not from
the area, no one would sell them scarce food. He disbanded the group, he said,
after he could scrounge only a few pounds of lentils to feed 50 fighters.

Now he belongs to no group (he has worked occasionally as a guide for New York
Times reporters), and misses the lights and nightclubs of Damascus.

The lone true believer -- the only one still taking part in battles -- belonged
to a hard-line Islamist (but anti-Islamic State) group, Ahrar al-Sham. While he
condemned the Islamic State's leadership, he said its fighters embodied true
jihad.

Given this landscape, the other men said, many anti-Assad Syrians are willing to
hear out a proposed peace initiative from Moscow, even though it could leave Mr.
Assad or much of his government in power.

''A wide spectrum'' would accept a deal if ''he goes but his regime stays,''
Hazem, from Deir al-Zour, said. ''Syrians are bored of this humiliation and
displacement.''

Such views have surprised some officials in the exile opposition coalition, who
have dismissed Moscow's proposal.

Hazem's injured colleague said he expected little from Moscow or the world.
Asked how the war would end, he said simply, ''It will not end.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/europe/vanguard-of-an-uprising-now-on-th
e-run-weighs-a-bleak-future-.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Looking over Antakya, Turkey. Once a hub for Syrian rebels
trying to depose President Bashar al-Assad, the city later became a way station
for foreign jihadists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BULENT KILIC/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES) MAP: Jihadists turned violently on  rebels who failed to join them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%);
SYRIAN CRISIS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%);
TALIBAN (77%); RELIGION (73%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (77%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (96%); TURKEY (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Real Estate Titan Sees Brother Wielding a New Weapon: TV

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

Email: dwyer@nytimes.com Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2295 words


Douglas Durst recalled the last time he saw and spoke with his troubled older
brother, Robert.

It was on a short bus ride 13 years ago, a shuttle taking members of the
fabulously rich Durst family to a wedding reception at the St. Regis Hotel in
Houston. Beneath the sheen of that festive moment, decades of torment crackled
between Robert and Douglas, two of the groom's uncles, then in their late 50s.

That tension is central to a largely untold narrative of one of modern New
York's most prominent real estate families, a story that echoes with sibling
rivalry as old as humankind. With Robert about to tell his version in a new
documentary, Douglas has spoken publicly for the first time, concerned that his
brother, at age 71, is on the verge of opening up a new attack on the family.

They fought as boys, scuffling and punching through childhood. As young men,
working in the offices where the family presided over billions of dollars in
Manhattan real estate, Robert kept a sharp-pointed plumber's wrench on his desk.
Douglas responded by positioning a piece of pipe -- ''to protect myself,'' he
said -- on his own desk.

Eventually, their father, Seymour Durst, removed Robert as his designated
successor in running the family's empire and replaced him with Douglas, who had
just turned 50. That was in 1994. To make the change, a team of lawyers had to
revise dozens of legal documents governing the family trusts.

The swap was made, Douglas Durst said, after Robert urinated in an uncle's
wastebasket.

By the day of the wedding in Houston, Sept. 22, 2001, Robert had been on the run
for most of a year, an uncharged suspect in the disappearance of his first wife
and the killing of a woman who was his closest confidante. He surfaced a few
days before the family gathering, long after ceasing contact with most
relatives.

''I was sitting in the bus and he walked on and sat almost directly behind me,''
Douglas Durst said in December. ''He was obviously very disturbed. I was just
hoping to be able to walk off the bus.''

He did. A week later, Robert Durst chopped up the body of a neighbor in one of
his hide-outs, an apartment he rented for $300 a month in Galveston. Mr. Durst
had been living there, disguised sometimes as a mute woman and other times as
the male friend of the supposed woman. He would later be acquitted of murder,
claiming the man had died in an accidental shooting; he served time for bail
jumping and other lesser charges.

Until now, Douglas Durst -- a man of few words, great wealth and dynastic power
over Manhattan real estate -- has said virtually nothing in public about his
brother, their relationship or his views about whether Robert was involved in
the unsolved disappearance of his wife and the murder of his friend.

In recent years, Robert has twice appeared at Douglas's home in Westchester
County, once while carrying two guns, another time in a ski mask.

''There's no doubt in my mind that if he had the opportunity to kill me, he
would,'' Douglas Durst said.

Yet it is not worries about a physical threat that has prompted Douglas to speak
now, he said, but what he believes will be a violent broadside against the
family name and history: In coming weeks, HBO plans to broadcast a six-part
documentary, ''The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst.'' It draws on 25
hours of interviews with Robert Durst.

Douglas Durst, 70, has not seen it. Nor did he agree to be interviewed by the
filmmakers, Andrew Jarecki and Marc Smerling, despite repeated entreaties.
Nevertheless, he believes that the series will be rooted in an untrustworthy
source.

''Bob is incapable of telling the truth,'' Douglas Durst said. ''He is a true
psychopath, beyond any emotions. That's why he does things, so he can experience
the emotions that other people have vicariously. Because he has absolutely none
of his own.''

Through his lawyer, Robert Durst was invited to discuss the matters raised by
his brother, but declined. ''Bob appreciates the opportunity to speak with you,
but he's not going to do so at this time,'' the lawyer, Steven M. Rabinowitz,
wrote in an email.

ROBERT DURST has had improbable success in mounting his version of reality at
critical moments. He was able to convince a Texas jury that he was not legally
responsible for the death of the man whose body he dismembered in 2001. Caught
on videotape in 2012 and 2013 lurking around the homes of Durst family members
in Manhattan from which he had been barred, he and his lawyer were still able to
persuade a judge last month to acquit him of trespass by maintaining that Mr.
Durst did not know which specific properties were owned by the family.
Afterward, he told Charles V. Bagli of The New York Times that he had once
managed those very buildings.

Often, Douglas said, it was hard to discern any rationale for Robert's behavior
or fabrications. As a child, he pretended to be in the school band, even
bringing home a tuba, but simply hid it among trees when he was going to school.
He claimed to have two doctoral degrees, but did not. When he jumped bail in the
Texas murder case, he used elaborate ruses to travel across the country
incognito, but was arrested in a Pennsylvania supermarket, trying to shoplift a
sandwich, a Band-Aid and a newspaper. He had $500 cash in his pocket, and was
receiving income of about $2 million a year from a family trust.

Years earlier, working in the rent-arrears department of the family business, he
siphoned hundreds of thousands of dollars for himself, according to Douglas, who
said Robert had tried to enlist his help in creating a ghost payroll operation
to generate more cash. ''From the family, it was just a bizarre thing to do,
because they would have just given him the money,'' Douglas said. When Douglas
showed Seymour Durst the bank accounts with the stolen money, he instructed
Robert not to do it anymore, according to Douglas.

Sometimes, the true hue of events involving Robert could take years to emerge.

One involved a dog named Igor -- actually, seven of them, according to Douglas.

Robert and his first wife, Kathie Durst, ran a health food store in Vermont
before returning to New York, where they kept several residences, including one
near Douglas Durst's home in Westchester.

Kathie Durst, a medical student, disappeared in 1982, after her marriage with
Robert Durst had become chronically contentious. She is now presumed dead. At
the time, Douglas said, he suspected his brother had been involved but was
uncertain. The authorities have never charged him.

''Even though he wasn't my favorite person in the whole world, it was hard for
me to believe -- to completely believe -- that he had killed her,'' he said.

But his suspicion hardened into certainty, he said, with the 2001 death of the
man in Texas, Morris Black, and the murder in December 2000 of his brother's
confidante, Susan Berman. No one has been charged in her killing.

That, Douglas Durst said, was when he came up with a theory about the peculiar
matter of his brother's dogs in late 1981, just before Kathie Durst vanished in
January 1982.

''Before the disappearance of my sister-in-law, Bob had a series of Alaskan
Malamutes, which is like a husky,'' Douglas Durst said. ''He had seven of them,
and they all died, mysteriously, of different things, within six months of his
owning them. All of them named Igor. We don't know how they died, and what
happened to their bodies.

''In retrospect, I now believe he was practicing killing and disposing his wife
with those dogs.''

What led him to that conclusion, Douglas said, was that Robert turned the word
''Igor'' into a verb and inflected it with a menace: ''When he was in jail in
Pennsylvania, he was recorded saying, 'I want to Igor Douglas.'"

Mr. Durst said he refused many times to be interviewed for the documentary
because the same filmmakers had previously made a feature film based on the
Dursts, ''All Good Things,'' which he believed distorted the truth, and would
not give him assurances that the HBO series would not be twisted by his
brother's fabrications.

Mr. Jarecki, who has spent much of the last decade pursuing the Durst story,
said last week that he had offered to go through his research with Douglas Durst
and genuinely wanted to include his perspective in the documentary.

''I've said to him many times before, and say now, we're glad to show him the
materials we're working with,'' Mr. Jarecki said.

The series is only weeks from airing, he said, and is in the final phases of
editing. ''We would interrupt the edit now, meet him at a time and place of his
choosing,'' he said.

Mr. Durst said that was not going to happen. ''While I cannot choose my brother,
I can choose who interviews me,'' he said.

As an example of why he distrusts Mr. Jarecki, Mr. Durst noted that in ''All
Good Things,'' he was portrayed as using his clout to set up a private meeting
with the Westchester district attorney in an apparent attempt to shut down the
investigation into the disappearance of his brother's wife. In fact, Mr. Durst
said, in early 2004 he did meet by himself with the prosecutor, Jeanine Pirro,
but the circumstances were different than those depicted in the film.

Ms. Pirro ''arranged for the meeting,'' Douglas Durst said.

''She told me,'' he continued, ''that based on what happened in Texas, Bob was
not smart enough to make his wife disappear, and I must have helped him. I told
her that if I had any way of getting my brother behind bars, I would do
everything I could, but there was nothing I could do.''

Ms. Pirro, who has left public office and now has a show on the Fox News
Channel, did not dispute that she had arranged the meeting, but scoffed at Mr.
Durst's account. She declined to answer specific questions.

AT the crux of his distress over the documentary, Mr. Durst said, is what he
fears will be a false portrayal of the brothers' father, relying on Robert's
narrative.

''I see him getting a megaphone to spout his lies and his distortions about my
father, about his relationship to the family and about the family's history,''
Mr. Durst said. ''He's saying that my father was domineering, that he pushed him
to go into the business, and that Seymour didn't love him. All that's completely
the opposite of the truth. Seymour never pushed anyone to join the family
business, and he loved Robert very much.''

As evidence of the esteem, Mr. Durst described how he came to inherit his
father's position as the leader of the trusts that controlled the family real
estate holdings. The business was started by Joseph Durst, who immigrated to the
United States in 1902. Two of Joseph's sons, Seymour and David, were the
trustees until the early 1990s. Around the time Robert, the oldest child, turned
18 in 1962, he had been designated by Seymour as his successor.

Robert intermittently worked in the business, showing up at the office late in
the day or after everyone else had gone home. He often spoke aloud to himself, a
disconcerting practice that accelerated over the years. Douglas, who had started
a family when he was young, gave up plans to become an urban economist in order
to join the business, too. One evening in the early 1990s, catching up on
correspondence after returning from a vacation, Douglas said, he filled his
wastebasket with paper. When he tried to empty it, he felt something wet. There
was urine in it.

''I asked the cleaning staff the next day, and they said, 'It's your brother,
and he does it frequently,''' Mr. Durst recalled. ''So I went to my father and
uncles and complained, knowing exactly what they would say. Which was, 'Maybe he
had to go.' Nothing happened until he peed in my uncle's wastepaper basket. Then
he had a stern talking-to. He stopped peeing in wastepaper baskets.''

But there was another, more profound response. ''One result of the wastepaper
basket incident was I was able to convince my uncles to name me as the successor
trustee,'' Douglas said. That did not dilute Robert's share of the trusts, but
shifted control to Douglas.

How Robert would react to the change was a source of anxiety to Seymour Durst.
''He'd had many discussions with me about how he was going to talk to Bob about
this,'' Douglas Durst said. ''That, like any older brother, that he would be
slighted by the younger brother stepping up, so to speak.''

There were two Durst trusts, each naming 13 grandchildren of Joseph -- that is,
Douglas, his siblings and cousins. The torch passed to Douglas on his 50th
birthday, Dec. 19, 1994. That week, Robert did not show up for a regular family
lunch at Osteria al Doge on West 44th Street. When the others returned to work,
they discovered that he had cleared out his office and set up a mail drop and a
phone elsewhere. Robert did not communicate with his father again.

''When Bob stopped talking to him, Seymour was brokenhearted,'' Douglas said.
''He kept trying to find ways to get him to speak to him.''

Seymour Durst had a stroke four and a half months later. ''He was in the
hospital for six days, and my sister tried very hard to get Bob to go visit,''
Douglas said. ''Finally, Bob did go. My father kept holding on until Bob did
go.''

Did Seymour Durst have any awareness at that point? ''The doctors would tell you
no, but I'm just telling you what happened,'' Douglas said. ''He dies the next
morning, a couple of hours after.''

In 2006, Robert Durst accepted $65 million for his interest in the family trust
and no longer has any legal claim to it. Last month, after winning the
trespassing case in New York, Mr. Durst pleaded no contest to urinating on the
checkout display at a CVS store in Texas and paid a $500 fine.

Upset as Douglas Durst is about the documentary, he detected a mordantly bright
side.

''I am pretty certain that until the series is over,'' Mr. Durst said, ''he is
not going to kill me.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/series-on-troubled-scion-of-durst-rea
l-estate-family-has-critic-his-brother.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOUGLAS DURST, above, referring to his troubled older brother,
Robert. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from above, Robert Durst in criminal court in Manhattan last month,
when he was acquitted on charges of trespassing on property owned by his family
a plea for information related to the 1982 disappearance of his first wife,
Kathie
Robert Durst in the late 1970s or early 1980s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE
SEGAR/REUTERS)
 Seymour B. Durst, father of  Douglas and Robert, shown in  1969. Mr. Durst died
in 1995. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MEN (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%);
MURDER (67%); BAIL (62%); SHOOTINGS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT DURST (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SEDLER, HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 161 words


SEDLER--Herbert, 84, of Manhattan passed away on December 30, 2014. Born April
25, 1930 to Edith and Max Sedler in East New York. Beloved husband of Geri
Sedler, father of Jordan Sedler (Robbie) and Lauren Lott (Nick). Beloved
grandfather of Alex (Jess) and Jesse (Sammi), Victoria and Oliver. He was a
graduate of CCNY and a US Army veteran. The consummate entrepreneur, Herb
started Paper Enterprises, Inc. in 1961 which continues to thrive in the Bronx,
with over 160 employees. He was an industry leader, mentor and father figure to
many including his students at Baruch College. He was an active participant in
many industry organizations and in the revitalization of the South Bronx. His
interests included art, tennis, golf and most of all his family. He will be
dearly missed by all. Funeral services will be held January 2, 11am at Park
Avenue Synagogue. Charitable contributions encouraged to either American Cancer
Society or American Heart Association. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MEN (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); BUSINESS
& PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); ARMIES (84%); US ARMY (70%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: PAPER ENTERPRISES INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5113 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER (71%); SIC5087 SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENT EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BING, CYNTHIA EATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 271 words


BING--Cynthia Eaton. Passed away peacefully at Mt. Sinai Hospital on December 12
after a long illness. Cynthia was born on April 6, 1942 in Belfast, ME.

She attended Abbott Academy (Philips Andover Academy) and Connecticut College
for Women (Connecticut College). After moving to New York City, she worked for
Holland America Line as head of group sales. In 1972, she married Alexander Bing
III, partner at L.F. Rothschild & Co. Cynthia was a dedicated mother to three
young children when she began her career as a philanthropist in fields of
education and environmental protection. She served on many boards including:
Phillips Academy, Connecticut College, Trevor Day School, The Parents League of
New York, Prep for Prep, Early Steps, Search and Care, New York State
Association of Independent Schools, New York League of Conservation Voters, and
Environmental Advocates. In many cases, Cynthia served as board president or
acted as a committee head. Cynthia spent her summers with her family in Montana
where enjoyed the mountains and cross-country horseback riding. Cynthia's
parents, Lorimer and Ruth Eaton, and one child, Abigail R. Bing predeceased her.
She is survived by her husband, Alexander Bing III; brother, Eben R. Eaton;
daughter, Cynthia K. Bing; son, Alexander M. Bing; step-daughter, Virginia G.
Bing; granddaughter, Eloise B. Padial; and son- in-law, Michael S. Padial. A
Memorial Service is to be held at The Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and
5th Ave., at 3pm, January 6 with reception to follow. In lieu of flowers, please
make donations to the Church of The Heavenly Rest and/or Search and Care. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (75%);
GRANDCHILDREN (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: ROTHSCHILD & CO INC (72%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED
CHILDREN INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bob Hall, 87, Top Showman With Harlem Globetrotters

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 621 words


Bob Hall, a key showman for the Harlem Globetrotters, basketball's barnstorming
comedy troupe, from the late 1940s until the mid-1970s, died on Dec. 24 near his
home in Detroit. He was 87.

His wife, Kittie Barksdale-Hall, said the cause was complications of cancer.

Hall joined the Globetrotters in 1949, one year before Chuck Cooper, Nat Clifton
and Earl Lloyd integrated the National Basketball Association. At the time, the
team was one of the few on which a talented black basketball player could earn a
living.

Hall started playing with Goose Tatum, who helped him become a master of
''reams,'' as the Globetrotters' classic comedy routines are known. According to
the Globetrotters' website, Hall played more than 5,000 games in almost 90
countries with teammates like Connie Hawkins, Marques Haynes and Wilt
Chamberlain. (Hawkins and Chamberlain went on to play in the N.B.A.)

Hall was small by Globetrotter standards, ''only six-foot-two but built like a
Sherman tank,'' Ben Green wrote in his history of the team, ''Spinning the
Globe: The Rise, Fall, and Return to Greatness of the Harlem Globetrotters.''
Nicknamed Showboat, Hall took over as the on-court ringmaster when Tatum left
the team in 1955.

One of Hall's specialties was launching one-handed, no-look, behind-the-back
passes with fearsome accuracy.

''He was without a doubt the best one-handed ball handler that ever came to the
Globetrotters,'' Meadowlark Lemon, the famed Globetrotter showman who played
with Hall, said in an interview on Tuesday. ''He'd say, if you were a young
rookie, 'Don't turn your back on me, young fellow, or you'll get hit in the
head.' ''

Despite his size, Hall was also an artful rebounder, Lemon said.

''One time some guy tried to block him out, and he ran up his back,'' he said.
''He was standing up on his shoulder rebounding.''

Hall mainly played on the Globetrotters' Western team. (There were multiple
touring squads for much of the organization's history; Lemon was the Eastern
team's showman for much of Hall's career.) But he also accompanied the team
abroad.

In 1959, he joined Lemon, Chamberlain and others on a trip to the Soviet Union,
where they played a series of exhibition games under K.G.B. escort and met the
Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev. The tour was the subject of a short
documentary by ESPN last April.

''He just wowed them,'' Lemon said of Hall's effect on the Soviet crowds.

Robert Alfred Hall was born in Detroit on Sept. 30, 1927. He grew up there
playing ball at the Brewster Wheeler Recreation Center, Joe Louis's old stamping
ground. He dropped out of school after his mother was widowed so he could work
to support their large family (he had eight siblings).

He traveled to Chicago to try out for the Globetrotters and was recruited on the
spot.

Hall married Kittie Barksdale in 1969. He is also survived by two sisters,
Frances Myler and Leontine Person.

Hall was a player and coach for the last few years of his career with the
Globetrotters. He retired in 1974, and in 1998 the team named him a ''Legend.''

Like most Globetrotters of his era, Hall had to find work, in his case with
youth programs and the Michigan prison system, after he retired. In a 2011
interview with a group called Pre-1960 Original Harlem Globetrotters
Organization, he said that he and his teammates had little choice but to accept
whatever compensation the team offered.

''Wasn't nothing else you could do -- complain too much, they have somebody take
your place,'' he said. ''And there wasn't too many teams you could go to. If you
leave the Globetrotters you're going one place: home.''

Asked what he would say to a modern-era N.B.A. star like Shaquille O'Neal or
LeBron James, he said, ''You came along at the right time.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/basketball/bob-hall-harlem-globetrotter
-who-relished-the-role-of-showman-dies-at-87-.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Hall, a master of passing, in 1953 with the Globetrotters.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARLEM GLOBETROTTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HISTORY (71%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Have All the Cod Gone?

BYLINE: By W. JEFFREY BOLSTER.

W. Jeffrey Bolster is a professor of history at the University of New Hampshire
and the author of ''The Mortal Sea: Fishing the Atlantic in the Age of Sail.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1031 words


PORTSMOUTH, N.H. -- IN November, regulators from the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration shut down recreational and commercial cod fishing in
the Gulf of Maine, that enchanting arm of the coastal sea stretching
east-northeast from Cape Cod. They did not have much choice: Federal law
requires action to rebuild fish stocks when they are depleted, and recent
surveys revealed cod populations to be at record lows, despite decades of
regulations intended to restore them.

It's easy to imagine this recent drop in the cod population as a new phenomenon
-- a result, perhaps, of global warming, or some combination of climate change
and overfishing by giant steel ships armed with electronic fish-finders and
precise GPS navigation systems. And it's just as easy to imagine that, after a
season or two of belt-tightening, fish populations will rebound -- it is, after
all, a strategy that state and federal regulators have pursued for decades.

In fact, humans have been affecting the Atlantic's fish stocks for centuries,
beginning with technology so simple that people today would not even consider it
''technology.'' Forgetting that history, we opt for short-term fixes, which only
compound the problem.

The fishery resources of the western Atlantic once seemed virtually limitless,
with fish supposedly as numerous as grains of sand in the Sahara. And yet the
current emergency effort to restore cod populations is simply the latest chapter
in a 150-year saga in which fishermen, scientists, industrialists and
politicians have consistently confronted emptier nets and fewer fish.

As early as the 1850s, fishermen from Maine and Massachusetts began to pester
their governments to do something about declining cod catches. Those men fished
with hooks and lines from small wooden sailboats and rowboats. Fearing ''the
material injury of the codfishing interests of this state'' by increased fishing
for menhaden, a critical forage fish for cod, fishermen from Gouldsboro, Me.,
implored the Legislature in 1857 to limit menhaden hauls.

Yet annual cod landings in the Gulf of Maine continued to slide, from about
70,000 metric tons in 1861 to about 54,000 metric tons in 1880, to about 20,000
tons in the 1920s, to just a few thousand metric tons in recent years. There
have been a few upticks along the way, such as one bumper year in the mid-1980s
when the cod catch reached 25,000 tons (due, in part, to an unnecessarily large
expansion of the fishing fleet), but for the most part the trend has been
noticeably downward since the era of the Civil War. There have been plenty of
warnings along the way. Maine's fishery commissioner, Edwin W. Gould, spoke out
plainly in 1892. ''It is the same old story,'' he said. ''The buffalo is gone;
the whale is disappearing; the seal fishery is threatened with destruction.''
For Mr. Gould, the path forward was clear: ''Fish need protection.''

In July 1914, after more than 40 years of reports on declining fishery resources
by the United States Fish Commission and state fish commissions, The New York
Times ran an article forecasting disaster. ''Extermination Threatens American
Sea Fishes -- Cost to Consumer Has Risen between 10 and 600 Per Cent Because of
Decrease in Supply.''

But that was right before a technological revolution in the fisheries. Sails and
oars and hooks and lines were about to be replaced by steam and diesel engines,
and massive nets dragged along the bottom that snared every fish in their path.
Decades of well-founded concerns about depletion were overwhelmed by an
avalanche of cheap fish. The new generation of draggers could fish faster,
harder and deeper for the few fish that remained. Fishermen breathed a sigh of
relief.

Twentieth-century cod populations, ravaged by draggers' efficiency, declined
further. In 1954 a fisheries economist from Boston charged fishing interests
with continuing ''to exploit recklessly the limited self-renewing stocks of
these species.'' That was just before the first factory-equipped freezer-trawler
arrived at the prime fishing waters around the Grand Banks off Newfoundland from
Europe. The size of an ocean liner, it could scoop up everything in its wake.
Those ships made the steam-powered draggers from 1914 look positively quaint.
And they caught lots of fish.

Overfishing has been the norm for a very long time, but the market has masked
the mess in two fundamental ways. At every step fishermen confronting declining
catches developed gear that fished more intensively, taking a larger percentage
of the fewer fish that remained. Such a strategy was clearly not sustainable.
Meanwhile, fishermen continued to earn enough to make fishing worthwhile, even
if many encouraged their sons to pursue other careers because there would be
little future in fishing. The Gulf of Maine cod stocks today are probably only a
fraction of 1 percent of what they were during George Washington's presidency.

If there is any lesson in this story of large-scale, long-term environmental
degradation, it is not that fishermen were (or are) to blame, or that scientists
were (or are) to blame, or that politicians were (or are) to blame. The system
was (and is) to blame. Our system of exploiting nature's resources, with its
checks and balances, its desire for prosperity and security, its willingness to
honor a multiplicity of voices, and its changing sense of ''normal'' is
insufficiently nimble to stop the desecration of commonly held resources on
which the long-term good of everyone depends.

The recent ban on cod fishing in the Gulf of Maine was an important step toward
restoration, though clearly marine systems are very complex and subject to many
variables. Considering that ban in light of history, however, is crucial.
Historical perspectives provide a vital sense of scale for the sobering
restoration challenges we face.

The fisheries story, however, also provides a heading into the future, revealing
as it does the tragic consequences of decision makers' unwillingness to steer a
precautionary course in the face of environmental uncertainties. At every step
of the way, decisions could have been made to exploit fish stocks more
sustainably. That's a tale worth pondering.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/where-have-all-the-cod-gone.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM LANE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (91%); FISHERIES (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (89%); FINFISH FISHING (89%);
COMMERCIAL FISHERIES LANDINGS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC
SCIENCE (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARINE
MAMMALS (77%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (69%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (84%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Battling Sun's Glare at Ballpark, the Capitals Deliver a Final Bit of Brilliance

BYLINE: By BEN ROTHENBERG

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; CAPITALS 3, BLACKHAWKS 2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 704 words


WASHINGTON -- Under a national spotlight, there was no avoiding the glare.

The clear blue sky above an announced crowd of 42,832 at Nationals Park would
have made a beautiful canopy for nearly any sporting event. But not on Thursday
afternoon, when a reflective white sheet of ice stretched between first base and
third base for the seventh edition of the Winter Classic, which the Washington
Capitals won, 3-2, over the Chicago Blackhawks on a goal by Troy Brouwer with
12.9 seconds remaining.

In 2012, there was a two-hour delay to avoid sun glare in Philadelphia, but this
game started on time with a temperature of 43.3 degrees, according to the N.H.L.

''For us, the primary issue, if there was to be an issue, was player safety,''
Commissioner Gary Bettman said. ''Once we were comfortable that that wasn't
going to be an issue, everyone decided -- I decided -- it was time to go and
play on time.''

Eye black did little to offset the glare, and Capitals defenseman Karl Alzner
was the only one to wear sunglasses. The teams switched ends at the 10-minute
mark of the first period as shadows from the stands began to cover the ice.

After a pregame concert by Billy Idol, the teams emerged from a replica of the
Capitol -- the Blackhawks from the House side, the Capitals on the Senate side
-- and skated onto a narrow, light blue sheet of ice styled after the Reflecting
Pool. After the unfurling of a rink-size flag, there was a flyover from a pair
of F-16 fighter jets.

This was the first Winter Classic contested between teams that had previously
played in one. The Blackhawks hosted the second one, in 2009 at Wrigley Field,
and the Capitals played at Heinz Field in 2011 against the Penguins. The
Blackhawks also hosted Pittsburgh in an outdoor game at Soldier Field last year,
as part of the league's Stadium Series.

Alzner admitted that he and some teammates had been lukewarm to the event, but
their excitement returned Wednesday when they entered the Nationals' locker
room.

''I think we thought that the novelty would be gone leading up to this,'' he
said. ''And then as soon as we got in here, it kind of came back again, and
everyone was pretty excited about it. The trainers set everything up so nicely
for us here, and all the cool Winter Classic gear that we have to wear, you just
feel excited again. You feel like it's Christmas for us.''

The Blackhawks' captain, Jonathan Toews, said he believed that the repeat
invitations to play outdoors were a well-earned reward for his team's recent
success (two Stanley Cup titles in the last five seasons).

''It's probably reflective of the Blackhawks being a model franchise in the
N.H.L., the way they've handled things in Chicago, what they give back to the
fans, and the type of team we've had, and how competitive we are as a whole,''
he said. ''I think it's very special, and I think the N.H.L. recognizes that.''

The Capitals took a 2-0 lead in the first period on goals by Eric Fehr -- who
scored twice in Pittsburgh four years ago -- and Alex Ovechkin.

The Blackhawks cut their deficit to 2-1 at 13 minutes 36 seconds of the second
when Patrick Sharp scored from the blue line through a screen on a power play.
Brandon Saad tied the game by finishing a tick-tack-toe play from Marian Hossa
and Toews at 3:15 of the period.

The Capitals neutralized the Blackhawks' momentum by surviving a five-on-three
power play midway through the period, and the game remained tied deep into the
third.

With just over three minutes left, Capitals defenseman Matt Niskanen was called
for a questionable boarding penalty that gave the Blackhaws a last chance to win
in regulation. But with only two seconds left on the power play, Toews was
called for an equally dubious hooking penalty.

When Ovechkin's stick was broken by a slash as he carried the puck into the
neutral zone, the referee's hand flew up, but before the whistle could be blown,
the puck found Brouwer's stick, and he snapped it past Blackhawks goaltender
Corey Crawford, sending the Capitals' bench and fans into jubilation.

''We started talking about the Winter Classic since we started the season, and
this was it,'' Ovechkin said. ''I remember Brouwer said: 'It's a good time to
show up and make a show.' And he did.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/hockey/roy-brouwers-goal-defeats-blackh
awks-at-winter-classic.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above: The Capitals celebrated the winning goal
with seconds left in the Winter Classic
more than 42,000 fans filled Nationals Park
 and Chicago's Jonathan Toews handled the puck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%);
CHRISTMAS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (83%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (57%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA
(77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Sweet Shop, Happily Sampling New Concoctions

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; DANCE
REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 443 words


''George Balanchine's The Nutcracker'' is a marvelous holiday entertainment, but
it is also an education for the young. The children in the production try out
adult dances and formal courtesies. The child heroine, Marie, and the hero,
Drosselmeier's nephew (who becomes the Nutcracker Prince), battle mice and
imagine the independence of maturity. The children in the audience learn how to
watch ballet.

At New York City Ballet, which is now finishing a month of 60th-anniversary
performances of the work, the ''Nutcracker'' is equally an education for the
company's adult dancers. The profusion of roles and the long run of shows offer
an unparalleled abundance of opportunities. At the David H. Koch Theater on
Sunday, fully a dozen company members, almost all from the corps de ballet,
tried out roles for the first time.

On Wednesday, the same dancers got second chances, and it was this iteration
that I caught. The performance of the Nutcracker Prince by F. Henry Berlin, one
of the children, wasn't one of the debuts, but it stood out for its warmth. His
mimed recounting of the battle with the mice was uncommonly full of feeling, and
full of promise. Nearly a decade ago, Austin Bachman was a Prince like that. On
Wednesday, Mr. Bachman, all grown up, made a fine Soldier doll, martially
precise.

Most of the debuts pooled in the second-act divertissements -- new tastes in the
Land of the Sweets. As Coffee, Alexa Maxwell could have connected her phrases
more fluidly, but she showed remarkable rhythmic exactitude, bringing a fresh
finger-cymbal percussiveness to the role. As Candy Cane, Harrison Coll was
brightly charismatic. As he swung a hoop over his body in midair, all he needed
was a little more height, the cushion of air that gives the move its magical
ease.

Ashley Hod's Dewdrop was even more impressive, strong and quick. Her admirable
tautness of line betrayed a bit too much tension, and her expansiveness wasn't
always under control. She has a force that she is still learning to regulate.

Emilie Gerrity's Sugarplum Fairy was even more of a work in progress. She shone
in quieter moments, filling the insides of phrases with breath. But bending and
turning at the same time gave her trouble, and despite the relaxed and sensitive
partnering of Taylor Stanley, she lacked the necessary abandon in the pas de
deux. Her understandable caution cut off the climaxes, but she was rock-solid in
her balances, and notably freer as she gained confidence. Surely the new year
will hold more chances to grow.

''George Balanchine's The Nutcracker'' continues through Saturday at the David
H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center; 212-496-0600, nycballet.com.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/dance/in-city-ballets-nutcracker-an-ever-
changing-menu.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Balanchine's The Nutcracker: Emilie Gerrity in her first
turn as the Sugarplum Fairy, and Taylor Stanley in his debut as the Cavalier, in
a performance by New York City Ballet at the David H. Koch Theater.
Musical chairs: top, F. Henry Berlin returning as the Nutcracker Prince battling
mice
 Andrew Scordato, in voluminous skirt, making a role debut as Mother Ginger with
her children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); CHILDREN (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%);
DANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); THEATER (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

After a Remake for American Viewers, Back to Understatement

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S
NOTEBOOK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 459 words


The police drama ''The Bridge,'' in both its original (Scandinavian) and
American versions, took its title from its evocative opening gimmick: A body is
found on a bridge that crosses an international border, lying half in one
country and half in the other. The result is an unlikely partnership between
detectives from two countries, Sweden and Denmark in the original, the United
States and Mexico in the remake.

The American series dropped any explicit tie to the border bridge in its
convoluted and tepid second season, after which it was canceled by FX. The
Scandinavian series kept the conceit: Its second season, online at Hulu on
Friday, begins with a cargo ship mysteriously veering off course and running up
against one of the piers of the Oresund Bridge.

It's a minor detail but indicative of what makes the original better. As is so
often the case with European television shows and their American remakes, the
Danish-Swedish ''Bridge'' is more modest, more focused, more contained than the
FX version. Each season is about a case and a couple of cops, one of whom
happens to exhibit Asperger's syndrome-like behavior.

That wasn't good enough for the American show, which expanded the roles of
secondary characters, taking screen time away from the central partners (who
were wonderfully played by Diane Kruger and Demián Bichir), and used its border
setting as an excuse to chase baroquely violent and weird story lines involving
narcotics gangs and human trafficking.

The original, titled ''Broen'' in Denmark and ''Bron'' in Sweden, keeps the
focus tightly on the two cops, the socially awkward Swedish detective Saga Noren
(Sofia Helin) and her more effusive, less rigorous Danish counterpart, Martin
Rohde (Kim Bodnia).

As the second season opens, Saga is called to investigate the wayward ship and
discovers that the crew is gone but five people thought to be missing -- three
Swedes and two Danes -- have been drugged and chained in the hold. That gives
her an excuse to go to Denmark and ask for help from Martin, whom she hasn't
seen in the 13 months since their last case -- when she shot him on the bridge
to prevent his killing the man who had taken his son.

Ms. Helin and the Scandinavian writers are less sentimental with Saga than the
American show was with Ms. Kruger's character. Ms. Helin's Saga accepts her
affectless state and the way it cuts her off from others, and rarely feels the
need to reach across the divide. This means that when she does betray emotion,
just barely, it has a greater wallop, and the early scene in which she
encounters the ravaged Martin is more moving -- largely for being more quiet and
understated -- than anything in the American show's two seasons.

In crime dramas, as in life, less is often more.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/television/after-a-remake-for-american-vi
ewers-back-to-understatement-.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diane Kruger and Demián Bichir in ''The Bridge,'' the
short-lived FX version of a Danish-Swedish police series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BYRON
COHEN/FX NETWORK)
 Season 2 of the European original show, with Sofia Helin and Kim Bodnia
(above), is available on Hulu on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLINE ROMARE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS
(77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); SHOOTINGS (64%); WRITERS (64%); ASPERGER'S SYNDROME
(51%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); DENMARK (94%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%);
SWEDEN (90%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Proulx Regrets Writing 'Brokeback Mountain'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words


Regrets, Annie Proulx has had a few, starting with ''Brokeback Mountain.'' That
1997 story about two gay cowboys may have won wide acclaim and been turned into
an Oscar-winning movie, but in a 2009 interview with The Paris Review, which
drew renewed attention this week, Ms. Proulx said she wished she could take it
back.

''I wish I'd never written the story,'' she said. ''It's just been the cause of
hassle and problems and irritation since the film came out.''

The problem is less homophobic critics, she told the interviewer, Christopher
Cox, than fans who didn't like the unhappy ending and regularly send her letters
suggesting better ones.

''I think it's important to leave spaces in a story for readers to fill in from
their own experience, but unfortunately the audience that 'Brokeback' reached
most strongly have powerful fantasy lives,'' she said. ''And one of the reasons
we keep the gates locked here is that a lot of men have decided that the story
should have had a happy ending. They can't bear the way it ends -- they just
can't stand it. So they rewrite the story, including all kinds of boyfriends and
new lovers and so forth after Jack is killed. And it just drives me wild. They
can't understand that the story isn't about Jack and Ennis. It's about
homophobia; it's about a social situation; it's about a place and a particular
mindset and morality. They just don't get it.''

Ms. Proulx wrote the libretto for an opera by Charles Wuorinen based on the
story that had its premiere last year, a project she said she had considered
declining.

''But then I figured that one of these idiots who loves happy endings would come
along and start messing with it,'' she said. ''I want to keep the story as it
is. It's a strong story and it shouldn't be mangled into everybody lives happily
ever after. Not that that could happen in an opera.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/proulx-says-she-regrets-brokeback-m
ountain/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); OPERA (86%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (78%);
GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Battling Sun's Glare at Ballpark, the Capitals Deliver a Final Bit of Brilliance

BYLINE: By BEN ROTHENBERG

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; CAPITALS 3, BLACKHAWKS 2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 704 words


WASHINGTON -- Under a national spotlight, there was no avoiding the glare.

The clear blue sky above an announced crowd of 42,832 at Nationals Park would
have made a beautiful canopy for nearly any sporting event. But not on Thursday
afternoon, when a reflective white sheet of ice stretched between first base and
third base for the seventh edition of the Winter Classic, which the Washington
Capitals won, 3-2, over the Chicago Blackhawks on a goal by Troy Brouwer with
12.9 seconds remaining.

In 2012, there was a two-hour delay to avoid sun glare in Philadelphia, but this
game started on time with a temperature of 43.3 degrees, according to the N.H.L.

''For us, the primary issue, if there was to be an issue, was player safety,''
Commissioner Gary Bettman said. ''Once we were comfortable that that wasn't
going to be an issue, everyone decided -- I decided -- it was time to go and
play on time.''

Eye black did little to offset the glare, and Capitals defenseman Karl Alzner
was the only one to wear sunglasses. The teams switched ends at the 10-minute
mark of the first period as shadows from the stands began to cover the ice.

After a pregame concert by Billy Idol, the teams emerged from a replica of the
Capitol -- the Blackhawks from the House side, the Capitals on the Senate side
-- and skated onto a narrow, light blue sheet of ice styled after the Reflecting
Pool. After the unfurling of a rink-size flag, there was a flyover from a pair
of F-16 fighter jets.

This was the first Winter Classic contested between teams that had previously
played in one. The Blackhawks hosted the second one, in 2009 at Wrigley Field,
and the Capitals played at Heinz Field in 2011 against the Penguins. The
Blackhawks also hosted Pittsburgh in an outdoor game at Soldier Field last year,
as part of the league's Stadium Series.

Alzner admitted that he and some teammates had been lukewarm to the event, but
their excitement returned Wednesday when they entered the Nationals' locker
room.

''I think we thought that the novelty would be gone leading up to this,'' he
said. ''And then as soon as we got in here, it kind of came back again, and
everyone was pretty excited about it. The trainers set everything up so nicely
for us here, and all the cool Winter Classic gear that we have to wear, you just
feel excited again. You feel like it's Christmas for us.''

The Blackhawks' captain, Jonathan Toews, said he believed that the repeat
invitations to play outdoors were a well-earned reward for his team's recent
success (two Stanley Cup titles in the last five seasons).

''It's probably reflective of the Blackhawks being a model franchise in the
N.H.L., the way they've handled things in Chicago, what they give back to the
fans, and the type of team we've had, and how competitive we are as a whole,''
he said. ''I think it's very special, and I think the N.H.L. recognizes that.''

The Capitals took a 2-0 lead in the first period on goals by Eric Fehr -- who
scored twice in Pittsburgh four years ago -- and Alex Ovechkin.

The Blackhawks cut their deficit to 2-1 at 13 minutes 36 seconds of the second
when Patrick Sharp scored from the blue line through a screen on a power play.
Brandon Saad tied the game by finishing a tick-tack-toe play from Marian Hossa
and Toews at 3:15 of the period.

The Capitals neutralized the Blackhawks' momentum by surviving a five-on-three
power play midway through the period, and the game remained tied deep into the
third.

With just over three minutes left, Capitals defenseman Matt Niskanen was called
for a questionable boarding penalty that gave the Blackhaws a last chance to win
in regulation. But with only two seconds left on the power play, Toews was
called for an equally dubious hooking penalty.

When Ovechkin's stick was broken by a slash as he carried the puck into the
neutral zone, the referee's hand flew up, but before the whistle could be blown,
the puck found Brouwer's stick, and he snapped it past Blackhawks goaltender
Corey Crawford, sending the Capitals' bench and fans into jubilation.

''We started talking about the Winter Classic since we started the season, and
this was it,'' Ovechkin said. ''I remember Brouwer said: 'It's a good time to
show up and make a show.' And he did.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/hockey/roy-brouwers-goal-defeats-blackh
awks-at-winter-classic.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above: The Capitals celebrated the winning goal
with seconds left in the Winter Classic
more than 42,000 fans filled Nationals Park
 and Chicago's Jonathan Toews handled the puck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%);
CHRISTMAS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (83%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (57%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA
(77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Palestinians Submit Documents to Join an International Court

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 244 words


UNITED NATIONS -- The Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations, Riyad H.
Mansour, formally submitted papers for the Palestinians to join the treaty
creating the International Criminal Court, paving the way for the tribunal to
potentially investigate serious crimes on Palestinian lands committed by either
side in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The submission of the documents comes two days after the President Mahmoud Abbas
of the Palestinian Authority signed papers acceding to the Rome Statute, which
created the court in 2002. According to that treaty, the court, which is based
in The Hague, could have authority over Palestinian territory as early as April
1. Israel is not one of the court's members.

''We are honored to be the 123rd state party to the I.C.C.,'' Mr. Mansour said
Friday. The Palestinians have had the right to join the court since November
2012, when they became a ''nonmember observer state'' of the United Nations
General Assembly.

Among the conventions and treaties the Palestinians signed are those that
concern cluster munitions and the rights of women. Mr. Mansour said the
Palestinians had also asked the court to retroactively examine potential crimes
dating to last summer's war in Gaza.

Israel vowed to ''take steps in response'' if the Palestinians tried to join the
court, according to a statement this week from Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL LAW (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%);
INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WOMEN (68%);
FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (52%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Palestinians Submit Documents to Join an International Court

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 244 words


UNITED NATIONS -- The Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations, Riyad H.
Mansour, formally submitted papers for the Palestinians to join the treaty
creating the International Criminal Court, paving the way for the tribunal to
potentially investigate serious crimes on Palestinian lands committed by either
side in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

The submission of the documents comes two days after the President Mahmoud Abbas
of the Palestinian Authority signed papers acceding to the Rome Statute, which
created the court in 2002. According to that treaty, the court, which is based
in The Hague, could have authority over Palestinian territory as early as April
1. Israel is not one of the court's members.

''We are honored to be the 123rd state party to the I.C.C.,'' Mr. Mansour said
Friday. The Palestinians have had the right to join the court since November
2012, when they became a ''nonmember observer state'' of the United Nations
General Assembly.

Among the conventions and treaties the Palestinians signed are those that
concern cluster munitions and the rights of women. Mr. Mansour said the
Palestinians had also asked the court to retroactively examine potential crimes
dating to last summer's war in Gaza.

Israel vowed to ''take steps in response'' if the Palestinians tried to join the
court, according to a statement this week from Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/03/world/middleeast/palestinians-submit-papers-to
-un-to-join-international-criminal-court.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL LAW (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%);
INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WOMEN (68%);
FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (52%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

There's Hope for Nebraska's Liberals

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 675 words


To the Editor:

As one of Nebraska's ''lonely progressives'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 27), I would like to
expand on Mary Pipher's observations.

Despite being a very red state, Nebraska has some pretty progressive traits.
Nebraska is the only state that has a unicameral legislature. Nebraska is mainly
a public power state, and although many of the public power districts act like
private power companies, there is a growing movement to put the public back in
public power, using our own natural resources (wind and sun).

Our Republican governor-elect, Pete Ricketts, is a member of the TD Ameritrade
managerial family that constructed a LEED platinum-certified headquarters,
indicating their commitment to renewable energy and conservation. Nebraska is
also one of two states that allow our electoral votes to be split.

In November, a long-serving Republican congressman was defeated by a Democrat,
and Nebraska voters handily voted to increase the minimum wage.

As a public health professional, I am pleased that Nebraska has the second-best
child immunization coverage in the country. Nebraska was also a site that
treated Ebola patients. Nebraska has many progressive tendencies, but miles to
go before we sleep.

DAVID E. CORBINOmaha, Dec. 27, 2014

To the Editor:

Mary Pipher hits the nail on the head when she toasts her group's members who
are running for city council and the Nebraska State Legislature. That is where
power is still accessible.

Tens of thousands of local and state elective offices are available to go after
the power to change things, if progressives only knew how to use all three
levels of the federal system.

DAVID WYLIEBolton, Mass., Dec. 27, 2014

The writer is a former city councilor in Cambridge, Mass.

To the Editor:

I read Mary Pipher's article with considerable sympathy. Like her, I grew up in
a small Nebraska town -- in my case, Hooper, where my great-uncles built some of
the ornate Victorian buildings on Main Street that helped put the town on the
National Register of Historic Places.

Unlike her, I left the state in 1955, after graduating from the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln and working in its public relations department for a few years.
I wanted to write for magazines, and that meant the East Coast.

When I was growing up, in the 1930s and '40s, I didn't know many Democrats:
Dad's first cousin, the postmaster, was one. And Mother's father had been a
follower of William Jennings Bryan. Given Nebraska's unicameral legislature,
however, I wasn't very conscious of political parties. By the time I reached
voting age, Dwight D. Eisenhower and other middle-of-the-road Republicans seemed
right to me.

Although I will always be a Cornhusker, I haven't been home for many years. I
find that I have little to say to many of my oldest friends, who seem to get
most of their information from Fox News. Frankly, what has happened to Nebraska
because of recent Republican politics sickens me.

EMILY HEINEPrinceton, N.J., Dec. 27, 2014

To the Editor:

Mary Pipher writes that ''with the exception of Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide in
1964, our state has not supported a Democrat for president since 1936.''

In 2008, Nebraska contributed one of its five electoral votes to Barack Obama,
in District 2, which includes Omaha and its suburbs. It was hard fought and it
was close, but Mr. Obama won, and because Nebraska allocates its electoral votes
by district, it counted.

I recall that a day before the primaries, Mr. Obama swept into town for an
afternoon and filled Omaha's 10,000-seat Civic Auditorium on a few hours'
notice. It was a raucous rally. I was there.

An overflow crowd of several thousand flooded the Civic's basement. Our
Democratic mayor at that time, Mike Fahey, renamed the city ''Obamaha.''

Ms. Pipher might also have pointed out that just last fall, District 2 retired
its Republican member of Congress, Lee Terry, after a 16-year incumbency, in
favor of Brad Ashford. Mr. Terry was one of only three Republicans to lose a
seat in the House in 2014. Sometimes, progressives do win in Nebraska.

BRUCE E. JOHANSENOmaha, Dec. 27, 2014

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/theres-hope-for-nebraskas-liberals.htm
l

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ADAM MCCAULEY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING
(90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WRITERS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%);
POLITICS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%);
RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%);
GREEN BUILDING (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GOVERNORS
(72%); EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRY (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES
(70%); TROPICAL DISEASES (67%); HISTORIC SITES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(59%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (56%); MINIMUM WAGE (53%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (57%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: PETE RICKETTS (58%)

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%)

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boston Is Eager to Begin Marathon Bomb Trial, and to End It

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Samantha Storey contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1515 words


BOSTON -- The blood has long since been scrubbed from the finish line. The
memorials have vanished, and the fund that raised money for victims has closed.

But the ordeal is not over. Boston is preparing now for its legal reckoning with
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who stands accused of bombing the 2013 marathon and turning
Boston's premier athletic event into a scene of terror and carnage. His trial
will revive memories of how those bombs killed three people, blew the legs off
16 others and wounded 260 more.

Unless some last-ditch maneuvering by the defense succeeds, jury selection is to
begin Monday.

Not since Sept. 11, 2001, has an act of terrorism wreaked such havoc on an
American city. The devastation, both physical and psychic, was pervasive. In
arguing that no jury here could be impartial, Judy Clarke, Mr. Tsarnaev's
lawyer, has said that virtually everyone in the region is, ''in effect, an
actual victim.''

Ms. Clarke is famous for cutting deals that keep her clients off death row. At
some point in the process, her clients -- including Theodore Kaczynski, the
Unabomber; Eric Rudolph, the Olympic Park bomber; and Jared L. Loughner, who
killed six people in an assassination attempt on former Representative Gabrielle
Giffords -- pleaded guilty in exchange for a sentence of life in prison, with no
chance of parole.

But here she faces one of her toughest challenges yet: trying to spare the life
of a reviled defendant in a case that traumatized and enraged the nation, while
federal prosecutors appear determined to put Mr. Tsarnaev to death.

''The nature of the conduct at issue and the resultant harm compel this
decision,'' Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who personally opposes the
death penalty, said last year when he authorized prosecutors to seek it for Mr.
Tsarnaev. And Carmen M. Ortiz, the United States attorney for Massachusetts,
said in court papers that the death penalty was justified for Mr. Tsarnaev for
several reasons, including that he used a weapon of mass destruction and has
shown no remorse.

As Mr. Tsarnaev sits in near solitary confinement at the prison hospital at Fort
Devens, an Army base about 40 miles northwest of here, many say they dread
seeing him in the limelight. But they want the trial to serve a purpose.

''I hope the trial will bring a resolution for people who still feel
unsettled,'' Abby Miller, 22, a baker, said on Wednesday as she walked by the
finish line on Boylston Street.

Views vary widely as to what that resolution should be.

Kristine Biagiotti-Bridges, 47, of Mendon, Mass., who was pushing her daughter,
Kayla Biagiotti, in a wheelchair across the finish line when the bombs exploded,
says he deserves death. ''Seeing everything going on in Boston with the trial
and all the security around, the bomber going in there -- it brings back that
anger towards the stupidity of a few people that have ruined so many lives,''
she said.

Todd Koen, 42, of Beverly, Mass., a firefighter at the scene after the bombs
went off, is just as infuriated at Mr. Tsarnaev but thinks he should be sent to
prison for the rest of his life. ''If he gets the death penalty he gets off
easy,'' Mr. Koen said. ''He doesn't have to deal with it or live with it.''

Ms. Clarke, who is preparing a defense that casts her client as having been
manipulated by his older brother, Tamerlan, has made overtures to prosecutors
about a plea bargain, according to a lawyer close to the case. But so far she
has been rebuffed, and her frustration showed in court papers that she filed
Dec. 29 seeking to delay the trial.

''If the government remains unwilling to relent in seeking death, and the case
therefore must be tried, the defense is asking for nothing more than a trial
that is fair,'' she wrote. It will not be fair, she said, unless she has more
time to prepare. In a flurry of last-minute pleadings, Ms. Clarke, who declined
to be interviewed, also sought to have the trial moved out of Boston. But for
now, it is scheduled to start here on Monday.

Federal death penalty trials are rare. This would be the biggest since that of
Zacarias Moussaoui, a Sept. 11 conspirator, in 2006, and the trial of Timothy J.
McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber, in 1997. That such a trial would take place
here is the source of some angst. Massachusetts has no death penalty and
sentiment in this city is strongly against it; a Boston Globe poll in September
2013 found 57 percent of Bostonians favored life without parole for Mr.
Tsarnaev, while 33 percent favored death.

Still there has been little outcry at Mr. Holder's decision to authorize the
death penalty. In July, a Globe poll of voters statewide found 62 percent
supported it, while 29 percent were opposed. The state's top politicians,
including Senator Elizabeth Warren, Gov. Deval Patrick, who is leaving office,
and the Boston mayor, Martin J. Walsh, all Democrats, oppose the death penalty
but none spoke out against the decision.

Mr. Tsarnaev has pleaded not guilty to 30 counts stemming from the explosion of
two bombs on April 15, 2013, near the finish line. On April 19, after a night of
mayhem that included the killing of an M.I.T. police officer and a frenzied
manhunt, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, lay dead, having been shot by the police and run
over by Dzhokhar, who was escaping in a stolen sport utility vehicle; Dzhokhar
was later captured in a boat in a suburban driveway.

To many, the evidence against him appears overwhelming. Prosecutors have said
that surveillance images show him at the marathon placing his backpack near
8-year-old Martin Richard, who was killed by the explosion. When he was hiding
in the boat, they said, Mr. Tsarnaev, angry about the killing of Muslims in Iraq
and Afghanistan, scrawled incriminating messages (''Stop killing our innocent
people and we will stop''), and while recovering in the hospital, they said, he
admitted to the bombings.

The court has summoned an initial pool of 1,200 potential jurors, all residents
of eastern Massachusetts and far more than for any other trial here in memory.
Only those willing to impose the death penalty can be chosen. The trial is
expected to take three to five months.

If there is no plea agreement, the trial will proceed in two phases, with the
same jury. The first is to determine guilt or innocence; if Mr. Tsarnaev is
found guilty, the second will determine whether he is sentenced to life or
death.

''The only interesting question in this trial is whether the most odious
defendant who committed the most odious crime will get the death penalty,'' said
Michael Kendall, a former federal prosecutor in Boston. ''Nothing else will be
seriously in dispute.''

It is during the sentencing phase that Ms. Clarke would make her case to spare
Mr. Tsarnaev's life. Typically, her strategy is to burrow deeply into her
clients' backgrounds, down to details like their prenatal medical history, to
humanize them and help a jury understand what led them to such horrific acts.

Ms. Clarke is expected to portray Mr. Tsarnaev, who was 19 at the time and had
no prior criminal record, as having been manipulated by his older brother, who
will be cast as an aggressive bully and the mastermind behind the bombings.

The case would then go to the jury for sentencing. Death sentences can be hard
to obtain; federal juries have imposed them only one-third of the time, and the
jury must be unanimous. And even though jurors must be open to imposing death,
some find that they cannot actually do so.

This is why jury selection is so critical in capital cases and can take weeks.
Both sides are likely to employ jury consultants and run mock jury selections.

''For the defense, they don't have much of a case to put on, so their best hope
is to get someone on that jury who will be a holdout,'' said Jeremy M.
Sternberg, a former Boston prosecutor with extensive jury trial experience.
''They're looking for people who are anti-authoritarian, who are not afraid to
go against the grain.''

Even if the jury imposes the death penalty, the appeals process can go on for
years. Of the nearly 500 federal death penalty defendants since 1988, only three
have been executed.

Defense lawyers not affiliated with the case say that a plea deal for a life
sentence could yield the same outcome as a trial, without the time and expense.
Moreover, they say, it would spare everyone from reliving traumatic events, and
the defendant could not appeal, meaning he would not keep cropping up in the
news.

''It makes all kinds of sense that they avoid a trial, and not just because of
the very high probability that he will be found guilty,'' said Eric M. Freedman,
a death penalty specialist at Hofstra University Law School. ''The families get
to say their piece. And he does not get to become a martyr.''

But Mr. Kendall, the former prosecutor, predicted the government would not agree
to a plea.

''Giving up the death penalty in this case would be a very charged political
issue because of the horrific impact on the victims and the community,'' he
said. ''There would be a lot of criticism. From a prosecutor's perspective, the
safer course is to seek the death penalty.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/boston-is-eager-to-begin-marathon-bombing-t
rial-and-to-end-it.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judy Clarke, the defense lawyer for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, has so
far been rebuffed in her bids to reach a plea deal for her client. Mr. Tsarnaev
faces trial in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, which turned the city's premier
athletic event into a scene of terror and carnage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY
BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
   Tsarnaev

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%);
JURY TRIALS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%);
PRISONS (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%);
LAWYERS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); ARMIES (76%);
CORRECTIONS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); JURY DUTY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (52%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (50%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Add Coffee to Subway Evils

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 74 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Door Hogs and Big Bags: Readers List Subway Evils'' (news article, Dec.
29):

Pizza, sardines and other foods but no mention of coffee? Am I the only subway
rider to have had hot coffee spilled on me?

I cannot count the times when seated on the subway that I have been confronted
by someone with a phone in one hand and a cup of coffee in the other, hanging
over me like a sword of Damocles.

MICHAEL GINSBURG New York, Dec. 29, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/add-coffee-to-subway-evils.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Crisis in Venezuela

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 186 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Hectoring Venezuela on Human Rights,'' by Diosdado Cabello (Op-Ed, Dec.
18): Venezuela's abuse of its citizens' legal and human rights has fed a crisis
that the world can no longer ignore.

After nearly 15 years of corruption, abuse and mismanagement, we have a health
system that does not cure the sick; an education system that does not teach;
social security that does not care for the vulnerable people in society; police,
judges and prosecutors who do not protect; and an economy that produces neither
employment nor well-being.

To distract from the unfolding disaster, Mr. Cabello and others in government
are pointing the finger at everything and everyone but themselves.

Respected global institutions, including the United Nations High Commission for
Human Rights, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, say otherwise. They
see a government that is attacking the rights and the dignity of its own people.

LEOPOLDO LÓPEZ Los Teques, Venezuela, Dec. 22, 2014

The writer is the founder of Voluntad Popular (Popular Will), an opposition
party, and has been in a military prison since February.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/rights-crisis-in-venezuela.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION
SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRISONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%);
JUDGES (54%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Relying on Propane Gas

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 194 words


To the Editor:

Re ''What Pairs Well With a Finger Lakes White? Not Propane, Vintners Say''
(news article, Dec. 25):

Propane is vital to New York. Nearly 240,000 New Yorkers -- a large number of
whom live in the Finger Lakes region -- rely on propane to heat their homes.
Additionally, thousands of farmers across the state, including the vintners your
article discusses, use it for crop drying or other purposes.

As your article correctly notes, propane is not produced in New York and has to
be imported. This adds cost -- and logistical challenges -- for the members of
the New York Propane Gas Association, which must then be passed on to consumers.
Seven of the last 10 winters have seen higher prices caused by supply
constraints, which the proposed facility would rectify. Last winter, the average
New York propane user paid $410 more to heat his or her home, costing the state
$100 million over all.

This is not about being the ''gas-storage hub of the Northeast,'' as one
vineyard owner put it; it's about lowering the bills of propane users across New
York and New England.

RICK CUMMINGS President New York Propane Gas Association Clifton Park, N.Y.,
Dec. 29, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/relying-on-propane-gas.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPANE (92%); NATURAL GAS (90%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (90%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (74%); PRICES (74%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SHORTAGES (71%); SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTIONS (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unclean Nuclear Energy

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 201 words


To the Editor:

The nuclear industry is bamboozling the Environmental Protection Agency into its
agenda of promoting nuclear power as ''clean'' (''E.P.A. Wrestles With Role of
Nuclear Plants in Carbon Emission Rules,'' Business Day, Dec. 26). It is no
secret that every nuclear power plant regularly emits low-level radiation into
the environment. Why focus only on carbon emissions while ignoring iodine-129,
plutonium-239, cesium-135 and other lethal radionuclides?

The nuclear industry wants us to focus narrowly on the fission process and to
ignore the footprint of mining, milling, enrichment, processing and storing of
nuclear fuel.

It also wants us to ignore the elephant in the room: its inability to rid the
planet of high-level nuclear waste that accumulates every hour that any nuclear
power plant is operating. The latest plan of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
in effect to turn every nuclear power plant in the country into a nuclear waste
dump is shocking indeed.

The bottom line is very simple: Nuclear power is the most expensive, the most
unreliable, the most dangerous and the most environmentally damaging of all
forms of energy production.

ROGER JOHNSON San Clemente, Calif., Dec. 26, 2014

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/unclean-nuclear-energy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (95%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY
REGULATION & POLICY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY
REGULATION (90%); MINING & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%);
ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%);
HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR FUEL (78%); ENERGY
REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES
(78%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (78%); CONSERVATION (78%); NUCLEAR
CHEMISTRY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%);
GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY
COMMISSION (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not Paying for Hostages

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 218 words


To the Editor:

''U.S. Policy of No Ransom Closes Off Other Options'' (front page, Dec. 28)
cites former F.B.I. officials as saying that the post-9/11 approach to Americans
held hostage by terrorist organizations has led to lost opportunities and
perhaps lives. One of those former officials, Gary Noesner, is quoted as saying,
''The problem in my mind is that we have devalued negotiation as a tool.'' The
examples of missed opportunities and their costs, perhaps even in lives, are
sobering.

As a career Foreign Service officer, I agree with Mr. Noesner's conclusion.
Before 9/11, American diplomats were actively involved in negotiations to
resolve hostage crises, relying on their contacts and skills. Today, we do not
hear about them, as if negotiation and diplomacy were no longer relevant to the
problem. There is a myth that contact and negotiation with extremist groups,
even indirectly, is politically off limits. Negotiation, and therefore
diplomacy, has been devalued.

The price that we pay for politicizing and de-professionalizing our federal
institutions, from the Foreign Service to the Secret Service -- and in the
process glorifying amateurism and patronage -- is a heavy one.

SUSAN R. JOHNSON Potomac, Md., Dec. 29, 2014

The writer is a former president of the American Foreign Service Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/not-paying-for-hostages.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); AMERICAN FOREIGN SERVICE
ASSOCIATION (54%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Ghost With a Grudge (Watch Out, Kids!)

BYLINE: By BEN KENIGSBERG

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 261 words


THE WOMAN IN BLACK 2

Angel of Death

Opens on Friday

Directed by Tom Harper

1 hour 38 minutes

''The Woman in Black 2: Angel of Death'' leaves behind the Edwardian setting of
its predecessor for 1941. With the Blitz in progress, a group of children
evacuates London for what turns out to be an even more dangerous destination.
The building designated as their makeshift school is the Eel Marsh House, which,
as in the first film, is haunted by a ghost whose specialty is killing children.

Word of this specter's vendetta against the young apparently hasn't reached this
generation. The original movie's star, Daniel Radcliffe, has likewise vanished,
along with much of the promise once heralded by the logo of Hammer Films, a
former workhorse of British horror.

Still, ''The Woman in Black 2'' begins with surprising elegance. The students,
escorted by Eve (Phoebe Fox) and Jean (Helen McCrory), arrive in the emptied-out
village of Crythin Gifford. Shrouded in what may well be a permanent fog --
eerily relayed in a near-monochromatic, blue-tinged palette, unpierced by
headlights (which might attract bombers) -- the area looks haunted before the
ghost appears.

For the characters, the woman in black may function as a kind of proxy for the
war: In her presence, death is unavoidable. But the director, Tom Harper, seems
less interested in allegory than in monotonous, conventional goosing, the kind
that involves flickering lights and a creaky rocking chair. BEN KENIGSBERG

''The Woman in Black 2: Angel of Death'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly
cautioned). Pervasive gloom.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/movies/the-woman-in-black-2-angel-of-death-by-
tom-harper.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phoebe Fox in a ghostly sequel, set in wartime England.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK WALL/RELATIVITY MEDIA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%);
CONTENT RATINGS (75%); MOVIE RATINGS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%)

PERSON: DANIEL RADCLIFFE (56%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rolling and Flexing to Massage Away Pain and Stress

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; URBAN
ATHLETE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 702 words


THE MELT method -- a kind of body work that has been the subject of gym classes
and a best-selling book -- claims to address a host of middle-age complaints:
chronic pain, aching joints, weight gain, stress, wrinkles, digestive problems,
low energy and insomnia.

Eager to cross at least some of those off my list, I showed up at the JCC in
Manhattan one morning for a class led by Sue Hitzmann, who also happens to have
developed MELT. With my soft MELT roller and a small rubber ball in hand, I
waited while the room filled.

Ms. Hitzmann's story is one of disillusionment with mainstream medicine. About
10 years ago she was a star fitness instructor in her late 20s with a thriving
neuromuscular therapy practice. She suddenly developed severe pain in her right
heel that doctors and physical therapists could neither explain nor cure. They
told her it was ''all in her head,'' she said, and suggested she find a
psychiatrist.

Undeterred, she went into research mode and discovered the emerging science of
connective tissue, or fascia. Researchers describe connective tissue as a
three-dimensional, fluid-filled support network that surrounds the muscles,
bones, nerves and organs. As we age, our bodies endure wear and tear that is
thought to result in dehydration of this system. Even in young people,
repetitive motions like running can compress and dry out the fascia, creating
areas of what Ms. Hitzmann calls ''stuck stress.'' Sedentary behaviors can have
the same effect.

Ms. Hitzmann developed a self-treatment system to manipulate and rehydrate the
connective tissue. (MELT stands for Myofascial Energetic Length Technique.) Once
you learn the method, she said, just 10 minutes three times a week is all you
need. MELT now has 1,300 instructors nationwide and a following that includes
the Olympic snowboarder Jamie Anderson, who used the method on her feet before
winning gold in Sochi, Russia. Ms. Hitzmann's book on the system, ''The MELT
Method,'' was published in 2013 by HarperOne.

In class, Ms. Hitzmann first led us through foot exercises. We began by standing
with our feet hip-width apart and our eyes closed. We raised all 10 toes, took
three breaths and then lowered them to the floor. If we felt our bodies drifting
forward as our toes touched the ground, she said, it was a sign that our
connective tissue system was out of whack.

Next we placed a ball under one foot, pressing down with each toe knuckle. Then
we moved the ball back and forth over different points on the arch and heel.
Finally, we assessed our progress by standing on both feet and determining if
that leg felt different. Amazingly, I felt a change. After doing the other foot,
we repeated the toe lifting and lowering -- this time, no forward drift.

Three more sequences followed, all performed while lying on our backs on a mat.
First we assessed: Were there parts of our backs and legs not touching the mat?
If the bra line was not touching (mine wasn't) and the neck felt restricted when
moving the head back and forth, that meant trouble in the shoulder girdle. If a
large part of the lower back was off the mat, that meant a problem with the
diaphragm. If the backs of the thighs weren't touching (mine weren't), the
pelvis was the culprit.

We placed the soft roller under our spines, rocked back and forth on the mat,
then did a pelvis tilt and tuck. We focused on the diaphragm, breathing in
deeply as we rested our spines on the roller, then exhaling forcefully. Again,
we rested flat on our backs without the roller and assessed. This time my bra
line and the backs of my thighs were touching the mat, and my neck felt looser
as I moved my head from side to side.

Finally, we used the roller to focus on the calves, the thighs and the
sacroiliac joint in the pelvis. The goal was to gently massage any tender areas
and to get the fluid moving again in the fascia.

As class ended, I felt oddly lighter and more energized. A fellow student,
Constance Boykan, 73, said MELT had helped her low back and pelvic pain. ''But
it doesn't last,'' she said. ''That's frustrating.''

By the time I'd walked a few blocks to my subway entrance, I knew what she
meant. The feeling was gone. But I was already planning my next MELT session.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/a-class-in-the-melt-method-of-body-work.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the JCC in Manhattan, Sue Hitzmann, right, creator of the
MELT method, uses rollers and balls to manipulate connective tissue.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION
(90%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (90%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (89%); REPETITIVE MOTION
DISORDERS (78%); PHYSICAL FITNESS (78%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); BESTSELLERS
(78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES
(72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); SNOWBOARDING (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Communing With Mr. Turner

BYLINE: By LORI HOLCOMB-HOLLAND

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 484 words


The Tate Britain in London houses the world's largest collection of paintings by
J. M. W. Turner, but Americans don't need a passport to see his works in person.
Below is a list of institutions in Manhattan or within a day's journey from the
city that own pieces prominently featured in Mike Leigh's film ''Mr. Turner,''
followed by several museums with Turner's work in their collections.

FRICK COLLECTION The Frick owns five Turner paintings, including ''The Harbor of
Dieppe'' (circa 1826), a work that the artist, played by Timothy Spall, is seen
painting at his London studio early in the film, according to Jacqueline Riding,
a historical consultant for the movie. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan;
212-288-0700, frick.org. (Roberta Smith says her favorite is ''the very
un-Turner-esque'' ''Mortlake Terrace: Early Summer Morning,'' from 1826, a
luminous view of the Thames and the estate of William Moffatt.)

YALE CENTER FOR BRITISH ART Among the 14 paintings and 86 watercolors by Turner
in this collection is ''Staffa, Fingal's Cave,'' a Scottish island landscape
from 1832 that was his first painting sent to the United States, in 1845. In
''Mr. Turner,'' it appears in a scene at the Royal Academy of Arts on Varnishing
Day, the eve of an exhibition's opening. In a feat of showmanship, Turner slaps
white paint and blows a mysterious brown powder onto the canvas before a crowd
of fellow academicians. 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven; 877-274-8278,
britishart.yale.edu.

MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON The 1840 work ''Slave Ship (Slavers Throwing
Overboard the Dead and Dying, Typhoon Coming On)'' appears in two scenes
involving the art critic John Ruskin, who as a young man convinced his father to
buy it from Turner. 465 Huntington Avenue; 617-267-9300, mfa.org.

Other museums with Turner works:

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART The Met has three Turner works: ''Whalers'' (circa
1845), ''Venice, From the Porch of Madonna della Salute'' (circa 1835) and
''Saltash With the Water Ferry, Cornwall'' (1811). 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY The exhibition ''Sublime: The Prints of J. M. W. Turner
and Thomas Moran,'' on view through Feb. 15, pairs Turner works with ones by an
American painter and printmaker who emulated him. Stephen A. Schwarzman
Building, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street; 917-275-6975; nypl.org.

PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART ''Bonneville, Savoy'' (circa 1812); 2600 Benjamin
Franklin Parkway; 215-763-8100, philamuseum.org.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART Among its British landscapes from the early 1800s, the
National Gallery has five Turners on view: ''The Junction of the Thames and the
Medway'' (1807); ''Mortlake Terrace'' (1827), a companion to the Frick's
painting; ''Rotterdam Ferry-Boat'' (1833); ''Venice: The Dogana and San Giorgio
Maggiore'' (1834); and ''Keelmen Heaving In Coals by Moonlight'' (1835). Sixth
Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington; 202-737-4215, nga.gov.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/design/j-m-w-turner-paintings-at-east-coa
st-museums.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. M. W. Turner's ''Mortlake Terrace: Early Summer Morning''
(1826), at the Frick Collection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRICK COLLECTION, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (92%); ART COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%);
EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); FILM (76%); LIBRARIES (73%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%);
PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Turkey: Police Arrest Armed Man After Attack Near the Premier's Office

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 223 words


ISTANBUL -- The Turkish police arrested an armed man on Thursday after he tried
to attack a palace complex near the prime minister's office in Istanbul.

The man, who is suspected of being a member of a terrorist organization, threw
two homemade grenades at police officers in front of the Dolmabahce Palace. When
the bombs failed to detonate, he tried to shoot at the officers with a gun, the
semiofficial Anadolu News Agency reported. No injuries have been reported.

Dolmabahce Palace was once the residence of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder
of modern Turkey.

It was not immediately clear whether Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was in his
office at the time of the attempted attack.

Istanbul's police chief, Selami Altinok, told reporters that the assailant was a
former convict and a suspected terrorist, who was imprisoned from 2003 to 2006.
He did not disclose the charges against the man or reveal his identity because
an investigation was still underway.

''Two hand grenades that he hurled against the police on duty did not explode,''
Mr. Altinok said. ''He was quickly overpowered.''

The man was found to be carrying an automatic weapon and a pistol, but security
forces in the area quickly mobilized and seized the weapons, local news media
reported.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/europe/turkey-police-thwart-attack-on-pr
ime-ministers-office.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORISM
(78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY
WEAPONS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Threatened to Kill Officers, Authorities Say

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; James C. McKinley Jr. contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 534 words


Emergency dispatchers were jarred by a string of predawn calls on Tuesday: A
man's voice, the police said, asked that officers be sent to his location so he
could shoot them when they arrived.

''He called 911 and made threats to kill cops,'' a police official said.

A day later, at 8:30 p.m. on New Year's Eve, investigators on the Upper West
Side of Manhattan arrested Rayshawn J. Dixon, 27, and accused him of placing the
calls from a cellphone between 4:30 and 5:30 a.m., officials said.

He was charged with making terroristic threats and criminal contempt, the police
said, and was awaiting arraignment on Thursday in Manhattan Criminal Court.

The case brought to 21 the number of people arrested in connection with threats
against the police since two New York City officers were fatally shot in their
patrol car by a man who had made threats online and targeted the pair for their
uniforms.

The Police Department has now investigated in the past dozen days more than 90
threats it deemed serious among the hundreds that have streamed in from 311,
911, online postings and tips, including eight made on Wednesday through social
media sites.

The first step in analyzing them is to separate angry speech, hate speech and a
threat ''where someone is indicating they intend to act,'' said John J. Miller,
the deputy commissioner of intelligence and counterterrorism.

''What we've found in a number of these are, you've got dangerous people with
serious criminal records, some of whom possessed weapons, who are making these
threats,'' he said. ''And in other cases we've found guys who are big and bad
over the computer but when the cops knock at their door, they are reduced to
tears, saying they were drunk and never really meant anything by it.''

The targets of the threats can range from officers in general to officers in New
York City to specific people. They can originate outside the city or the state.
The department's Intelligence Bureau has helped in arrests in Yonkers and in
Arlington, Tex., and has from Dec. 20 through Thursday made 29 referrals for
officer safety to police agencies in other jurisdictions.

Because the online postings are generally anonymous, investigators must figure
out who is behind them, where they are and whether they had the intent or
ability to carry out the threats, Mr. Miller said.

Many of the threats echo those posted by Ismaaiyl Brinsley, who killed the two
officers, Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu, on Dec. 20 as they sat in their patrol
car in Brooklyn.

On that day, someone called 911 and said, ''N.Y.P.D., I will blow you away.'' On
Dec. 31, someone posted to Twitter: ''Let the piggies come. I got guns. Time to
start shooting cops.''

Such violent messages are further disconcerting to officers mourning the dead
and taking steps to enhance their own safety, particularly in street
enforcement. In Mr. Dixon's case, it is believed that he called 911 at least
twice, according to a law enforcement official, and said he was armed.

He was arrested on Wednesday by several officers outside a pizzeria on Columbus
Avenue and West 92nd Street, the official said.

The police said Mr. Dixon, of 64 West 91st Street, had been arrested many times
over roughly the last decade.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/man-is-accused-of-making-threatening-
calls-to-police.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BLOGS &
MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (79%); SHOOTINGS (77%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Theater

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5801 words


Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless
otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings,
showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable,
critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.

Previews and Openings

American Realness (performances start on Thursday) At this festival, the actual
abuts the possible and the material bumps up against the intangible. Presented
by Abrons Arts Center, the sixth incarnation of this dance and performance
jubilee has several theatrical offerings, including Ivo Dimchev's ''Fest,''
Cynthia Hopkins's ''A Living Documentary,'' My Barbarian's ''The Mother and
Other Plays,'' and Neal Medlyn's ''Pop Star Series, the 2015 Emerald Edition,''
which examines musical stars like Phil Collins, the Insane Clown posse and Miley
Cyrus. Various locations, 866-811-4111, americanrealness.com. (Alexis Soloski)

'Ancient Lives' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Jan. 10) In the
playwright and director Tina Satter's latest work, a collision of 1980s teen
flicks and colonial captivity narratives, three students follow their
charismatic teacher into the woods. When a male witch appears, a new enchantment
begins. Jess Barbagallo, Eliza Bent, Emily Davis, Julia Sirna-Frest and Lucy
Taylor star. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-255-5793,
thekitchen.org. (Soloski)

'Circus Now: International Contemporary Circus Exposure 2015' (performances are
Thursday through Saturday) The Skirball Center for the Performing Arts has a
single stage rather than three rings and its supply of cotton candy is scant.
But that's not stopping it from hosting this new festival devoted to circus
entertainments. Its stable of international clowns and acrobats includes the
feminist aerialists Girls on Trapeze (from the United States), the physical
comedians Parallel Exit (also from the United States) and the Australian
acrobats Casus. 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich
Village, 212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org. (Soloski)

Coil (performances start on Friday) While Performance Space 122 awaits the
renovation of its East Village headquarters, the theater is once again taking
its annual festival of new work on the road. Partner venues will host theater,
dance and multimedia fare like Mike Iveson's human-android song cycle ''Sorry
Robot,'' Ride on Theater's site-specific meet-cute ''The Blind Date Project''
and Temporary Distortion's six-hour installation ''My Voice Has an Echo In It.''
Various locations, 212-352-3101, ps122.org. (Soloski)

'Constellations' (in previews; opens on Jan. 13) Quantum theory provides the
structural conceit for this multiverse romance from the British playwright Nick
Payne (''If There Is I Haven't Found It Yet'') and the director Michael
Longhurst. A co-production of Manhattan Theater Club and London's Royal Court,
the play features Jake Gyllenhaal as a beekeeper and Ruth Wilson as his
physicist honey. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan,
212-239-6200, constellationsbroadway.com. (Soloski)

'Dying for It' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Stalin didn't like it. Will you?
The Atlantic Theater Company offers Moira Buffini's adaptation of Nikolai
Erdman's ''The Suicide,'' a play that was banned in Soviet Russia. Under Neil
Pepe's direction, Joey Slotnick stars as a depressed man bent on self-slaughter,
and Jeanine Serralles is his wearied wife. Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th
Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Soloski)

'Honeymoon in Vegas' (in previews; opens on Jan. 15) What happens in Vegas stays
in Vegas. What happens in New Jersey? Not so much. After a successful run at the
Paper Mill Playhouse, this musical adaptation of the 1992 film convinced its
producers to take a gamble and bring it to Broadway. The director Gary Griffin
deals in Rob McClure and Brynn O'Malley as a pair of young romancers, with Tony
Danza as a wily kingpin. Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street,
877-250-2929, honeymoonbroadway.com. (Soloski)

'Into the Woods' (in previews; opens on Jan. 22) Do James Lapine and Stephen
Sondheim's woods seem a little less populous? That's because the Roundabout
Theater Company has engaged the acclaimed Fiasco Theater troupe to perform the
musical with just 10 actors and a piano. Reviewing the show's run last year at
the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, Ben Brantley wrote, ''true to form,
the Fiasco team continues to keep things simple, the better to bring out the
material's complexity.'' Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111
West 46th Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Soloski)

Prototype Festival: Opera/Theater/Now (performances start on Thursday) A
festival motley and multifarious enough to include Heiner Müller, Courtney Love
and the Brooklyn Youth Chorus, this collaboration between Beth Morrison Projects
and Here offers seven new musical theater works. Presumptive highlights include
''Kansas City Choir Boy,'' billed as a ''theatrical concept album'' by Todd
Almond, in which Mr. Almond and Ms. Love play myth-drunk romantics; ''Toxic
Psalms,'' a collage work with a 30-woman chorus by the Slovenian vocal theater
troupe Carmina Slovenica; and ''Aging Magician,'' an illusionistic work from
Paola Prestini, Rinde Eckert and Julian Crouch. Various locations, 212-352-3101
prototypefestival.org. (Soloski)

'Rock Bottom' (performances start on Tuesday) The fearless, funny Bridget
Everett bares it all, and then some, in this cabaret-style show, returning to
Joe's Pub after a short run there in the fall. Sex and booze, and Ms. Everett's
tumultuous experience with both, are prominent themes in this R-rated evening,
directed by Scott Wittman and featuring ribald songs by Ms. Everett, Mr. Wittman
and his writing partner Marc Shaiman, both of ''Hairspray,'' as well as Adam
Horovitz and Matt Ray (1:35). Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place,
East Village, 212-967-7555, joespub.com. (Charles Isherwood)

Under the Radar (performances start on Wednesday) This 11-year-old festival of
theater and performance art, based in and around the Public Theater, has never
really been as stealthy as its name implies. But it's still combining small
names with bigger ones to offer innovative, playful, boundary-breaking fare.
This year's schedule includes two works by the British company Stan's Cafe,
several concerts from Taylor Mac, a return visit from the Argentine artist
Mariano Pensotti and Reggie Watts in his riff on ''The Artist Is Present.''
Various locations, 212-967-7555, undertheradarfestival.com. (Soloski)

'Winners and Losers' (previews start on Friday; opens on Tuesday) A game between
friends that grows increasingly unfriendly, this collaborative work from the
theater buddies Marcus Youssef and James Long arrives at Soho Rep for a
monthlong run. What begins as a larkish contest categorizing various people,
items and ideas turns into something personal and fraught. Soho Rep, 46 Walker
Street, TriBeCa, 212-352-3101, sohorep.org. (Soloski)

Broadway

'Aladdin' Casey Nicholaw (''The Book of Mormon'') directs and choreographs (and
choreographs, and choreographs) the latest Disney musical, adapted from the 1992
animated movie. While the familiar formulas are not entirely abandoned, Mr.
Nicholaw and the book writer, Chad Beguelin, stuff so much splashy, shticky
business into this show that the more syrupy bits hardly register. James Monroe
Iglehart stands out as the showboating, scene-stealing genie (2:20). New
Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, 866-870-2717, aladdinthemusical.com.
(Isherwood)

'Beautiful: The Carole King Musical' This friendly, formulaic jukebox show about
the New York-born singer-songwriter might as well be called ''Brooklyn Girl,''
so closely does it adhere to the template of the megahit ''Jersey Boys'' (about
the Four Seasons). Jessie Mueller, though, is extraordinary as Ms. King, making
us feel the connection between a singer and her songs (2:25). Stephen Sondheim
Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)

'Cabaret' Only a decade after it closed, Sam Mendes and Rob Marshall's popular,
audience-teasing reincarnation of this classic musical feels as if it never left
us. Alan Cumming seems to be having the time of his life reprising the creepy,
tragic M.C., a role he redefined for the ages. In her Broadway debut, Emma Stone
is scintillating as an attention-addicted Sally Bowles (2:30). Studio 54, 254
West 54th Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

&#x2605; 'The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time' Simon Stephens's
adaptation of Mark Haddon's best-selling novel, about an autistic boy's
coming-of-age, is one of the most fully immersive works ever to wallop Broadway.
Be prepared to have all your emotional and sensory buttons pushed. Marianne
Elliott (''War Horse'') directs the excellent cast, led by Alex Sharp, and the
dazzling technical team (2:25). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street,
212-239-6200, curiousonbroadway.com. (Brantley)

'A Delicate Balance' Though embodied by the stellar likes of Glenn Close and
John Lithgow, the angsty suburbanites at the center of Pam MacKinnon's revival
of Edward Albee's existential drawing-room drama have the flattened dimensions
of specimens under glass. The cast (with the welcome exceptions of Clare Higgins
and Bob Balaban) seems to be giving us the play instead of living it (2:45).
John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, 212-329-6200, telecharge.com.
(Brantley)

&#x2605; 'Disgraced' Ayad Akhtar's tense, turbulent Pulitzer Prize-winner about
the clash between Islamic faith and modern culture comes roaring onto Broadway
with a superb, mostly new cast under Kimberly Senior's taut direction. Hari
Dhillon gives a coiled, stealthy performance as the Pakistani-born, well-heeled
and thoroughly assimilated New Yorker whose assumptions about his identity are
shaken when his complacent life comes unraveled. Gretchen Mol is excellent as
his artist wife, and Josh Radnor (''How I Met Your Mother''), Karen Pittman and
Danny Ashok give fine support (1:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street,
212-239-6200, disgracedonbroadway.com. (Isherwood)

'The Elephant Man' Bradley Cooper distorts himself with self-obliterating grace
in this sturdy revival of Bernard Pomerance's instructive, carefully arranged
drama about a freak of nature in Victorian England. But the most emotionally
involving performance comes from Alessandro Nivola as a surgeon suffering a
crises of faith. Scott Ellis directs a cast that also includes an eccentric
Patricia Clarkson (1:55). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200,
elephantmanbroadway.com. (Brantley)

'Hedwig and the Angry Inch' Michael C. Hall plays an ''internationally ignored
song stylist'' of uncertain gender in John Cameron Mitchell and Stephen Trask's
1998 rock musical about love and loss. Michael Mayer directed this mightily
entertaining exercise in crowd control (1:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th
Street, 212-239-6200, hedwigbroadway.com. (Brantley)

'If/Then' This new musical from Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey (''Next to Normal'')
is a gleaming drawing board of a show, full of polished surfaces and clearly
drawn lines. The shiny-voiced Idina Menzel portrays a conflicted urban planner
pondering two different roads her life might have taken. The show feels less
like a variation on a theme than a dogged reiteration of it (2:35). Richard
Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ifthenthemusical.com.
(Brantley)

'It's Only a Play' Names drop like hailstones in this revised revival of
Terrence McNally's comedy about the anxious opening night of a Broadway turkey.
Celebrity performers (including Nathan Lane, Matthew Broderick and Stockard
Channing) sling a lot of mud at other celebrities, sometimes hilariously. Jack
O'Brien directs with gusto this fizzy, overlong work that eventually goes flat.
Mr. Lane, who leaves on Sunday, is sterling; the role will be played by Martin
Short starting on Wednesday. (2:30). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street,
212-239-6200, itsonlyaplay.com. (Brantley)

'The Last Ship' A shipbuilding town in decline is the setting for this earnest,
ambitious musical with a wonderful score by Sting (who is now starring), and a
somewhat diffuse book by John Logan (''Red'') and Brian Yorkey (''Next to
Normal''). Fine performances -- notably Michael Esper as the wayward son and
Rachel Tucker as the love he left behind -- enliven the proceedings, as does the
atmospheric production directed by Joe Mantello (2:25). Neil Simon Theater, 250
West 52nd Street, 877-250-2929, thelastship.com. (Isherwood)

'Les Misérables' It's back -- again. Capitalizing on the popular movie,
Claude-Michel Schönberg and Alain Boublil's musical, about the French fellow who
steals a loaf of bread and lives to regret it, storms Broadway in a new
production. Ramin Karimloo, as the long-suffering bread-stealer, and Will
Swenson, as his relentless foe, give sterling performances (2:50). Imperial
Theater, 249 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

&#x2605; 'On the Town' John Rando's take on this merry mating dance of a musical
from 1944, about sailors on shore leave, feels as fresh as first sunlight. With
airborne choreography by Joshua Bergasse, the production presents a
parallel-universe New York where hectic urban life acquires the grace of a
storybook ballet. It's a bustling, jostling cartoon that floats like a swan
(2:35). Lyric Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, 800-982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
(Brantley)

'The River' Playing a withholding man in a woodland cabin in Jez Butterworth's
cryptic tease of a play, Hugh Jackman squelches his natural urge to ingratiate
and ascends to a new level as a stage actor. Comparable claims cannot be made
for Mr. Butterworth's willfully enigmatic drama, though it has been beautifully
staged by Ian Rickson. Expect to leave hungry (1:25). Circle in the Square
Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, 212-239-6200, theriveronbroadway.com.
(Brantley)

&#x2605; 'You Can't Take It With You' A lot of shows make you laugh. But Scott
Ellis's felicitous revival of Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman's 1936 comedy
about an improbably happy family has you beaming from curtain to curtain. The
delicious assorted nuts onstage include James Earl Jones, Kristine Nielsen and
the sly comic genius Annaleigh Ashford (2:20). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th
Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

&#x2605; 'Bayside! The Musical' Attending this bawdy, ridiculous, unauthorized
parody of the harebrained sitcom ''Saved by the Bell'' is a bit like going to a
midnight screening of ''The Rocky Horror Picture Show,'' given the many inside
jokes and synchronized audience responses. Audience members know the material so
well because half the humor comes from merely reproducing every ludicrous plot
twist and trope from the TV show (including Zack's giant cellphone, Becky the
Duck and other allusions that will be familiar to longtime fans). The other half
of the humor is just good old-fashioned raunch, usually playing up the
horrifying ways to reinterpret a squeaky-clean children's show (2:00). Theater
80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, 212-388-0388, baysidethemusical.com.
(Catherine Rampell)

'The Bullpen' Joe Assadourian, who served 12 years in prison for attempted
murder, wrote and stars in this very funny one-man show about the characters he
met while awaiting his trial (1:05). Playroom Theater, 151 West 46th Street,
212-967-8278, stepinthebullpen.com. (Ken Jaworowski)

'Disenchanted' In this musical comedy for grown-ups, Cinderella, Snow White and
Sleeping Beauty lead a fairy-tale-princess revue aimed at upending their popular
portrayals as damsels in distress. But this is feminism light, and when the
princesses rail against princes who expect them to do all the housework, the
show feels like a girls'-night-out retro rebellion for the suburban oppressed
(1:40). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, 866-811-4111,
disenchantedmusical.com. (Laura Collins-Hughes)

&#x2605; 'Every Brilliant Thing' A charming alternative to ''It's a Wonderful
Life'' as a seasonal catharsis for those who get weepy in the winter, Duncan
Macmillan's monologue of a play, performed by Jonny Donahoe, describes a boy
trying to come up with reasons to live for his suicidal mother. Directed by
George Perrin, this ingenious production offers sentimentality without shame
(1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West
Village, 212-868-4444, barrowstreettheatre.com. (Brantley)

&#x2605; '50 Shades! The Musical' When it comes to potential for satire, E.L.
James's she-porn best seller ''50 Shades of Grey'' seems as easy a target as you
could shake a sex toy at. That said, this exuberant takeoff handily delivers the
goods, barreling along with a score steeped in show tunes, R&B, gospel and
Gilbert and Sullivan, and lyrics packed with references to various practices and
orifices. ''This is real life; this isn't a book,'' says Ana, the show's
heroine, to her tycoon suitor. ''If it was, it would be terrible.'' It certainly
would. But ''50 Shades!'' is a musical parody, and a very entertaining one
(1:30). Elektra Theater, 300 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 212-352-3101,
50shadesthemusical.com. (Andy Webster)

'iLuminate' More spectacle than story, ''iLuminate'' offers technology as its
most dazzling star. Conceived, produced and directed by Miral Kotb, a former
software engineer, the show employs about a dozen talented, indefatigable young
actor-dancers, encased in black suits wired with digitally controlled lights.
Performing in total darkness to a score combining hip-hop, jazz and classical
influences, they portray the tale of an artist whose magic paintbrush is stolen
for evil ends. Much of the action is like a neon comic book, but it does have
its magic moments (:55). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, iluminate.com. (Laurel Graeber)

'Lennon: Through a Glass Onion' In this two-man show, the Australian actor John
R. Waters (accompanied by the pianist Stewart D'Arrietta) wisely doesn't attempt
a complete impersonation of John Lennon. There are no glasses or beard or mop
top here, just an approximation of the voice and a deeply felt reflection of the
man. The show amply covers spirited rockers, but much of it explores the darker
depths that so distinguished Lennon from the sunnier Paul McCartney. The darkest
corners -- Lennon's early abusive romantic relationships and his heroin use --
are avoided. (No ''Cold Turkey'' here.) But the Beatle fanatics sure to see this
show won't mind (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Gramercy,
800-982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Webster)

'Sex Tips for Straight Women From a Gay Man' Matt Murphy's one-act is a blend of
a bachelorette party at Chippendales and the embarrassing midnight show at some
tourist trap in Pigalle. It has a talented cast, but it is no ''Queer Eye''
(1:20). 777 Theater, 777 Eighth Avenue, at 47th Street, 888-841-4111,
sextipsplay.com. (Anita Gates)

'Soul Doctor' This musical odyssey -- which has returned to the stage after a
short run on Broadway -- examines the life of ''The Singing Rabbi,'' Shlomo
Carlebach, a key figure in popular Jewish music, and his friendship with Nina
Simone. Directed by Mindy Cooper, the show has a book by Daniel S. Wise and
lyrics by David Schechter. Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

'Wiesenthal' This interesting though occasionally long-winded one-man show
(written by and starring Tom Dugan) looks at the life of the Nazi hunter Simon
Wiesenthal (1:30). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, wiesenthaltheplay.com. (Jaworowski)

Off Off Broadway

'Horse Girls' If gore and gratuitous, giggle-laced meanness is your thing, Jenny
Rachel Weiner's mad, dark comedy about girls gone wild (for horses) isn't a bad
way to spend an hour. Don't come looking for nuance (:50). The Cell, 338 West
23rd Street, Chelsea, 800-838-3006, horsegirlstheplay.com. (Claudia La Rocco)

'My Son the Waiter: A Jewish Tragedy' Brad Zimmerman's solo show about almost
three decades of working in restaurants while not becoming a famous actor and
his Jewish mother's shame is low-key, half-familiar, half-mordant and pretty
delicious (1:30). Stage 72, 158 West 72nd Street, Manhattan, 212-868-4444,
mysonthewaiter.com. (Gates)

Extravaganzas

&#x2605; Big Apple Circus ''Metamorphosis'' is the theme of the latest edition
of the Big Apple Circus, now nested at Lincoln Center for the holidays.
Considering the intimate scale of this troupe, you could say this production
starts modestly, only to spread its wings and soar. The company, now in its 37th
year, doesn't only have impressive animals and breathtaking acrobatic skills; it
has a lot of heart, too (2:00). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, 888-541-3750,
bigapplecircus.org. (Webster)

'Fuerza Bruta: Wayra' The latest bit of sensory-overload brand extension from
the creators of ''De la Guarda'' is a shiny, ever-shifting kinetic spectacle
bent on disorientation. A high-volume, augmented remix of ''Fuerzabruta,'' this
energetic show is rife with not-especially-impressive acrobatics, throbbing
music, many-colored lights and high winds from machines set at storm speed
(1:20). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, 212-239-6200,
fuerzabrutanyc.com. (Collins-Hughes)

'Queen of the Night' The latest and most lavish of this city's immersive theater
experiments includes cocktails, a meal and a circus-style floor show, in
addition to any number of possible intimate, eroticism-tinged (but PG-13)
encounters with the comely young cast members. The show is not for those prone
to social anxiety, but it's full of gaudy spectacle, with a fin-de-Bloomberg-era
vibe (2:45). Diamond Horseshoe at the Paramount Hotel, 235 West 46th Street,
866-811-4111, queenofthenightnyc.com. (Isherwood)

Long-Running Shows

'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages,
340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' An adaptation of
three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books. Saturdays and Sundays
(:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, 866-811-4111,
berenstainbearslive.com.

'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing
African-American pilots (2:30). (Saturdays only.) Actors Temple Theater, 339
West 47th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434
Lafayette Street, East Village, 800-258-3626, ticketmaster.com.

'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the
American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219
West 49th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210
West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'A Gentleman's Guide to Love & Murder' A feast of murder, music and merriment in
Edwardian England (2:20). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson
Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Kinky Boots' These boots are made for dancin' -- and stompin' out bigotry
(2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West
45th Street, 800-870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20).
Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, 212-639-6200, telecharge.com.

'Matilda the Musical' The children's revolution, per Roald Dahl (2:35). Shubert
Theater, 225 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride
through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy (2:40).
Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ticketmaster.com.

'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30).
Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway (2:30)? Majestic
Theater, 247 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox
musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com.

'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30).
(Saturdays and Sundays.) St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton,
212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The
McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111,
sleepnomorenyc.com.

'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum
Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, 800-982-2787,
ticketmaster.com.

'Then She Fell' Go ask Alice (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195
Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-374-5196,
thenshefell.com.

'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street,
800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

Last Chance

&#x2605; 'Cafe Society Swing' (closes on Sunday) Boasting a tight eight-piece
jazz band and the arresting talents of the French singer Cyrille Aimée, the
standout among four fine vocalists, this buoyant revue traces the late-1940s
demise of the integrated Greenwich Village jazz club Cafe Society. The
enveloping atmosphere and the sheer beauty of the music make the show a balm for
the soul, though the story it tells is bittersweet (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59
East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Collins-Hughes)

'A Christmas Memory' (closes on Sunday) The Irish Repertory Theater's musical
version of the Truman Capote short story is as slight as a popcorn strand, as
wispy as tinsel. A tale of a boy's attachment to his childlike cousin (Alice
Ripley), it is an exercise in holiday nostalgia. In cold blood? More like in
warm batter (1:30). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, 212-727-2737,
irishrep.org. (Soloski)

'Cirque Ziva' (closes on Sunday) The Golden Dragon Acrobats, from China, have
put together an impressive collection of gravity-defying acts that will impress
children and adults alike. Ping Gao's contortionist routine is the high point
(2:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, 646-562-2200, newvictory.org.
(Genzlinger)

'Fabulous! The Queen of New Musical Comedies' (closes on Monday) This show about
two drag queens aboard a cruise ship, pretending to be real women, is a little
''Some Like It Hot,'' a little ''Anything Goes'' and a lot of good-natured farce
with a goofy innocence (2:30). New Write Act Repertory Theater, 300 West 43rd
Street, Clinton, 800-836-3006, brownpapertickets.com. (Gates)

&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' (closes on Sunday) This invigorating poperetta,
conceived by David Byrne, sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do
I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos,
staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance
floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats
(1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village,
212-967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)

'The Illusionists: Witness the Impossible' (closes on Sunday) Seven talented
tricksters are drowning in a sea of cheese in this overproduced, overblown magic
show (2:00). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, 800-745-3000,
ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)

'The Invisible Hand' (closes on Sunday) Ayad Akhtar's latest drama, about the
dark connections between money and terrorism, finds an American banker held
hostage by Islamic militants in Pakistan. Justin Kirk gives a canny performance
as the Citibank exec who tries to keep himself alive by helping his captors work
the global markets (2:00). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street,
East Village, 212-279-4200, nytw.org. (Isherwood)

&#x2605; 'Lypsinka! The Trilogy' (closes on Saturday) The greatest chanteuse who
has never sung a note returns to the New York stage after an absence of nearly
10 years. That this three-part work, the creation of Lypsinka's alter-ego, John
Epperson, brilliantly assesses the toll taken on women by their facades should
surprise no one. The third installment (''Show Trash'') introduces the shy man
behind the overpowering diva (running in repertory: ''Lypsinka: The Boxed Set'':
1:15; ''The Passion of the Crawford'': 1:15; ''John Epperson: Show Trash'':
1:30). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, 866-811-4111,
tweedtheater.org/lypsinkatrilogy. (Brantley)

'Once' (closes on Sunday) This gentle musical set in Dublin, about a love affair
that never quite happens -- based on the 2006 movie -- inventively uses songs
(by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova) and dance to convey a beautiful shimmer of
might-have-been regret (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street,
212-239-6200, oncemusical.com. (Brantley)

'A Particle of Dread (Oedipus Variations)' (closes on Sunday) Sam Shepard sends
a forensic scientist into the realm of classical mythology to investigate the
mystery of Oedipus Rex (Stephen Rea). Nancy Meckler's time-traveling production
doesn't dig up many new insights, but Mr. Shepard seems to be having a good time
contemplating the nature of tragedy and the persistence of myth in memory
(1:25). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton,
212-244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)

'Pippin' (closes on Sunday) Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her
exhaustingly energetic revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972
musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle
-- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne -- that's there too, if you
look hard (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com. (Brantley)

'Pocatello' (closes on Sunday) The melancholy ghost of William Inge and the
repressive 1950s hover over Samuel D. Hunter's old-fashioned drama about
dead-end lives, starring an emotionally focused T.R. Knight as an unhappy
chain-restaurant manager. Directed by Davis McCallum, it suggests that though
the brand-names have changed, the blues sung by quietly desperate Americans
still have the same old aching lyrics (1:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West
42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Brantley)

'The Real Thing' (closes on Sunday) Authenticity is conspicuous only by its
absence in Sam Gold's revival of Tom Stoppard's 1982 comedy about one
all-too-witty writer's emotional block. Despite a talented big-name cast led by
Ewan McGregor and Maggie Gyllenhaal and the expected witty dialogue, evidence of
real feelings, real chemistry and real life in general is dishearteningly scarce
(2:15). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, 212-719-1300,
roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' (closes on Saturday) This ultimate and most
enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been
restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a
glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns
(2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, 212-239-6200,
telecharge.com. (Brantley)

&#x2605; 'Side Show' (closes on Sunday) This 1997 musical by Bill Russell and
Henry Krieger about the real-life conjoined twins Daisy and Violet Hilton, who
became vaudeville stars in the 1930s, has received a thrilling revival. The rich
score and a newly revised book with contributions from the director, Bill Condon
(best known for his film work), establish this adventurous musical as an
indispensable ticket for the season. Erin Davie and Emily Padgett are luminous
and affecting as the twins united by flesh but separated by their divergent
ambitions (2:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200,
sideshowbroadway.com. (Isherwood)

&#x2605; 'Swamp Juice' (closes on Sunday) Jeff Achtem's mostly wordless, largely
wondrous and fairly repulsive puppet play centers on a despicable dude who
cruises the bayou torturing various small animals. It's a nasty story, but
there's real virtuosity in the telling. Under his flailing fingers, unlikely
puppets -- made from found and scavenged materials -- become all manner of flora
and fauna (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue,
Greenwich Village, 212-868-4444, barrowstreettheatre.com. (Soloski)

&#x2605; 'Tail! Spin!' (closes on Sunday) Hanky-panky-in-high-office scandals of
recent years are transformed into comic burlesque in this clever comedy by Mario
Correa. Drawing verbatim on the public record, the play, nimbly directed by Dan
Knechtges, slices and dices the misbehavior of four politicians: Larry Craig
(airport bathroom sting), Mark Foley (he of the underage page scandal), Mark
Sanford (''hiking the Appalachian Trail'') and, of course, Anthony Weiner. The
excellent cast includes Rachel Dratch, playing all the female roles (1:15). Lynn
Redgrave Theater at Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street,
East Village, 866-811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Isherwood)

&#x2605; 'Tamburlaine, Parts I and II' (closes on Sunday) The
nations-conquering, mass-murdering title character of Christopher Marlowe's 1587
behemoth is here embodied by a truly titanic John Douglas Thompson as a force of
nature in the sense that typhoons and tidal waves are. Michael Boyd's
surprisingly enjoyable, fast-moving interpretation is packed with pageantry,
stylized violence and a coruscating theatrical wit that lets us chuckle uneasily
even as we recoil (3:00). Polonsky Shakespeare Center, 262 Ashland Place at
Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 866-811-4111, tfana.org. (Brantley)

&#x2605; 'This Is Our Youth' (closes on Sunday) As brought to thin-skinned,
full-blooded life by Michael Cera, Kieran Culkin and Tavi Gevinson, the three
young characters in Anna D. Shapiro's kinetically charged revival of this fine
Kenneth Lonergan play are in a state of permanent free-fall. They exquisitely
capture the sense of being lost, formless and on your own that descends with the
end of adolescence (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, 212-239-6200,
thisisouryouthbroadway.com. (Brantley)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/theater-listings-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FESTIVALS (89%);
PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); DANCE (77%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%);
COURTSHIP & DATING (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%);
THEATER (58%); PHYSICS (50%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (50%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A No. 3 Quarterback Topples No. 1 Alabama

BYLINE: By TIM ROHAN; Marc Tracy contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; OHIO STATE 42, ALABAMA 35; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words


NEW ORLEANS -- Nick Saban walked slowly down the sideline, barely picking up his
head as Ohio State running back Ezekiel Elliott sprinted toward the end zone
with a trail of Alabama defenders helplessly chasing him.

After Elliott's 85-yard dash -- the longest play from scrimmage Alabama had
allowed this season -- with 3 minutes 24 seconds remaining in the Sugar Bowl
gave the Buckeyes a 40-28 lead, Saban still paced the sideline by himself,
staring at the ground.

Perhaps the truth sank in, that he would have to wait another year to win a
national title.

After Cardale Jones, the Buckeyes' third-string quarterback, completed a pass
for the 2-point conversion, No. 1-ranked Alabama had another shot. Quarterback
Blake Sims led a six-play, 65-yard touchdown drive to pull the Crimson Tide to
42-35.

The Alabama defense then forced a Buckeyes punt with over one minute remaining.
But fourth-seeded Ohio State intercepted Sims's last-ditch desperation pass to
seal a pulsating 42-35 win on Thursday and a date with No. 2 Oregon on Jan. 12
in Arlington, Tex., for the national championship.

The title game will feature maybe the best quarterback in the country, Marcus
Mariota, the Heisman Trophy winner, against Jones, the unlikely hero who saved
Ohio State's season.

Jones ''has a tremendous arm, and they have some very good receivers, and those
things became apparent the last two games,'' Saban said.

He added, ''It wasn't so obvious all season long that they had the great skill
players.''

Jones was 18 for 35 for 243 yards for one touchdown and one interception. Sims
was 22 of 36 for 237 yards and two touchdowns and three interceptions.

Early in the first half, the Buckeyes' offense gashed Alabama (12-2) for chunks
of yards, but the Crimson Tide defense stiffened, stalling two Ohio State drives
inside the 10-yard line. Elliott fumbled and Jones threw a bad interception.

All the while, Ohio State's top two quarterbacks, Braxton Miller and J. T.
Barrett, watched from the sideline. Miller injured his right shoulder just
before the season, and Barrett broke his ankle in the regular-season finale.

This was only Jones's second career start. He led the Buckeyes to a 59-0
demolition of Wisconsin in the Big Ten championship game.

Meanwhile, the Crimson Tide offense took advantage with machinelike efficiency.
After Ohio State (13-1) took a 3-0 lead, Derrick Henry ran untouched for a
25-yard touchdown with 9:25 left in the first quarter. Sean Nuernberger kicked a
22-yard field to cut Ohio State's deficit to 7-6 before Amari Cooper caught a
15-yard touchdown pass from Sims with 2:06 remaining in the quarter. T. J.
Yeldon added a two-yard touchdown run to give the Crimson Tide a 21-6 lead.

''They did some things early we hadn't seen on the tape, threw us on our
heels,'' Ohio State defensive lineman Chris Carter said.

Jones rallied the Buckeyes for two touchdown drives. On the first, Elliott
barreled in from the 3-yard line. On the second, the Buckeyes used a razzle
dazzle play -- a double reverse with receiver Evan Spencer throwing a tight pass
to another, Michael Thomas, who made a spectacular catch with 12 seconds
remaining the draw the Buckeyes to 21-20.

Jones started the second half with a play showing his best skill: his arm. As
the Alabama defense converged, Jones lofted a high-arcing pass down the
sideline. The Ohio State defender fell, and Devin Smith hauled in a 47-yard
touchdown.

When Alabama lost to Mississippi in October, Saban heard whispers that the
season was over, the dynasty was over, that, as Saban said, ''the whole era of
what we've been able to do at Alabama was done, gone, didn't work anymore and
all that.''

Two years without a championship would be considered a drought for Alabama.

What the pundits meant was that the defense was not as devastating, the
offensive line not as dominant and Sims, perhaps, was too inconsistent. This was
his first year starting, and he was a bit wild compared to the traditional
Alabama quarterback, like his predecessor, A J McCarron, who was called a ''game
manager.''

Just before kickoff of the season opener against West Virginia at the Georgia
Dome, Sims approached the new offensive coordinator Lane Kiffin with his eyes
wide. Sims needed reassurance. He told Kiffin that he planned to look to him on
the sideline between every play, so Kiffin could walk him through what to do.

Sims has taken control ever since. Still, some believed that Alabama would go
only as far as Sims could take them.

Trailing by 27-20 and facing a third-and-7 in the third quarter, Sims tried to
rocket a pass to Cooper, his Heisman finalist receiver. But Steve Miller, a
defensive end, dropped into coverage, intercepted it and sprinted 41 yards for a
touchdown with 3:21 remaining.

Sims atoned for his mistake by capping a seven-play, 84-yard drive with a
five-yard scamper into the end zone to pull the Crimson Tide to 34-28 down.

However, about five minutes into the fourth quarter Sims threw another
interception, killing another Alabama drive.

The game was billed as a matchup between two of college football's best coaches:
Saban, the defensive genius, versus Urban Meyer, the offensive savant.

Saban won four championships at two programs -- Louisiana State and Alabama.
Meyer won two championships at Florida and has rebuilt Ohio State into a
national power. Patrolling their sidelines calls to mind Bear Bryant and Woody
Hayes. Combined, they have won five of the last eight national championships.

They appear to have a cordial relationship. About 25 years ago, when Meyer was
an Illinois State assistant and Saban was hired for his first head coaching job
at Toledo, Meyer called Saban looking for a job and left a message with Saban's
wife.

Saban never followed up, and he said this week that he regretted it.

''I'm sure he does,'' Meyer had joked.

Meyer, for one night, got the last laugh.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/ncaafootball/ohio-state-cardale-jones-a
labama-sugar-bowl-advances-national-title-game.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ohio State's Steve Miller (88) after his 41-yard interception
return for a touchdown gave the fourth-seeded Buckeyes a 34-21 lead. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY BILL HABER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6)
 Steve Miller scoring after he intercepted a third-quarter pass by Alabama's
Blake Sims, who finished with two touchdown passes and three interceptions.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK COOK/REUTERS) (B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS
(78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); RANKINGS (74%);
BONE FRACTURES (69%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Cold Month Is No Longer Dark

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; JANUARY
STAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 686 words


MOST of us abandon our New Year's resolutions. But if you vowed to see more live
art in 2015, you can start keeping that one right away. A decade ago, January
was a performance doldrums. No more.

As thousands of curators pack the New York Hilton Midtown for the annual
Association of Performing Arts Presenters conference, hundreds of artists and
companies crowd downtown stages. Many performers survive by touring, so they're
hoping that their work will tempt those visiting presenters. But the astonishing
range of work makes these weeks a treat for civilians, too.

Under the Radar was the first of these festivals on the scene. It has since been
joined by Coil, American Realness and Prototype: Opera/Theater/Now. This year,
many will mourn the absence of Other Forces, a casualty of the shuttered
Incubator Arts Project, while welcoming a new participant, a weekend showcase
called Circus Now at the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts.

Some of the performances are local; many are global. Some, like Reggie Watts's
takeoff of Marina Abramovic, are as short as five minutes. One, Temporary
Distortion's ''My Voice Has an Echo in It'' (part of Coil), lasts six hours.
Some blare big names, like Prototype's ''Kansas City Choir Boy,'' which co-stars
Courtney Love; others unleash unknowns. Some are new; others are revivals of
projects past, like the Team's ''RoosevElvis,'' which Coil is presenting, and
Julia Jarcho's ''Grimly Handsome,'' a bizarro noir about cops, Christmas trees
and red pandas, which was part of Other Forces in 2013 and will be staged this
time at Jack in Brooklyn.

Ms. Jarcho, speaking by telephone in late December, admitted that these weeks
were a ''challenging time to put on a show, because everyone feels overwhelmed
at this time of year.'' Still, she said, ''If I didn't have anything happening
now, I'd maybe be a little extra sad and envious.'' Who could blame her?

Here's a tease of this cold-weather panoply, from a ''filmic drama'' to a robot
musical, from a glorious aerial act to a suicidal grand jeté.

Prototype: Courtney Love Prepares for 'Kansas City Choir Boy'

Coil: 'Sorry Robot,' From Mike Iveson

Under the Radar: Mariano Pensotti's 'Cineastas' Tells 8 Stories

American Realness: Jack Ferver Takes Inspiration From Fred Herko

Circus Now: Ilona Jantti and Finnish Aerialism

IF YOU WISH TO GO TO THE FESTIVALS

AMERICAN REALNESS Thursday through Jan. 18 at the Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand
Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side. Jack Ferver's ''Night Light Bright
Light'' runs Jan. 14, 16 and 18. (866-811-4111, americanrealness.com)

COIL Friday through Jan. 17 at various venues. Mike Iveson's ''Sorry Robot''
runs Tuesday to Jan. 17 at the New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West
Village. The Team's ''RoosevElvis'' runs through Jan. 10 at the Vineyard
Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Union Square. Temporary Distortion's ''My Voice
Has an Echo in It'' runs Wednesday through Jan. 11 at Ideal Glass Gallery, 22
East Second Street, East Village. (212-352-3101, ps122.org) Coil festival
tickets are also available in person at some box offices.

CIRCUS NOW: INTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY CIRCUS EXPOSURE Thursday through Jan. 10
at the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at
Washington Square South, Greenwich Village. Ilona Jantti performs in the Jan. 10
showcase. (212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org)

''GRIMLY HANDSOME"Jan. 11, 13 and 14 at Jack, 505 1/2 Waverly Avenue, Brooklyn.
(grimlyhandsomeapap@gmail.com)

PROTOTYPE: OPERA/THEATER/NOW Thursday through Jan. 17, with many events at Here,
145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village. Todd Almond's
''Kansas City Choir Boy'' runs Thursday through Jan. 17 at Here. (212-352-3101,
prototypefestival.org)

UNDER THE RADAR Wednesday through Jan. 18, with most events at the Public
Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, and some at La
MaMa, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village. Mariano Pensotti's ''Cineastas'' is
Wednesday through Jan. 11 at the Public. Reggie Watts's ''Audio Abramovic'' is
Jan. 14, 16, 17 and 18 at the Public. (212-967-7555, undertheradarfestival.com)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/theater-festivals-include-under-the-radar
-and-american-realness.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Ferver rehearsing for the American Realness festival,
starting Thursday at Abrons Arts Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%);
CHRISTMAS (78%); THEATER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yankees Trade a Former Top Prospect to the Braves

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASEBALL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 128 words


After years of waiting for the left-hander Manny Banuelos to fulfill his
potential, the Yankees gave up on him, trading him to the Atlanta Braves for the
right-handed pitcher David Carpenter and the left-hander Chasen Shreve. Banuelos
joined the Yankees organization in 2008 but never reached the major leagues
despite his promising ability.

The Yankees were in need of a proven right-handed reliever after trading Shawn
Kelley to the Padres last week. Carpenter, 29, had a 3.54 earned run average and
three saves in 65 appearances for Atlanta last year. Shreve, 24, made his major
league debut last year and had an 0.73 E.R.A. in 15 games. He had a 3.22 E.R.A.
over five minor league seasons.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/baseball/yankees-trade-former-top-prosp
ect-to-braves.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (93%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marrone, Ex-Bills Coach, Is Among Seven Candidates for Jets

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO FOOTBALL; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 161 words


Make Doug Marrone the Jets' seventh confirmed coaching candidate. The team plans
to speak next week with Marrone, who opted out as coach of the Buffalo Bills on
Wednesday, but no interview has been scheduled yet, said a person with knowledge
of the team's thinking.

The Jets have already met with their assistant head coach, Anthony Lynn. They
are scheduled to speak this weekend in Seattle with two members of the Seahawks'
staff, the defensive coordinator Dan Quinn and the assistant head coach Tom
Cable, and at some point next week with the San Diego offensive coordinator
Frank Reich. The Baltimore offensive coordinator Gary Kubiak and the Arizona
defensive coordinator Todd Bowles also remain possibilities.

A potential candidate for general manager dropped out of contention Thursday
when the Baltimore assistant general manager Eric DeCosta declined the Jets'
interview request.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/football/doug-marrone-is-among-jets-can
didates.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL
(90%); SPORTS (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (88%); MIDDLE MANAGEMENT (86%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (93%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (56%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Best Sports Films Often Aren't Like 'Foxcatcher,' 'Raging Bull' Stood Apart
Among Sports Movies

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; ESSAY; Pg.

LENGTH: 729 words


The sports film is imbued with the impulse to inspire, or at least to make the
moviegoer feel good. Think of the familiar blueprint: an underdog high school
basketball team in ''Hoosiers'' or the aging ballplayer Roy Hobbs in ''The
Natural'' battles the odds to emerge with a victory.

They are often transformed with the help of a coach, like Herman Boone in
''Remember the Titans.'' And sometimes the triumph is a personal one, as in Ray
Kinsella's recognition in ''Field of Dreams'' that he had built his Iowa
cornfield diamond to reconcile with his long-dead father.

It is rare that a sports film ends without some spiritual uplift, even when it
ends in a loss. Rocky Balboa fought gloriously and proved he was not a bum in
''Rocky.''

I was thinking about this formula recently when I watched ''Foxcatcher,'' the
latest sports-theme movie to find itself in the Academy Award discussions. It
reminded me of another sweaty, award-winning movie, ''Raging Bull.'' By being so
dark, they offer no inspiration and challenge the genre's convention; unless
despicable behavior elicits goose bumps for you, these films will not produce
any.

There are no hero's epiphanies (except, maybe, Jake LaMotta's jail-cell cry in
''Raging Bull'' that he was not ''an animal,'' while banging his head on the
wall) and no great climaxes that let the directors freeze the screen and roll
the credits.

They are intense stories about irredeemable central characters: LaMotta, the
middleweight boxer of the 1940s and 1950s, who alienates everyone close to him,
and the creepy wrestling benefactor John E. du Pont, who shot and killed the
1984 Olympic gold medalist Dave Schultz in 1996.

''Raging Bull'' is the better film and, in my view, the greatest sports movie of
all time because its director, Martin Scorsese, and its star, Robert De Niro,
were so adept at conveying a world of violence and amoral men. Four years
earlier, they had collaborated on ''Taxi Driver.''

In ''Raging Bull,'' Scorsese and De Niro create little separation between the
LaMotta whose ring brutality was an asset and the LaMotta whose fists were used
as weapons against his wife.

The ring sequences in the film are stunning and suggest a heightened cinematic
equivalent of the Friday night fights.

''Foxcatcher,'' directed by Bennett Miller, leaves you cold with Steve Carell's
portrayal of du Pont's psychopathology. Du Pont is a masterful manipulator with
money who creates a training center for Olympic wrestlers, but is, in truth, an
awkward loser trying to create a world of personal achievement that will set him
apart from his distant mother.

''Foxcatcher'' and ''Raging Bull'' tell bleak stories, among the most somber in
the genre. There are other sad tales in sports films, but when I think of the
paralyzing injury to the boxer Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank) in ''Million
Dollar Baby,'' it is as part of the heroic inspiration of Clint Eastwood's
Academy Award-winning film. Until a dirty opponent's after-the-bell punch sent
Maggie falling into the ring stool, Eastwood had established her as a lovable,
spunky up-and-comer and the surrogate daughter to the trainer he plays -- the
same man who writes stacks of unanswered letters to his own daughter.

Filmmakers always face a distinct challenge in creating movies about sports,
which have their own real-time clock and inherent drama and, to some extent,
have been seen by many people. Fans watch sports hoping for buzzer-beaters and
game-winning touchdown passes with the time ticking to zero. I want sports films
to create an alternative universe, one in which a sports story is told not
through a nine-inning game but as a love story, or a fantasy, or even a prison
tale.

For instance, ''Moneyball,'' Miller's previous film, created a world of conflict
within baseball: the rise of analytics against the pessimism of old-school
scouts. It was compelling enough on its own that it limited the need for much
baseball action. Oakland A's General Manager Billy Beane, played by Brad Pitt,
was quixotic enough that his own Sancho Panza, a stats wiz played by Jonah Hill,
felt organic.

If fictionalized or fictional stories, like ''A League of Their Own'' or ''Field
of Dreams,'' relieve filmmakers of the need to hew to facts, I look forward to
seeing how they will handle stories about newsmakers like Oscar Pistorius,
Donald Sterling, Ray Rice and, maybe, Mo'ne Davis.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/like-foxcatcher-raging-bull-deconstruct
ed-the-sports-antihero.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM GENRES (91%); FILM (90%); ATHLETES (89%); WRESTLING (78%); ACADEMY
AWARDS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%);
BASKETBALL (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); SHOOTINGS (69%); BOXING (68%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (58%); STEVE CARELL (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times

BYLINE: By MEGHAN RICE and ANNE MANCUSO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2495 words


Museums and Sites

American Museum of Natural History: 'Lonesome George' (through Sunday) His death
in 2012 brought to an end the species of this Pinta Island tortoise of the
Galápagos Islands, named Lonesome George for his largely singular existence. But
thanks to naturalists here and in Ecuador and taxidermy specialists, he can be
viewed as he appeared in life, with neck and limbs extended; following this
exhibition, he will be returned to Ecuador. Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.;
Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

American Museum of Natural History: 'Pterosaurs: Flight in the Age of Dinosaurs'
(through Sunday) The earliest known vertebrates to fly, pterosaurs large and
small roamed the skies more than 60 million years ago. This exhibition examines
the lives of these creatures with fossils, casts and life-size models, as well
as videos and interactive simulations. Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Central
Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

Brooklyn Historical Society: Nell Painter and Sarah Lewis in Conversation
(Tuesday) This free discussion is being presented in conjunction with the
exhibition ''She Said, She Said: Art and Inspiration in the Work of Nell Painter
and Lucille Fornasieri Gold.'' The author Sarah Lewis will talk with Ms.
Painter, a historian turned artist, about her inspirations and decision to delve
into the visual arts. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn
Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org.

Grolier Club: 'One Hundred Books Famous in Children's Literature' (through Feb.
7) Early editions of children's literary classics printed from 1600 to 2000 --
including ''Robinson Crusoe,'' ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' and ''Tom
Sawyer'' -- are on display along with more than 50 artifacts. Monday through
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, 212-838-6690,
grolierclub.org; free.

Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum: 'Masters of Disguise: The World of Camouflage'
(through Feb. 24) The art of camouflage in nature and its appropriation by
hunters and the armed forces are explored in this exhibition, which uses digital
images, artifacts and interactive elements to showcase how color, shade and
shapes can be used to deceive the eye. Daily, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Pier 86,
46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, 877-957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org.

Museum of Chinese in America: 'Who Was Shuck W. Chin?' (Sunday) Heather Lee,
whose ''A Life Cooking for Others: The Work and Migration Experiences of a
Chinese Restaurant Worker in New York City, 1920-1946'' was part of the
anthology ''Eating Asian America: A Food Studies Reader,'' weaves personal
effects, letters and household items together into a portrait of a restaurant
worker in postwar Chinatown. At 2 p.m., 215 Centre Street, between Howard and
Grand Streets, Lower Manhattan, 212-619-4785, mocanyc.org.

National Museum of Math: 'Robot Swarm' This exhibition features two dozen small,
glowing robots that have been programmed to communicate with one another and
react to people's movements, either following them or zooming away. In addition
to the fun, the show will feature material that explains the simple mathematical
rules behind swarm technology. Daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 11 East 26th
Street, Manhattan, 212-542-0566, momath.org.

New-York Historical Society: 'Chinese American: Exclusion/Inclusion' (through
April 19) In his review for The New York Times, Edward Rothstein called it a
''vigorous and imaginative new exhibition,'' that includes a look at ''how
Chinese-American identity came to be, how immigration and discrimination were
followed by recrimination and conflict, and how, finally, a people's trials give
way to celebration.'' Tuesday through Thursday and Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6
p.m., Friday till 8 p.m.; Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed on Monday; 170
Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

New York Public Library for the Performing Arts: 'Emily Dickinson: Musician and
Poet' (through March 6) Emily Dickinson's poems and letters as well as the
library's collections of her work provide the backdrop for this exhibition
focusing on the musical side of her writing. Dickinson's musical identity, which
included piano performances, the collection of sheet music and concerts outings,
will be detailed. Monday and Thursday from noon to 8 p.m.; Tuesday, Wednesday,
Friday and Saturday from noon to 6 p.m.; 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street,
917-275-6975, nypl.org/lpa; free.

New York Transit Museum Annex: Holiday Train Show (through Feb. 22) This free
annual holiday treat for model train enthusiasts, featuring vintage Lionel
trains, is on display in Grand Central Terminal. Weekdays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; New York Transit Museum Gallery
Annex and Store at Grand Central Terminal, near the Station Master's Office;
mta.info/mta/museum.

Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture: First Fridays: Black Male
Edition (Friday) In conjunction with the center's ''Question Bridge: Black
Males'' exhibition, this free evening of entertainment and discussion will focus
on the experiences of black men. Among the highlights are a screening of Spike
Lee's ''Get on the Bus'' and music from DJ Masai, who will put his musical spin
on the night's theme. At 6 p.m., 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, Harlem,
212-491-2206, schomburgcenter.org.

Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian: Photography and Jewelry
Display (through Feb. 15) More than 80 black-and-white photographs and vintage
postcards from the 1920s to '60s, featuring the work of the American Indian
photographer Horace Poolaw, who died in 1984, are the focus of the exhibition
''For a Love of His People,'' on view through Feb. 15. His camera is also part
of the display, which chronicles American Indian life on the Southern Plains of
Oklahoma. Another exhibition, ''Glittering World: Navajo Jewelry of the Yazzie
Family,'' a collection of 300 pieces of jewelry, runs through Jan. 10. Daily
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; until 8 p.m. on Thursdays; 1 Bowling Green, Lower
Manhattan, 212-514-3700, nmai.si.edu; free.

Gardens

New York Botanical Garden: Holiday Train Show and 'Bar Car Night' (through Jan.
19) Landmarks made of natural materials, including new models of Grand Central
Terminal and the garden's conservatory, are included in this year's display. And
there are, of course, the model trains that whiz by the luxuriant foliage. On
Friday and Saturday from 7 to 10 p.m., visitors 21 and older can view the
display while sipping cocktails and listening to jazz during the ''Bar Car
Night'' series, which runs selected days through Jan. 10. Train show hours are
Tuesdays through Fridays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays from 10
a.m. to 7 p.m.; Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx,
718-817-8700, nybg.org.

Events

Celebration of American Circus (Sunday) The Big Apple Circus, Les 7 Doigts de la
Main and Philippe Petit are among the artists and organizations instrumental in
revolutionizing the circus arts. This weekend they will be honored at the first
Celebration of American Circus, presented by Circus Now. The event, directed by
West Hyler, will be both a ceremony and performance, and will be followed by a
reception. At 8 p.m., Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center, circusnow.org/celebrate.

An Evening with Annie Baker (Thursday) This playwright is celebrating the
publications of two of her plays, ''The Flick,'' winner of the 2014 Pulitzer
Prize, and her translation of Chekhov's ''Uncle Vanya.'' The night will also
include performances from both plays and a discussion between Ms. Baker and Adam
Greenfield, director of new play development at Playwrights Horizons. At 7 p.m.,
McNally Jackson, 52 Prince Street, between Lafayette and Mulberry Streets, SoHo,
212-274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com.

Holiday Duo Recital (Sunday) The Wagner Society of New York presents this
recital with the soprano Jennifer Benke, the tenor Ric Furman and the pianist
Tom Bagwell performing works by R. Strauss, Medtner, Barber, Giordano, Sibelius
and Wagner. At 3 p.m., Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater at the West Side
Y.M.C.A., 10 West 64th Street, 212-749-4561, wagnersocietyny.org.

Jazz for Curious Listeners (Tuesday) Bobby Sanabria will host the latest
installment of this series, which will focus on the bandmaster and songwriter
James Reese Europe and the Harlem Hellfighters. From 7 to 8:30 p.m., National
Jazz Museum in Harlem, 104 East 126th Street, 212-348-8300,
jazzmuseuminharlem.org.

92nd Street Y: A Reading and a Discussion (Tuesday and Wednesday) Ilyasah
Shabazz, Malcolm X's daughter, and Kekla Magoon celebrate the release of ''X: A
Novel,'' a book based on the actual events of Malcolm X's life. Sunny Hostin, of
CNN, will moderate the talk, which starts at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday. The next
evening, at 7:30 p.m., two of the country's security experts, John Miller, the
city Police Department's deputy commissioner of intelligence and
counterterrorism, and Jane Holl Lute, a former deputy secretary of homeland
security, will discuss tips for safe travel. 1395 Lexington Avenue,
212-415-5500, 92y.org.

'A Path Appears' Screening (Wednesday) Nicholas Kristof, an Op-Ed columnist for
The New York Times, and Sheryl WuDunn, his wife and a former business editor at
The Times, were joined in this documentary by celebrity activists (including Mia
Farrow, Jennifer Garner, Regina Hall and Eva Longoria) as they traveled across
the world to uncover the everyday difficulties of women and girls. The film, by
Maro Chermayeff, was developed in conjunction with Mr. Kristof and Ms. WuDunn's
book, ''A Path Appears: Transforming Lives, Creating Opportunity.'' The free
screening is from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m., and reservations are suggested. Anne Frank
Center USA, 44 Park Place, at Church Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-431-7993,
annefrank.com.

Three Kings Day Parade (Tuesday) In the Bible, the three kings followed a bright
star to Bethlehem, where they presented gifts to the baby Jesus. On Tuesday at
11 a.m., they will lead a procession in East Harlem as part of El Museo del
Barrio's 38th annual Three Kings Day Parade, with camels, thousands of
schoolchildren, There will also be giant handmade puppets, music and dancing at
this free event, which begins at 106th Street and Lexington Avenue and ends at
115th Street and Park Avenue. At the end of the parade route, traditional Puerto
Rican music will be played and food will be available from noon to 1 p.m. The
celebration -- sponsored by the City Council speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito; La
Marqueta Retoña; Acacia Network; and the New York City Economic Development
Corporation -- will continue until 2 p.m. at El Museo del Barrio, with a musical
performance by Pablo Mayor and friends. More information: 212-831-7272,
elmuseo.org.

Spoken Word

A Conversation With Diana Rigg (Monday) This Tony-winning actress, who was
nominated last year for an Emmy for her guest turn in ''Game of Thrones,'' will
sit down for a discussion with the theater writer and critic Peter Filichia. Ms.
Rigg's 1983 compilation, ''No Turn Unstoned,'' is a thesaurus of the nastiest
theater reviews. She went on to adapt it for the stage and performed it at last
year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe. At 7 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at
95th Street, 212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org.

Marathon Reading of Freud's 'Civilization and Its Discontents' (Saturday) The
OutLoud! Series, in partnership with Judson Memorial Church and New Book in
Psychoanalysis, will host this free marathon reading, which will feature the
author Michael Cunningham, the critic and writer Dale Peck, the writer Nick
Flynn and many others. From 2:30 to 7 p.m., Judson Memorial Church, 55
Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, 212-477-0351, judson.org.

Farran Smith Nehme (Wednesday) This author, who new book, ''Missing Reels,''
follows a girl from small town to the fading glamour of New York City's old
movie houses, hosts a panel of film experts the Strand Book Store. Ms. Farran's
has invited, among others, James Wolcott of Vanity Fair and the New York
Magazine critic Matt Zoller Seitz to take part. At 7 p.m., 828 Broadway, at 12th
Street, 212-473-1452, strandbooks.com.

Jason Sokol and Brent Staples (Monday) Mr. Sokol, author of ''All Eyes Are Upon
Us: Race and Politics From Boston to Brooklyn,'' will discuss his book and a
range issues related to race with Brent Staples, an editorial writer for The New
York Times. At 7:30 p.m., Greenlight Bookstore, 686 Fulton Street, at South
Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 718-246-0200, greenlightbookstore.com.

'Words and Pictures' (Tuesday) Moyra Davey, an artist whose work appeared at the
2012 Whitney Biennial, will speak with Michael Famighetti, the editor of
Aperture magazine, and the photographers Erica Baum and Gus Powell, about the
relationship between writing and photography. At 8 p.m., National Arts Club, 15
Gramercy Park South, 212-475-3424, nationalartsclub.org; free.

Walking Tours

Flatiron District Walking Tour (Sundays) This free tour meets at 11 a.m. on the
southwest corner of Madison Square Park, at 23rd Street and Broadway, in front
of the William Seward statue. Sponsored by the Flatiron/23rd Street Partnership;
discoverflatiron.org.

History of Wall Street Tour (weekdays) Stops on this tour, led by Wall Street
Walks, include the New York Stock Exchange, Trinity Church, the Wall Street
Bull, and ground zero and the Sept. 11 memorial. The tours last 90 minutes and
begin at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. (Also at 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.) More
details: wallstreetwalks.com.

Post-New Year Nosh and Tour (Friday) The Museum at Eldridge Street will be
celebrating the New Year with tours, hot cider and challah. At 1 p.m., Amy
Stein-Milford, the museum's deputy director, will give a behind-the-scenes
architectural tour. From 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side,
212-219-0888, eldridgestreet.org.

Union Square: Crossroads of New York (Saturdays) Sponsored by the Union Square
Partnership, this free year-round tour focuses on the area's political and
social histories. The walk, led by guides from Big Onion Walking Tours, meets at
2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street
transverse. 212-517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org.

Recreation

Family Art Project: Through the Seasons (Saturday and Sunday) Manuel Acevedo
will teach how to make flip books of a sun setting, a flower growing or a tree
shedding its leaves. From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., Wave Hill, West 249th Street and
Independence Avenue, Riverdale, the Bronx, 718-549-3200, wavehill.org; free;
admission to the grounds is free until noon. MEGHAN RICE and ANNE MANCUSO

Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times should be sent to
weekend@nytimes.com by Monday at 5 p.m. for publication that week. Longer
versions of Around Town and For Children listings are in a searchable guide at
nytimes.com/events.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/spare-times-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); HISTORY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%);
VISUAL ARTS (71%); LITERATURE (69%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%);
CHILDREN (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ECUADOR (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Contentious Source of Income Is Set to Dry Up

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1417 words


Soccer's hot stove league -- the winter transfer window -- fired up again
Thursday, beginning a monthlong frenzy in which some of Europe's best-known
teams will buy and sell the rights to some of the world's best players.

But as teams around the world prepare for the semiannual flurry -- there is a
longer summer window -- everyone involved does so with a new era looming:
Third-party ownership, which for years drove the market by allowing outside
investors to buy pieces of a player's future to profit from his eventual sale,
will soon be banned.

At its core, third-party ownership, or T.P.O., is simple: An investor gives
money to a club in exchange for a share of a player's future transfer fees. Many
clubs, particularly in South America and Eastern Europe, build their rosters
around T.P.O., either as a hedge against a young player's development prospects
or to raise capital for more immediate needs. Notoriously cash-poor Brazilian
and Argentine teams have come to rely on the income, and Portugal's top teams
have used the system for years to import players from South America and then
flip them to richer clubs in countries like England, where T.P.O. has been
banned since 2008.

The system has been described as a combination of stock trading and gambling,
but its most fervent supporters unapologetically call it the backbone of global
soccer. It has been a key factor -- for better or worse -- in the recent career
tracks of some of the world's top players: Neymar and David Luiz of Brazil,
Ángel Di María of Argentina, and Radamel Falcao and James Rodríguez of Colombia.

But on Dec. 19, layered underneath a more publicized announcement regarding a
report on potential World Cup bidding corruption, FIFA announced a worldwide ban
on third-party ownership, effective May 1, 2015. So urgent was the need for the
ban, FIFA said, that it included a stipulation that any contracts signed between
now and May involving outside investors could last for only one season.

Marcos Motta, a prominent sports lawyer in Brazil, is one of about 10 members of
a FIFA working group that has been examining and debating T.P.O. He said in an
interview that he was stunned by the announcement of the ban because his group
was set to meet, at FIFA's request, in late January.

''This feels like a unilateral move,'' Motta said. ''Everyone was expecting a
reasonable transition period. The clubs in Brazil are in shock, and the market
has already been affected. The investors want to secure their investments, and
right now nothing is secure.''

FIFA's general stance opposing T.P.O. was first made public in September and was
related to concerns about the strong influence that investors -- who can range
from wealthy individuals to fully functional corporations and investment funds
-- have on players and teams.

The debate over T.P.O. often divides regionally. Save for a few exceptions like
Portugal (which is saturated with investor-backed players), most western
European leagues and associations are in favor of outlawing T.P.O., which they
contend drives up player prices and benefits people with little stake in the
sport. The top leagues in England and France already have rules against T.P.O.,
and there have been several instances in which potential transfers involving
English teams -- Tottenham's 2012 pursuit of João Moutinho, for example -- fell
apart because dissolving the various stakes held in the player proved
impossible.

In South America, though, and particularly in Brazil, supporters of the T.P.O.
system say it has been critical to the professional game's survival. From
January 2011 to June 2014, according to FIFA transfer records, Brazilian clubs
moved 2,311 players for fees totaling $579 million -- staggering totals that
come under a particularly sharp light when one considers that about 90 percent
of players in the Brazilian league are co-owned by clubs and investors.
Cruzeiro, the current Brazilian champion, recently used a starting lineup in
which the rights to nine of its 11 players were partly owned by outside
investors.

The highest-profile transfer involving T.P.O. in recent years was Neymar's 2013
move from his Brazilian club Santos to F.C. Barcelona in Spain. In that deal,
Barcelona paid a transfer fee to Santos that was initially reported to be about
$76 million -- a figure that remains in dispute. But Santos did not receive the
entire fee; several years earlier, it had sold shares in Neymar to a variety of
investors as a way to reap a more immediate dividend on his projected value and
to finance a richer contract for Neymar, thus enticing him to stay with Santos a
bit longer.

In the end, Santos was said to have paid out more than 40 percent of Neymar's
transfer fee to investors. To make things even murkier, it was revealed later
that Barcelona actually paid much more than was initially thought, but sent some
of the money to a company owned in part by Neymar's father. The entire case
wound up in court, with Barcelona making a ''voluntary'' payment of more than
$18 million to cover unpaid taxes on the deal. The affair may have been the
final straw for FIFA.

''It is ridiculous to own 50 percent of a player, and from a moral point of
view, it is crazy,'' said Theo Van Seggelen, head of the international players'
union known as FIFPro. ''But it is also bad for clubs. It causes financial
problems. The consequence is that a lot of money is leaving football and is
going into the hands of people who have no involvement at all.''

Some investors had even gone as far as starting their own teams. Traffic Sports,
a marketing company that has a variety of soccer businesses and that has long
operated a player investment fund, owned a development club in Brazil,
Desportivo Brasil, as well as a Portuguese team, Estoril, which it used as a way
to bring talented players to Europe.

In an interview last year, Frederico Pena, the chief executive of Traffic's
soccer division, described the path of one player, Ismaily Gonçalves dos Santos,
who was discovered at a tryout in Brazil. Impressed with his potential, Traffic
signed the teenage dos Santos and placed him in its Desportivo academy. In 2009,
he went on loan to Estoril. Three years later, another Portuguese club, Braga,
bought 60 percent of dos Santos's rights from Traffic for about 200,000 euros,
with Traffic keeping 32 percent and Gonçalves (and his agent) keeping 8 percent.

''He played seven months for Braga and was sold to Shakhtar Donetsk for 4
million euros,'' Pena said. ''Everyone got paid out. In this business, that's a
big success story.''

More recently, however, Traffic sensed that a change was in the offing and moved
away from the T.P.O. model. The company sold its Brazilian academy and
Desportivo to Chinese investors and, according to Jochen Loesch, its president
for international business, began focusing more of its attention on developing
players through Estoril.

Still, Loesch expressed doubt that a ban of T.P.O. would actually keep teams
from using investors, even if they had to be a bit more sly about how they did
it. ''T.P.O. exists because the market wants it,'' he said. ''We never pointed a
gun at a club director and forced him to take our money.''

The effect of the coming ban is not yet clear, though Motta said it was apparent
that FIFA's directive was designed to target larger players in the T.P.O. game,
like Jorge Mendes, a powerful agent who has reportedly owned significant shares
in his players, or Doyen Sports, a Malta-based fund that was recently at the
heart of a much-publicized transfer controversy involving the Argentine defender
Marcos Rojo.

After his strong performance at last summer's World Cup, Rojo essentially forced
his way out of his Portuguese club, Sporting Lisbon, by refusing to practice
unless the club sold him. Sporting eventually acceded, sending Rojo to
Manchester United for about $25 million.

Sporting's president, though, accused Doyen Sports of masterminding the whole
sequence because the fund had purchased 75 percent of Rojo's future transfer
earnings under a previous administration. Speaking at a soccer conference in
England in the fall, the president, Bruno de Carvalho, accused Doyen Sports of
pushing for a transfer that was not necessary (or even desired), crystallizing
the fears that T.P.O.'s detractors had been harping on for years.

''I am against funds where we don't know where the money is coming from, and who
try to manipulate football,'' he said, adding later that the funds, simply put,
were ''a menace to sports.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/soccer/fifa-will-ban-third-party-owners
hip-in-may.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neymar's transfer from Santos to Barcelona was taken to court
over fees said to be paid to third parties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERT GEA/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (79%); 2015 FIFA CORRUPTION SCANDAL (79%); SPORTS BUSINESS
(79%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FIFA WORLD CUP (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (90%); ENGLAND (79%);
PORTUGAL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Turning the Garden Into a House Party

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 675 words


Minutes before midnight on New Year's Eve at Madison Square Garden, the dance
party paused for a video montage. As a look back on the year that was, it was a
bit random, mixing hints of hellishness with small victories: Robin Williams's
death, Ebola and Ferguson, Mo., but also Derek Jeter's farewell to Yankee
Stadium, a goal by Clint Dempsey in the World Cup and footage from Burning Man
of the night's headlining D.J.s, Diplo and Skrillex.

Farewell, 2014.

The retrospective was a brief reprieve from the dance music that had started
nearly four hours earlier, but there would be more to come. After the countdown
clock hit zero and confetti fell, the bass dropped once again. Then again, and
again.

As purveyors of a very American strain of electronic dance music, or E.D.M.,
Skrillex and Diplo trade in constant pleasure and adrenaline, forgoing any down
moments in favor of a relentless build and piling sounds like a Jenga tower
until the whole thing wobbles. To ring in the New Year, each played a
hyperactive solo set before joining forces as a two-headed E.D.M. Hydra: Jack U.
For the amped crowd, which, like the beats-per-minute in the music, rarely
slowed, the show might as well have been a cardio class.

''I've only been to one other concert, and it was Billy Joel, so there were a
lot of old people,'' said one 22-year-old, who gave her name only as Haley.
''It's pretty different here.''

She had driven for hours from Binghamton, N.Y., with two friends, who were
taking a break from the pulverizing bass to eat nachos. The three said they
planned to make another musical pilgrimage to Ultra, the popular E.D.M. festival
in Miami, in March.

''If you're from out of town, make some noise right now!'' Diplo commanded from
the stage during his first set. Based on the crowd's response, this was not a
room full of locals.

Matthew Malandro, 20, said he had driven from Vermont to see Jack U, just days
after a trip to Virginia for a concert known as BassLights, which pairs the
E.D.M. musicians Bassnectar and Pretty Lights.

Such fan devotion, especially among young people, has turned E.D.M. into a
multibillion-dollar industry -- Skrillex alone made an estimated $16.5 million
in 2014, according to Forbes -- bringing with it concerns over the use of party
drugs like MDMA, better known as ecstasy or molly.

''Everyone judges these shows based on the drugs, but it's really about the
community,'' Emily Gandolfo, 20, said. Of the crowds, she said, ''We're a
family.''

With her multicolored bikini and fuzzy leg warmers, Ms. Gandolfo fit right in.
Shirts and pants were optional in the warmth of the pulsating arena, belying the
frigid temperatures outside. With winter layers peeled off, sleeves were,
apparently, frowned upon.

Headgear, on the other hand, was in: There were animal headdresses, Uncle Sam
top hats, bright bucket hats and holiday elf hats. Full-body coverage was O.K.
if it was creative, like the man in the smiley-face print kimono, or another in
a glow-in-the-dark skeleton onesie, or the three in full furry bunny suits.
Friendship bracelets -- ''Stay High,'' read one -- were the preferred
accessories.

With its colorful crowd the arena felt a long way from the bottle service clubs
of Las Vegas, where more mainstream E.D.M. stars like Zedd and Calvin Harris
were performing on New Year's Eve. Madison Square Garden, Diplo said, was more
like a ''house party.''

In addition to their guests, the D.J.s were playing for an online audience,
courtesy of a feed sponsored by Yahoo and Live Nation. One reveler took the
digital participation a step further by dancing for absent friends using
FaceTime on his iPhone. Sitting quietly on a couch with a toddler, his friends
looked content where they were.

Commanding the aisle nearby was a man in only silky boxing trunks doing
calisthenics in between spits of chewing tobacco. He thrashed violently to the
beat, pausing to hug passing strangers. In one show of solidarity, he held up
his fingers to a woman, and she knowingly completed the secret handshake.
Together they made a hand heart.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/skrillex-diplo-madison-square-garde
n.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the crowd at Madison Square Garden as the clock struck
midnight
 above from left, the headliners Skrillex and Diplo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRISTA
SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (78%); PARTY DRUGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS
(78%); ECSTASY (78%); MUSIC GENRES (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); EBOLA VIRUS
DISEASE (72%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (56%)

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Search for General Tso

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 326 words


Opens on Friday

Directed by Ian Cheney

1 hour 13 minutes; not rated

The top-billed star of ''The Search for General Tso'' gets its close-up in the
opening scene: the staging of that namesake chicken dish for a menu photo shoot.
But like so many ''in search of'' documentary journeys before it, Ian Cheney's
roundabout talking-heads film has bigger quarry in mind; it looks at
Chinese-American assimilation, the useful adaptability of cuisine and the
complicated cultivation of heritage.

Mr. Cheney does get around to explaining the origins of General Tso's chicken,
but what's more rewarding than the spoon-fed history -- which covers the gold
rush, the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and Nixon in China -- is the film's
glimpses of history as lived. Shot around the United States, with surprising
stops in New Orleans and elsewhere, the story benefits from the reminiscences of
restaurateurs, who are often interviewed in multigenerational pairs. How to cook
chicken seems at once a minor detail against backdrops of racism and economic
struggle, and a key to finding a foothold among strangers.

General Tso's namesake museum back in China also gets an amusing visit, as does
Peng Chang-kuei, a nonagenarian chef with a strong claim to having invented a
certain recipe. But Mr. Cheney's movie, while teasing at times, does its
celebrating and debunking in mild-mannered fashion, making points without
seeming to try to score them. It also lacks any of the zest or cinematic skill
of, say, a Les Blank jaunt involving food, but this easily digestible format
proves an apt vessel for the mystery dish at its center.

The Search for General Tso

Opens on Friday

Directed by Ian Cheney; director of photography, Mr. Cheney and Taylor Gentry;
edited by Frederick Shanahan; music by Ben Fries and Simon Beins; animation by
Sharon Shattuck; produced by Jennifer 8. Lee and Amanda Murray; released by
Sundance Selects. Running time: 1 hour 13 minutes. This film is not rated.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/movies/heritage-and-food-in-the-search-for-gen
eral-tso.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A descendant of the Chinese warrior linked to General Tso's
chicken, in the documentary ''The Search for General Tso.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN
CHENEY/SUNDANCE SELECTS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); FILM (76%);
DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%);
ANIMATION (71%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (52%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Awe and Shock: It's Ducks vs. Buckeyes

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; OREGON 59, FLORIDA STATE 20; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1196 words


PASADENA, Calif. -- As Jameis Winston moved forward, looking for another
improbable outcome, then circled counterclockwise in desperation, Florida
State's comeback magic came unraveled in spectacular fashion.

On a fourth-down play Thursday late in the third quarter of the Rose Bowl,
Winston, the Seminoles' hitherto-undefeated quarterback, spun to elude Oregon
defenders, only to fall clumsily backward on the grass.

The ball slipped from his grasp, took a bounce and landed in the hands of Oregon
linebacker Tony Washington, who ran 58 yards for a touchdown.

A taut game turned into a rout, as the up-tempo, high-scoring Ducks scored the
game's final 34 points and ended Florida State's 29-game winning streak with a
59-20 victory.

''I'm the luckiest guy in the world to be around these guys,'' Oregon Coach Mark
Helfrich said. ''This team is unbelievable -- unbelievable. To be around these
guys every single day, that's probably the biggest blessing of all. We get a few
more days together.''

The Rose Bowl served as a semifinal in the inaugural season of the four-team
College Football Playoff. Oregon (13-1), seeded second and searching for its
first national title in football, will face No. 4 Ohio State, which defeated No.
1 Alabama in the Sugar Bowl, in the title game Jan. 12 in Arlington, Tex.

''We want 'Bama!'' Oregon fans in the partisan crowd of 91,322 had chanted.

The Rose Bowl, played on a cool, sunny afternoon, represented a highly
anticipated match between high-scoring offenses led by Heisman Trophy-winning
quarterbacks. Oregon's Marcus Mariota, the 2014 winner, completed 26 of 36
passes for 338 yards and 2 touchdowns.

Winston, the 2013 Heisman winner, was 29 of 45 for 348 yards and a touchdown in
his first collegiate loss. The Florida State offense racked up 528 yards, to 639
for Oregon, and the teams combined for 47 plays of 10 yards or more.

The Ducks converted four consecutive Florida State turnovers, including
Winston's stumble and fumble, into second-half touchdowns. Florida State (13-1)
trailed by just 25-20 after Winston threw an 18-yard touchdown pass to Travis
Rudolph with 8 minutes 7 seconds left in the third quarter.

Then, in a span of 12:54, ending with a 21-yard touchdown run by Oregon running
back Thomas Tyner, the Ducks outscored Florida State, 34-0. Oregon's 59 points
represent a Rose Bowl record.

''If everybody in this room just want to be real with themselves, this game
could have went either way,'' Winston said afterward. ''We turned over the ball
a lot. We beat ourself. Just be real with yourself right now -- we beat
ourself.''

The Seminoles, winner of last year's national championship, had not lost a game
since the 2012 regular season.

''It was an extremely great run,'' Florida State Coach Jimbo Fisher said.
''Hopefully, we can put together another one.''

Winston, a redshirt sophomore, and Mariota, a redshirt junior, are both expected
to declare for the coming N.F.L. draft. Speculation persists that they could be
chosen first and second over all.

Before Winston's fumble, the game unfolded as expected, with Florida State
trying to keep up with Oregon's fast-motion offense. Even the officials
struggled to keep up with Oregon's high-speed flair. The Ducks appeared to score
their first touchdown on a 1-yard run, but officials belatedly called off the
play to review the previous play, in which Charles Nelson took a pitch from
Mariota, was flipped by a tackler and landed just short of the goal line.

Oregon scored, again, two plays later, on Freeman's 1-yard run, and then added a
surprise 2-point conversion when the holder Taylor Alie threw quickly to
Torrodney Prevot. Oregon had an 8-3 lead, and the full attention of everyone in
attendance.

''We feel our tempo is a weapon,'' Mariota said.

The Seminoles had a season-long habit of falling behind and coming back to win,
and its previous four victories came by a total of 13 points. They kept the
Ducks within reach until turnovers undid the Seminoles. Both teams gained 208
yards in the third quarter, but Florida State had four turnovers, and Oregon had
four touchdowns.

With Oregon leading, 18-13, the Florida State freshman tailback Dalvin Cook
fumbled on the first drive of the third quarter. Five plays later, the Ducks
scored on Royce Freeman's 3-yard touchdown.

Winston and the Seminoles responded with Rudolph's scoring catch. Soon enough,
though, Oregon receiver Darren Carrington caught a short pass from Mariota,
slipped past Florida State defensive back Tyler Hunter and ran for a 56-yard
touchdown. The Ducks had a 32-20 lead. The Seminoles marched to respond again,
but Cook fumbled once more after making a third-down reception near midfield.

Two plays later, Mariota lobbed a pass to Carrington, who caught it inside the
10-yard line, eluded Hunter again and fell into the end zone. Oregon had a 39-20
lead as the sun set in California and on Florida State's chances.

Only Winston could lead the type of comeback required. Instead, he spun until he
fumbled wildly as he fell -- ''That was crazy,'' he said -- and was greeted by
defeat for the first time in 27 starts.

''It was just an unfortunate play, man,'' Winston said. ''I never thought I
would slip, throw the ball backwards.''

The defenses took turns through most of the first half bending easily yet
breaking stubbornly, as if leery of stepping on the colorfully painted end
zones. Like marching bands, the teams made a show of moving back and forth on
the field but not contributing much to the scoreboard.

After the Ducks stalled at Florida State's 22-yard line looking for a second
touchdown in the first quarter, the Seminoles churned downfield with a battery
of running plays, slowing the pace between bursts by the quick-footed Cook, who
finished with 103 yards on 15 carries.

But Winston's fourth-down plunge from the 1-yard line, initially ruled a
touchdown, was overturned when replays showed that his knee touched the ground
before the ball reached the goal line.

The Ducks used 19 plays to go 88 yards the other direction, but settled for a
field goal and an 11-3 lead. The Seminoles went the other direction for 13 plays
and settled for a field goal.

After Mariota threw his third interception of the season -- a hush fell over the
stadium, as if fans had just seen a comet -- Florida State's all-American kicker
Roberto Aguayo ended the half by missing a 54-yard field-goal attempt that
struck the left upright.

It was just the beginning of a string of unusual plays, none more than the one
in which Winston sputtered and toppled like a tired top, symbolizing the end of
Florida State's streak and Oregon's ascension to the national championship game.

''It's crazy,'' Helfrich said of the new playoff format, with his team 11 days
from playing for the national championship. ''It goes from four to two and all
of a sudden their season's a failure. That is a great team and very well
coached.''

After the game, as remaining fans in the stands sang the ''Animal House'' anthem
''Shout,'' Oregon players rushed into a jubilant locker room, some with roses
clenched in their teeth.

Moments after, first Fisher, then Winston, drove solemnly by on a golf cart,
quietly headed somewhere out of sight.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/ncaafootball/oregon-thrashes-florida-st
ate-in-rose-bowl-and-heads-to-national-championship-game.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Jameis Winston (5) fumbled in the third quarter, Oregon's
Tony Washington recovered the ball and scored to give the Ducks a 45-20 lead.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES)
Marcus Mariota, right, the Heisman Trophy winner, handed the Rose Bowl trophy to
Matt Pierson after Oregon's win. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENC/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6)

Oregon's Johnny Ragin III forced the ball loose from Dalvin Cook during the
second half, above. Darren Carrington, who had 165 receiving yards, scored one
of his two second-half touchdowns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT HANASHIRO/REUTERS
 LENNY IGNELZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%);
AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%);
SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 26 words


''There's no doubt in my mind that if he had the opportunity to kill me, he
would.''

DOUGLAS DURST, the real estate mogul, speaking about his brother, Robert.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Pop

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1528 words


Prices may not reflect ticketing service charges. For full reviews of recent
concerts: nytimes.com/music. A searchable guide to these and other shows is at
nytimes.com/events.

Bellows (Friday) Last year a young Coney Island rapper named Your Old Droog
unwittingly convinced many people he was Nas recording under a different
moniker. That theory has been debunked, so let's move on to another one: Is
Bellows actually Sufjan Stevens? He says his name is Oliver Kalb, but he matches
Mr. Stevens in wit, tone and charm. Find out for yourself on Friday at this
newly opened D.I.Y. spot, where the musician is likely to conjure the layers of
guitar fuzz, choristers and auxiliary percussion found on his immersive 2014
release, Blue Breath. With Sharpless, Yes Yes a Thousand Times Yes, and Fern
Mayo. At 8 p.m., Aviv, 496 Morgan Avenue, near Beadel Street, Greenpoint,
Brooklyn, 510-316-4730, facebook.com/avivbrooklyn. (Andrew R. Chow)

Hollie Cook, the Barr Brothers and Taylor McFerrin (Thursday) At first glance,
this is a gathering of music royalty offspring. Ms. Cook is the daughter of the
Sex Pistols drummer Paul Cook, while Taylor McFerrin is the son of Bobby,
patriarch of the talented McFerrin clan. But these musicians aren't resting on
their parents' laurels; Mr. McFerrin has created his own brand of electronic
soul, and Ms. Cook makes effusive pop-reggae. They'll be joined by the Canadian
folk-rockers the Barr Brothers. At 8 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 West 16th
Street, Chelsea, 800-745-3000, highlineballroom.com. (Chow)

Steve Earle (Mondays through Jan. 26) This Texas singer has received a second
career wind thanks to TV showrunners who aspire to his grittiness. He's appeared
either in person or through song on ''The Wire,'' ''Longmire,'' ''Treme,'' and
most recently, ''True Detective.'' And like that newest series, Mr. Earle's
music is entrenched in the backwater past: bluesy slide guitars, lo-fi vocals,
plenty of heart and fury. On Monday he kicks off his monthlong residency at City
Winery, which includes a double bill with Shawn Colvin on Jan. 12. Mondays at 8
p.m., 155 Varick Street, near Spring Street, South Village, 212-608-0555,
citywinery.com. (Chow)

&#x2605; Lisa Fischer and Grand Baton (Thursday through Jan. 10) This
Grammy-winning vocalist (she won for her early 1990s single ''How Can I Ease the
Pain'') has been a popular backup singer for years, touring with the Rolling
Stones, Nine Inch Nails, Tina Turner and many others. Her star rose
significantly when she was featured in the Oscar-winning documentary ''20 Feet
From Stardom,'' in which she explains why she shunned a solo career. At 7:30 and
10 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232,
jazzstandard.net. (Nicole Herrington)

'The Temptations and the Four Tops on Broadway' (through Sunday) No, it's not
just your imagination: Two Motown stalwarts, the Four Tops and the Temptations,
are wearing their dancing shoes once again on Broadway this week. Only one
original member from each group remains -- Abdul Fakir, known as Duke, of the
Four Tops and Otis Williams of the Temptations -- but still expect them to
conjure the old-school magic of hits like ''Reach Out, I'll Be There,'' ''Ain't
Too Proud to Beg'' and ''My Girl.'' The two groups will hit the road afterward
for a cross-country tour. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at
3 p.m., Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, 800-745-3000,
ticketmaster.com. (Chow)

Future Islands (Thursday and next Friday) Last March, a D.I.Y. band from
Baltimore stepped onstage at ''The Late Show With David Letterman'' and promptly
hurled itself into the stratosphere. The performance, propelled by the lead
singer Samuel Herring's twisting, shimmying and gasping, racked up millions of
hits online, and by the end of the year, the song that Future Islands performed
-- ''Seasons (Waiting on You)'' -- had been anointed song of the year by The
Guardian, the Line of Best Fit, Pitchfork and other publications. Since the band
treats every song like a singalong, expect them to be a perfect fit for the
large room of Terminal 5. With Operators and Wing Dam. At 8 p.m., 610 West 56th
Street, Clinton, 800-745-3000, terminal5nyc.com. (Chow)

&#x2605; Gabriel Garzón-Montano (Saturday) ''Rock me real slowly,'' this SUNY
Purchase grad implores on the first song of his 2014 debut, ''Bishouné: Alma del
Huila.'' Mr. Garzón-Montano hardly seems to be in a rush -- he spent five years
helming the party-funk group Mokaad before breaking out on his own. In his
music, he lets spacious R&B grooves soak and simmer, leaving the listener to
revel in his inventive keyboard voicings. With Quincy Vidal and AllNat. At 9
p.m., Rough Trade NYC, 64 North Ninth Street, at Kent Avenue, Williamsburg,
Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, roughtradenyc.com. (Chow)

Gogol Bordello (Friday and Saturday) Downtown's waning punk hedonism endures in
this Gypsy-punk troupe, whose unrestrained live carnivals mix Eastern European
musicality with sweat-soaked theatrics. The players' frantic,
hard-core-meets-Brechtian cabaret vivacity is only partly captured on their
records; the remaining X factor resides in their unending stage dives. With Ana
Tijoux and Man Man. At 9 p.m., Terminal 5, 610 West 56th Street, Clinton,
800-745-3000, terminal5nyc.com. (Stacey Anderson)

Nick Hakim (Tuesdays through Jan. 27) A lot of young artists are putting out
minimalist R&B these days, but Mr. Hakim is not just another face in the crowd
-- his delicate guitar work and hazy harmonies make him a singular and vital
presence in the genre. His 2014 EPs (''Where Will We Go,'' Parts 1 and 2) have
been exercises in restraint, drenched in liquor and physicality. Tuesday and
Jan. 20 at 7:30 p.m., Jan. 13 and 27 at 10:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East
Houston Street, Lower East Side, 800-745-3000, mercuryloungenyc.com. (Chow)

&#x2605; Darlene Love (Friday) Her lovelorn ''Christmas (Baby Please Come
Home)'' is a holiday rock showstopper, and her annual festive show has become a
New York holiday staple. A former protégée of Phil Spector's, she has been an
indelible voice in pop since the 1960s -- as the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
affirmed when she was made one of the 2011 inductees. At 8 p.m., B.B. King Blues
Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, 800-745-3000 bbkingblues.com.
(Anderson)

The Month in Cabaret: Barb Jungr, Christine Ebersole and Cheyenne Jackson
(through Jan. 31) The British singer Barb Jungr performed last year's most
sensational cabaret show, ''Hard Rain,'' at 59East59 Theaters, and her
devastating evisceration of songs by Bob Dylan and Leonard Cohen was sung and
acted with such passion that she reminded you that both songwriters, at their
most rousing, are prophets as well as rock royalty. At 54 Below, from Friday
through Sunday at 7 p.m., she will perform her new show, ''Mad About the Boy and
No Regrets,'' described as a ''walk on the dark side of love and loss, sex and
corruption of the soul.'' (Songs by Noël Coward, Kurt Weill and Bruce
Springsteen -- as you've never heard them before -- have been added to a
program.) The British comedian Julian Clary has called Ms. Jungr a ''one-woman
enema and not for the fainthearted.'' 54 Below, 254 West 54th Street, Manhattan,
646-476-3551, 54below.com. This month's other high points are the return of
Christine Ebersole to 54 Below (Jan. 21 through 24 and 28 through 31 at 7 p.m.)
in her tart semi-autobiographical show, ''Big Noise From Winnetka''; the
Broadway heartthrob Cheyenne Jackson's debut (Jan. 13 through 16 and 20 through
23 at 8:45 p.m., Jan. 17 and 24 at 8:45 and 10:45 p.m.) at the Café Carlyle, 35
East 76th Street, Manhattan, 212-744-1600, thecarlyle.com; the unstoppable
Marilyn Maye (Friday through Sunday and Wednesday through Jan. 10 at 7 p.m.) at
the Metropolitan Room, 34 West 22nd Street, Flatiron district, 212-206-0440,
metropolitanroom.com; and the jazz diva Jane Monheit's two shows, ''To the Men I
Love'' (Jan. 12 at 7 p.m.; Jan. 13 and 14 at 8:30 and 11 p.m.) and ''Hello
Bluebird'' (Jan. 15 through 17 at 8:30 and 11 p.m.), at Birdland, 315 West 44th
Street, Clinton, 212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Stephen Holden)

Serpentine Path (Sunday) Bring earplugs for this bruising New York supergroup,
which put out its sophomore album, ''Emanations,'' this year. The band members
all have impressive pedigrees on the local circuit -- with stints in Electric
Wizard and Unearthly Trance, among other outfits -- but the doom group still
manages to be heavier than the sum of its parts, crushing one snarling guitar
riff after another. With Fórn and Vilkacis. At 8 p.m., Saint Vitus, 1120
Manhattan Avenue, at Clay Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 877-987-6487,
saintvitusbar.com. (Chow)

Tipper (Saturday) David Tipper has been a mad beat-making scientist for the past
20 years, slicing and mutating samples out of glitch, trip-hop and ambient
music. He's less a D.J. than a sound designer, and his 2014 release, ''Forward
Escape,'' spills and swells its way across 50-odd serene and mesmerizing
minutes. With Orchard Lounge. At 9 p.m., Best Buy Theater, 1515 Broadway, at
44th Street, 888-929-7849, bestbuytheater.com. (Chow)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/pop-rock-cabaret-listings-for-jan-2
-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FREDERICK M. BROWN/GETTY IMAGES) (C20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); RAP
MUSIC (78%); GRAMMY AWARDS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERCUSSION
INSTRUMENTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
(78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); ROYALTIES
(71%); ACADEMY AWARDS (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Soothing the Aged With Verse, a Lawyer Takes a Road Less Traveled

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 921 words


On the public stage, Marvin Wexler is a hard-boiled commercial litigator,
skilled at defending the unpopular: the actress Vanessa Redgrave, for instance,
when she was cut from a role for supporting the Palestine Liberation
Organization in the 1980s; more recently a New York City hospital, against
accusations that it pressed Huguette Clark, the copper heiress and a longtime
patient, to donate lavishly from her fortune.

But Mr. Wexler also cultivates another side of himself, a do-gooder who
faithfully shows up once a month to read poetry to a room full of elderly and
disabled residents at a suburban nursing home.

The other day, Mr. Wexler, in casual khakis and a button-down shirt without a
tie, peered through his horn-rimmed glasses, a Walter Mitty of the legal
profession, trying to coax 15 women in wheelchairs and one lucky enough to
navigate by walker, to feel young and carefree again.

But as he declaimed ''Light One Candle,'' the Hanukkah song by Peter Yarrow, no
one seemed to be relating to the folk singers of yore. A poem about sunset on a
snowy road left the audience cold. By all appearances, Mr. Wexler bombed. If
this had been a trial, he would be making plans for an appeal.

But this was not how Mr. Wexler saw it. He was used to this. The first time he
gave a reading, some residents snored audibly and others rudely interrupted him.
The trick, he said, is to modulate his own outlook. ''I had to get over certain
expectations that I had,'' he said. ''It's not an easy environment to become
comfortable with, especially the more disabled.''

When he started the readings four years ago, he was motivated by past
experiences with his own aging parents. His mother died last year, at 94,
afflicted with severe dementia. His father, who is 97, is in constant pain. When
his mother fractured her pelvis and was put in a rehabilitation center, Mr.
Wexler, 67, brought along poetry and song lyrics when he visited. Old chestnuts
like ''Side by Side'' seemed to pierce his mother's disorientation, and she
could sometimes sing along.

''It seemed that going over poetry with her and singing songs with her was a
tremendous way to interact with her,'' he recalled. ''When we did that, she
acted decades younger than she was otherwise.''

Convinced that poetry could be therapeutic, he asked the Sarah Neuman Center,
the Westchester County campus of a sprawling nonprofit, Jewish Home Lifecare,
based near his home in New Rochelle, to let him give readings, and the
administration agreed.

This year, he felt confident enough about his experience to write about it in
The Journal of Poetry Therapy, in an article titled ''A Poetry Program for the
Very Elderly -- Narrative Perspective on One Therapeutic Model.'' In it, he
argues that without intending to do so, he has developed a curriculum for others
to follow.

He alternates high and low, the edifying and the sentimental, Emily Dickinson
with Bob Dylan, and painstakingly crafts themes he thinks his audience will
relate to: Besides holidays, he has done movies (''A kiss is just a kiss, a sigh
is just a sigh ...''), doctors and illness (''The Microscope,'' by Maxine
Kumin), and success and failure (Shelley's ''Ozymandias''), among other themes.

As a verbal exercise, it seems far removed from his legal work, such as his
representation of Beth Israel Medical Center in a dispute over Mrs. Clark's
estate. The hospital got to keep $1 million that she left it in her will, but
the dispute continues over money and a painting that she donated before her
death, under coercion, according to the public administrator; of her own free
will, according to Mr. Wexler.

But he argues that poetry is not antithetical to the law, despite the common
perception that legal briefs are dull and impenetrable. ''Statutes are all about
language,'' Mr. Wexler said. ''Constitutions are language. Trying to persuade
someone of something, in ancient Greek they would have called it rhetoric.''

Mr. Wexler could have been reading a legal brief as he began his program of
holiday poems at the nursing home this week. Despite his dramatic efforts, the
women seemed to snooze their way through John Berryman's ''Eleven Addresses to
the Lord,'' the 19th-century lyric ''Over the River and Through the Wood'' and a
few more.

Then he put up a PowerPoint picture of the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center,
to introduce a poem by Langston Hughes, provoking one resident, a disabled
former waitress, to emit a breathless, ''Wow!''

Mr. Wexler paused to savor the moment.

The next photo, of a debonair man with a pencil-thin mustache, drew a cry of
''Hughes!'' from Adrienne Bonda, 82, a painter.

Later, as Mr. Wexler showed another photo to introduce ''Chestnuts Roasting on
an Open Fire,'' Mary Victoria Lachaga, 94, widow of a merchant seaman, swooned
and said, ''Nat King Cole!''

Mr. Wexler read the lyrics, then played the song, and Ms. Lachaga, wiry and chic
in a gray silk blouse, sang and juked her way through the verses seated in her
wheelchair.

Mr. Wexler was on a roll.

Afterward, the former waitress said the tree photo took her back to when she was
in her 20s, going to Rockefeller Center for the lighting, hearing Peter, Paul
and Mary sing and going out to dinner. Ms. Bonda said that listening to poetry
reminded her of the expressionist paintings she used to make.

Ms. Lachaga was wheeled away reciting Joyce Kilmer's ''The House With Nobody in
It,'' from memory.

Mr. Wexler slowly packed up his papers as if leaving court, having scored a
victory just big enough to bring him back for more.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/soothing-the-aged-with-verse-a-lawyer
-takes-a-road-less-traveled.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marvin Wexler, a litigator skilled at defending unpopular
clients, shows up once a month to read  poetry to elderly and disabled residents
at the Sarah Neuman Center in Westchester County. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA
MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); LITIGATION
(78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); NURSING HOMES (76%);
DEMENTIA (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); WHEELCHAIRS &
MOBILITY AIDS (75%); AGING (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%);
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (70%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (67%); HANUKKAH (67%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rough Seas Halt Search for Jet; Data Recorders Are Still Missing

BYLINE: By TOM MCCAWLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 335 words


SURABAYA, Indonesia -- The search for remnants of the AirAsia jet that crashed
in the Java Sea turned up little on Thursday, and an Indonesian official said
finding the plane could take another week, but more bodies were reported to have
been found on Friday.

Recovery efforts were halted Thursday afternoon because of poor weather and
rough seas, with no sign yet of the plane's fuselage. But The Associated Press
reported that more ships arrived on Friday with sensitive equipment.

On Thursday, the head of the National Search and Rescue Agency, Bambang
Soelistyo, said in Jakarta that the bodies of nine of the 162 people who had
been aboard Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 had been recovered. Six had been sent
to Jakarta; two were in Pangkalan Bun, close to the site of the crash; and one
remained aboard a navy ship. One of the deceased was a flight attendant,
Khairunnisa Haidar Fauzi, 22.

The discovery of seven more bodies was announced Friday morning, six of them
found by a United States Navy ship, said Suryadi B. Supriyadi, operation
coordinator for the search and rescue agency, bringing the total to 16.

The jet crashed in stormy weather on Sunday morning on a flight from Surabaya,
Indonesia, to Singapore.

''I'm optimistic it can be found within a few days,'' said Antonius Toos
Sanitioso, an air safety investigator with Indonesia's National Transportation
Safety Committee, ''but it could take at least a week.''

Search crews found what was thought to be the plane's emergency slide on
Thursday.

Officials were taking DNA samples from passengers' relatives to help identify
the bodies.

It remains unclear why the plane, an Airbus A320, crashed about 40 minutes after
takeoff on Sunday. Shortly before contact was lost with the plane, the pilot
asked permission to change course to avoid stormy weather.

Mr. Sanitioso said the main priority for investigators was to find the plane's
cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder. The recorders emit electronic
pings, but no signals have been detected.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/asia/little-debris-found-as-search-for-a
irasia-plane-continues.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRASIA FLIGHT 8501 (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AVIONICS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS
(78%); NAVIES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (72%); US
NAVY (68%); DNA (64%)

COMPANY: AIRASIA X SDN BHD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%)

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Doing Close-Ups With No Camera

BYLINE: By ERIC GRODE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 620 words


Video projections, once the sole province of technologically precocious
companies like the Wooster Group, have become standard fare for theater artists.
A GoPro camera and a relatively flat surface can now transform the humblest of
stages instantly.

But when the Argentine director and onetime screenwriter Mariano Pensotti set
out to depict a quartet of filmmakers in his narratively and technically
ambitious ''Cineastas,'' one of 12 pieces being presented at this year's Under
the Radar festival, the lens cap stayed on.

Mr. Pensotti, who made a celebrated United States debut at Under the Radar three
years ago with ''El Pasado Es un Animal Grotesco'' (''The Past Is a Grotesque
Animal''), set out this time to look back at his original medium of choice
(film) through the devices of his current medium (theater) -- or, as he put it,
''the concept of things that are ephemeral as opposed to things that are made to
last.''

That meant keeping film out of ''Cineastas.''

He tells the parallel stories of four Buenos Aires film directors and also
depicts the four films they're making as they are being molded. ''I interviewed
many filmmakers for this project,'' Mr. Pensotti said, ''because I wanted to see
how their fictions are connected to or even transform their private lives.''

These influences play out on a visually arresting two-level set by Mr.
Pensotti's frequent designer, Mariana Tirantte. The lower level, with its more
or less conventional settings, is where the filmmakers' lives take place; above
it is an often garishly lit space where their creations unspool simultaneously.
Think of it as a sort of ''City of Angels'' in quadruplicate.

''One thing that really drew us to Mariano,'' said Meiyin Wang, the festival's
co-director, ''is the way he can draw from the world of film and fill the stage
with that combination of epic intimacy, using just his actors and his staging.''

Mr. Pensotti admits that the production takes its toll on both sides of the
footlights. ''We're telling eight stories at the same time,'' he said, ''so it's
really demanding for both the actors and the audience.''

The actors will get plenty of practice: Under the Radar is the beginning of a
multicity tour for ''Cineastas,'' which will go on to play such venues as the
Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and On the Boards in Seattle. In many ways,
this itinerary is the dream for participants in Under the Radar and the city's
other January festivals.

''What's beautiful about Mariano and Mariana is that they construct these great
sets, but very thoughtfully,'' Ms. Wang said. (The earlier Under the Radar piece
featured a constantly revolving turntable.) ''They put a lot of thought into how
the sets can be broken down and put back together, so they actually tour very
well.''

The movie genres depicted in ''Cineastas'' will be familiar to any filmgoing
culture, but they don't include any overt nods to, say, Hitchcock or Almodóvar
or Godard. ''I didn't want to make a reference to any one specific style of film
or specific filmmaker,'' said Mr. Pensotti, who talked to more than a dozen
filmmakers in Buenos Aires but promised them anonymity. ''Instead, as an artist,
I like to think we are all creating fictions all the time -- for example, how we
decide to retell the stories. So I wanted to explore how we are all built by
these fictions.''

UNDER THE RADAR Wednesday through Jan. 18, with most events at the Public
Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, and some at La
MaMa, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village. Mariano Pensotti's ''Cineastas'' is
Wednesday through Jan. 11 at the Public. Reggie Watts's ''Audio Abramovic'' is
Jan. 14, 16, 17 and 18 at the Public. (212-967-7555, undertheradarfestival.com)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/under-the-radar-mariano-pensottis-cine
astas-tells-8-stories.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On a two-level set, Mariano Pensotti's ''Cineastas,'' part of
the Under the Radar festival at the Public Theater, depicts filmmakers' lives
and creations.  (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS FURMAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (72%); THEATER
(58%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (58%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Atlanta Suburb's Police Chief on Leave After Shooting Wife

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 424 words


The police chief of an Atlanta suburb shot his wife early on New Year's Day,
telling 911 operators that it was an accident, officials said. The victim,
Margaret McCollom, 58, was in critical condition, and the chief, William E.
McCollom, was placed on administrative leave.

Chief McCollom of Peachtree City called 911 shortly after 4 a.m. to report the
shooting, Lt. Mark Brown of the Peachtree City Police Department said at a news
conference Thursday afternoon. Margaret McCollom was airlifted to the Atlanta
Medical Center. No arrests have been made.

Because of Chief McCollom's rank, the shooting was referred to the Georgia
Bureau of Investigation. A spokeswoman for the bureau declined to disclose
details such as the nature of Ms. McCollom's injuries, but said that the
shooting occurred in the bedroom of the couple's home. The spokeswoman, Sherry
Lang, said the chief had been interviewed and was ''fully cooperating.''

Ms. McCollom, a nurse, had yet to be interviewed.

''The initial reports that we got from the 911 call were that the chief had shot
his wife accidentally twice,'' Ms. Lang said. ''As a result of our preliminary
interview we have found that he shot her only one time.''

Ms. Lang did not immediately respond to an email asking whether drugs or alcohol
were involved.

Lieutenant Brown said the police had not responded to any prior calls to the
chief's residence and that he did not know of any previous shootings involving
the chief. Public records show that Chief McCollom was licensed as a firearms
instructor in Florida.

Chief McCollom is a Wyoming native who spent much of his long law enforcement
career in Florida beach communities, serving for more than two decades in the
Delray Beach Police Department before becoming chief of the Tequesta Police
Department in 2006. At the time, news reports described him as a father of six
who was married to Suzanne Carter, a rabbi who served as chief chaplain at the
Delray Beach Police Department. They divorced in early 2014. An earlier
marriage, to Margaret Alice Morse, ended in divorce in 1999. It is not clear
whether she is the woman who was shot.

Another news article said that he resigned from the Tequesta Police Department
in 2010 to return to Wyoming to care for an ailing sister.

In 2012, he joined the Peachtree City Police Department in a newly created
position, assistant chief to Chief H. C. Clark, who had also worked in a Palm
Beach County police department. Chief Clark resigned in July. Peachtree City is
an upper-middle-class bedroom community south of Atlanta.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/georgia-police-chief-on-leave-after-shootin
g-of-his-wife.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%);
INTERVIEWS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (67%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (58%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Membership Wouldn't Guarantee Palestinians a War Crimes Case

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Marlise Simons contributed reporting from Sydney,
Australia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1294 words


JERUSALEM -- The political fallout from the Palestinian move Wednesday to join
the International Criminal Court is likely to be swift and profound.

Israel is expected to withhold tax transfers to the Palestinian Authority,
restrict officials' travel and possibly advance settlement activity in sensitive
spots in the West Bank. The United States Congress may cut off $400 million in
aid to the Palestinians. The already dim prospects for renewing peace talks now
seem null.

But legal repercussions from last summer's war between Israel and Palestinian
militants in the Gaza Strip, or Israel's settlements, would take longer and face
many hurdles.

The cases Palestinians plan to bring against Israel, and potential counterclaims
against Palestinian officials, are unlike any the International Criminal Court
has tackled in its dozen-year history. The Hague court, facing new scrutiny
after the collapse last month of its case against the president of Kenya, may be
wary of wading into the fraught politics of the Middle East, though doing so
could help it rebuff longstanding criticism of its emphasis on pursuing African
despots.

''It may jump at the chance because it's under fire,'' Geoffrey Robertson, a
British lawyer and author, said of the court, which he follows closely. ''This
is an opportunity to get out of the endless African wars and to do something
which is very much in the public eye, and very much of public importance,'' he
added. ''It would be a new and possibly productive way to deal with the cloudy
legalities.''

But other legal scholars said the United Nations' estimate that about 1,500
civilians were killed in Gaza might not meet the court's threshold for
''unimaginable atrocities that deeply shock the conscience of humanity.''

Michael P. Scharf, the dean of the Case Western Reserve University law school in
Ohio, said that past cases ''involved hundreds of thousands or at least tens of
thousands of deaths,'' and that the court ''requires that they be committed as
part of a policy or plan, and not simply incidental to attacks on enemy
targets.'' As for the settlements, Robbie Sabel, an international law professor
at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, said delving into them would put the court in
the awkward position of essentially defining the borders of a Palestinian state.

''Up to now the crimes they have dealt with are mass murders and rapes, not
where a border is, an issue which is clearly political,'' said Mr. Sabel, a
former legal adviser to Israel's Foreign Ministry. ''My assumption is that on
the political issue of where the border should be, whether East Jerusalem should
be part of the Palestinian state, they would hesitate.''

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said in a statement Thursday that he
expected the court to reject the Palestinian Authority's ''hypocrite application
at once,'' but experts on international law said the court has indicated that it
would not reject the application. Israel, like the United States, is not a
member of the International Criminal Court, but Dore Gold, an adviser to Mr.
Netanyahu, said Thursday, ''the arena is not just The Hague.''

''If they want to open up the legal arena, Israel has many tools,'' Mr. Gold
said on Israeli radio. Citing cases in which victims' families have sued Iran in
American courts for sponsoring terrorism, he added, ''if there is property
belonging to the Palestinian Authority in the United States and the Palestinian
Authority is involved in terror attacks against Israeli citizens, we can help
them with claims all over the world.''

The papers the Palestinians signed Wednesday acceding to the Rome Statute, which
established the court in 2002, will soon be delivered to the United Nations
secretary general and distributed to the court's 122 member countries. There is
then a 60-day waiting period before any member state can ask the court's
prosecutor to look at the Palestinian situation, or she could decide to do so on
her own. A self-defined ''court of last resort,'' it would have to determine
that Israel's justice system had not genuinely addressed accusations of war
crimes.

There are also technical questions regarding the contours of Palestinian
territory, the definition of Palestinian citizenship and the timetable for
potential cases. Even preliminary inquiries can last for years.

Some experts say any incidents since the court was created are fair game, while
others say the court can deal only with matters since the United Nations General
Assembly upgraded Palestine's status to nonmember observer in 2012, or perhaps
only after the Palestinian Authority joins the court in March. Shawan Jabarin,
director of the human rights group Al Haq, said the Palestinians would submit a
request for retroactive jurisdiction to last June 13, to coincide with the
period being considered by the United Nations Human Rights Council's commission
of inquiry.

Mr. Jabarin said the commission, with which Israel has refused to cooperate,
would provide an initial report in March that could serve as a road map for the
Hague court. Separately, his group and others have been documenting allegations
of Israeli war crimes in Gaza, and are working with the Palestinian Authority to
prepare complaints about Israeli settlements.

''The crime is not just the rape and the widespread killing or something like
that, but also to transfer civilians and to confiscate land and to destroy
property,'' Mr. Jabarin said. ''It's a different way of rape, it's a different
way of killing, it's a different way of destruction.''

The court defines a war crime as ''the transfer, directly or indirectly, by the
occupying power, of parts of its own civilian population into the territory it
occupies.'' Nearly 700,000 Israelis live in the West Bank and East Jerusalem,
territory Israel captured from Jordan in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967; experts
said settlers were unlikely to face prosecution, but charges could be aimed at
government officials who provided incentives to lure them.

''Crimes of aggression'' may be added to the court's mandate in 2017, possibly
including the annexation of lands -- which Israel undertook in East Jerusalem as
well as the Golan Heights -- military occupation and the blockade of coasts, as
many international critics refer to Israel's restrictions on Gaza's waterways.

But the court has not yet dealt with such issues. Experts said thousands of
complaints had been submitted -- one in 2011 urging that the pope and three top
Vatican officials be prosecuted for ''abetting and covering up'' the sexual
assault of children by priests -- but very few pursued. (The church abuse case
was not.)

In November, the court's chief prosecutor declined to investigate the Israel
Defense Force's deadly storming of a flotilla of ships delivering aid to Gaza,
saying the ''small number of victims'' was not sufficiently grave. Joining the
court would also open Palestinians to prosecution. Shurat HaDin, an Israeli
legal organization, pre-emptively sent complaints to The Hague against President
Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority and Khaled Meshal, a leader of the
militant Hamas faction, as well as one about Turkey's occupation of Cyprus in
1974, hoping this would deter prosecution of Israelis.

Mr. Scharf, of Case Western, said any action in The Hague was ''likely to unfold
over a period of several years,'' if at all. Gaza ''is not a case the I.C.C.
prosecutor is eager to take on, given its immense geopolitical implications,''
he said in an email, and although settlements ''may be inconsistent with
international law,'' the court was ''highly unlikely to consider them a crime
against humanity or war crime.''

After the criticism she faced over the Kenya case, he added, ''I would think the
I.C.C. prosecutor would be more cautious.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/middleeast/court-membership-wouldnt-guar
antee-palestinians-a-war-crimes-case.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); LAW
SCHOOLS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%);
LAWYERS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SEXUAL
ASSAULT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRIME
MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); PLATFORMS &
ISSUES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (91%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (58%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES
(92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wisconsin 34, Auburn 31

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; WISCONSIN 34, AUBURN 31, OT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557 words


TAMPA, Fla. -- Once Wisconsin turned Melvin Gordon loose on Auburn, there was no
stopping the nation's leading rusher.

Melvin Gordon rushed for an Outback Bowl-record 251 yards and three touchdowns,
and Rafael Gaglianone kicked a 25-yard field goal in overtime to give No. 17
Wisconsin a 34-31 victory over No. 19 Auburn on Thursday.

Gordon scored on runs of 25, 53 and 6 yards, bouncing back from a subpar
performance in the Big Ten championship game, to threaten Barry Sanders's
single-season rushing record in the Football Bowl Subdivision.

Gordon, who has said he will skip his final season of eligibility to enter the
N.F.L. draft, finished with 2,587 yards in 14 games, second most in F.B.S.
history. Sanders gained 2,628 in 11 games in 1988, when the N.C.A.A. did not
include bowl results in a player's statistics.

Nick Marshall threw for two touchdowns for Auburn, which also got a pair of
scores on the ground from Cameron Artis-Payne. The Tigers (8-5) were unable to
move the ball in overtime, though, and lost when Daniel Carlson's 45-yard field
goal hit the right upright and bounced away.

Joel Stave threw a 7-yard scoring pass to Corey Clement for an early Wisconsin
lead. The Badgers' offense, however, did not really take off until it started
feeding Auburn's defense a steady diet of Gordon, who finished second in Heisman
Trophy balloting.

Gordon went over 100 yards for the day with a 17-yard gain on the first play of
the second half. His 27th rushing touchdown finished a six-play, 75-yard march.
His 28th, on a carry up the middle on fourth-and-1, put the Badgers ahead,
21-17, late in the third quarter.

Stave completed 14 of 27 passes for 121 yards. He threw two of his three
interceptions in the first half, but that did not stop him from making a couple
of big completions on a 64-yard drive the Badgers put together to send the game
into overtime.

With help from a 20-yard run by Gordon and an accompanying 15-yard penalty on
Auburn for a late hit on the running back out of bounds, Wisconsin marched to
the Auburn 11 before settling for Gaglianone's 29-yard field goal.

Marshall threw touchdown passes of 66 yards to Ricardo Louis and 20 yards to
C.J. Uzomah. Artis-Payne, who rushed for 126 yards, scored on a pair of 2-yard
runs -- the second giving Auburn a 31-28 lead.

Both teams were coming off disappointing losses, Wisconsin falling, 59-0, to
Ohio State in the Big Ten championship game and Auburn rolling up 630 yards
total offense in coming up short, 55-44, against Alabama in the Tigers'
regular-season finale.

The Badgers and the Tigers also went through some upheaval between those games
and Thursday, with Gary Andersen's abrupt decision to leave Wisconsin to coach
Oregon State and Auburn firing defensive coordinator Ellis Johnson after
yielding 539 yards to Alabama and finishing ninth in the SEC in total defense.

Andersen's departure brought Badgers Athletic Director Barry Alvarez back to the
sideline on an interim basis to coach in a bowl for the second time in three
seasons.

Auburn wasted no time in hiring the former Florida coach Will Muschamp to lead
the Tigers' defense next season. He was on the field before the game, but not
working while the interim defensive coordinator Charlie Harbison led the unit
against Wisconsin.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/ncaafootball/melvin-gordon-leads-wiscon
sin-over-auburn-in-outback-bowl.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wisconsin's Melvin Gordon, left, rushed for 251 yards and  three
scores in Wisconsin's win over Auburn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KLEMENT/USA TODAY
SPORTS VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS
(90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%);
ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AUBURN UNIVERSITY (95%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Bubbly as a Midnight Glass of Champagne

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC
REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 506 words


The New York Philharmonic's New Year's Eve concert at Avery Fisher Hall offered
cleverness and good spirits aplenty. That much was all but guaranteed in a
program celebrating the Gershwin brothers: the composer George and the lyricist
Ira.

And there was more. The concert was conducted and hosted by the genial British
maestro Bramwell Tovey, whose brand of humor, often lame but occasionally
inspired, is familiar to Philharmonic audiences from the annual series
Summertime Classics.

''Why a Brit,'' Mr. Tovey asked at the outset, for such a quintessentially
American program? In a labored response, he noted something to the effect that
the concert was to be broadcast in the ''Live From Lincoln Center'' series on
PBS, a network closely identified with ''Downton Abbey.''

But he quickly improved on that, noting that Britain and the United States have
much in common. ''Even the languages have similarities,'' he said.

Mr. Tovey shared the spotlight with two vocalists well suited to the style:
Dianne Reeves, the jazz singer and the prime draw, to judge from the advance
publicity, though not heard until after intermission; and Norm Lewis, now on
Broadway in ''The Phantom of the Opera'' after a run as Porgy in ''The
Gershwins' Porgy and Bess.''

Mr. Tovey demonstrated his versatility, deftly accompanying the personable Mr.
Lewis in Mr. Tovey's arrangements of two Gershwin songs at the piano. He also
showed how his humor could play out musically, adding a delicious dissonance to
the final statement of ''The way you sing off key'' in ''They Can't Take That
Away From Me.''

Ms. Reeves pretty much took over the second half of the program, singing four
songs with backing from her own group -- Peter Martin, pianist; Reuben Rogers,
bassist; Terri Lyne Carrington, drummer -- and the orchestra. She proved an
endless font of invention, bending melodies, harmonies and rhythms to new shapes
without ever falsifying the spirit or mood of the original.

In ''Fascinating Rhythm,'' she acknowledged, she and her friend and fellow
arranger Billy Childs ''just went a little wild.'' It was a delight: utterly
transformed yet everywhere recognizable and convincing.

She injected arpeggios and other ornaments, large and small, with unfailing
smoothness. She even managed to weave the identifications of the members of her
group into ''Love Is Here to Stay'' with only the slightest breaks in rhythmic
continuity.

But it was Mr. Lewis, who had the last word in the duet version of '' 'S
Wonderful'' that ended the program. Having followed Ms. Reeves through many runs
of scat and melodic excursions, he simply gave up at the end, countering, ''What
she said.''

The orchestra managed its accompaniments with aplomb and with no sense of
slumming. The principal players were mostly in place, many offering fine solo
moments: most notably Sheryl Staples, the acting concertmaster.

The orchestra also took center stage in Gershwin instrumental medleys, the
''Lullaby'' for strings and -- a timely way to ring out an eventful year -- the
''Cuban Overture.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/new-york-philharmonic-and-dianne-re
eves-on-new-years-eve.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York Philharmonic:  Norm Lewis and Dianne Reeves singing
Gershwin with the orchestra on New Year's Eve at Avery Fisher Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS
(78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); PUBLIC
TELEVISION (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mother's Courage Moves Daughter to Change Course

BYLINE: By JOHN OTIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1052 words


There was little doubt that she would win her battle with breast cancer, Nora
Zenteno said, because she was filled with faith that God would heal her.

''I never cried,'' Ms. Zenteno, 76, said. ''I never think: 'I'm going to pass
away.'''

Her diagnosis came in 2010. After a mastectomy and other treatments, Ms.
Zenteno's cancer is now in remission.

Soon after treatment began, Ms. Zenteno's daughter, Rosemary Bruno, learned that
the constant fatigue she felt and the hair loss that accompanied it were being
caused by a cancer of her own: multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer.

''I wasn't listening to what the doctors were saying,'' Ms. Bruno, 40, said
while recalling being informed of the diagnosis. ''I was more in shock.''

The news came during what was already a difficult time in her life. She and her
husband were on the verge of divorce, in substantial debt and about to lose
their house, in West Islip, N.Y. During the course of receiving treatment, Ms.
Bruno grew so weak that she could not continue in her job as a teacher's aide
working with children with special needs.

Amid the increasing hardships, Ms. Bruno found some reason for hope.

''I'd been saying I wanted a change in my life,'' she said. ''Maybe this is what
it takes for me to become the new person I want to be.''

Ms. Zenteno and her husband, Julio, did not hesitate. They invited their
daughter to live with them in their home in Astoria, Queens.

Ms. Bruno's two children moved in as well, though both have recently moved out.
Her son is in the Air Force; her daughter attends college, with the help of
scholarships, in Florida, where she lives with an aunt.

The cancer treatments have been grueling, and carry both physiological and
physical costs. Ms. Bruno said she became so physically diminished that she
refused to look in a mirror, unless she was brushing her teeth. She also had
kidney damage, and now requires dialysis treatment three times a week.

Through it all, Ms. Bruno said she had tried to emulate her mother's courage.

''She inspired me,'' Ms. Bruno said. ''She was like 'God has me.' God healed my
mom from cancer. He could heal me, too.''

To try to alleviate her daughter's stress, Ms. Zenteno transferred Ms. Bruno's
unpaid credit card balance, which totaled several thousands of dollars, to her
own account and dug into her savings to help pay it off. Ms. Zenteno's own
income is modest: She gets $801.10 each month from Social Security and has also
received $370 a month in workers' compensation since retiring from her job as a
seamstress in 1998 after being injured at work. Her husband, a retired
delicatessen worker, receives $736 a month from Social Security.

Ever since they bought their home in 1980, the Zentenos have sought to offset
their living expenses and debts -- including their $1,557 monthly mortgage
payment -- by renting out the house's top floor for $1,550.

''We were always very tight,'' Ms. Zenteno said of their finances.

Things got even tighter last year after a rent dispute with a tenant. The
Zentenos evicted him in July after taking him to Housing Court over unpaid rent.

''I've never had anything like that,'' Ms. Zenteno said, adding that for more
than 30 years, renting out the top floor had otherwise been stress-free.

Before departing, Ms. Zenteno said, the evicted tenant had accrued a substantial
water bill, leaving her and her husband owing $1,097 to the New York City Water
Board. They had to spend nearly $7,000 more to renovate the vacated unit, she
said.

For assistance, Ms. Zenteno turned to Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens,
one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
In September, the agency allotted $557.15 in Neediest Cases funds to cover part
of the Zentenos's unpaid water bill.

Ms. Bruno's health has vastly improved over the last year, but she is not yet in
remission and still requires treatment.

''I keep doing my own thing,'' she said. ''I drive, I walk. People don't even
know I'm sick.''

The Zentenos have a new tenant and are doing their best to manage financially
despite their depleted savings, in part by working with their mortgage lender to
reduce their house payments. Ms. Zenteno said she was grateful that her family's
health had stabilized, even if their monetary struggles remained.

''I try to help everybody,'' Ms. Zenteno said. ''But I can do nothing now.''

How to Help: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be
sent to: 4 Chase Metrotech Center 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193 Brooklyn, N.Y.
11245 All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check
intended for a particular agency participating in the annual campaign should be
written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift.
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217
CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y.
10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y.
11201 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 E. 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y.
10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York,
N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800)
381-0075 or online at nytneediestcases.com. For instructions on how to donate
stock, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (757) 628-2148. No agents or solicitors are
authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The
New York Times Company pays for all administrative costs of the Fund, so every
dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as
a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Contributions to the Neediest Cases Fund are tax-deductible to the extent
permitted by law. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the
Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon
request, from the Fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities
Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, New York 10271. To delay may
mean to forget.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/mothers-courage-helps-daughter-change
-course-amid-illness.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nora Zenteno, 76, at her home in Astoria, Queens. Soon after Ms.
Zenteno began treatment for  breast cancer, her daughter, Rosemary Bruno, was
herself told she had a form of the disease. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $3,578,516  Recorded Tuesday
305,077  Total $3,883,593  Last year to date $3,899,396

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); CHILDREN
(87%); ONCOLOGY (78%); BLOOD DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES
(78%); KIDNEY DISEASE (78%); DIALYSIS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%);
UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); PARAEDUCATORS (66%);
WORKERS COMPENSATION (66%); HAIR LOSS (55%); DISABLED PERSONS (51%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); FLORIDA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Different Sort of Santa Suit

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 13 words


This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/a-different-sort-of-santa-suit/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dick Shea braved the icy waters off Brooklyn during the Coney
Island Polar Bear Club's annual plunge on New Year's Day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Talking (and Talking) About Love

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; OPERA
REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words


Opening a new production of Franz Lehar's enduring operetta ''The Merry Widow''
as a New Year's Eve gala at the Metropolitan Opera seemed a promising idea. Here
is a light comedy with a rich, tuneful score and plenty of opportunities for
dancing. And, in its way, the story, which centers on an attractive widow from a
Balkan land, now living in Paris, whose husband left her a fortune, touches on
wistful emotions that often well up with the coming of a new year: the byways of
romantic attachment, the passing of time, the difficulty of amending lost
opportunities.

The Met went all out for its new production, which opened on Wednesday night
with the starry soprano Renée Fleming in the title role of Hanna; the debonair
baritone Nathan Gunn as the freewheeling bachelor Count Danilo from her
homeland, who was once involved with her; and the remarkable Kelli O'Hara, a
queen of Broadway, in her Met debut as Valencienne, the coquettish wife of an
officious ambassador.

The production was directed and choreographed by Susan Stroman, who has won five
Tony Awards and was also making her Met debut. Enlivened by sprightly dancing,
this colorful production is mostly faithful to the style of the piece. And from
the glowing, subtle performance that the conductor Andrew Davis coaxed from the
Met orchestra, it's clear that he loves the 1905 score.

Over all, however, the production came across as tentative, as if Ms. Stroman
were struggling to find a balance between respecting the idiom of the work and
charging it with fresh theatricality. And for all the good work of an impressive
cast, the performances felt constrained and vocally underpowered. This show
never really lifts off the stage.

Peter Gelb, the Met's general manager, inadvertently put his finger on the
problem in a comment he made for a preview article about the new production in
The New York Times. Mr. Gelb said that he had come to a realization after last
year's New Year's Eve gala, a new staging of Strauss's ''Die Fledermaus''
directed by Jeremy Sams that was weighed down with lame spoken English dialogue.

''What I've learned is, the less dialogue the better,'' Mr. Gelb said. ''The Met
is built for opera singing, not for spoken lines.''

Exactly. At 3,800 seats, the house is a cavernous place for a genre that relies
on dialogue. And if anything, ''Die Fledermaus'' is actually a better fit than
''The Merry Widow,'' a more intimate, soft-spoken piece. To make an operetta
like this work in a house the size of the Met, compromises are required. It
should not be surprising that the result seems compromised.

For ''The Merry Widow,'' the Met again turned to Mr. Sams, who prepared an
English translation of the original German text. It is not easy to translate
lyrics into another language while hewing to the original meaning of the words
and maintaining the rhyme patterns. Mr. Sams does pretty well here, though there
are inevitable stiff passages and groan-inducing bits, as when Camille, a French
aristocrat who is pursuing the married Valencienne, sings: ''I've dealt with
respectable wives/Who lead unimpeachable lives./Alas, you don't waver or
falter./You're fixed as the Rock of Gibraltar.''

The new dialogue basically follows the story line without straining to be
up-to-date or lamely comic. To make the spoken words audible, the singers wear
body microphones throughout, though only the dialogue is amplified, not the
singing. But the words were still hard to catch. The house is just too big for
dialogue. And, despite what Mr. Gelb says he has learned, there is still too
much of it in this show.

Ms. O'Hara's ardent fans (put me in the front ranks of that group) will be
delighted with the chance to hear her sing without the amplification requisite
on Broadway. She is a vocalist with operatic training. And her tender voice
carries nicely in the house -- certainly as well as that of the gifted young
tenor Alek Shrader, who sounded a little pinched as Camille in his scenes with
her.

Still, in trying to project her singing a little more than usual, Ms. O'Hara
compromises her enormous skill at making words come through with naturalness. I
kept wondering how her performance, and the entire production, would come across
in a house a third the size of the Met.

Hanna is a good role for Ms. Fleming at a time when she is beginning to phase
out her work in opera. She wants to leave the opera stage at the top; she looked
and sounded lovely.

Hanna is from Pontevedro (a stand-in for Montenegro), and her homeland is
nearing bankruptcy. The story turns on the efforts of Pontevedrin officials at
the embassy to compel Hanna to marry one of her fellow citizens lest her fortune
go to some amorous Parisian. And they draft Count Danilo as the most suitable
suitor.

Ms. Fleming conveys Hanna's elegance and glamour but also her lingering feelings
for Danilo and her confusion about what to do next in her life. She gives an
affecting account of ''Vilja, o Vilja,'' the forlorn love song that Hanna sings
at the garden party she hosts at her mansion. Yet she, too, seemed not quite
comfortable singing her first operetta role in a house that she knows is just
too large for the intimate performance she is trying to give.

Mr. Gunn brings his suave presence and solid voice to Danilo, who has never
really gotten over Hanna. But Mr. Gunn also struggles to find the right balance.
In a way, the most magical moment comes in Act II, when Hanna and Danilo dance
to the strands of the beguiling ''Merry Widow'' waltz from the orchestra and
soon begin humming along.

At 70, the veteran baritone Thomas Allen can still command a stage. He turns in
a gruffly comic performance as Baron Mirko Zeta, the Pontevedrin envoy in Paris,
clueless about his wife (Valencienne)'s infatuation with Camille.

The production, honoring the period of the piece, has beguilingly simple sets by
Julian Crouch, just vividly painted flat backdrops. William Ivey Long's
beautiful costumes evoke Belle Époque Paris. There is a nifty onstage scene
change when Hanna's garden party morphs into Maxim's, alive with reveling
customers and a roster of dancing grisettes. It's not surprising that Ms.
Stroman's best work involves the dance routines, not just a teasing cancan at
Maxim's but the hardy hoofing in a Balkan folk dance at Hanna's party. Of note,
Mr. Davis has composed a new overture comprising orchestral materials by Lehar
to make a medley of ''Merry Widow'' hit tunes. And during the party scene,
offstage piano music taken from the ballet adaptation of the work is heard
during some exchanges of dialogue.

All in all, though, the Met may just not be a place for operetta. For New Year's
Eve in 2010, the Met opened a new production of Verdi's ''La Traviata,'' a bold,
surreal modern staging by Willy Decker that is currently back at the house.
Maybe that's a better way for the Met to ring in a new year: Put on something
substantive and end it early enough so that the audience can go out and party!

''The Merry Widow'' runs through Jan. 31 and then returns on April 24 with a new
cast; 212-362-6000, metopera.org.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/susan-stromans-the-merry-widow-at-t
he-met.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Merry Widow: Kelli O'Hara, left, and Renée Fleming in Susan
Stroman's new production of Franz Lehar's ''The Merry Widow'' at the
Metropolitan Opera. (C1)
Nathan Gunn, second from right, and others singing ''Who Can Tell What the Hell
Women Are'' in a new production of ''The Merry Widow'' on New Year's Eve at the
Metropolitan Opera.
 A sense of romantic opportunities squandered: Renée Fleming in the title role
of Hanna and Nathan Gunn as Count Danilo, a fellow expatriate who once courted
her, in ''The Merry Widow.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); DANCE (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY
(77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TONY AWARDS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal Makers Notched Nearly $3.5 Trillion Worth in '14, Best in 7 Years

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 558 words


By almost every measure, 2014 was a time for deal makers to pop the corks of
their Champagne bottles.

The year was one of the best for mergers and acquisitions since the passing of
the financial crisis. Some 40,298 transactions -- worth nearly $3.5 trillion --
were announced worldwide in 2014, according to Thomson Reuters, fulfilling the
hopes of an industry that has bet on such a resurgence for some time. It was the
biggest year in deals since 2007.

Many of the factors responsible for the rebound in mergers activity since the
tumult of 2008 have existed for years. Debt financing is cheap and plentiful,
and stock prices have climbed steadily, giving corporate buyers a more valuable
currency to offer potential targets.

Perhaps the biggest change, deal makers say, is that corporate boards and
management teams have come to realize that their ability to expand their
companies on their own has become more difficult. A substantial move, like
acquiring a major competitor or complementary business, is now seen as necessary
to move the needle.

And with some semblance of predictability having descended upon the markets --
the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.4 percent last year, with only a
few bouts of heart-stopping volatility -- boards feel more comfortable taking
the plunge.

Investors have also supported more aggressive growth measures. The stock prices
of acquirers continued on average to rise, indicating that shareholders backed
those transactions.

''The large equity institutions are giving companies the benefit of the doubt in
this market,'' said Peter A. Weinberg, a co-founder of the boutique investment
bank Perella Weinberg Partners. ''This opens up a range of possibilities beyond
the default use of capital, which is repurchasing stock. If shareholders say
'stay still,' it's very difficult to do anything bold.''

The busiest sectors for the year have been the oil and gas industry, with 11.7
percent of the merger market and $409 billion worth of transactions, and the
pharmaceuticals industry, with 6 percent market share and $210 billion worth of
deals.

Yet the biggest deals of the year, including the assumption of debt, have been
game-changing takeovers in the telecommunications industry. Comcast has bid for
a nationwide footprint with its $45 billion proposal to buy Time Warner Cable,
while AT&T hopes to gain greater scale by buying DirecTV in a deal valued at $49
billion.

The question now is whether the confluence of factors that enabled the merger
revival will carry over into 2015 . Corporate advisers contend that investors
have shown a remarkable ability to cope with a surge of headline-grabbing news,
like the flare-ups in Ukraine and the Middle East and the Ebola outbreak.

And the possibility of the Federal Reserve's raising interest rates has been
well telegraphed and factored into companies' decision-making.

Not even the plummeting of oil prices has dented the enthusiasm of would-be
buyers. Indeed, leveraged buyout executives -- who have been left out of the
deal feeding frenzy, outbid by strategic buyers -- have been salivating at the
prospect of new acquisition targets.

''There's comfort with the new normal, postcrisis,'' Mr. Weinberg said.
''C.E.O.s and boards know there's always going to be uncertainty.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/deal-makers-notched-nearly-3-5-trillion-w
orth-in-14-best-in-7-years/

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Resurgence in Acquisitions: There was a boom in corporate
mergers last year, with deals in energy and health care leading the way.
(Source: Thomson Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS &
ACQUISITIONS (90%); PRICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); TAKEOVERS
(78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%);
MARKET SHARE (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%);
OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE DEBT FINANCING (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS
(69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (60%); TROPICAL DISEASES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY
(60%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%);
EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (50%)

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (57%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%)

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (57%); TRI (NYSE) (57%); TWC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7375
INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION
PROGRAMMING (51%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Boston Marathon Bombing: What We Know So Far

BYLINE: By DIANTHA PARKER and JESS BIDGOOD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 2225 words


At 2:49 p.m. on April 15, 2013, two explosions occurred near the finish line at
the Boston Marathon, killing three people and wounding more than 260. The trial
for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, now 21, who is accused in the bombing, is scheduled to
start on Monday in Boston.

Q. Who are the suspects in the bombing?

A. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan, who was killed after the
bombing in a shootout with police, were the two accused in the attack. They came
to the United States with their family more than a decade ago from Kyrgyzstan,
after living briefly in the Dagestan region of Russia.

In Kyrgyzstan, the Tsarnaev family was part of a Chechen diaspora that dates to
1943, when Stalin deported most Chechens from their homeland over concerns that
they were collaborating with the invading Nazi army.

When they came to the United States, Tamerlan was 15, and Dzhokhar 8. They lived
in Cambridge, Mass., where both attended and graduated from the city's public
high school. The Tsarnaev brothers had both enrolled in college -- Tamerlan at
Bunker Hill Community College, though he had dropped out; Dzhokhar at the
University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth. Tamerlan married in 2010, and had one
child.

In Cambridge, Dzhokhar was a popular student and a noted wrestler at Cambridge
Rindge and Latin High School. Tamerlan became a promising boxer who fought in
the Golden Gloves National Tournament in 2009, but appeared less enamored with
life in the United States. He once told a photographer, ''I don't have a single
American friend. I don't understand them.''

Q. What may have led them to become extremists?

A. While Dzhokhar's adjustment seemed to be going smoothly as he reached his
teens, Tamerlan's disillusionment with their adopted country grew as he got
older, as did his influence on his younger brother.

Baudy Mazaev, a Chechen friend of the Tsarnaevs, said that Tamerlan and his
mother, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, ''had a deep religious epiphany'' involving Islam a
few years before the bombing.

Initially, according to friends, Tamerlan's new religious devotion seemed to
only irritate Dzhokhar: Mr. Mazaev said that on one of his visits to the
Tsarnaev house during that period, Tamerlan ordered him and Dzhokhar to read a
book about the fundamentals of Islam and prayer. After that, Mr. Mazaev said,
they began avoiding the apartment.

But the family's relationship to Islam, and one another, evolved. In February
2011, roughly when the boys' mother embraced Islam, she separated from her
husband, Anzor, a tough man trained in the law in Russia who in Cambridge was
reduced to fixing cars in a parking lot. The two divorced that September, and
Anzor returned to Russia; his ex-wife followed later.

Tamerlan filled the void as head of the family's American branch. On Twitter,
Dzhokhar wrote that he missed his father. Days before his citizenship ceremony
-- on Sept. 11, 2012 -- he expressed wonder at why more people did not realize
that the 2001 attack on the World Trade Center ''was an inside job.''

Q. Were there any other turning points, or clues about the Tsarnaevs?

A. Tamerlan spent six months in Dagestan in 2012, and analysts say that the
sojourn may have been a crucial step in his apparent path toward the attack. His
father, Anzor, said Tamerlan had made the trip to renew his Russian passport.

The significance of the trip was magnified when the F.B.I. disclosed in a
statement that in 2011 ''a foreign government'' -- now acknowledged by officials
to be Russia -- asked for information about Tamerlan. The request was ''based on
information that he was a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer, and
that he had changed drastically since 2010 as he prepared to leave the United
States for travel to the country's region to join unspecified underground
groups.''

Sanjaya Lamichhane, a high-school wrestling teammate and former college
classmate of Dzhokhar's, said that a year before the bombing, Dzhokhar had
spoken of wanting to become an engineer, and had worried about his grades.

But by April, friends said, he told them that he no longer cared. After Dzhokhar
emerged as a suspect in the bombing, Mr. Lamichhane said, a mutual friend from
the University of Massachusetts recounted his last conversation with Dzhokhar,
two weeks before the marathon. Dzhokhar told their friend, ''God is all that
matters. It doesn't matter about school and engineering,'' Mr. Lamichhane said.
''He said, 'When it comes to school and being an engineer, you can cheat easily.
But when it comes to going to heaven, you can't cheat.'''

Q. When are the Tsarnaev brothers said to have made plans for the bombing?

A. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told F.B.I. interrogators that as he and his brother
plotted their assault, they first considered suicide attacks on the Fourth of
July, but that eventually they decided to use pressure-cooker bombs and other
homemade explosive devices, and to strike earlier, law enforcement officials
said.

In March 2013, Dzhokhar told his friends that he knew how to build a bomb. The
pressure cookers were filled with nails, ball bearings and black powder, and the
devices were triggered by ''kitchen-type'' egg timers, one official said.

The brothers finished assembling the bombs in Tamerlan's apartment in Cambridge
faster than they had anticipated, so they moved their attack up to the Boston
Marathon on April 15, Patriots' Day in Massachusetts, according to the account
that Dzhokhar is alleged to have provided to the authorities. Mr. Tsarnaev also
said he and Tamerlan picked the finish line of the marathon after driving around
the Boston area looking for sites.

Mr. Tsarnaev said they had been motivated to strike against the United States in
part because of its military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan, and what the two
saw as a broader conspiracy against Muslims. Mr. Tsarnaev also said that he knew
of no other plots and that he and Tamerlan had acted alone and were not
connected to a larger terrorist network.

Q. What happened on the day of the bombing?

A. Surveillance video shows Tamerlan and Dzhokhar turning onto Boylston Street
from Gloucester Street at 2:38 p.m. amid the crowds near the finish line. Both
brothers are carrying black bags. In the next several minutes, Tamerlan is seen
walking past the Forum Restaurant, toward Marathon Sports, the location of the
first explosion; Dzhokhar stopping in front of the restaurant and slipping his
knapsack onto the ground. He remains for about four minutes, occasionally
looking at his cellphone. After the first explosion, at 2:49, Dzhokhar, showing
no expression, walks away without his bag shortly before the second explosion.

The authorities say that the homemade bombs were designed to shoot sharp bits of
shrapnel into anyone nearby and maim them severely. Many victims suffered
complex, often critical wounds to their lower bodies and extremities, especially
to the backs of their legs.

The blasts killed three people and wounded more than 260.

Q. What are the charges against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev?

A. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was charged in the summer of 2013 in a sweeping federal
terrorism indictment. Its 30 charges include use of a weapon of mass destruction
and conspiracy, bombing of a place of public use and conspiracy, carjacking
resulting in serious bodily injury and a number of firearms charges. Seventeen
of those charges carry maximum sentences of life in prison or the death penalty.
The indictment includes charges related to the blasts at the marathon, as well
as events later in the week, including the killing of an M.I.T. police officer
and the carjacking of an S.U.V. Tamerlan was killed that night in a volley of
police fire that ended with his brother driving over him in the S.U.V. Mr.
Tsarnaev was eventually captured in a boat dry-docked in a suburban driveway in
Watertown.

On July 10, 2013, Mr. Tsarnaev appeared in federal court in Boston and pleaded
not guilty to all of the charges in front of a courtroom gallery that included
victims of the bombings. He wore an orange jumpsuit and a bandage on one arm.
Part of his face appeared to be immobile.

Q. Will prosecutors seek the death penalty?

A. Yes. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. authorized federal prosecutors to
seek the death penalty in January 2014, making Mr. Tsarnaev's trial the
highest-profile federal death penalty case since the prosecution of Timothy J.
McVeigh in the Oklahoma City bombing. In order for Mr. Tsarnaev to receive the
death penalty, he would first have to be convicted on at least one charge that
carries the death penalty. Then, in a separate sentencing phase of the trial,
jurors would have to agree to impose a death sentence. The death penalty is less
popular in Massachusetts than in other parts of the country, but jurors for the
case must be at least open to imposing it.

Q. How long is the trial expected to last?

A. Jury selection is scheduled to begin Monday and could take several weeks,
with the actual trial starting by the end of January or early February. The
trial itself could last as long as five months.

It will be divided into two phases. The first is to determine Mr. Tsarnaev's
guilt or innocence; if he is found guilty, the second phase will focus on
sentencing.

Q. Who will be called as witnesses?

A. Prosecutors recently gave the court a witness list of 590 law enforcement
personnel and 142 civilians and identified 1,238 exhibits that they might use at
trial. The witness list will not be made public until the jury is seated but it
includes officers who responded to the bombing, as well as those involved in the
arrest and questioning of Mr. Tsarnaev. Court papers say that Stephen Silva -- a
friend of the brothers who is believed by prosecutors to have supplied the gun
that was used to kill Sean Collier, the M.I.T. police officer, on the night of
the Tsarnaevs' rampage -- will also testify for the prosecution.

The defense has said in court filings that it is seeking to present witnesses
who knew both brothers and their family. In the sentencing phase of the trial,
the defense lawyers are expected to delve deeply into Mr. Tsarnaev's life story
in an attempt to humanize him. They are expected to base their presentation on
interviews with family members and friends but noted in court papers that their
research had been slowed because of an ''atmosphere of fear'' surrounding the
case.

Q. Who else has been charged in connection with the investigation?

A. Four friends of the Tsarnaev brothers have faced charges stemming from the
investigation. None is accused of knowing about or helping to plan the attack.

Two friends were prosecuted for their roles in removing a backpack and a laptop
from Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's dorm room at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth,
where they were all students. Prosecutors said the friends, Azamat Tazhayakov
and Dias Kadyrbayev, went to Mr. Tsarnaev's room and removed the items after
they realized their friend was a suspect in the bombings. Mr. Tazhayakov was
tried and convicted of conspiracy and obstruction in July 2014. Mr. Kadyrbayev
pleaded guilty to the same charges in August. The sentencing for both has been
delayed.

A third friend and fellow student, Robel Phillipos, who was in the dorm room
with Mr. Tazhayakov and Mr. Kadyrbayev, was convicted on Oct. 28, 2014, of lying
to to the F.B.I. regarding the removal of the backpack and laptop. His
sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 29.

Khairullozhon Matanov, a 23-year-old taxi driver, had social ties to the
Tsarnaevs, according to court documents, but lied to investigators about aspects
of that friendship and about his communication with the brothers in the days
after the bombings. He was charged on May 30, 2014, with destroying records and
making false statements.

Q. How has the attack affected Boston?

A. The city was initially stunned and devastated as the bombs killed three
people and wounded more than 260 others, some of whom lost their legs. The
blasts also prevented thousands of runners from crossing the finish line. But
civilian and medical personnel quickly sprang into action; the expert triage
system and proximity of Boston's famed teaching hospitals were credited for
saving many lives.

The manhunt for the suspects a few days later added to the trauma, particularly
after a fiery shootout on suburban streets that left Tamerlan dead; residents
complied with an order to shelter in place for an entire day before Dzhokhar was
located, hiding in a boat that was dry-docked at a house in Watertown.

But the city pulled together and the more lasting sentiment was one of
resilience. More than $80 million was raised for the survivors. The Tsarnaev
brothers had lived in Cambridge, and their apparent role stunned many in a city
that prizes its diversity and tolerance. Others grew frustrated that law
enforcement and the city apparatus had responded so forcefully to the deaths of
three people at the high-profile marathon while more people die in frequent gun
violence in some of Boston's minority neighborhoods.

Q. How has the Boston bombing changed marathons around the world?

More -- and more rigorous -- security measures, from bag checks to an increased
police presence, immediately became a priority for marathon organizers in cities
around the world. The New York City Marathon put new rules about prohibited
items into effect in April 2013, just after the attack but months in advance of
the city's next race.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/boston-marathon-bombings-trial-what-you-nee
d-to-know.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (91%); MARATHONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%);
BOMBINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (89%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WAR &
CONFLICT (77%); FAMILY (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); COMMUNITY
COLLEGES (72%); BOXING (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (66%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES
(60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%); TOURNAMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sports Fan's Guide to the New Year

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY, NAILA-JEAN MEYERS and WILLIAM C. RHODEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 612 words


Reporters and editors at The New York Times were asked what they were looking
forward to in 2015: the sports cathedrals that belong on bucket lists, the
athletes on the verge of milestones, or simply a wild and wonderful competition.
Their answers have been rolled out over the past week. Readers may share theirs
at nytimes.com/sports.

June 12-28,

Baku, Azerbaijan

You are forgiven for thinking that the last thing the world needs is another
multisport extravaganza with another set of opening and closing ceremonies. But
here comes Europe's inaugural version of the Asian Games, Pan American Games or
All-Africa Games. The European Games, which will be held in Baku, have a gazelle
and a pomegranate for official mascots and are expected to feature more than
6,000 athletes competing in 20 sports. Baku 2015 also raises some questions.
Among them: Why are the first European Games being held in a nation that
straddles Europe and Asia? Part of the answer is that Baku is eager to position
itself as a future Olympic host. That seems to be a long shot, but then -- not
long ago -- so did the European Games. CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

July 4-18,

Port Moresby,

Papua New Guinea

We are in a year between Olympics, so fans of quadrennial multinational,
multisport competitions will have to look more regionally. This year you have
your Pan-American Games, your European Games and your All-Africa Games. But how
about something with a little more New Caledonia? That would be the Pacific
Games, which are being held for the 15th time.

The 28 disciplines at the Pacific Games will include your standard international
fare, like track and field, swimming, volleyball and soccer. But there will also
be three kinds of rugby (union, sevens and touch), cricket, lawn bowling and
netball, a seven-player offshoot of basketball that is a popular women's sport
in the region. At the last Games, 27 medals were given out in body building. The
Pacific Games are surely one of the few international sporting events where fans
will find va'a races, or outrigger canoeing, which Tahiti dominates.

New Caledonia, Fiji, French Polynesia and Papua New Guinea usually lead the
medal table at the Pacific Games, but they will face an additional challenge in
2015. For the first time, Australia and New Zealand, the sporting powerhouses of
Oceania, will be allowed to compete in the Games, but only in rugby sevens,
weight lifting, sailing and taekwondo.

If you cannot make it to Port Moresby in 2015, there is always the Pacific Mini
Games in 2017, when even smaller island nations will compete in Vanuatu.
NAILA-JEAN MEYERS

Sept. 4-19,

Brazzaville,

Republic of Congo

After covering the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, I became hooked on African
sports and what they meant to the sprawling continent. So next September I am
looking forward to the 11th All-Africa Games in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo.

Like many other events in Africa, the Games go far beyond sports and speak to
the nature of a continent still striving in so many ways to be free.

The Games were conceived as early as 1920 by the founder of the modern Olympics,
Pierre de Coubertin. But the colonial powers were afraid that the Games would
accomplish what decades, even centuries, of war and conflict had failed to do:
unify the continent.

The Games were finally introduced in 1965 and have essentially been held every
four years since. The World Cup allowed South Africa to show the world a
different face, and participants in these Games will display great athletic
potential as they underline resilience in the face of adversity.

Given everything that has taken place on the continent, the African Games are a
must-attend event. WILLIAM C. RHODEN

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The opening ceremony of the 2011 Pacific Games in New
Caledonia. This year's event is in Papua New Guinea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC LE
CHELARD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Left, Libyan athletes at the 2011 All-Africa Games. Right, an arena in Baku,
Azerbaijan, host of Europe's first Games. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEXANDER JOE/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 TOFIK BABAYEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (78%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); SPORTS
AWARDS (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); FIFA WORLD CUP (75%); VOLLEYBALL (73%);
MARTIAL ARTS (73%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS
(72%); SOCCER (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); BOATING & RAFTING (66%)

CITY: PORT MORESBY, PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%); BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (91%); BRAZZAVILLE,
CONGO (79%)

COUNTRY: NEW CALEDONIA (93%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (93%); AFRICA (93%); AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (91%); EUROPE (91%); NEW
ZEALAND (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CONGO (79%); VANUATU (79%); LIBYA (79%); FIJI
(79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); OCEANIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alas, the Indignity: Murder Victims Entombed in Cows

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE
REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 839 words


The French filmmaker Bruno Dumont has described his mesmerizing 197-minute
murder mystery, ''Li'l Quinquin,'' as a comedy. The term fits that definition
only if you understand that he means the human comedy in all its grotesque and
happy-sad variations. As in most of his films, Mr. Dumont assumes the aesthetic
and moral stance of a semidetached, some would say pitiless, observer of the
human condition. ''Li'l Quinquin'' is a quasi-epic farce that mostly wears a
poker face as it elaborates his continuing obsession with the collision of
humankind's bestial and spiritual impulses.

Set in a farm community in extreme northwestern France, where the rolling
countryside meets the sea, this exquisitely photographed four-part film, made
for French television and featuring local actors, has an Inspector Clouseau-like
police captain, Van der Weyden (Bernard Pruvost), who, with his assistant,
Carpentier (Philippe Jore), investigates a series of murders. In each case, a
victim's chopped-up body parts are discovered inside the stomach of a dead farm
animal, usually a cow. The first cow is discovered in a nearby World War II-era
bunker and flown to the village by helicopter.

Van der Weyden, who trundles around the countryside in his police vehicle, is a
classic bumbling cop with bushy eyebrows and a bundle of facial tics.
Carpentier, with his string-bean body and gaptoothed, grinning-idiot smile,
suggests a Gallic answer to Don Knotts. He, too, has a quirk: When driving the
police car by himself, he pilots it like a stunt driver.

The title character is a pubescent towheaded farm boy with a Humpty Dumpty face
who roams the area on his bicycle with a group of friends. They amuse themselves
by throwing firecrackers and taunting strangers with racist and homophobic
epithets. The chief objects of their scorn are North African laborers working in
the area. Late in the movie, one worker, subjected to vicious verbal taunts,
climbs to the top of a building with a gun and fires at those below.

Quinquin, like many of the other characters, has conspicuous physical
deformities that are never explained or even mentioned. The way his mouth twists
up on one side gives him a permanently surly expression.

By far the most disturbing character is his uncle, Dany (Jason Cirot), who
returns from a mental hospital in the care of Quinquin's ominously stoic father,
Lebleu (Stéphane Boutillier). A scary lunatic who stumbles around in circles and
responds to questions with a demented, homicidal glare, Dany is something out of
a horror movie set in an insane asylum. What back story there is suggests that
the Lebleu family has an ugly, conflicted history revolving around the
distribution of an inheritance.

For all his reflexive name-calling, Quinquin has a softer side. Almost
everywhere he goes, he is accompanied by his girlfriend, Eve (Lucy Caron), and
the two, who exchange long, sloppy kisses, treat each other with the solemn
tenderness of adolescents playing Joseph and Mary in a Christmas pageant.

This rustic setting is similar to the village in Mr. Dumont's much-decorated
breakthrough film, ''Humanité,'' whose portrait of rural villagers suggested
that the biggest difference between the farmers and the animals they tend is the
farmers' primitive awareness of good and evil and their attempts at faith. The
movie's four chapters have titles like ''The Heart of Evil'' and ''The Devil
Incarnate'' that can be taken as jokes. Or not.

Mr. Dumont refuses to romanticize his characters or to ask us to identify with
them emotionally, except as fellow creatures in the species under examination.
Sex, even between lovers, is little more than rutting copulation. And marriage,
to quote Nietzsche, is the meeting of ''two beasts.''

''Li'l Quinquin'' mocks the rituals through which people express their humanity.
There is a funeral whose participants, including the priest, can barely suppress
their laughter as they dutifully go through the motions of a hick charade that
involves an incompetent church organist and an aspiring pop singer who can
barely carry a tune. An extended sequence observes a Bastille Day parade with a
pathetic marching band and a troop of clumsy majorettes.

I would like to believe that Mr. Dumont is not a nihilistic know-it-all thumbing
his nose and crowing, ''Lord, what fools these mortals be!'' The physical beauty
of ''Li'l Quinquin'' tells me that beneath what could be interpreted as
contemptuous misanthropy is a bedrock of stern compassion.

Li'l Quinquin

Opens on Friday

Written and directed by Bruno Dumont; director of photography, Guillaume
Deffontaines; edited by Basile Belkhiri and Mr. Dumont; costumes by Alexandra
Charles; produced by 3B Productions-Arte France with Pictanovo; released by Kino
Lorber. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 3 hours 17 minutes.
This film is not rated.

WITH: Alane Delhaye (Li'l Quinquin), Lucy Caron (Eve Terrier), Bernard Pruvost
(Commandant Van der Weyden), Philippe Jore (Lieutenant Carpentier), Jason Cirot
(Dany) and Stéphane Boutillier (Lebleu).

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/lil-quinquin-a-new-mystery-by-bruno-dumon
t.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alane Delhaye, left, and Lucy Caron play pint-size sweethearts
in rural France in Bruno Dumont's mystery ''Li'l Quinquin.''
 On the case: Philippe Jore, left, and Bernard Pruvost as bumbling police
officers. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM KINO LORBER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FILM
(90%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HORROR FILMS (78%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DEMENTIA (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (73%); ANIMALS (69%); HELICOPTERS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); PSYCHIATRIC
HOSPITALS (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Tent City, a Glimmer of Hope

BYLINE: By RICK ROJAS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1083 words


LAS CRUCES, N.M. -- On a dusty lot in a rough stretch of this city, homeless
people have pitched dozens of tents, some nearly empty and others so packed with
possessions that their residents are practically entombed inside. There is no
electricity, and the unrelenting winds batter the tents so badly that duct tape,
used for repairs, is coveted like gold.

In other places, makeshift shelters like this one have been discouraged, if not
destroyed. In December, a large encampment in San Jose, Calif., known as the
Jungle was cleared because of health and safety concerns. In Detroit, officials
were keeping cautious watch on a camp that had recently sprung up near downtown.

But the nearly 50 homeless people living in the tent city here are welcome to
stay. Local officials allowed the camp to be set up on city-owned property,
making an exception to zoning rules that ban sleeping overnight. With a $45,000
earmark from the State Legislature, the camp is adding landscaping and a new
fence.

City officials say the camp has been a transformative force, bringing the
homeless closer to social services and the prospect of permanent homes, while
helping to clean up an area that had been plagued by drugs and violence.

''We were able to look beyond what the codes and ordinances say to see what
needs to happen here,'' said Gill Sorg, a city councilor.

The camp started as a temporary shelter in 2011, meant to last through the
winter. It now has elevated plots for 50 tents and a guard house, surrounded by
a wire fence. Called Camp Hope, the tent city has a few portable toilets -- not
nearly enough, residents say -- but restrooms and showers are just a stroll
away, to where several charities have set up a strip mall of social services,
including a medical clinic and soup kitchen. There, social workers try to
connect camp residents with government aid and low-income housing programs.

Nicole Martinez, the executive director of the Mesilla Valley Community of Hope,
a nonprofit that oversees the camp, said she had initially been critical of the
effort. Her job was to put people into housing; instead, her organization was
putting them in tents. ''It just felt backward,'' she said.

She soon changed her mind.

''I started to see it brought people to housing,'' Ms. Martinez said. ''They
started to trust us. They're not just coming to take a shower or get their mail.
They see us every day. That really established a rapport we didn't have
before.''

On a recent morning, the camp was near capacity, with 47 campers (11 of them
military veterans), four dogs and three cats, Ms. Martinez said, reading off a
roster. The youngest person was 18, four credits shy of his high school diploma,
and the oldest residents were in their 60s.

A stay in a traditional homeless shelter sometimes comes with demands that
people are unwilling to meet, like early curfews or required religious services.
At Camp Hope, alcohol, guns and abusive language or behavior are not allowed,
and residents must do six hours of service per week, usually guarding the camp
or collecting donations.

''It got better and better,'' said Dother Sykes, who was one of the camp's
original residents. ''My safety is your safety, and your safety is my safety, so
we started looking after each other.''

Stanley Smith, who is 59 and also known as Cowboy, was back for the fourth time
and grateful for a break from life on the street. ''I can sit back and think,
'What am I going to do next?' '' he said. ''You don't have to worry about
someone coming up and stabbing you or robbing you.''

Las Cruces, about 50 miles north of El Paso, is New Mexico's second-largest
city, with just over 101,000 residents, many of whom work for New Mexico State
University or the nearby White Sands Missile Range. The homeless here, some of
whom have drifted across the country, say they have been met with a level of
generosity that they have not found elsewhere.

''It was the first place I felt human, that I could move through homelessness,''
said Matt Mercer, 41, who was one of the camp's early residents and now works
for Community of Hope. He lives in his own home in a trailer park a short walk
away. ''This is a very conscious, compassionate community.''

A few years ago, the city's patience had worn thin with the homeless people who
had taken over the area surrounding the charities' offices, in an industrial
pocket in the south-central part of the city. The informal encampment had become
dangerous and difficult to control.

New businesses have moved in, and Nathan Small, the city councilor who
represents the area, said that maintaining good relationships with them would be
critical to the success of the program. ''The biggest challenges are ahead of
us,'' he said.

The problems that brought residents here have not disappeared. One resident
tends to sneak away in the afternoon and stumble back drunk. Others have been
expelled for smoking marijuana, and hypodermic needles have been found on tent
platforms. Tammy Nettnay -- who described herself as a recovering drug addict, a
prostitute and a felon several times over -- confessed at a weekly meeting of
residents that she had gotten drunk twice at the camp. But, she said proudly,
when someone gave her a parcel of methamphetamine, once her drug of choice, she
threw it away.

''It's not that I want to be here, I need to be here,'' said Ms. Nettnay, 48,
who came from El Paso in November. (Mr. Sykes, an old friend, told her to come.)
''I don't have any hopes and dreams now. It's just day by day. I need God to
show me what to do.''

At meetings held every Tuesday morning, a host of issues comes up: Friction
between those who collect money from the government each month and those who do
not. Gossip. Ms. Nettnay complained about the portable toilets, which could use
a scrub.

After being homeless for 27 of his 70 years, Mr. Sykes has a place of his own,
as well as a job harvesting pecans. The change, however, has brought a problem
he did not expect. ''The worst enemy, I found out, was dealing with the
isolation,'' he said. ''Your mind gets wandering to old things.''

To keep that from happening, he visits Camp Hope often, helping friends and
ferrying them to doctor appointments or to pick up cigarettes. When Mr. Sykes
arrived here a few years ago, he carried only a backpack. During a recent visit,
he pointed to a gleaming cream-colored sedan in the parking lot. ''Now, I'm
riding in a Buick!'' he said, bursting into a cackle, as if he could not quite
believe how things had turned out.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/in-new-mexico-tent-city-a-glimmer-of-hope.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Luper, who has been homeless for four years, sits
outside a tent at Camp Hope in Las Cruces, N.M. About 50 residents have lived in
the encampment since the city altered its zoning laws. (A12)
A homeless resident of Camp Hope visits a donation center to pick up a pair of
shoes. Charities nearby have set up a veritable strip mall of social services,
including a clinic and soup kitchen.
 Tammy Nettnay, who described herself as a recovering drug addict  and felon,
attending a meeting at a homeless outreach center.  ''It's not that I want to be
here,'' she said, ''I need to be here.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN PIERRE AGUIRRE FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%);
ORDINANCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(73%); CITIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%);
ZONING (73%); CATS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); VETERANS (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lampard Scores Winner for Manchester City

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 757 words


Frank Lampard came off the bench to score the winning goal in Manchester City's
3-2 victory over Sunderland on Thursday. The goal highlighted Lampard's value to
City, which moved into a tie for the Premier League lead when Chelsea lost to
Tottenham later in the day, but it also exposed a deep wedge between Lampard and
American soccer fans who had expected to see him play in New York this spring.

The goal came in Lampard's first game since Manchester City announced in a
one-sentence statement late Wednesday that he would remain with the club through
the end of the Premier League season in May. That decision means he will not
join New York City F.C. for the start of its inaugural season in Major League
Soccer in March.

New York City F.C. introduced Lampard as its marquee player in July, and the
team has featured him prominently in its kickoff campaign. It heralds his
accomplishments for City regularly on its Twitter feed, and has used his name
and image to sell shirts, sponsorships and, most important, more than 11,000
season tickets.

The news that he will stay in Manchester through May, rumored for weeks, caused
a public break between the new team and its most prominent fan group, the Third
Rail, which released a statement late Wednesday to ''publicly denounce'' the
decisions of Manchester City and Lampard.

''Many fans, including our members, decided to support the team, committed to
season tickets, and bought merchandise under the impression that Frank Lampard
would be playing for New York City Football Club, not Manchester City,'' the
statement read. ''Many of those fans are rightly outraged by this decision, and
we support any course of action they take to voice their discontent over this
decision.''

The team has said little about the move officially, merely confirming it in a
short article posted on the team's website. Even its Twitter post noting his
goal on Wednesday, his seventh for City this season, seemed sheepish; it came
more than an hour after he scored, and was greeted immediately with invective
from some fans, who fear that Manchester City, despite its multimillion-dollar
investment in M.L.S. and New York City F.C., considers the league and its team
an afterthought to its business in Europe.

Lampard's decision to stay in England also confirmed that he was never
technically an M.L.S. player, even though New York City F.C.'s news release
announcing his signing said Lampard ''had signed a two-year contract which
starts Aug. 1.''

But Lampard's salary did not appear in a list distributed by the M.L.S. players
union this fall -- in Major League Soccer, the league owns all player contracts
-- even though several of his teammates' did. And in announcing that Lampard
would stay through the end of the Premier League season, Manchester City said
that it had ''extended'' his deal.

Lampard's official arrival date in New York remains unclear. His contract
extension is believed to include a clause that would allow him, at Manchester
City's discretion, to join New York City F.C. at an earlier date, but if such a
clause were to be exercised, it would probably not be good news in Manchester.
Lampard most likely would not become expendable to City unless the club no
longer had a chance to win the Premier League or the Champions League.

CHELSEA NO LONGER ALONE AT THE TOP Chelsea surrendered its Premier League lead
with a frenzied 5-3 loss to Tottenham at White Hart Lane in London. Harry Kane
scored twice for Spurs, which beat the Blues for the first time in almost five
years and became the first team to score five goals against Chelsea in José
Mourinho's two spells as the team's manager.

With Chelsea and Manchester City tied on points (46), goal difference (plus 25)
and goals scored (44), nothing separates them in the standings.

Manchester United is in third place after a 1-1 draw at Stoke City, and
Southampton is fourth after beating Arsenal, 2-0.

Liverpool threw away a 2-0 lead and drew with last-place Leicester City, 2-2, on
a day when all three teams in the relegation zone earned a point. Crystal
Palace, which is on the verge of completing the signing of Manager Alan Pardew
from Newcastle, played to a scoreless draw at Aston Villa, and Burnley drew with
host Newcastle, 3-3.

West Bromwich Albion confirmed that Tony Pulis would become its new manager
earlier Thursday, and he was at Upton Park to watch his new team earn a 1-1 draw
at sixth-place West Ham to stay a point above the relegation zone. (AP)

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/soccer/frank-lampard-lifts-manchester-c
ity-as-fans-in-new-york-fume.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (87%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (76%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Twin Peaks Planet

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 809 words


In 2014, soaring inequality in advanced nations finally received the attention
it deserved, as Thomas Piketty's ''Capital in the Twenty-First Century'' became
a surprise (and deserving) best seller. The usual suspects are still in
well-paid denial, but, to everyone else, it is now obvious that income and
wealth are more concentrated at the very top than they have been since the
Gilded Age -- and the trend shows no sign of letting up.

But that's a story about developments within nations, and, therefore,
incomplete. You really want to supplement Piketty-style analysis with a global
view, and when you do, I'd argue, you get a better sense of the good, the bad
and the potentially very ugly of the world we live in.

So let me suggest that you look at a remarkable chart of income gains around the
world produced by Branko Milanovic of the City University of New York Graduate
Center (which I will be joining this summer). What Mr. Milanovic shows is that
income growth since the fall of the Berlin Wall has been a ''twin peaks'' story.
Incomes have, of course, soared at the top, as the world's elite becomes ever
richer. But there have also been huge gains for what we might call the global
middle -- largely consisting of the rising middle classes of China and India.

And let's be clear: Income growth in emerging nations has produced huge gains in
human welfare, lifting hundreds of millions of people out of desperate poverty
and giving them a chance for a better life.

Now for the bad news: Between these twin peaks -- the ever-richer global elite
and the rising Chinese middle class -- lies what we might call the valley of
despond: Incomes have grown slowly, if at all, for people around the 20th
percentile of the world income distribution. Who are these people? Basically,
the advanced-country working classes. And although Mr. Milanovic's data only go
up through 2008, we can be sure that this group has done even worse since then,
wracked by the effects of high unemployment, stagnating wages, and austerity
policies.

Furthermore, the travails of workers in rich countries are, in important ways,
the flip side of the gains above and below them. Competition from
emerging-economy exports has surely been a factor depressing wages in wealthier
nations, although probably not the dominant force. More important, soaring
incomes at the top were achieved, in large part, by squeezing those below: by
cutting wages, slashing benefits, crushing unions, and diverting a rising share
of national resources to financial wheeling and dealing.

Perhaps more important still, the wealthy exert a vastly disproportionate effect
on policy. And elite priorities -- obsessive concern with budget deficits, with
the supposed need to slash social programs -- have done a lot to deepen the
valley of despond.

So who speaks for those left behind in this twin-peaked world? You might have
expected conventional parties of the left to take a populist stance on behalf of
their domestic working classes. But mostly what you get instead -- from leaders
ranging from François Hollande of France to Ed Milliband of Britain to, yes,
President Obama -- is awkward mumbling. (Mr. Obama has, in fact, done a lot to
help working Americans, but he's remarkably bad at making his own case.)

The problem with these conventional leaders, I'd argue, is that they're afraid
to challenge elite priorities, in particular the obsession with budget deficits,
for fear of being considered irresponsible. And that leaves the field open for
unconventional leaders -- some of them seriously scary -- who are willing to
address the anger and despair of ordinary citizens.

The Greek leftists who may well come to power there later this month are
arguably the least scary of the bunch, although their demands for debt relief
and an end to austerity may provoke a tense standoff with Brussels. Elsewhere,
however, we see the rise of nationalist, anti-immigrant parties like France's
National Front and the U.K. Independence Party, or UKIP, in Britain -- and there
are even worse people waiting in the wings.

All of this suggests some uncomfortable historical analogies. Remember, this is
the second time we've had a global financial crisis followed by a prolonged
worldwide slump. Then, as now, any effective response to the crisis was blocked
by elite demands for balanced budgets and stable currencies. And the eventual
result was to deliver power into the hands of people who were, shall we say, not
very nice.

I'm not suggesting that we're on the verge of fully replaying the 1930s. But I
would argue that political and opinion leaders need to face up to the reality
that our current global setup isn't working for everyone. It's great for the
elite and has done a lot of good for emerging nations, but that valley of
despond is very real. And bad things will happen if we don't do something about
it.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/paul-krugman-twin-peaks-planet.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME
DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%);
GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES
(60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY FOX INC (58%)

TICKER: FOX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS
(58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spare Times: For Children

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 3164 words


First Saturdays for Families: 'Group Choreography'

Many established choreographers work with less experienced disciples, but
Vanessa Justice's collaborator on a program for the New Museum may be one of the
youngest on record: Liv Rylander, 3.

Liv, Ms. Justice's daughter, brings genuine expertise to the project. Her mother
has been developing a workshop for children, and who better to serve as creative
consultant?

''I plan to introduce kids to the way choreographers think -- how they work with
bodies, space and time to make a dance,'' Ms. Justice said in a telephone
interview.

Her program, ''Group Choreography,'' will be part of the museum's First
Saturdays for Families, a free series. The museum has devoted its most recent
Research and Development Season -- a group of projects embracing different
platforms -- to the theme of choreography, and Ms. Justice has been
participating in it through ''AuntsforCamera,'' an installation of nine filmed
dance works.

''I was working with spinning, and kids love to spin,'' she said. This led her
to think of using Ring Around the Rosie as a nucleus for her workshop. She said
she also planned to present ''an exercise about space'' called the Garden: One
child will come into a defined area and choose a place to lie down, stand up or
sit. A second will enter and do the same, and then a third. After all have
selected their positions relative to one another, they will ''basically have
created a spatial composition,'' Ms. Justice said.

This approach may help young participants understand how choreographers make
pictures with bodies. By breaking down Ring Around the Rosie into its
constituent elements and reordering or revising them, as Ms. Justice did with
Liv -- maybe falling down first instead of last -- they may also grasp how
choreographers can make a small piece of familiar material more layered, complex
and unexpected.

Ms. Justice's workshop, which she will conduct three times on Saturday -- the
event is drop-in -- is geared to children 3 to 9, but the museum will offer
other activities, too. Young visitors can try figure drawing, using the dancers
as models, or they can draw a movement-related word from a box -- like ''high''
or ''turn'' -- and illustrate it with their bodies.

''I hope they come away with the feeling that dance is in continual evolution,''
Ms. Justice said, ''and that someday they might make a dance that is totally
unique in its vision.''

(10 a.m. to noon, 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222,
newmuseum.org; tickets are limited, first come first served.) LAUREL GRAEBER

For Children

Ailey Family Matinees (Saturday) Children can take their first steps as
dancegoers by following the leaps and bounds of the members of Alvin Ailey
American Dance Theater in this abbreviated afternoon program, which is followed
by a question-and-answer session with the dancers. This family matinee, the last
of the season, includes new works and repertory favorites. It concludes with
Alvin Ailey's own ''Revelations,'' the troupe's signature work, inspired by
spirituals. At 2 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan,
212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org.

'All Aboard With Thomas and Friends' (Saturday, Sunday, and Tuesday through
Thursday) In winter, the New York Botanical Garden becomes as much a train
station as a plant-filled paradise. In addition to the Holiday Train Show, which
features model trains zooming among models of New York City landmarks, the
garden is now offering ''All Aboard With Thomas & Friends,'' a mini-performance
featuring Thomas the Tank Engine and Driver Sam, of storybook and television
fame. Children can help the characters as they decorate the train station for a
big surprise party and pose for photos with Thomas at the end of the singalong
show. (Through Jan. 25.) Saturdays and Sundays at 11 a.m., and 1:30, 3:30 and
5:30 p.m.; this Tuesday through Thursday at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.; members-only
performances this Saturday and Sunday at 9 a.m.; Ross Hall, Bronx River Parkway
(Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, 718-817-8777, nybg.org.
Advance purchase is recommended for ''All Aboard'' shows; those buying online
must choose the tickets that specify mini-performances and reserve a time.

'Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces' (Friday;
Sunday through Tuesday; and Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an
explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum,
but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of
excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and
figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a
bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a
recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists
can dress in costume. From 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8 p.m. on Thursdays;
until 4 p.m. on Fridays; 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200,
thejewishmuseum.org.

'Cirque Zíva' (Friday through Sunday) The title may seem French, but the show is
unmistakably Asian: This two-hour production, closing this weekend, represents
the return of the Golden Dragon Acrobats, from Hebei Province, China, to the New
Victory Theater, where they first wowed young audiences in 2005. And don't
expect ordinary handsprings and somersaults. This troupe's members specialize in
the extreme, like balancing on one hand on a stack of chairs or doing ballet
moves while perched on another person's shoulders. They'll offer a lion dance,
too. Friday and Saturday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m.; 209 West
42nd Street, Manhattan, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org.

Elska (Saturday) Children can take a trip to the Arctic, no snowsuits required,
via this show by Elska (Shelley Wollert), a kind of Björk for young listeners
who combines music, puppets and wild costumes and characters -- the Goobler, the
Arctic Fox -- in a fanciful tale about her life on a volcanic island off the
coast of Iceland. Part of Symphony Space's Just Kidding series, the presentation
will include electro-pop from her album, ''Middle of Nowhere.'' At 11 a.m.,
Leonard Nimoy Thalia Theater, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, 212-864-5400,
symphonyspace.org.

Family Country Dance (Saturday) You don't usually get much of a rustic feeling
in Manhattan, but the 92nd Street Y will provide it on Saturday with this
old-fashioned country dance. Family members young and old can enjoy square
dances, circle dances, line dances and reels, all done to live traditional music
by the Hell's Kitchen Cookers. Guests at the event -- it's free to anyone under
18 -- are invited to prepare a vegetarian dish for a potluck supper before the
swinging and do-si-doing begin. From 5 to 8 p.m., Buttenwieser Hall, 1395
Lexington Avenue, 212-415-5500, 92y.org.

'Fancy Nancy: Splendiferous Christmas' (Friday through Sunday) Vital Theater
Company, which gave eager young audiences ''Fancy Nancy: The Musical,'' has
returned with a new show starring that inimitable little diva. Based on the book
written by Jane O'Connor and illustrated by Robin Preiss Glasser, ''Fancy Nancy:
Splendiferous Christmas,'' which closes this weekend, deals with Nancy's fancy
expectations for the holiday season. With a book by Cara Lustik, music by Randy
Klein and lyrics by Matthew Hardy, the production revolves around Nancy's
purchase of a grand decoration for the top of the Christmas tree, and what
ensues when her dreams don't turn out quite as planned. At 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.,
McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, fourth floor,
212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

'The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation' (Friday through Sunday)
Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion
but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers.
The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son
Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.'s for the production. Audience members may
even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at
7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m. 340
West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

'Great White Shark' (Friday through Sunday) Seeing this Imax film, closing this
weekend at the American Museum of Natural History, may inspire fear -- not for
the safety of humans, but for that of sharks. Shown in both 2-D and 3-D, this
documentary explores the fate of great white sharks, which have been driven to
the brink of extinction by the market for shark fin soup. Filmed in waters off
Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and California, the work captures sharks in
their habitats, including a sequence in which great whites are shown breaching
in 3-D. Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 11:30 a.m.
and 4:30 p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. At Central Park West and 79th
Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org. Included in Museum Plus One admission (general
admission and one Imax film or special exhibition): $27; $22 for students and
60+; $16 for ages 2 to 12. Member tickets: $13.50; $8.50 for children.

'The Greatest Pirate Holiday Spectacularrr!' (Friday and Saturday) My, that
Scrooge was a scurvy knave: repossessing houseboats, stealing ugly sweaters,
hiding his ill-gotten gains in a litter box. You're probably thinking that
Charles Dickens must be rolling in his grave over this, and he probably is --
with laughter. Presented by Off Sides Entertainment, which produced last year's
''The Greatest Pirate Story (N)ever Told,'' this show combines a parody of
piracy and ''A Christmas Carol'' with audience-assisted improvisation and a
variation on the children's fill-in-the-blank game Mad Libs. Dickens himself
plays a role in the production, which you shouldn't miss: It closes this
weekend. Friday at 11 a.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.; Snapple Theater
Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, 212-921-7862, greatestpiratestory.com.

Hands-On Nano Demos (Saturday) Forget about thinking big; this free event is all
about thinking small, as Sony Wonder Technology Lab offers experiments and
workshops exploring the properties, structures and materials involved in
nanotechnology. Recommended for ages 7 and older, these demonstrations are
enhanced by the lab's permanent exhibit on nanotechnology's applications in
fields like medicine, transportation and fashion. From 1 to 3 p.m., 550 Madison
Avenue, at 56th Street, 212-833-8100, sonywondertechlab.com; reservations are
required.

'Hansel and Gretel' (Saturday and Thursday) Children may not think that Hansel
and Gretel have much to sing about in their dark adventure, but young audiences
will find out otherwise at this family-friendly production from the Metropolitan
Opera, which ends its holiday run on Thursday. Presented in Richard Jones's
English adaptation, with Engelbert Humperdinck's score, the opera, for ages 5
and older, runs about 2 hours 10 minutes and stars Robert Brubaker as the
gluttonous witch. Saturday at 1 p.m.; Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Metropolitan Opera
House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metoperafamily.org.

'Into the Third Dimension: 3-D Printing for Young Artists' (Friday through
Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Imagine that a robot or a fairy or a lion
came out of a child's drawing and acquired three dimensions. It sounds like an
animated fantasy, but the Children's Museum of the Arts is making something very
similar happen in this exhibition. A collaboration with 3DP4E (3-D Printing for
Everyone), this show features works from the museum's permanent collection of
children's art. Each drawing is shown alongside one of its elements or details
that's been made three-dimensional through the printing process. On selected
Saturdays the museum will hold drawing workshops in which children can create
art to enter into a raffle to be selected for 3-D printing. (Through Jan. 11.)
103 Charlton Street, between Hudson and Greenwich Streets, South Village,
212-274-0986, cmany.org. Hours: Fridays and Thursdays from noon to 6 p.m.;
Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Mondays and Wednesdays from noon
to 5 p.m.

'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe' (Saturday) If the children of the
Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as
simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn't two hard-working actors be able to play them
and all the characters found there? That's what Abigail Taylor-Sansom and her
husband, Rockford Sansom, are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater's
first production, le Clanché du Rand's adaptation of C. S. Lewis's classic
novel. (The run is open-ended.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th
Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

MoMA Art Lab: Places and Spaces (Friday through Thursday) What's an art lab?
These interactive spaces for children at the Museum of Modern Art, free with
museum admission, help introduce the institution's collection through activities
related to a theme: this time it's Places and Spaces. Young visitors can design,
draw and build as they explore spaces both real and imagined -- landscapes,
cityscapes, seascapes -- as they appear in Modern art. (Through Aug. 31.) Daily,
from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; to 6:30 p.m. on Fridays; Lewis B. and Dorothy
Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan,
212-708-9805, moma.org/momaartlab.

Museum of the Moving Image Workshop and Screening (Friday through Sunday) Movies
can often seem magical, but this museum is increasing that appeal with a
hands-on workshop that delves into cinematic wizardry. ''Stop-Motion Shapes,''
its winter holiday family workshop, for ages 8 and older, daily at 2:30 p.m.,
will allow children to make their own videos emulating Chuck Jones's short film
''The Dot and the Line,'' in which he animates the simplest shapes. They'll turn
cutouts and blocks into characters. On Saturday only, at noon, the museum is
also screening ''The Wind Rises'' (2013), which the Japanese master Hayao
Miyazaki has said is his final film. An animated adventure and romance, it
offers a fictionalized version of the life of Jiro Horikoshi, an aeronautical
engineer who designed warplanes used in World War II. On Sunday only, at 1 p.m.,
it is showing ''Baton Bunny'' and other cartoons, part of its Chuck Jones
matinee series. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, 718-777-6800,
movingimage.us. Workshop requires a small materials fee; screenings are free
with museum admission.

'Somebody Come and Play: 45 Years of ''Sesame Street'' Helping Kids Grow
Smarter, Stronger, and Kinder' (Friday, Saturday, and Monday through Thursday)
Sesame Street now has an additional address: the New York Public Library for the
Performing Arts. This free show showcases more than 250 artifacts related to the
beloved preschool public television series ''Sesame Street,'' including set
designs, original sketches for characters, scripts, storyboards, animation cels,
Claymation models, videos and, of course, over 20 Muppets, among them Elmo, Zoe
and Bert and Ernie. A children's area includes ''Sesame Street'' books and
activities. (Through Jan. 31.) Daily, except Sundays, from noon to 6 p.m.; to 8
p.m. on Mondays and Thursdays; 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln
Center, 917-275-6975, nypl.org/lpa.

Sugarcube: 'Enchanted' (Thursday) An inflatable, heated pop-up space at the
South Street Seaport, the white rectangular Sugarcube looks a lot like its name.
And what's inside seems pretty sweet, too: a weekly series of free arts events,
from Thursday through Sunday, that include workshops, performances, D.J.
parties, screenings and family programs. The family offerings kick off on
Thursday with a free showing of ''Enchanted,'' the 2007 Disney film about
Giselle, an animated princess who falls under a spell and suddenly finds herself
emerging in Times Square as a flesh-and-blood human being. Played by Amy Adams,
Giselle has to contend with both the challenges of New York and the potential
for a love that isn't just a cartoon. At 7 p.m., Fulton and Front Streets, Lower
Manhattan, sugarcube.nyc.

'Swamp Juice' (Friday through Sunday) You can sometimes find junk in a swamp,
but in the one conjured by this shadow puppet show, closing this weekend, the
creatures are rubbish, too. Jeff Achtem, of Melbourne, Australia, uses ordinary
household stuff to create his characters, which include a snail, a crocodile, a
mouse, a snake, birds and a grumpy old man who interacts with them all. (In the
finale, audience members are given 3-D glasses to complete their swamp
immersion.) Friday and Sunday at 5 p.m.; Saturday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Barrow
Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village,
212-868-4444, barrowstreettheatre.com.

Three Kings Day Celebration/El Día de los Reyes Magos (Tuesday) In the Bible,
the three kings traveled to Bethlehem to bestow gifts on the baby Jesus. In
present-day Manhattan, they will journey to the Lower East Side to bestow gifts
on local children. This is part of the free celebration at Teatro SEA, the
Latino theater for young people, which will honor the holiday with traditional
music by Los Pleneros de la 21 and Mariachi Academy of New York; an appearance
by the three kings; and presents for the first 1,000 little visitors to arrive.
From 3 to 5 p.m., Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children's Theater, Clemente Soto
Vélez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, 212-529-1545,
teatrosea.org.

'Tiny Giants' (Friday through Thursday) The heroes of this film may be small,
but they're mighty in their will to survive. Inspired by the BBC television
series ''Hidden Kingdoms,'' this new Imax movie at the American Museum of
Natural History uses 3-D cameras to peer into the universes of two diminutive
creatures: a forest chipmunk and a grasshopper mouse from the Arizona desert,
noted for its ability to prey on scorpions. Narrated by Stephen Fry, the film
allows viewers to see the world from their perspectives. (Through July 5.)
Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 10:30 a.m. and 12:30
p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. At Central Park West and 79th Street,
212-769-5200, amnh.org.

'A Voyage Through Jewish History' (Sunday through Thursday) This journey
involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at
the Jewish Children's Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah's
tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along
the way include giving water to Rebecca's camels, playing the strings on David's
harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and
taking part in the exodus from Egypt. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m.; until 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue,
Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum. LAUREL GRAEBER

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/spare-times-for-children-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW MUSEUM, NEW YORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (91%); CHILDREN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS
& PERFORMERS (90%); DANCERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); INTERVIEWS
(76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Jazz

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1653 words


Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz. A searchable guide
to these and other shows is at nytimes.com/events.

J.D. Allen Quartet (Friday through Sunday) The tenor saxophonist J.D. Allen has
done strong work in recent years with a pianoless trio, featuring the bassist
Gregg August and the drummer Rudy Royston. For this weekend run, which concludes
Smoke's annual John Coltrane Festival, he augments that unit with the
up-and-coming pianist Victor Gould. At 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751
Broadway, at 106th Street, 212-864-6662, smokejazz.com. (Nate Chinen)

Ben Allison Band (Thursday) The bassist and composer Ben Allison inched closer
to a rock ethos on his recent album, ''The Stars Look Very Different Today.''
(The title is from a David Bowie lyric.) But the agile band on the album -- with
Steve Cardenas and Brandon Seabrook on guitars and Allison Miller on drums --
still functions with a post-bop metabolism. From 9:30 p.m. to midnight, Smalls
Jazz Club, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com. (Chinen)

&#x2605; The Bad Plus (through Sunday) This was a banner year for the Bad Plus:
in addition to a sturdy new album of originals, the band released its take on
Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring,'' and took a bravura spin through Ornette
Coleman's ''Science Fiction.'' All of which adds up to a wealth of possibilities
for its annual stand at the Village Vanguard, straddling the turn of the new
year. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at
11th Street, West Village, 212-255-4037, villagevanguard.com. (Chinen)

&#x2605; Peter Bernstein Quartet (Friday through Sunday) The astute hard-bop
guitarist Peter Bernstein can always be trusted in a quartet setting, and this
one features extravagantly capable partners, whose overlapping histories go back
some 20 years: the pianist Brad Mehldau, the bassist Christian McBride and the
drummer Greg Hutchinson. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola,
Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway,
212-721-6500, jalc.org. (Chinen)

&#x2605; Richard Bona and Mandekan Cubano (through Sunday) Mr. Bona, an electric
bassist and vocalist whose proficiency may be rivaled only by his charisma,
hails from Cameroon, but uses this group to explore the alchemy of African
rhythms in Cuba. His band mates are the trumpeter Dennis Hernandez, the
trombonist Rey David, the pianist Osmany Paredes and the percussionists Luisito
and Roberto Quintero (who are cousins). At 7:30 and 10 p.m., with an 11:45 set
on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan,
212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

Chris Botti (through Sunday) Mr. Botti, whose adult-pop savvy and controlled but
brooding trumpet sound have made him a global superstar, descends on the Blue
Note each year around this time for an extended engagement. This is his 10th
annual run, and as usual he brings a slick but substantial band, and the clout
to welcome the occasional unbilled celebrity guest. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue
Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, 212-475-8592, bluenote.net.
(Chinen)

Irabagon Festival (Friday through Sunday) A smart young saxophonist who has
successfully ducked in and out of the mainstream jazz tradition, Jon Irabagon
works on Friday with an expeditious trio featuring two veterans of the
avant-garde, the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Barry Altschul. On
Saturday, Mr. Irabagon leads a different but equally expeditious trio, with Mary
Halvorson on guitar and Nasheet Waits on drums. And Sunday's offering will be an
Irabagon quartet with the pianist Luis Perdomo, the bassist Yasushi Nakamura and
the drummer Rudy Royston. Friday and Saturday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Sunday at
8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Café, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village,
212-989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com. (Chinen)

&#x2605; Jazz Resolutions for 2015 (Thursday) Timed to coincide with the annual
conference of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters, this evening will
spotlight four ensembles working along the fault line of composition and
improvisation. Starting at 6 p.m., with sets every hour, the lineup consists of
the Ben Wendel Group, with Mr. Wendel on saxophone, Taylor Eigsti on piano,
Harish Raghavan on bass and Eric Harland on drums; the flutist Jamie Baum and
her group Short Stories, which includes Mr. Wendel; the Michael Blake Quartet,
led by its namesake saxophonist; and the Joel Harrison 4, whose leader is a
venturesome yet roots-minded guitarist and composer. At 6 p.m., Greenwich House
Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, 212-242-4770, greenwichhouse.org.
(Chinen)

Russ Lossing's King Vulture (Thursday) Mr. Lossing, a pianist of inquisitive
temperament, features his own new compositions in King Vulture, a quartet with
Adam Kolker on tenor saxophone and bass clarinet, Matt Pavolka on bass and
Dayeon Seok on drums. From 8:30 to 10:30 p.m., IBeam, 168 Seventh Street,
Gowanus, Brooklyn, ibeambrooklyn.com. (Chinen)

Shai Maestro Trio (Friday) Last fall the young Israeli pianist Shai Maestro
released a thoughtful and melodic album, ''The Road to Ithaca,'' loosely
inspired by the ''Odyssey.'' He'll probably draw from it here, at 8:15 p.m., in
a trio with Jorge Roeder on bass and Nate Wood on drums. ShapeShifter Lab, 18
Whitwell Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, shapeshifterlab.com. (Chinen)

Matt Mitchell Quartet (Tuesday) Matt Mitchell, a proficient and probing pianist,
has had a hand in some of the better bands of recent vintage, like Tim Berne's
Snakeoil and the Dave Douglas Quintet. He surfaces next week with his own
quartet, which will record an album days after the gig; it features the
saxophonist and clarinetist Chris Speed, the bassist Chris Tordini and the
drummer Dan Weiss. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Jazz Gallery, 1160 Broadway, fifth
floor, at West 27th Street, 646-494-3625, jazzgallery.org. (Chinen)

&#x2605; Monterey Jazz Festival on Tour (Tuesday through Jan. 11) This brand
extension of the Monterey Jazz Festival, which celebrated its 55th anniversary
last year, makes its premiere next week with an impressive lineup. The trumpeter
Terence Blanchard and the saxophonist Ravi Coltrane form the front line of a
quintet whose rhythm section travels under separate cover as the acclaimed
Gerald Clayton Trio. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street,
Greenwich Village, 212-475-8592, bluenote.net. (Chinen)

&#x2605; NYC Winter Jazzfest (Thursday through Jan. 10) The jazz event of the
season, going on its 11th year, will kick off on Thursday with two distinct
all-star events. ''Blue Note Now!'' -- at 8 p.m. at Le Poisson Rouge, 158
Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village -- is a celebration of
the current Blue Note Records roster, with performances by the Robert Glasper
Trio, the singer José James, the bassist Derrick Hodge and the drummer Kendrick
Scott. ''Jazz Legends for Disability Pride'' -- at 7 p.m. at the Quaker Friends
Meeting Hall, 15 Rutherford Place, near East 15th Street, East Village -- is a
fund-raiser for the nonprofit Disability Pride NYC, featuring more than a dozen
artists, including the bassists Ron Carter and Buster Williams; the saxophonists
Benny Golson and George Coleman; the pianists Harold Mabern and Brad Mehldau;
and the drummer Jimmy Cobb. A full schedule is at winterjazzfest.com. (Chinen)

Bill O'Connell and the Latin Jazz All-Stars (Tuesday) Mr. O'Connell, a pianist
and composer-arranger, began his professional career in Latin jazz almost 40
years ago, and he has never abandoned the calling. His partners in this aptly
named band are the saxophonist Steve Slagle, the trombonist Conrad Herwig, the
bassist Luques Curtis, the drummer Adam Cruz and the percussionist Román Díaz.
At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, 212-581-3080,
birdlandjazz.com. (Chinen)

Ken Peplowski Quartet (Wednesday) Ken Peplowski, a virtuoso clarinetist and
charismatic tenor saxophonist with a gift for buoyant swing, leads a crisp
quartet with Ehud Asherie on piano, Katie Thiroux on bass and Matt Wilson on
drums. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton,
212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.com. (Chinen)

Marcus Roberts and the Modern Jazz Generation (Wednesday through Jan. 11) Mr.
Roberts, an erudite jazz pianist drawn to a mission of edification, has long
enjoyed an emeritus status at Jazz at Lincoln Center. His new big band, the
Modern Jazz Generation, will hold court next week in the organization's house
nightclub; the child prodigy Joey Alexander, recently signed to a record deal,
plays an opening solo piano set on Wednesday (only for the first seating).
Wednesday at 7 and 9:30 p.m., Thursday through Jan. 11 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.,
Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th
Street and Broadway, 212-721-6500, jalc.org. (Chinen)

&#x2605; Kurt Rosenwinkel New Quartet (Tuesday through Jan. 11) The guitarist
Kurt Rosenwinkel favors floating lyricism, a luminous tone and an ultramodern
harmonic language, all reasons for his stature as one of the young gurus on his
instrument. His New Quartet is first and foremost a showcase for his bond with
the pianist Aaron Parks, who appears here along with the bassist Eric Revis and
the drummer Allan Mednard. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh
Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, 212-255-4037, villagevanguard.com.
(Chinen)

Helen Sung Quintet (Tuesday and Wednesday) The articulate young pianist Helen
Sung has lately been drawing sustenance from the standard jazz canon, though she
has her own book of tunes. She has no shortage of thoughtful accomplices in this
quintet, which features the trumpeter Mike Rodriguez, the saxophonist Seamus
Blake, the bassist Reuben Rogers and the drummer Obed Calvaire. At 7:30 and 10
p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232,
jazzstandard.net. (Chinen)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/jazz-listings-for-jan-2-8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA DE SILVA/REUTERS) (C21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
(90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FESTIVALS (78%);
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

COUNTRY: CAMEROON (79%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Actor Uses a Pen This Time

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 616 words


''Every actor wants to play a robot,'' said Mike Iveson, speaking by telephone
from his Upper West Side apartment. ''That's the truth.''

Well, it's certainly true for Mr. Iveson. In ''Sorry Robot,'' his full-length
playwriting debut, Mr. Iveson has assigned himself the role of Junius, a
humanoid robot with an iffy agenda -- part capable personal assistant, part
sinister conspirator. And he sings, too. A musical-comedy-techno-thriller set at
a shady Florida hotel, ''Sorry Robot'' starts performances on Tuesday at the New
Ohio Theater as part of PS 122's Coil festival.

With his high forehead, sleepy eyes and round chin, Mr. Iveson has been a
distinct presence downtown for 20 years or so. Able to pivot smoothly between
realism and absurdity, he can play heroes, zeros and everymen in between. His
characters are a little wounded, a little wild.

He moved to New York in the 1990s, in search of ''weird, nondiscursive
theater.'' He found it with the gleefully shambolic performance troupe
Dancenoise: ''a lot of dance, a lot of social commentary, a lot of crazy wigs
and unacceptable costumes.'' Later, he segued into modern dance and then into
devised theater, appearing in Elevator Repair Service's ''Gatz'' and ''The
Select (The Sun Also Rises),'' in which he played Jake Barnes.

Last year, he took on roles as a sportscaster, a financial adviser and a Supreme
Court justice. In an effort to pay the bills, he also spent four months as a
freelance copy editor, work that he describes as ''very satisfying.''

But Mr. Iveson, now in his 40s, had never written a play. Vallejo Gantner, the
artistic director of PS 122, noticed. In 2013, he and a panel of judges awarded
Mr. Iveson the 2013 Ethyl Eichelberger Award and a $5,000 commission for an
original work. As Mr. Gantner said, Mr. Iveson is ''brilliant, generous to a
fault and has done everything with everyone.'' But now it was time for him to do
something on his own.

He started to work on a play about a hotel for robots. Then he read an article
in The Economist about robots built with intentional flaws, the better to mesh
with their human colleagues. ''Sorry Robot,'' loony and dorky and ominous, is
the result. ''It's an allegory for something, but I don't know what,'' Mr.
Iveson said.

He and the actor Nicky Paraiso, who plays the robot Fortnight, have been working
to find the androids within, modulating their gestures and voices accordingly.
How would a robot version of Mr. Iveson behave? ''That model would refuse to
relax,'' he said. ''That model would refuse to sit still.''

Mr. Iveson, who also has a long career as a composer for dance and theater, has
scored the show with nine songs, mostly sung by actors playing robots. These are
lo-fi, high-bombast ballads, a tribute to the ''endlessly ineffable and
untouchable'' Dutch pop that Mr. Iveson loved during the few years that his
family lived in the Netherlands.

Mr. Iveson admits that he's nervous about his playwriting debut. ''It's a little
daunting,'' he said. But he has fewer worries about playing Junius. ''You don't
have to do anything,'' he said excitedly. ''You just have to say the lines and
make them clear and make sure your face doesn't move.''

COIL Friday through Jan. 17 at various venues. Mike Iveson's ''Sorry Robot''
runs Tuesday to Jan. 17 at the New Ohio Theater, 154 Christopher Street, West
Village. The Team's ''RoosevElvis'' runs through Jan. 10 at the Vineyard
Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Union Square. Temporary Distortion's ''My Voice
Has an Echo in It'' runs Wednesday through Jan. 11 at Ideal Glass Gallery, 22
East Second Street, East Village. (212-352-3101, ps122.org) Coil festival
tickets are also available in person at some box offices.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/sorry-robot-from-mike-iveson-is-at-the
-coil-festival.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Iveson, right, and Nicky Paraiso rehearsing ''Sorry
Robot,'' a musical-comedy-techno-thriller at the Coil festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); DANCE (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); SUPREME
COURTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (63%); THEATER
(58%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping Up With the Visuals

BYLINE: By ERIC GRODE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 485 words


Circus performers are used to a bit of competition for the audience's attention,
whether from cream-pie-wielding clowns, befezzed elephants or popcorn-selling
vendors.

But the Finnish aerialist Ilona Jantti set out to upstage herself -- or at least
give her high-altitude feats a run for their money -- when she commissioned her
childhood friend Tuula Jeker to flood the stage with whimsical video
projections. In ''Muualla/Elsewhere,'' she must not only scamper up and down
ropes -- ''It seems more dangerous than it is,'' Ms. Jantti said in a Skype
interview from Helsinki -- but also coordinate her actions with the brightly
colored, ever-changing visuals behind her.

''We started with the idea of a dance partner who was not real,'' Ms. Jantti
said. ''I suppose it's my shadow, which then takes a life of its own and does
what it wants.'' Among those actions: dragging an upside-down Ms. Jantti up a
projected staircase, her head bonking on each step as she ascends.

''Muualla/Elsewhere'' is one of nine acts being presented in Circus Now:
International Contemporary Circus Exposure 2015, the newest entry to New York's
festival-heavy January schedule. Each performance at this three-day showcase at
the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts features a triple bill of
international circus acts, including a handful of United States premieres.

As it happens, Ms. Jantti has shared a bill before with one of her fellow acts
on Jan. 10, the New Mexico-based pair known as the Ricochet Project. And the
third group, the well-traveled Cirkus Cirkor from Sweden, actually employed her
for much of 2013.

But that time with Cirkor was an exception for Ms. Jantti, 34, who is part of a
growing group of circus artists able to cobble together a career out of
performances in gallery shows and dance festivals as well as more traditional
circus settings.

She also performs in several botanical gardens, in Helsinki as well as in
northern Finland and elsewhere. Some of these performances are advertised in the
usual way, but she enjoys staging impromptu shows in the gardens. ''It's always
fun to surprise people,'' said Ms. Jantti, who hopes to scout out a few New York
gardens for future shows during her Circus Now visit.

These informal settings often allow for more playful interactions: Ms. Jantti
frequently replays the ''Muualla/Elsewhere'' projections after her performance
and lets people come up and create their own movements. (The piece has become
popular with children.) That won't be feasible at the 860-seat Skirball Center,
but with more than 50 other performers participating in Circus Now, audiences
will have plenty to keep them busy.

CIRCUS NOW: INTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY CIRCUS EXPOSURE Thursday through Jan. 10
at the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at
Washington Square South, Greenwich Village. Ilona Jantti performs in the Jan. 10
showcase. (212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/ilona-jantti-and-finnish-aerialism-at-
circus-now.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The aerialist Ilona Jantti is to perform in
''Muualla/Elsewhere,'' as part of Circus Now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VOJTECH BRTNICKY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); DANCERS
(78%); DANCE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (70%);
THEATER (58%)

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEW MEXICO, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); FINLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

5 Centuries on a Corner in England

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL SALTMARSH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 836 words


COLCHESTER, England -- In the heart of what is believed to be the oldest
recorded town in Britain, the Corner House still displays its 16th-century
origins both inside and out.

The three-story house, a timber-framed building with wattle and daub walls, has
a Grade II listing, as a building of special interest, from the English Heritage
organization. It stands in Colchester's Dutch Quarter, named for the large
number of Flemish weavers who emigrated to Colchester from 1550 to 1600. Many
properties in the area date to the period and this one, believed to have been
built around 1530, has original features such as exposed timbers and brickwork
as well as jettied upper stories.

The four-bedroom home had a variety of uses over the years that took advantage
of its prominent position at the corner of two main streets -- for example, in
the early 1900s, it was a general store and, later, a sweet shop.

The current owners, Chris Meigh- Andrews, professor of electronic and digital
art at the University of Central Lancaster and the University of West England,
and Cinzia Cremona, an artist and lecturer at the Colchester Institute, bought
the house three years ago for its heritage as well as its location. Now, because
of work commitments, they have put it on the market for 330,000 pounds, or
$517,777.

''We liked the combination of being close to the town center and all the history
of this area and the house itself,'' Professor Meigh-Andrews said. ''We liked
the sense of being part of the original settlement of Colchester from medieval
times and of the many generations who lived here before us.''

The couple bought the 1,316-square-foot house for £272,500 and estimate they
have spent around £5,000 on work such as roof repairs, redecorating and adding
secondary panes inside the windows. ''This had the benefit of reducing any noise
from outside and keeping in the warmth, without altering the external appearance
of the house,'' he said. ''It was important for us to look after the fabric of
the building.''

The house's small entrance area leads directly to the 85.5-square-foot kitchen,
then to a dining area and sitting room. An abundance of wood -- both in the
original exposed stud and beamwork and in newer fittings, such as the
maple-fronted kitchen units and oak flooring -- creates a warm environment in
the rooms. In one corner of the sitting room, a small door opens to an enclosed
courtyard garden.

Upstairs is the master bedroom and its en-suite shower room, a guest room and a
shared bathroom. On the top floor are two more bedrooms.

''Some of the windows here date from Georgian times and are therefore larger
than you might expect,'' Ms. Cremona said, referring to the whole house. ''This,
together with the corner position of the house, gives many rooms a double
aspect, making the house surprisingly light.''

Shelving was added to the stairwell landings to create a library area. And, Ms.
Cremona added, ''We understand from the surveyor that the house did not
originally have a chimney but had a smoke hole instead. As you climb the stairs
there is still a central space, which goes right up into the roof of the
house.''

The house's central location has given the couple access to the city's shops,
restaurants, theaters and galleries, and they have visited sites such as
Colchester Castle, with its 11th-century Norman keep built on top of the vaults
of an old Roman temple.

Daryl Parr, senior branch partner at Chewton Rose, the local real estate agency
that is marketing the property, said the location was key to the house's appeal.

''The Dutch Quarter is a very popular area to live,'' he said, noting it is
within walking distance of North Station, from where the train trip to London is
less than an hour. Prices in the neighborhood range from £250,000 to £450,000.

''Colchester as a whole is becoming more popular with London buyers,'' Mr. Parr
said. ''We are seeing those in their 30s typically selling their London
apartment for around £700,000 and buying a much larger family home for less than
£1 million and those in their late 20s, who have been renting since leaving home
and further education, looking around the £500,000 price bracket.''

The house's long place in town history also has been something the couple
particularly enjoyed, said Ms. Cremona, who is Italian. ''My parents have loved
coming over from Italy and staying in a house of this age,'' she said. And,
''for us it has also been an incredible experience. By living here, we have felt
to be custodians of something much bigger than ourselves.''

Professor Meigh-Andrews said the couple moved to Colchester from London because
Ms. Cremona was teaching in the area. ''My great-grandfather was a saddler and I
knew he and his family had lived in Colchester,'' he said. ''What I had not
realized until I started researching my ancestors and came across the 1911
census was that they actually lived on the same street as us.

''In fact now, if I look out from our home, I can see the front door of the
house they used to live in.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/greathomesanddestinations/in-england-house-has
-stood-on-a-corner-for-5-centuries.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (69%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Living in a Cave in a Rural Part of Southern Spain

BYLINE: By ANDREW ALLEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 907 words


BAZA, Spain -- It was a desire to experience what Danielle Dupeux called a more
''primordial'' way of living that prompted her and her husband to create a cave
house in rural Granada.

Primordial it may be, but it is hardly cramped. The house sprawls across more
than 800 square meters, about 8,600 square feet, on two levels underground.

Ms. Dupeux, an artist and a native of France, and her husband, Andre Malby, an
alternative-medicine practitioner, were already living in southern Spain when
Mr. Malby convinced his wife that they should look for a cave house.

While such dwellings exist throughout Europe, they are particularly common --
and in demand -- in Granada Province. A 2007 report by the provincial
government, the most recent official tally available, said that in 2002, there
were 11,795 such properties in the province and 5,838 of them were occupied.

Ms. Dupeux thought that the majority of the local cave homes were too dark and,
with usually just three or four bedrooms, too small. So in 2005, the couple
bought a semiabandoned cortijo, or farmhouse, with six hectares, or almost 15
acres, of hilly land near Baza, in the north of the province. Then they hired a
construction company to excavate their own cave from a limestone hillside.

''We had a fairly specific idea of what we were looking for and by having it
custom built, we could get the layout exactly the way we wanted,'' Ms. Dupeux
said. During construction, they also had an external wing built into the
hillside to house the living room, kitchen and conservatory.

The house now is listed for sale at 475,000 euros, or $575,000. Ms. Dupeux said
that, since Mr. Malby's death six years ago, the house is too large for her.

Ms. Dupeux now uses most of the rooms as living areas, keeping only three
bedrooms. But she estimates that as many as 10 bedrooms would be possible,
because many of the rooms that her husband once used are now empty.

Her art studio is in the cave part of the house, but she had about a dozen
windows cut into the rock walls to allow in as much natural light as possible.

The couple conserved the farmhouse's few remaining original features, such as
the oven built into the wall, and replicated the original wooden beams in the
kitchen.

The cave's interior is whitewashed and has brushed concrete floors. ''We had to
fight with the builders to stop them smoothing the walls,'' Ms. Dupeux recalled.
''We wanted to have them slightly rounded and textured.''

Sean Lummis, managing director of Spanish Inland Properties, the real estate
agency handling the sale and a specialist in cave houses, said Spanish cave
owners typically prefer to reproduce conventional housing styles as much as
possible.

''There is a stigma attached to cave houses among the Spanish,'' he said. ''They
are traditionally associated with poverty, so Spanish owners usually try and
make them look as little like caves as possible. But foreign buyers tend to
enjoy rounded, slightly uneven walls.''

Ms. Dupeux said she would miss the cave's temperate climate most: ''It's
fantastic, because in the summer, it can be 40 degrees Celsius outside and it's
26 degrees Celsius in here.'' That is 104 Fahrenheit outside and 79 Fahrenheit
inside.

Another report by the provincial council, ''Recommendations on the Use of Cave
Dwellings,'' said caves tend to be well insulated so they are significantly
warmer in winter and cooler in summer than outdoor temperatures. Locally, cave
interiors typically range from 14 Celsius to 19 Celsius year round. (Ms.
Dupeux's cave is less insulated because of the many windows.)

Ms. Dupeux says she does not recall how much it cost to excavate the cave, but
Mr. Lummis said construction companies now charge about &#x20ac;6,000 to hollow
out a room five meters by three meters, or 16.4 feet by 9.8 feet.

So why is this form of living especially popular in Granada? The provincial
recommendations report said geological conditions such as the region's
preponderance of volcanic rock mean caves are relatively easy to hollow out,
even using just a pick and a shovel, while stratas of harder rock can provide a
secure roof. Most important, the report added, the region's scarce rainfall
means caves are not likely to become waterlogged or damp.

The report also notes that there have been cave houses throughout Granada's
history. During the Christian reconquest of Spain in the 13th century, for
example, caves were used by the Moors as they fled. The greatest expansion in
cave house dwelling came about in the 19th century, when many church-held lands
were put up for sale and the rural poor flocked to the province to seek work.

The city of Granada has an entire cave house district, called Sacromonte,
traditionally regarded as the gypsy quarter. Today, some of its caves are used
for flamenco shows.

Mr. Lummis estimated that he sold about 25 caves in the region last year.
''Buyers tend to be a fairly alternative crowd,'' he said. ''It's the kind of
people who've lived on boats. They're definitely less conventional than normal
buyers.''

Most foreign buyers are interested in cave houses outside the city. Mr. Lummis
estimated that about 60 of the caves in the nearby village of Galera, a popular
cave area, are owned by foreigners.

The agent said he recommended caves as vacation homes rather than buy-to-let
operations. ''It's possible to rent them for around 25 weeks of the year,'' he
said, ''but you have to work at it and spend money on advertising.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/greathomesanddestinations/living-in-a-cave-in-
a-rural-part-of-southern-spain.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%)

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (94%); EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

New Year, Old Problems

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg.

LENGTH: 691 words


LONDON -- The past and its problems weigh like a hangover on this new year. The
euro crisis is back, with a dicey Greek election this month and debt problems in
Italy and France; Britain votes in May with European Union membership at stake;
Russia continues to behave like a revisionist power; the Middle East remains in
chaos with Syria broken, Iran's nuclear program unresolved and Israel in its own
bitter election campaign; Chinese and Japanese nationalisms are ascendant,
perhaps more dangerous than even North Korea's pique over a goofy satirical
movie.

To all these various problems, the United States, with its own political and
ideological warfare, seems to have few answers. Allied confidence in American
leadership is low, even as more Americans say they want a less active global
role.

Like empires, world orders grow old, fissiparous, complacent and grumpy --
despite the Champagne, the thrill is gone. The European order created at the
Congress of Vienna lasted nearly a century; the post-World War I order lasted
barely 20 years. The post-World War II order seemed to some perfected with the
collapse of the Cold War and the apparent spread of liberal democracies.

But those assumptions can seem hollow now. In a recent issue of Foreign Affairs,
Richard N. Haass, a former American diplomat and president of the Council on
Foreign Relations, described what he called ''The Unraveling,'' a ''disordered
world'' of instability, economic stagnation and increasing inequality.

The hegemony of the United States, which Hubert Védrine, a former French foreign
minister, liked to call the world's ''hyperpower,'' is increasingly questioned,
even ignored. The post-Soviet order is under direct fire in Crimea and eastern
Ukraine, but revisionist challengers to the world as we knew it also include
authoritarian autocracies like Russia and China, oddball North Korea and a more
nationalist Japan.

The United Nations Security Council seems ever more ineffective, incapable of
creating peace in the most dangerous places -- including Syria, Gaza, Libya,
Somalia, Sudan, Yemen and Ukraine.

The European Union, too, seems to be cracking. Having widened without deepening
and having put a common currency ahead of the institutions required to sustain
it, the Union is losing its attractiveness as a model.

The bloc is heading into another year of troubles, with Greece and the euro
creating a familiar set of confusions that Germany, the ''reluctant hegemon,''
seems incapable of solving. While NATO is slowly bestirring itself to reassure
the Baltic states, the very idea of an autonomous European defense capacity
seems ever more distant.

The European Union's concept of shared sovereignty can seem an idea of the last
century whose time has passed. Everywhere in Europe, populism and nativism are
on the rise, in the guise of a revolt against ''austerity'' and
''globalization.'' Syriza is leading in Greece, with ''Grexit'' again a
possibility. France's National Front may win more votes in the next presidential
election than the Socialist Party.

And Britain is heading for elections, too, with no obvious winner and one
obvious spoiler -- the English nationalist U.K. Independence Party. There is
little respect for any political leader, with both main parties promising little
except differing depths of budget cuts and limits to immigration.

While the Arab world burns, creating refugees, religious radicalism and military
counterrevolution in what many have compared to the Thirty Years' War, in
Israel, too, elections this spring will be important, if not existential. The
hope, likely to be disappointed, is that the vote will give clear direction to
the so-called peace process. Will Israel continue to be a quietly expansionist
state, slowly undermining a viable, independent Palestine, or will it begin to
put an end to settlement by stealth? Conversely, will the Palestinian president,
Mahmoud Abbas, should he survive the year, find the courage to make the
difficult internal choices necessary for a two-state solution?

''The question,'' as Mr. Haass put it, ''is not whether the world will continue
to unravel, but how fast and how far.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/europe/new-year-old-euro-crisis-and-midd
le-east-problems.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); WAR &
CONFLICT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS
& FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); GLOBALIZATION
(73%); CURRENCIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY
(70%); WORLD WAR I (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); COMEDY FILMS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%);
UKRAINE (93%); FRANCE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST
(92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
(92%); SYRIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); LIBYA (79%); GREECE
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Russia's Lost Time

BYLINE: By MAXIM TRUDOLYUBOV

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1050 words


In Russia, where religious holidays have not supplanted secular ones, New Year's
Eve is much more important than Christmas. The fact that the country's biggest
holiday marks the turn of the calendar illustrates the special relationship
Russians -- and particularly their rulers -- have with time.

Historically, many Russian leaders have fallen into two broad categories: those
who tried to freeze time (Czar Nicholas I and Leonid Brezhnev, for example), and
those who wanted to speed it up (Peter the Great, Alexander II, Nikita
Khrushchev). The former group worshiped tradition, the latter emphasized change.
In any case, attempts to turn back the clock have always alternated with
outbursts of frenetic activity.

''The choice is either death or catching up with and overtaking the advanced
capitalist countries,'' Lenin warned his cohorts. And Stalin, in defending his
forced industrialization program, declared: ''We are 50 or a 100 years behind
the advanced countries. We must run that same distance in 10 years. Either we do
it or they crush us.''

Vladimir V. Putin defies both these categories, yet when it comes to keeping
power, his sense of timing is masterful. Take the case of the popular opposition
figure Aleksei A. Navalny, who was scheduled to be sentenced on politically
motivated embezzlement charges on Jan. 15. Suddenly, as the threat of protests
loomed, the government rescheduled the sentencing to this past Tuesday. And
instead of the 10-year prison term prosecutors had requested, Navalny received a
suspended sentence. But his brother and co-defendant, Oleg, was sentenced to
three and a half years in jail, a ruling that many saw as a way to punish Alexei
obliquely.

There was nothing really unusual about this. Many Russian rulers have aspired to
be masters of time -- including the time they spend at the seat of power. No
Russian reign has ever had predefined limits. Most pre-revolutionary rulers died
on the throne, or were overthrown and murdered. As hereditary monarchs, the
czars' days in power were limited only by accident, disease or their relatives'
eagerness to take their place. Nicholas II abdicated in 1917 but was later shot
by the Bolshevik political police.

Soviet leaders, except for Khrushchev and Mikhail Gorbachev, also held their
posts for life. Khrushchev, overthrown by the party leadership in 1964, was the
first to live to write his memoirs and die of natural causes. Gorbachev not so
much vacated the seat of power as saw it slip from under him as the Soviet Union
disintegrated in 1991. Boris Yeltsin, Russia's first post-Soviet president,
resigned at the end of 1999, thus becoming the first Russian leader to
relinquish the post voluntarily.

Dmitri A. Medvedev, the current prime minister, served one full presidential
term between 2008 and 2012. Though there was a chance, however slim, for him to
seek a second term, cynics (or, if you prefer, realists) knew that he was merely
a placeholder for Mr. Putin. In a perfectly timed switch, the two men traded
places in 2012.

Unfortunately for their countrymen, the move will keep Russia behind the times
and out of step with its immediate neighbors. In a recent Foreign Affairs
article, ''Normal Countries: The East 25 Years After Communism,'' the social
scientists Andrei Shleifer and Daniel Treisman divide post-Soviet bloc nations
into ''radical,'' ''gradual'' and ''slow'' reformers. They find that the faster
and more thorough the reforms, the less economic pain. ''The gradual reformers
eventually caught up to the radical reformers,'' they write, ''but not before
suffering many years of costly underperformance.''

Another interesting finding is that post-Communist nations, while trying to
catch up with the West, tend to emulate their neighbors. The Baltic states have
learned from Finland; those of Central Europe from Austria and Germany; the
countries of the Caucasus from Iran and Turkey. The economies of those countries
once out of step with one other are now synchronizing.

One reason Moscow seems out of sync with most of its neighbors is that Russia
could never expect to become a part of the European Union, a prospect that
provided a powerful incentive for change in nations like the Czech Republic,
Estonia and Poland. These countries were escaping Russia and joining Europe.
Russia could not escape itself.

But there is an even more important difference, something the Romanian-born
philosopher Emil Cioran called Russia's ''historical belatedness.'' For decades
Russia could sustain long periods of inaction on pressing issues, mostly out of
fear. The czars postponed the abolition of serfdom for decades because they
feared that the move would upset the delicate status quo between nobility and
peasantry. Reform, when it finally came, was executed gradually and didn't
succeed in producing enough independent and economically stable property owners
who would be immune to revolutionary calls for land redistribution. Czarist
attempts to maintain the status quo led to the country's explosion.

A similarly pressing issue today is reform of the Russian judicial and
law-enforcement systems -- something the Kremlin has indefinitely postponed. A
dependent judiciary and police force inherited from the Soviets and never meant
to protect civil and property rights is a reliable tool to keep political
control. But the absence of a rule-based environment has prevented Russia from
developing enough independent and economically viable property owners with a
stake in maintaining the status quo. In an isolated, economically reeling
nation, people who don't have a stake in the system will turn against it. Once
again, attempts to maintain the status quo may lead to an explosion.

Political time in Russia seems to drag on for ages. Our New Year celebrations
will not be a mark of coming change. They will simply remind us of the reality
that Russia is, once more, dangerously behind the times. As with many previous
regimes, our current leaders have died a moral death long before their days in
power end. When they leave, the next generation of Russian leaders will once
again have to play catch-up.

Maxim Trudolyubov is the opinion page editor of the business newspaper
Vedomosti, a Wilson Center fellow in Washington, and the author of a forthcoming
book on power and property in Russia.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/maxim-trudolyubov-russias-lost-time.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); SENTENCING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (78%);
PRIME MINISTERS (77%); MURDER (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CORRECTIONS (70%);
EMBEZZLEMENT (65%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                        The International New York Times

Thailand and the Coup Trap

BYLINE: By FORREST E. COOKSON and TOM F. JOEHNK

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg.

LENGTH: 1038 words


BANGKOK -- Fifteen billion dollars. That's roughly the price tag of the coup
d'état to date. And it's the difference between the Thai economy, Southeast
Asia's second-biggest, stagnating, as it is now, or its chugging along at 4
percent, its average growth rate since 2001.

When a group of generals led by Prayuth Chan-ocha toppled the democratically
elected government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra last May, their
political agenda was clear: They wanted to quell a mounting legitimacy crisis.
For many weeks protesters had been taking to the streets to condemn Ms.
Shinawatra's management of the economy and a controversial amnesty bill that
would have benefited her brother Thaksin, a former prime minister in self-exile
whose political parties have dominated Thai politics since 2001.

Now the economic consequences of the military takeover have become plain. The
protests that precipitated the coup had already slowed growth, partly because of
blocks on government borrowing, stalled exports and a restrictive monetary
policy. And the situation has hardly improved since.

The Bank of Thailand recently slashed its projections for G.D.P. growth for 2014
from 1.5 percent to 0.8 percent -- compared with 2.9 percent in 2013, before the
coup, according to the National Economic and Social Development Board
(N.E.S.D.B.), Thailand's state economic planning agency. Rather than achieve
what the official propaganda claims -- order, stability, growth -- the return to
old-fashioned autocracy threatens to bring economic near-stagnation and will
likely increase income inequality.

The takeover in May was at least the 12th military coup in Thailand since 1932,
the year constitutional monarchy was introduced. When generals have taken power
in the past, they have used the opportunity to develop the country. There was
rapid economic growth from 1983 until 1996, largely under Gen. Prem
Tinsulanonda, who held office until 1988. Back then the economy got a jolt from
a major devaluation of the currency (the baht) and a series of measures designed
to promote rapid industrialization by encouraging foreign investment (mostly
from Japan), infrastructure expansion and industrial exports.

In theory, the current junta could also make a big economic contribution. But in
a bid to scour the system of Mr. Thaksin's influence, the generals have been
turning their backs on many policies favored by his government, including those
that worked.

Mr. Thaksin's signature economic achievement was to encourage consumption among
lower-class people: His government provided access to affordable health care,
gave out credits to rural communities, and created a transfer system benefiting
poor students and old people. Today, the generals are reducing transfers to
lower-income groups, concentrating on unfocused infrastructure expansion and
taking no action to increase exports or tourism.

This will not do in the face of Thailand's aging population and broken
educational system, and of the global economic slowdown. Especially not when
stagnation already threatens the social contract. The N.E.S.D.B. reckons that
0.1 percent of Thais own nearly half of the country's assets. Capitalist
America, where 0.1 percent of the population owns one-fifth of all assets, looks
like a socialist paradise in comparison.

Some simple, well-known measures could do much immediate good. The central bank
could spur stagnating exports and tourism by buying U.S. dollars to drive down
the baht. The government could boost private consumption with a massive transfer
program to farmers, students and the elderly. The Bank of Thailand could make
credit more readily available by increasing the money supply, and it could stop
using interests rate to manage monetary policy, which has not been effective.

Yet the chances of such policies being implemented are low. The Bank of Thailand
seems crippled by conservatism and uncertainty. Fiscal policy is in the hands of
bureaucrats who are fearful of spending public money. The generals' own support
base is too narrow for them to suggest, much less achieve, anything contentious.
And some of their economic proposals so far have been essentially nationalistic
and risk discouraging foreign investment.

Every rational path out of stagnation seems blocked by autocratic rule. Thailand
is not, as many economists argue, in a middle-income trap; it is in a coup trap.
And this is a self-inflicted condition.

To raise the economic welfare of all Thais, and reduce the economic inequalities
that have underlain political conflicts, by our estimation Thailand's G.D.P.
growth rate would have to be brought up to at least 6 percent. For that, though,
bold measures are needed.

Small and medium-sized investors need to be given greater access to credit. The
financial sector must be made more competitive, including with the creation of
new lending institutions, ideally more domestic commercial banks. The junta
should also encourage more foreign direct investment in high technology, both to
increase productivity in existing manufacturing (such as the automotive
industry) and to spur higher-value manufacturing (such as for pharmaceuticals
and telecommunication products).

In the 1980s and 1990s, Thailand developed its Eastern Seaboard by turning
infrastructure built in the Gulf of Thailand during the Vietnam War into one of
Asia's greatest production and export platforms, especially for automobiles and
petrochemical products. A similarly grand strategy today might be to revive this
old idea: creating an alternative route to the Strait of Malacca, the world's
busiest shipping lane, by digging a canal through the Kra Isthmus, in southern
Thailand. A diversified manufacturing belt could then be developed along the
canal, with two new great ports on either end. Another option would be to build
a vast economic zone in the north and northeast of Thailand to supply the
Chinese market.

The generals claim to want to address all these issues urgently. They must adopt
a bold approach to overcome bureaucratic inertia or else recovery will be slow.
Reviving the economy is their single best chance of justifying the coup and
stabilizing the country.

Forrest E. Cookson is an economist. Tom F. Joehnk writes for The Economist.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/thailand-and-the-coup-trap.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY RULE (89%); COUPS
(89%); MARTIAL LAW (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY
(88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%);
POOR POPULATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%);
PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); BANKING &
FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); AGING TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); SENIOR
CITIZENS (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (60%); AGING (60%); AMNESTY (54%); MONETARY
POLICY (52%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR THE COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS
(57%)

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%)

COUNTRY: THAILAND (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ebola Doctors Are Divided on IV Therapy in Africa

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1759 words


Medical experts seeking to stem the Ebola epidemic are sharply divided over
whether most patients in West Africa should, or can, be given intravenous
hydration, a therapy that is standard in developed countries. Some argue that
more aggressive treatment with IV fluids is medically possible and a moral
obligation. But others counsel caution, saying that pushing too hard would put
overworked doctors and nurses in danger and that the treatment, if given
carelessly, could even kill patients.

The debate comes at a crucial time in the outbreak. New infections are
flattening out in most places, better-equipped field hospitals are opening, and
more trained professionals are arriving, opening up the possibility of saving
many lives in Africa, rather than a few patients flown to intensive care units
thousands of miles away.

The World Health Organization sees intravenous rehydration, along with constant
measuring of blood chemistry, as the main reason that almost all Ebola patients
treated in American and European hospitals have survived, while about 70 percent
of those treated in West Africa have died.

Every hospital there should have ''early, liberal use of intravenous fluid and
electrolyte replacement,'' said Dr. Robert A. Fowler, a Canadian critical care
specialist who leads a W.H.O. Ebola team. Anything less, he said, is ''not
medically justified and will result in continued high case-fatality rates.''

Experts who favor aggressive rehydration point to several hospitals that claim
unusually low death rates as evidence that it is effective. Skeptics say other
factors may be at work.

Even two of the most admired medical charities have squared off over the issue.
Partners in Health, which has worked in Haiti and Rwanda but is just beginning
to treat Ebola patients in West Africa, supports the aggressive treatment. Its
officials say the more measured approach taken by Doctors Without Borders is
overly cautious.

''M.S.F. is not doing enough,'' said Dr. Paul Farmer, one of the founders of
Partners in Health, using the French initials for Doctors Without Borders, whose
staff members have worked on the front lines of Ebola outbreaks for years.
''What if the fatality rate isn't the virulence of disease but the mediocrity of
the medical delivery?''

Doctors Without Borders representatives strongly disagreed, saying that Dr.
Farmer's assumptions about Ebola were incorrect, that intensive rehydration
would probably not save as many patients as he believes, and that the W.H.O.'s
position has not been proved.

The group's overwhelmed doctors do what they can, officials said, but it is hard
to insert needles while wearing three pairs of gloves and foggy goggles. IVs
must be monitored, drawing virus-laden blood for tests is dangerous, and
patients yank needles out -- sometimes in delirium, sometimes just to go to the
toilet when no nurse is around.

Ebola patients lose up to five quarts of fluid a day through diarrhea and
vomiting. In that fluid are electrolytes like potassium, magnesium, sodium and
calcium, and proteins like albumin. Electrolyte loss can stop the heart; protein
loss can cause fatal internal swelling.

Rehydrating patients and replacing those elements ''is the antidote to the idea
that everybody's going to die,'' Dr. Farmer said.

Every Ebola hospital, he argued, should have a team that specializes in
inserting IVs -- or, better yet, peripherally inserted central catheters, or
PICC lines. These are thin plastic tubes, inserted in the arm or chest and
threaded through a vein, that can be left in place for days and the needle
discarded.

Along with doctors at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, who
published an article on rehydration in The Lancet on Dec. 4, Dr. Farmer has also
called for the use of thick needles driven into bone marrow with surgical
''guns.'' This procedure, known as intraosseous infusion, is slow, but it
reinflates veins too shrunken to admit an intravenous line, and the needles are
much harder for agitated patients to pull out.

However, not all doctors know how to use PICC lines or bone needles, or how to
inject fluids into empty abdominal spaces, another technique endorsed in the
Lancet article. (The article was accompanied by a video in which Dr. Ian
Roberts, the chief author, had some of those techniques demonstrated on himself.
He used minimal anesthesia, he said, to imitate field conditions in West
Africa.)

Doctors Without Borders normally puts IV lines in as many Ebola patients as it
can manage, said Dr. Armand Sprecher, an Ebola expert with the organization.
That practice was temporarily stopped in September, when the disease was
spreading so fast that doctors had only one minute per patient during the one
hour they could work in their sweltering protective suits.

The fatality rate across the group's six Ebola treatment centers in West Africa
was about 60 percent then, and is now 40 to 50 percent, Dr. Sprecher said. He
disputed Dr. Farmer's contention that rehydration could bring it down to 10
percent.

''It would probably push it down some, but I'd be surprised if it were
dramatic,'' Dr. Sprecher said.

Dr. Farmer cited the treatment given at a unit in Hastings, Sierra Leone, as an
example of the kind of care he endorses.

In a Dec. 24 letter to The New England Journal of Medicine, the Sierra Leonean
doctors running that center with Western advisers said they had had a 48 percent
fatality rate when they opened in September and had since reduced it to 24
percent.

Each of the 581 patients the center has treated immediately received IV fluids
with electrolytes, they wrote. Even without lab tests, each patient also
received an antibiotic, an anti-parasitic drug, an antimalarial drug, an
anti-vomiting drug, pain pills, vitamins, zinc and a nutrition supplement.

''That's effective case management,'' Dr. Farmer said. ''We're cheering them
on.''

The fatality rate at the unit Partners in Health runs in Port Loko, Sierra
Leone, is 35 to 40 percent, its director, Dr. Corrado Cancedda, estimated.

Up to 80 percent of patients there receive IV rehydration, Dr. Cancedda said,
and some have had bone needles inserted; no PICC lines have been used.
Battery-powered electrolyte monitoring machines are being introduced.

Dr. Sprecher said death rates at Doctors Without Borders' six hospitals in the
region varied, with the lowest being 36 percent in Bo, Sierra Leone.

But he could not explain why. Some of the hospitals see more young adults, who
tend to survive. At rural centers, the sickest patients die on the way there.

Rehydration was only one lifesaving factor for the handful of patients
transported to American or European hospitals, Dr. Sprecher argued, because all
of them also received intensive nursing, and some received dialysis, ventilation
and experimental therapies.

He was reluctant to have his doctors seen using bone-needle guns on patients.
''Not long ago, we were being accused of stealing organs,'' he said. ''You have
to be sure people understand what the heck you're doing.''

Dr. Sprecher also disputed Dr. Farmer's comparison of Ebola to cholera, which
both medical charities fight with aggressive rehydration. Ebola, he said, does
more organ damage and makes blood vessels leak fluid.

''In cholera, you can get fatalities down from 50 percent to 1 percent,'' he
said. ''We've been putting people on IVs for Ebola for 14 years. If just tanking
them up worked, we'd be doing it.''

Lab testing is a crucial issue. For example, while low potassium can kill, so
can overdoses. Potassium is used in executions by lethal injection.

West Africa has at least eight laboratories run by various American, Canadian
and European government agencies, Dr. Sprecher said. Until recently, they tested
only for Ebola and diseases that mimic it, like malaria or Lassa fever.

Now, he said, about half can test for electrolytes.

Because heat and humidity knock out the machines that analyze blood chemistry,
labs must be air-conditioned, said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The C.D.C. runs two large
laboratories in the region, only one of which now tests for electrolytes.

Sometimes, conservative guesswork is called for, Dr. Frieden said. His father, a
physician, gave potassium to patients who needed IV rehydration long before such
tests were routine.

The best-equipped treatment center in West Africa is the 25-bed United States
Public Health Service hospital in Monrovia, Liberia, which is reserved for
doctors, nurses, burial teams and others fighting the epidemic. It is fully
air-conditioned and has 32 medical personnel, who wear high-tech protective gear
that sucks in fresh air. Its on-site lab tests blood for electrolytes and
proteins. The pharmacy has drugs to raise blood pressure or increase
coagulation, and patients can be fed through tubes.

Since it opened in November, it has had 14 Ebola patients. Seven recovered, five
died, one was transferred and one is in treatment, a spokeswoman said. (Ten
other people who were admitted did not have Ebola.) That is a 42 percent
fatality rate, though based on a small sample, for the 12 patients whose fates
are clear.

Other units tread a middle ground, relying on what measures they have at hand.
The fatality rate at the International Medical Corps hospital in Bong County,
Liberia, is about 55 percent, said Dr. Pranav Shetty, the agency's international
emergency health coordinator.

All patients who need IV lines get them, Dr. Shetty said. But when there are too
few nurses around, usually at night, the IVs are unhooked, so patients may get
only one quart of fluids a day. And only patients still urinating, indicating
that their kidneys are working, receive electrolytes.

Spending money on air-conditioning ''doesn't even cross our minds,'' Dr. Shetty
said, because other needs are more urgent.

When IV lines are impractical, the W.H.O. urges doctors to make patients drink
six quarts of rehydration solution a day.

Nigeria's victory over its Ebola outbreak in September was attributed in part to
that. Dr. Adaora Igonoh, a 28-year-old Nigerian physician who survived the
disease, became a symbol for the cause: The W.H.O. distributed pictures of her
giving a thumbs-up while drinking the solution, and Bill Gates blogged about her
story, telling how she forced herself to drink despite the repulsive salty taste
and her vomiting.

Still, even oral rehydration is hard, doctors say. Patients need anti-nausea
drugs and must be pressured to drink. The solution tastes better when
refrigerated. But, like air-conditioning, that requires electricity.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/health/ebola-doctors-are-divided-on-iv-therapy
-in-africa.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A nurse gave an Ebola patient intravenous fluids at the Red
Cross treatment center in Kenema, Sierra Leone, in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
FRANCISCO LEONG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
   A Doctors Without Borders treatment center in Kailahun, Sierra Leone. The
group has concerns about IV rehydration in the field. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL
BEREHULAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (93%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%);
TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%);
INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%);
RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS
(79%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); MILITARY
HOSPITALS (70%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%)

COUNTRY: AFRICA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); SIERRA LEONE (90%); RWANDA (79%);
HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An All-Gyllenhaal Weekend, Anyone?

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 142 words


It's not often that the stars align this way. But the cosmic event here concerns
the sibling actors Gyllenhaal, Maggie and Jake. She stars in a play on Broadway
that will close on Sunday (Tom Stoppard's ''The Real Thing,'' second from
right). He stars in a play on Broadway now in previews that will open in a
little more than a week (Nick Payne's ''Constellations,'' far right). And they
are both getting awards-season attention for their current screen work. She has
been nominated for a Golden Globe for her performance in the summer TV
mini-series ''The Honorable Woman'' (far left), which you can view now on
Sundance.tv. And he is suddenly being mentioned everywhere for his creepy role
in the film ''Nightcrawler'' (second from left), still in theaters. Binge away.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/an-all-gyllenhaal-weekend-anyone.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT VIGLASKY/SUNDANCE TV
CHUCK ZLOTNICK/OPEN ROAD FILMS
 AND PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (88%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (68%); THEATER (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Thaw, American Base at Guantánamo Still Stings for Cubans

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1328 words


GUANTÁNAMO, Cuba -- At a military checkpoint on the road that approaches the
American naval base here, one of three along the way, four Cuban soldiers in
pea-green fatigues, without guns, stood on duty last Sunday laughing over a joke
in the shade of an almond tree, beside a neatly cultivated flower bed. A large
sign declared the site ''the first anti-imperialist trench.''

They stopped the few cars that approached and asked to see the special passes
required for access to Caimanera, the town that once served as the gateway to
the United States military base across Guantánamo Bay.

''Because this is an area of high sensitivity for defense, everyone needs a
pass,'' said one of the soldiers, a first lieutenant named Gamboa, turning back
a reporter from The New York Times. Passes usually take 72 hours to approve, he
said, and on a Sunday it was certainly impossible to get one.

Despite the sudden thaw in relations between the United States and Cuba, the
base here remains a sore point for Cubans, a deeply felt grievance that the
Castros, first Fidel and now his brother Raúl, have long pointed to as a
stinging symbol of American imperialism.

A senior State Department official in Washington said that Cuban negotiators had
raised their government's oft-repeated demand for the return of the base during
the secret talks that culminated in last month's surprise announcement that the
two countries would re-establish full diplomatic relations.

''It's logical that the Cubans would raise it,'' the official said, adding,
however, that it did not become a focus of the talks. ''These were more
intensive conversations than we've had in a long time, but it's also true that
Guantánamo comes up all the time, even in our migration talks, as a principled
issue for the Cubans.''

Here in Guantánamo, a city of about 216,000 people, with a prosperous-looking
downtown and decrepit back streets, residents have repeatedly been reminded over
the years that they stand virtually face to face with the enemy.

''It's a little bit delicate,'' said Geny Jarrosay, 25, an art student who has
created several pieces based on the complex, sometimes tense relations between
the base and the city of Guantánamo, where he grew up. ''Coexisting with it is
like having a person you don't like living in your house for 50 years, and
you've gotten used to both the good and the bad.''

But the base gives Cuba, an island nation, a sort of de facto land border, and a
hostile one at that.

''We're very conscious that it's American territory even though it's not,'' Mr.
Jarrosay said. ''It's Cuban territory.''

For a video and photo project he completed this year, Mr. Jarrosay says he
obtained some dirt from the base -- he won't say how -- and on a bus trip across
Cuba tossed it out the window a little bit at a time.

''It was like returning the soil to Cuba,'' he said.

It might be said that the Guantánamo base is the last fruit of America's
original sin in Cuba -- its 1898 invasion in the midst of the island's war of
independence from Spain. A peace treaty ending the Spanish-American War in 1898
installed the United States as the island's administrator, which it remained
until 1902, when Washington allowed Cuba to govern itself.

But the price was the hated Platt Amendment, a series of conditions written into
the Cuban Constitution that gave the United States sway over Cuban affairs and
the right to establish naval bases there. In 1903, the open-ended lease for the
base at Guantánamo was signed.

For many years, the city of Guantánamo and nearby towns like Caimanera were
closely linked to the base. Many residents worked there, and American troops
disported in the local brothels and bars.

But after Fidel Castro came to power in 1959, the base became a symbol of
American highhandedness and a point of repeated friction. Cuba refuses to cash
the checks sent by the United States to pay the annual rent of $4,085.

When the Bush administration built a prison on the base to house captured
terrorism suspects after 9/11, Cuba strenuously objected. Later reports of
brutal treatment of prisoners there deepened Cuba's ire.

After taking office in 2009 President Obama ordered the closing of the prison.
But he has not been able to carry out his pledge, and the prison remains a
bitter symbol of frustration and unfulfilled promises, and what many critics
call a stain on America's reputation. Twenty-eight detainees were transferred
from the prison to other countries last year, but 127 remain.

Even after the prison is finally shut down, analysts say, it is unlikely that
the base will be returned to Cuba any time soon.

''This is an excellent moment to open up that question and ponder what that
would mean for the United States and Cuba,'' said Jana K. Lipman, an associate
professor of history at Tulane University, who has written about the base. But
she said that the political risks of returning it were great, recalling the
experience of President Jimmy Carter when he negotiated the handover of the
Panama Canal in the 1970s.

''That was not a popular decision as far as public opinion was concerned,'' Ms.
Lipman said. ''There was a lot of political spillback that the president had to
deal with.''

Nearly all the people interviewed here, whether they supported the Cuban
government or opposed it, said the base should be returned to Cuba.

''It's Cuban territory; it doesn't belong to'' the United States, said Iliana
Cotilla. She is a nurse who supplements her government salary by selling coffee
and snacks from the front of her house, a business newly allowed under Cuba's
socialist system. ''It's a lack of respect to have that on our territory, to be
abusing and torturing people there.''

Periodic tensions aside, there is generally no day-to-day contact between Cubans
and the base, which is several miles away and out of sight of the city of
Guantánamo. The last two local residents who worked on the base retired in 2012.

A resident of Caimanera, who lives within the restricted zone that requires a
pass to enter, said that it was like living on the border between hostile
countries, describing a sort of militarized gated community.

Having a military base in the neighborhood does have its advantages, said the
man, who spoke anonymously for fear of the authorities. ''It's very calm, it's
very controlled, and there is no crime or drugs,'' he said. And residents get a
cash bonus for living there.

On a wooded hill just outside the city of Guantánamo, at a newly built tourist
overlook with a 10-foot-high viewing platform and a restaurant, Néver Pérez, 48,
and his wife, Licet Palomino, 45, gazed over Guantánamo Bay toward the base in
the distance.

Mr. Pérez, who is from Guantánamo but now lives in Orlando, Fla., having been a
resident of the United States for 14 years, said that he hoped the new opening
with the United States would lead to the return of the base. ''If they have good
relations I think they will give it back,'' he said, dressed in a red, white and
blue shirt patterned after the stars and stripes of the American flag.

For a small fee, a government-paid guide, Yunior Leyva, 31, provided binoculars
to visitors and pointed to what he said was a radar installation on top of a
hill within the base, with structures looking like giant white mushrooms.

Back in town, Clara Duany, 74, said that she worked on the base as a housekeeper
from 1956 to 1960. She said that during Fidel Castro's guerrilla war against the
dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista, she smuggled medicine from the base to the
rebels and had to take refuge on the base to escape capture by the government.
Today, she is famous here as La India, the unpaid mascot for the local baseball
team, the Indios del Guaso.

Ms. Duany said she felt no rancor toward the Americans despite the government's
anti-imperialist sloganeering.

''If they call me I will go work there again,'' she said. In the choppy English
she learned years ago on the base she said: ''I liked every day. Everything.
Yes, too much.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/despite-thaw-american-base-at-guantanamo
-still-stings-for-cubans.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Henry, 85, was one of  the last Cubans to work at the
Guantánamo naval base. He  retired in 2012. Most Cubans,  even opponents of the
government,  want the base returned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM NEUMAN/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US NAVY (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US-CUBA
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONSHIP (78%); NAVIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Society's Flaws and Foibles, Etched for Posterity

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 950 words


THE registrar at the National Arts Club in Manhattan decided last summer to
impose some order on a donated collection of books that once belonged to the
Ashcan artist Robert Henri.

It was long overdue. Henri was one of the club's most prominent members. He
organized a groundbreaking 1904 exhibition of American painters at the club's
original building on West 34th Street in Manhattan. When the club moved to the
former Samuel J. Tilden mansion on Gramercy Park South, Henri's studio was just
two doors away. His library, donated by an heir in 1994, ''really cements the
history of the club,'' said the registrar, Robert Yahner.

One oversize volume caught his eye. Misleadingly cataloged as ''Monograph, Goya,
the Painter,'' it had a small self-portrait on the cover that Mr. Yahner
recognized as the first image in ''Los Caprichos'' (''The Caprices''), a series
of 80 satirical and fantastical etchings now regarded as one of Goya's supreme
achievements and a milestone on the road to modernism.

The volume in his hands was, it turned out, the ninth edition of the
''Caprichos,'' published by the National Engraving Center of Spain's Royal
Academy of Arts between 1908 and 1912. The prints will be on display in
''Francisco de Goya y Lucientes: 'Los Caprichos,' '' which opens on Monday and
runs through Jan. 31.

It has been 20 years since the complete series of the ''Caprichos'' has been
seen in Manhattan, as part of the blockbuster exhibition ''Goya in the
Metropolitan Museum of Art,'' although the first-edition prints have been seen
locally in exhibitions at the Zimmerli Art Museum at Rutgers University in New
Brunswick, N.J., in 2008 and the Nassau County Museum of Art in Roslyn Harbor,
N.Y., in 2011. Nearly two dozen prints from the ''Caprichos'' can also be seen
at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in the exhibition ''Goya: Order and
Disorder,'' which runs through Jan. 19.

The Goyas at the National Arts Club, although lacking the cachet of the first
edition, come with an unusual story. And admission is free.

Goya printed the ''Caprichos'' in 1799. In a newspaper announcement he described
them as ''a collection of prints of fantasy subjects'' with a moral purpose: to
ridicule ''eccentricities and errors common to all civil society'' and ''the
concerns and vulgar deceptions allowed by custom, ignorance or personal gain.''

The mood is dark, the faces grotesque, as Goya summons the demons of the age in
a style verging on the surreal. The most famous print in the series, ''The Sleep
of Reason Produces Monsters,'' depicts an artist slumped over a work table,
asleep, surrounded by swarms of owls and bats, and glared at fiercely by a
solitary cat. Other prints in the series heap scorn on marriage and courtship
rituals, Spanish social types and superstition.

Goya could find no reputable bookseller willing to handle the prints, so he sold
them out of a perfume and liquor store near his house. Business was not brisk.
After selling 27 albums, he began to fear the wrath of the Inquisition and
withdrew the rest of the print run of 300. He later gave the copper plates to
the Spanish government, which, starting in 1855, periodically issued new
editions.

The set at the National Arts Club was given to Henri by Randall Davey, one of
his students at the New York School of Art, who became a close friend and
traveling companion on trips to Europe. Davey's dedication, ''To Robert Henri,''
is dated Sept. 21, 1910, with a place indicator, ''Madrid, España,'' which,
Davey jokingly explains, is ''Spanish for Spain.''

The gift was well chosen. ''Spain was enormously important to Henri,'' said
Valerie Ann Leeds, an independent scholar and curator of an exhibition of
Henri's Spanish-influenced work now at the Mississippi Museum of Art in Jackson.
''He went there more times than to any other country. Velázquez was No. 1 for
him, but Goya was right up there as an influence.''

Henri had no children, and his estate, after his death in 1929, followed a
meandering path among far-flung heirs. The Goya album found its way to John
LeClair, the nephew of his sister-in-law. Mr. LeClair's wife, Janet, was a
longtime member of the National Arts Club who lectured widely on Henri's work
and for many years lived in his studio building. She ultimately gave the books
to the club.

To emphasize the Henri connection, the club will exhibit, together with the Goya
prints, another of Mrs. LeClair's gifts, Henri's ''Portrait of Eugenie Stein,''
painted in 1906 and 1907.

''We do have one of the finest collections of early-20th-century American art
there is,'' said Dianne B. Bernhard, director of the club's fine arts offices.
It was built by requiring all artists voted in as life members to donate one
artwork that, according to a 1909 amendment to the club's constitution, ''shall
have been appraised by a majority of the Art Committee at a value of not less
than $1,000.''

After years of turmoil culminating in the ouster (and eviction from the
premises) of its longtime president, O. Aldon James Jr., in July 2013, the club
has rededicated itself to exhibiting art in its four galleries.

Recent shows have included ''Beneath the Dress,'' devoted to drawings by the
fashion designer Charles James, and ''A Model Point of View,'' celebrating
Emilia and Ilya Kabakov, a husband-and-wife team. The Goya show will run
concurrently with a Modernist drawing show and, with a nod to the permanent
collection, an exhibition focused on work by the Pennsylvania landscape painter
Walter Elmer Schofield (1867-1944).

''Our exhibit schedule has been rather ambitious,'' Ms. Bernhard said. ''We are
trying to establish the Arts Club as one of those institution where we have the
past, but we also have the future.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/design/goyas-los-caprichos-goes-on-view-a
t-national-arts-club.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Images from Goya's satirical ''Los Caprichos,'' coming to the
National Arts Club, include, below, an inscription by Randall Davey to Robert
Henri. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW WERNER, PERMANENT COLLECTION THE NATIONAL ARTS
CLUB)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

John I. Goodlad, Progressive Educator, Dies at 94

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 876 words


John I. Goodlad, an influential educator whose study of more than 27,000
students, teachers and administrators in the late 1970s and early '80s
documented the problems plaguing American public schools, died on Nov. 29 in
Seattle. He was 94.

The cause was cancer, his son, Stephen, said.

Professor Goodlad, who taught for many years at the University of Washington and
had earlier been dean of the Graduate School of Education at the University of
California, Los Angeles, was a progressive education reformer in the tradition
of John Dewey. Many of his views -- on the importance of early childhood
education, for example, or on the need for better teacher training -- remain
central to the educational reform agenda.

He was best known for his comprehensive eight-year study involving classes from
kindergarten through 12th grade in 38 schools in 13 communities. The project,
sponsored by the Institute for the Development of Educational Activities, an
independent research organization, and conducted with the help of more than 40
other researchers, published its findings in 1983.

The picture it painted, The New York Times reported at the time, was ''a world
of talky teachers and uninterested students, who work in a context of unclear
goals and serious social and educational inequities.''

The study and a 1984 book by Professor Goodlad that grew out of it, ''A Place
Called School,'' resonated widely in policy circles, in part because it appeared
so closely on the heels of ''A Nation at Risk,'' the 1983 report by a
presidential commission that concluded that American education was threatened by
a rising tide of mediocrity.

''John's most powerful teaching was that school is a moral enterprise, not just
a matter of getting the right techniques and organizational structure,'' said
Jeannie Oakes, who worked with Mr. Goodlad on the school study and is now an
emeritus education professor at U.C.L.A. ''There has to be an understanding that
schooling is central to our democracy, that teachers are responsible not only
for the academic development of their students, but their social development and
their development as citizens.''

John Inkster Goodlad was born on Aug. 19, 1920, in North Vancouver, British
Columbia, and grew up in a mountain community nearby. He began his teaching
career in a one-room schoolhouse with 34 children across eight grades, an
experience that shaped many of his ideas, his son said. He came to see grade
levels as arbitrary markers devised for adult convenience.

''He could see that the kids were really great at helping other kids learn,
across the grade levels,'' Stephen Goodlad said. ''And he saw that just because
you were at a certain age or grade level didn't mean you were functioning at a
certain level. What he saw there showed him that we had a system that didn't
make much sense.''

Professor Goodlad proposed a radically new model of schools, in which elementary
school students would not be divided into specific grades and their work would
not be graded.

He opposed tracking students by their skill levels, and he suggested that
teachers should have a career path that, with experience and a doctoral degree,
could lead to higher-paying jobs as a master teacher, working with professionals
who were newer to the classroom.

At the University of Washington, Professor Goodlad and another professor, Roger
Soder, founded the Center for Educational Renewal to promote collaboration
between schools and teacher-training institutions.

In 1992, the year after he retired from the university, Professor Goodlad
founded an offshoot, the Institute for Educational Inquiry, which is devoted to
strengthening the role of education in maintaining democracy.

In addition to his son, he is survived by a daughter, Mary Paula Kamp, and five
grandsons. His wife, Evalene, died in 2006.

''I have pondered for decades how he kept going, fighting the same fights over
and over,'' Stephen Goodlad said of his father. ''I would have torn out my hair,
or gone fishing.''

Professor Goodlad, incidentally, often did just that, his son said. He was an
avid salmon fisherman at his summer home in the San Juan Islands of Washington
State.

Professor Goodlad was hopeful but also realistic about changing how schools
teach, and in a long career at the forefront of educational reform he learned
lessons of his own.

''One of the things you learn is that good things keep recycling,'' he said in
1993 in an interview with Technos Quarterly, a journal about the use of
technology in education. ''If it's a good idea that doesn't make it this time,
it'll make it next time.

''The other thing that you learn -- and it's discouraging -- is that you're
always getting newcomers on the scene for the recycling process,'' he continued.
''That means the process of educational change and improvement never ends,
because you're always dealing with a new clientele, a new group of parents, a
new group of administrators, a new group of teachers, and so on.

''Third, and most important,'' he said, ''would be that it doesn't matter how
many bills you pass and how many policies you lay down from on high -- when it
comes right down to it, the individual school has an incredible capacity for
rejecting it passively or taking it on and doing something about it.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/us/john-i-goodlad-educator-who-led-8-year-stud
y-underpinning-school-reforms-dies-at-94.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John I. Goodlad in 1983, the year of his landmark school report.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GLEN MARTIN/THE DENVER POST, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%);
EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS
(90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%);
PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EARLY
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%);
TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CANCER (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA
(51%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA
(78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Indian Modernist With a Global Gaze

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW;
Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1438 words


Many Western abstract painters in the early 20th century -- Albers, Kandinsky,
Mondrian -- were deeply influenced by Asian art and philosophy, though no one
dismissed them as Orientalists. Their cosmopolitanism was a point in their
favor, and proof of Modernism's wide embrace. By contrast, if Asian artists
showed signs of absorbing Western models, their work was disdained as
derivative, inauthentic and evidence that Western Modernism was the only true
one, the source that supplied the world.

When you visit -- as I urge you to do -- ''V. S. Gaitonde: Painting as Process,
Painting as Life'' at the Guggenheim Museum, keep this paradox in mind just long
enough to see how its biases operate. Then put it aside, and give yourself over
to some of the most magnetic abstract painting of any kind in New York right
now. It's by a 20th-century Indian modernist who looked westward, eastward,
homeward and inward to create an intensely personalized version of
transculturalism, one that has given him mythic stature in his own country and
pushed him to the top of the auction charts.

Vasudeo Santu Gaitonde (1924-2001) grew up in what was then Bombay and attended
art school there, finishing in 1950, three years after India gained
independence. This was a heady, discombobulating time for young Indian artists.
On the one hand, in the spirit of liberation, they felt pressure to think and
act globally. At the same time, nationalist politics demanded that they turn
their attention to South Asian history and traditions. It was from these
pressures, differently weighed in different hands, that a complex local
modernism, already well underway, took speeded-up form.

Most artists lined up on one side or the other of the divide. Mr. Gaitonde
(pronounced guy-TON-day), always interested in old art and new, strove for a
synthesis. He aligned himself with a group of artists in Bombay who long admired
and emulated European figures like Paul Klee and Picasso and were attuned to
internationalist trends. Simultaneously, he immersed himself in a study of
Hindu, Jain and Mughal miniatures dating back as far as the 11th century,
carefully copying their narrative images.

One of the earliest pictures in the Guggenheim show is a 1953 Gaitonde drawing
of a woman done in western Indian miniature style: The body is fully frontal,
the head and feet, impossibly, in profile; arms and breasts look tacked on. To
better highlight the figure's proto-Cubistic properties, he leaves color and
landscape, other traditional features of miniature painting, out. In a pastel
drawing from the same year, he eliminates figures and gives us landscape alone:
fully colored, but impressionistic, nearly abstract.

This exercise of copying and dissecting traditional art was, for Mr. Gaitonde, a
valuable form of self-training: He learned to use color as an independent
expressive element and to break representational forms down to their abstract
core. In doing so, he revealed an important historical truth: Indian painting
had always been, fundamentally, about abstraction, an aesthetic mode that
Western Modernism often claims as its own innovation.

The young artist's hands-on research must have been labor intensive, though
evidence of sweat work is largely missing from the show organized by Sandhini
Poddar, an adjunct curator at the Guggenheim, and Amara Antilla, a curatorial
assistant. A few exploratory figurative images are all the early Gaitonde we get
before this survey-that-isn't-really-a-survey leaps ahead to the full-fledged
abstract painter he became.

We can guess at reasons for the editing. With images that look specifically
''Indian'' all but left out, we have an artist who fits smoothly into a
streamlined picture of Modernism that the Guggenheim likes to project. (The
museum's 2013 exhibition ''Gutai: Splendid Playground,'' which too neatly lined
up a familiar strain of Japanese avant-garde art with Abstract Expressionism,
fit this scheme, too.) In addition, by presenting Mr. Gaitonde's mature art
shorn of an evolutionary context, the show unhelpfully enhances an air of
mystery that has gathered around the artist and has made him seem like an
isolated phenomenon within South Asian culture, a solitary genius.

In some ways, he was pretty much alone. Although involved in vanguard circles in
Bombay, where he mentored younger artists, including the great Nasreen Mohamedi
(1937-1990), Mr. Gaitonde gained a reputation for being reclusive after
relocating to New Delhi in 1972. He traveled a bit, including to New York City
in 1964 on a Rockefeller grant, though he is reported to have kept a low profile
wherever he was. He attracted loyal friends, but never married and lived simply.
In 1998, he announced he was giving up art, and did. By the time he died, he was
already a cherished legend within the contemporary Indian art world.

In its tailored view of his career, the Guggenheim seems intent on freezing that
legend. Yet even in the monumentalizing white-box display of some 40 paintings
in fourth-level annex galleries, you see clear evidence of this artist's
conceptual and formal restlessness. In the early 1960s, after he had decisively
left figures behind, he picked up new techniques and tools (palette knives and
rollers) and began doing painting that appear to be based on different forms of
writing: ancient Indian carved inscriptions, scratchy Japanese calligraphy.

A devotee of Zen Buddhism -- a pan-Asian sensibility had pervaded Indian
modernism since at least the early 20th century -- he switched from horizontal
to vertical canvases to emulate the format of Chinese and Japanese hanging
scrolls, covering the surfaces with luminous mists of color punctuated by light
or dark circles symbolizing, in his spiritual vocabulary, meditative silence.
Spiritual content, or perhaps just a spiritualized perspective, however hard to
define, was the grounding element in Mr. Gaitonde's art, which he always
referred to as nonobjective rather than abstract, implying that something
specific was there even if you couldn't see it.

What makes this later work wondrous, though, is its painterly experimentation.
In a career that lasted nearly a half-century, Mr. Gaitonde kept trying out new
moves. He built paint up and scraped it off. He laid it down in layer after
aqueous layer, leaving stretches of drying time in between. He said himself that
much of his effort as an artist was in the realm of thinking, planning, trying
things out. After what appeared to be unproductive periods -- he averaged only
five or six paintings a year -- he suddenly plunged ahead, letting accident have
a hand, as he pressed bits of painted paper to canvas to make patterns, or
placed paint-soaked strips of cloth on surfaces and left them there, like
patches of impasto or embroidery.

The latest painting in the show, from 1997, is like no other. Regally colored
light gold on dark gold, it is based on a single graphic design -- four sets of
arrow-shaped lines shooting toward a central circle -- that looks at once
cruciform, tantric, Rorschach-like; balanced but adamant, oddly aggressive.

For a long time, Mr. Gaitonde's reputation, which barely existed in the West,
languished in India, partly because abstraction as a genre was viewed as
culturally irrelevant, even un-Indian. As the South Asian market has hugely
expanded, valuations have changed. What was un-Indian about Mr. Gaitonde now
makes him desirably global. In December 2013 in a Christie's auction in Mumbai
(formerly Bombay), an untitled 1979 Gaitonde painting went for $3.8 million, the
highest price paid for a modern Indian work. The picture, a tall panel of
coruscating gold with what could be nymphs and lotuses circling a sun-yellow
heart, is in the show.

Mr. Gaitonde's triumph -- an unlikely word for so recessive a figure -- is also
a triumph for a concept that Ms. Poddar calls, in her catalog essay,
''polyphonic modernisms,'' the idea that varied but comparably vital versions of
Modernism have flourished at different times and different places. In this
revised vision of history, certain Western claims to innovation must be
reconsidered.

The art historian Hal Foster has written: ''Since abstraction is primordial to
the arts of several cultures, there is no question of a single origin or a first
abstraction: in this sense, abstraction was found as much as it was invented.''
You can discover it being found, and invented, with slow, quiet splendor, at the
Guggenheim these days.

''V. S. Gaitonde: Painting as Process, Painting as Life'' continues through Feb.
11 at the Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street; 212-423-3500;
guggenheim.org.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/design/v-s-gaitonde-retrospective-at-the-
guggenheim.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: V. S. Gaitonde: Painting as Process, Painting as Life: Untitled
works from 1972, far left, and 1969, at the Guggenheim. (C23)
Clockwise from top, four untitled 1950s works by V. S. Gaitonde
an untitled 1979 painting that Christie's sold for $3.8 million in 2013
 and two other untitled works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (C26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%)

CITY: MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (87%)

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (87%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Weekend Entertainments From the Archives of The New York Times

BYLINE: By MARY JO MURPHY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FRIDAY FILE;
Pg. 28

LENGTH: 603 words


79 YEARS AGO

The telephone scene. It's a staple of the classic movie. Chances are the best of
them -- like the one featuring the old candlestick model as a G-rated sex toy
for Donna Reed and Jimmy Stewart in ''It's a Wonderful Life'' -- got a replay
workout over the holidays. But Ms. Reed and Mr. Stewart didn't win Oscars for
their telephone scene. Luise Rainer did for hers.

Ms. Rainer (pronounced RYE-ner) died this week at 104, the first actor and one
of only four in history to win back-to-back Oscars.

Ms. Rainer's first Academy Award was pretty much for a quivery, gulpy, sniffly
-- and, yes, sob-inducing -- three-minute scene in ''The Great Ziegfeld.'' In
it, Ms. Rainer, as Anna Held, picks up the telephone (also a candlestick model)
to wish her ex-husband the very best of health and happiness in his new
marriage. She ends the scene in a swoony heap as her maid fusses over her.

The work was not unequivocally admired.

In his review in The New York Times in April 1936, Frank S. Nugent wrote that
''Miss Rainer continues to justify the epithet winsome, but is inclined to
emotional excesses which are not entirely justified and frequently were
extremely trying.''

Mr. Nugent seems to have softened toward her role by the following January, when
he and the rest of the members of the New York Film Critics were among the first
to reward her, voting her performance ''the outstanding feminine
characterization of the year.''

In an article several days later, giving away a few trade secrets, he
acknowledged that Ms. Rainer was no shoo-in and required several ballots. ''Like
most jury decisions, the New York Film Critics' selection'' was ''an
approximation, not a realization of justice,'' he wrote. He added, ''Looking
back on it now, I am not at all sure that we voted as wisely as we might have,''
and he singled out Ms. Rainer. ''There is no reasoned judicial explanation for
it, no micrometer to justify the rejection of the one and the selection of the
other. Nor is there, so far as I can see, any demonstrable proof that Miss
Rainer's performance was more perfect (if that be an admissible comparative)
than Rosalind Russell's in 'Craig's Wife.' ''

But the very next month -- a few weeks before Ms. Rainer won the Oscar for her
''Ziegfeld'' performance -- Mr. Nugent was quick to admire her in his review
''The Good Earth,'' a film adaptation of a Pearl S. Buck novel.

''Luise Rainer is tragically real as O-Lan,'' Mr. Nugent wrote, ''bringing to
life the pathetic slave girl who was so modest yet so indomitable, so generous
and selfless and loyal.''

She walked off with an Oscar for that role, too.

77 YEARS AGO

Peter Jackson's film adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's ''The Hobbit'' continued
to rule the box office over New Year's. The book has been no slouch in sales,
either, over the decades. How was it first received? Reviewing its debut in The
Times in 1938, Anne T. Eaton wrote, ''This is one of the most freshly original
and delightfully imaginative books for children that have appeared in many a
long day.'' The book languished in the children's realm for about 17 years
before Mr. Tolkien, a glacially slow writer, produced its follow-up, ''The
Fellowship of the Ring,'' which immediately gained adult fans, including W. H.
Auden. In his review in The Times, Mr. Auden wrote, ''No fiction I have read in
the last five years has given me more joy.''

The Times's book critic Orville Prescott did not feel quite the same way. ''This
is a remarkable book,'' he wrote, ''but it is far from a completely successful
one. It grows tedious. It becomes repetitious. And finally it frankly bores.''
MARY JO MURPHY

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/weekend-entertainments-from-the-archives-
of-the-new-york-times.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FILM (89%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VERDICTS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's Happening to the Skyline?

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 430 words


It's not a tourist attraction yet, but when hard-hatted construction workers
journey down from the summit of 432 Park Avenue at 57th Street they proudly
rattle off-sky-high statistics -- 1,396 feet and 96 stories tall -- that now
make the luxury condominium tower in Midtown the tallest habitable building in
the city.

It's already an eye-popping distraction for miles out into the suburbs and
surrounding countryside as it soars up, way up, from Manhattan's signature
skyline.

Get used to the rise of what are called pencil towers. There will be more, with
a dozen or so planned in the next several years in mid-Manhattan, as the city's
silhouette yields to a new era of Slim Jim buildings with small footprints that
build straight up, not out, as 432 Park does from a base of only 93 feet by 93
feet.

The tower is already a fascinating cynosure for considered condemnation or
approval by groundlings for daring to rise up like ... what? Gotham's fickle
finger of real estate wealth signaling the next Gilded Age? A giant upraised
baton cuing us all to a symphony of conspicuous consumption, topped by a
$95-million penthouse nestled amid the clouds?

Right now, the building, which is scheduled to open in 2015, suggests a lonesome
denuded redwood yearning for mates as it dominates what's become a lower field
of retro shrubbery -- the older, shorter office buildings and luxury jewelry and
designer shops that line the streets around it.

Superlatives are the only rule in New York. The pencil tower at 432 Park stands
28-feet taller than the new One World Trade Center downtown when you discount
that building's spire, the element that allows it to secure its post-9/11 claim
of 1,776 feet. The Empire State Building isn't even close, sweet as it rests
down there on 34th Street. The new tower is so tall it had to get construction
clearance from air control regulators at the Federal Aviation Administration;
other new pencil towers may need clearance, too.

''I see it from my seat at Giants stadium, from my house in Jersey, from
everywhere,'' said a construction worker on his coffee break, scrolling through
his favorite workplace photos on his phone to show the view from the tower down
upon the city when the tops of smaller skyscrapers poke up from the clouds below
like headstones in a snow covered cemetery.

''This changes everything,'' he said. ''I used to feel I was in the middle
class, but this thing stretches all that.'' He was referring to the prices of
the units in the tower. Its 104 condos are reported to be selling well, at a
minimum of $7 million and up, way up.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/whats-happening-to-the-skyline.html

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CALENDARS (86%);
DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE
PROPERTY (76%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); SUBURBS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%); AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Simple, but Oh, What Depths

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW;
Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1086 words


In a letter he wrote in 1825, the American painter John Vanderlyn said that
paintings by the itinerant portraitist Ammi Phillips were ''... cheap and
slight, for the mass of folks can't judge of the merits of a well-finished
picture.'' Vanderlyn had gone to France for academic training. His masterpiece,
''Ariadne Asleep on the Island of Naxos'' (1809-14), a suavely erotic,
neo-Classical vision of a nude woman dozing in a pastoral landscape, is one of
the gems of the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. But a
discerning viewer today might well prefer Phillips. His ''Girl in Red Dress With
Cat and Dog'' (1830-35) is one of the loveliest paintings by any American
artist.

A wonderful painting attributed to Phillips is included in ''A Shared Legacy:
Folk Art in America,'' an inspiring exhibition at the American Folk Art Museum.
''James Mairs Salisbury'' (circa 1835) depicts a boy of about 3 in a blue
shoulder-baring dress (young boys were commonly portrayed in dresses back then),
sitting on a red-cushioned stool with a little dog at his feet, against a dark,
flat background. Holding a single strawberry by the stem in one hand and a sprig
with four more berries in the other, he gazes out at the viewer with a
preternaturally calm expression, like a little Buddha.

You can see what Vanderlyn would have found lacking in such a painting: It's
relatively flat, and its parts appear patched together rather than seamlessly
conjoined. But to a modern viewer, all this yields a captivating interplay of
realism, abstraction and psychological mystery.

Drawn from the collection of Barbara L. Gordon, the show presents more than 60
choice objects, including paintings, drawings, sculptures, furniture, painted
chests and knickknacks made between 1800 and 1920. It was organized by Art
Services International in Alexandria, Va., a nonprofit educational institution.

Despite the diversity of its contents, something like Phillips's unpretentious,
workmanlike concentration on the task at hand can be seen in one way or another
throughout ''A Shared Legacy.'' A striking example is ''Still Life With Basket
of Fruit'' (1830-50), by an unidentified artist. The image is generic: Printed
pictures of overflowing fruit baskets circulated widely in 19th-century America.
In this painting, which might have been made by a trained sign painter, the
forms of the woven basket and of the pears, peaches, grapes, berries and melons
that fill it are rendered with vivid clarity.

''Steamboat 'Victoria' '' (1859) offers a meticulously detailed image of a ship
plying rolling waves. It was painted by James Bard, who, along with his brother
John Bard, had a thriving business making paintings of steamboats and other
ships based on measurements taken from actual boats.

Besides Phillips's boy in blue, there are numerous other portraits of children.
Among the most soulful are two attributed to John Brewster Jr. from between 1810
and 1820. One is of a boy, and the other of a girl. In these magnetic,
waist-length likenesses, the boy holds a red wallet in one stubby-fingered hand,
and the girl a red rose. They gaze back at us with large, solemn and strangely
sad eyes.

An ethereal miniature portrait attributed to Mrs. Moses B. Russell, ''Child in
Red'' (1845-1850), pictures a girl of 2 or 3 in a red dress, seated outdoors on
a green cushion. A red curtain is pulled back to the left; ivy grows up the edge
of a stone archway to the right; and a fruit basket is on the grass in the
foreground. Seen against a glowing, hazy sky, the child's head appears strangely
luminous and nearly transparent, as if she were a ghost. A museum label notes
that some of Russell's portraits were probably posthumous, which makes sense,
considering the low survival rate for 19th-century children. This one certainly
has a haunting, memorial mood.

In ''The Peaceable Kingdom With the Leopard of Serenity'' (1835-40), attributed
to Edward Hicks, angelic children gambol in the midst of a tranquil gathering of
big cats, a sheep, an ox, a wolf and other wild and domestic beasts. In the
distance, Europeans and Indians gather amicably on the shore of a calm,
light-struck lake.

While most works don't represent children, many seem imbued with a childlike
spirit. Small, roughly whittled and painted sculptures of animals by Wilhelm
Schimmel, including a lively four-inch-tall bright red squirrel gnawing a nut,
look as if they were made for a toddler's toy box. So does an alarmingly
lifelike, pony-size rabbit with big glass eyes from 1910 that once carried
riders on a steam-powered carousel. It's thought to have been made by Salvatore
Cernigliaro (1879-1974), a master wood carver for the Dentzel Carousel Company
of Philadelphia.

Among the show's most imaginative works are sculptures attributed to John Scholl
(1827-1916). ''The Wedding of the Turtle Doves'' has two smoothly carved white
birds perched on either side of a 37-inch-high tower assembled from all kinds of
dollhouse-scale architectural elements, topped by a complicated circular device
like a wheel of fortune. A skilled house carpenter during his working life,
Scholl began producing his assemblages when he was 80. He displayed his
creations in the parlor of his home and invited people in to enjoy them.

It's fitting that the broader context evoked by the exhibition is that of family
and domesticity. Except for the urbane, life-size sculptures of a cigar-smoking
woman, an Indian, a goddess of liberty and a suspicious-looking dandy in a
bowler hat, all made to advertise tobacco shops, almost everything on view would
have been found originally in someone's home.

Familial tradition is rendered with inventive panache in pages taken from a set
of volumes called the ''Laing Family Record Book,'' produced between 1801 and
1820. The unidentified artist carefully documented the births and deaths of
family members, mainly in red and black ink and watercolors. Each page has block
letters and calligraphic script within intricately worked decorative borders
further enhanced by birds, flowers and, on some pages, coffins. Like many other
works in the exhibition, these drawings embody a paradox for modern viewers:
They evoke a world and a way of life that modernity has eclipsed, and yet they
feel as fresh and lively as anything you might desire in the art of today.

''A Shared Legacy: Folk Art in America'' runs through March 8 at the American
Folk Art Museum, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue between 65th and 66th
Streets; 212-595-9533, folkartmuseum.org.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/a-shared-legacy-at-the-american-folk-art-
museum.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Shared Legacy: Folk Art in America, at the American Folk Art
Museum, includes these pine tobacco shop figures from the 1800s. (C23)
From left: two children's portraits attributed to John Brewster Jr.
''James Mairs Salisbury,'' attributed to Ammi Phillips
and ''Portrait of Two Children,'' attributed to Sturtevant J. Hamblin.
 Above, cats (1850-1900) by an unidentified artist. Left, ''The Wedding of the
Turtle Doves,'' near left, and ''Snowflake Table'' (early 1900s), attributed to
John Scholl.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (76%); DOGS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); SCULPTURE
(75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WEDDINGS &
ENGAGEMENTS (69%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dancer's Homage to a Kindred Soul

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 606 words


The story of how the dancer, actor and choreographer Fred Herko died is mythic
in avant-garde circles: He took a bath, danced around his friend's Cornelia
Street loft to Mozart's ''Coronation'' Mass and leapt out of a window in a grand
jeté. It was Oct. 27, 1964.

Now Jack Ferver, a dancer, actor and choreographer -- spookily, there is a
resemblance -- has drawn inspiration from Mr. Herko's life and art to create a
piece with parallels to his own life. The new work, ''Night Light Bright
Light,'' part of American Realness 2015, an adventurous festival of dance and
performance beginning on Thursday at the Abrons Arts Center, delves into the
human psyche as Mr. Ferver, in his typically unwavering and humorous way, skirts
the line between what's real and what's not.

In the case of Mr. Herko, the truth is sketchy. Mr. Ferver has discovered from
Mr. Herko's biographer, Gerard Forde, that his death didn't take place after a
bath, but a shower. No one is really sure what music was playing. And as for the
famous grand jeté? It was probably more of a swan dive.

A duet with Mr. Ferver's frequent collaborator Reid Bartelme, a ballet dancer
and costume designer, ''Night Light,'' to be performed on Jan. 14, 16 and 18,
bounces between dancing and dialogue. Framed by Mr. Ferver's unflinching dark
humor, some topics at play are queerness, loneliness, suicide, hope,
disappointment and mentorship.

''I was suicidal, and this work is also talking about suicide as someone who has
had experiences with that and been to that edge and survived it,'' Mr. Ferver
said in an interview. ''You carry death with you forever from that point.''

Mr. Herko, an accomplished ballet dancer as well as a member of the experimental
Judson Dance Theater, appeared in films by Andy Warhol. Mr. Ferver, who grew up
in Wisconsin, studied the Martha Graham technique as a teenager and has deep
ties to the contemporary dance world, is also a respected actor who has appeared
in the film ''Outside Providence'' and the Comedy Central TV series ''Strangers
With Candy.'' In his own dance-theater productions, he explores the fragility of
persona.

''There's this quality in looking at Herko's work that I relate to,'' Mr. Ferver
said. ''I feel when my work is discussed in terms of camp, it's never quite
right. I'm never attempting anything in a naïve way.''

The description he prefers is neo-camp; after reading about and studying
movement scores of Mr. Herko's choreography, Mr. Ferver feels that Mr. Herko's
work probably functioned more in that realm, too. ''There's something very
knowing to the work,'' Mr. Ferver said of Mr. Herko's choreography, which he
doesn't view as naïve. ''There's this function inside of my work: Much of it is
about game playing and how quickly the games change.''

''Night Light'' features a version of Mr. Herko's ''For Sergio,'' in which he
performed with a mirror and a candle. The poet Diane di Prima described it this
way: ''With his back to the audience, he began laboriously and slowly to go down
one side aisle of the theater, across the front below the proscenium, and up the
other side. En pointe.''

In ''Night Light,'' that solo becomes a duet, which Mr. Ferver regards,
unofficially, as his homage: ''For Freddie.'' But he emphasized that it's in no
way a reconstruction.

''It's so much about capturing the essence of it, as opposed to trying to
perform it,'' he said. ''I would just fail at that.''

AMERICAN REALNESS Thursday through Jan. 18 at the Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand
Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side. Jack Ferver's ''Night Light Bright
Light'' runs Jan. 14, 16 and 18. (866-811-4111, americanrealness.com)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/theater/jack-ferver-takes-inspiration-from-fre
d-herko.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Night Light Bright Light'' with Jack Ferver, near left, and
Reid Bartelme. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (92%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES
(89%); BALLET (89%); SUICIDE (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); WRITERS
(73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%);
COSTUME & SET DESIGN (65%); THEATER (58%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Die in Queens Fire; City Records First Killing of 2015

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER; Al Baker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 352 words


Just minutes before the New Year's Eve ball dropped in Times Square, three
members of a family in Queens died in a fire that started in the kitchen of
their ninth-floor apartment in the LeFrak City housing complex, officials said
on Thursday.

The police identified the victims as Louise Jean-Charles, 59; her husband,
Napoleon Michel, 69; and their niece, Nadia Donnay, 37. All three lived in the
apartment, which is in an 18-story building at 96-02 57th Avenue in Corona, the
police said.

Fire marshals were still investigating the cause of the two-alarm blaze on
Thursday, officials said, but it was not deemed suspicious.

The officials said the apartment lacked smoke detectors. A spokesman for LeFrak
said that the building had no fire violations and that the apartment was
outfitted with smoke detectors as required by law, adding, ''A smoke detector
rider attesting to the presence of this life safety equipment was signed and
initialed by the tenant in 2012.''

Most of the fire was contained in the apartment, though smoke did spread through
the building, said James Long, a spokesman for the New York Fire Department. The
building was not evacuated, Mr. Long said. More than 100 firefighters responded
to the blaze.

Three hours later, around 3 a.m., the police reported the city's first murder of
2015.

A 26-year-old Bronx man, identified as Herb Huntley, was found in the lobby of
671 Westchester Avenue, a building at the St. Mary's Houses, with gunshot wounds
to his head and torso, officials said. Mr. Huntley, who lived on Tinton Avenue
in the Bronx, was taken by emergency responders to Lincoln Hospital, where he
was pronounced dead. The police said that no one had been arrested in the case
but that the investigation was continuing.

On Wednesday, shortly after 6 p.m., a woman identified as Guler Ugur-Yaacobi,
44, of Brooklyn, was struck and killed by a black S.U.V. while crossing
Amsterdam Avenue at 113th Street, the police said. The car had a green light,
the police said, but kept going north on Amsterdam after the collision. Ms.
Ugur-Yaacobi was pronounced dead at Mount Sinai St. Luke's Hospital.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/nyregion/3-die-in-queens-fire-on-new-years-eve
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ninth floor of the building in the LeFrak City complex in
Corona, Queens, where a fire on  Wednesday night killed three people. Officials
said they did not deem the blaze suspicious. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKE DETECTORS (90%); FIRES (90%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOME SECURITY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MURDER (75%); HEAD
INJURIES (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (72%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING
AGENCIES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES
(54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Digital Tax Increase to Take Effect in Europe

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 942 words


LONDON -- Europe's tax showdown could be headed straight to people's wallets.

With the new year, a change in fiscal rules in the European Union is increasing
the tax on many purchases of digital content like e-books and smartphone
applications.

Under the new rules, first approved in 2008, the tax rate on digital services
like cloud storage and movie streaming will be determined by where consumers
live, and not where the company selling the product has its European
headquarters. Tax experts say Europe's revamped rules could add up to an extra
$1 billion in annual tax revenue for European governments.

What remains unclear is who in the 28-country bloc will pay most of the bill.

''There inevitably will be a price change,'' said Richard Mollet, chief
executive of the Publishers Association, a British trade body. ''The question is
whether retailers, publishers or customers will have to take on board any
increase.''

The changes to Europe's so-called value-added tax -- a tax on goods and services
similar to sales taxes in the United States -- are part of a continuing push by
lawmakers to tax the region's digital economy more heavily. Companies like Apple
and Amazon have been roundly criticized for housing their European operations in
low-tax countries like Ireland and Luxembourg. The companies say they operate
there legally.

Many of the world's largest tech companies selling digital products, like Amazon
and Microsoft, now house their European digital businesses in Luxembourg, where
the V.A.T. rate is as low as 3 percent for e-book purchases. In contrast,
countries like Britain charge companies a 20 percent sales tax for selling
e-books. Analysts say the current rules provide an advantage to global companies
that have the financial muscle to shop around for the lowest tax rate.

Microsoft has said that charges for Skype, the Internet calling service, will
increase for European consumers, as the company alters the V.A.T. levels in line
with individual countries' tax rates. The European prices for Microsoft's other
services, including game downloads, are not expected to change.

Netflix, the video-streaming service that is expanding aggressively across
Europe, does not plan to increase its monthly charge, and Amazon said that the
cost of its annual Prime membership, which includes online video content in some
countries, would not rise. An Amazon spokesman, however, declined to comment on
whether the expected tax increase for e-books would be passed on to customers or
if the company or publishers would eventually pick up additional costs.

''People will take their cue from Amazon,'' said Mr. Mollet of the Publishers
Association, who added that the company's dominant position in Europe's e-book
market gave it significant weight in setting pricing. ''In the first few weeks,
we'll likely see a lot of price volatility.''

Google and Apple, which run the world's two largest app stores, will also not
reduce the 30 percent cut that they take from each digital sale. The American
tech giants, however, will collect each country's V.A.T. charge on behalf of app
developers. Some of those are expected to absorb the tax increases to avoid
angering European customers, who are unlikely to welcome any increase in the
price of games, apps or other digital downloads.

''Everyone is going to face the same problem; it will be tough to raise
prices,'' said Andy Payne, co-founder of Mastertronic Group, a small British
video game publisher. ''Will the V.A.T. changes reduce our revenue? The answer
is probably yes.''

Europe's efforts follow similar attempts in the United States to pass an
Internet sales tax that would force online retailers to collect sales taxes for
state and local governments, even if the companies do not have a physical
presence in the state. Congress, however, has yet to pass such a bill.

The tax overhauls also come as policy makers on both sides of the Atlantic
struggle to keep pace with technological advances. Since Europe's V.A.T. changes
were approved in 2008, for example, companies like Netflix have significantly
changed how they operate, moving to relying on Internet movie streaming that
takes advantage of high-speed broadband and away from DVD rentals sent through
the mail.

''Tech developments are happening very quickly,'' said Gijsbert Bulk, a tax
partner at the accounting firm Ernst & Young in Amsterdam. ''Politicians are
trying to find a way to tax the digital economy.''

One of the European countries most affected by the tax change will be
Luxembourg. The small country's low value-added tax rates have enticed Apple to
set up its international iTunes business there, and Microsoft's digital download
operation is also based there.

Luxembourg's corporate tax system is being challenged by several European
investigations into whether politicians gave preferential treatment to the likes
of Amazon and a financing unit of Fiat, the Italian carmaker. And Jean-Claude
Juncker, Luxembourg's former prime minister, who now runs the executive arm of
the European Union responsible for the continuing investigations, has been
criticized for his role in promoting the country's low-tax policies.

In preparation for potential lost income from value-added taxes, Luxembourg's
lawmakers have announced an increase in the country's value-added rate on most
goods to 17 percent from 15 percent, though it will still offer heavily
discounted rates for e-books and some other products.

''Luxembourg is going to lose an enormous amount of revenue,'' said Karen Robb,
a tax partner at the accounting firm Grant Thornton in London. ''There will be
fewer compelling tax reasons for companies to stay in Luxembourg.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/international/digital-tax-increase-to
-take-effect-in-europe.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); SALES TAX
(89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PRICES (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%);
ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TAX
CONSULTING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); RETAILERS
(76%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES
(73%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES
(53%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%);
LUXEMBOURG (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Mortality and its Discontents

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 782 words


ESTES PARK, Colo. -- On the first day of the new year, as on the last day of the
old year, I slip outside at dusk and try to run away from my problems. There is
no better way to make sense of the daily clutter of inchoate thoughts than
bouncing along a trail, immortality in every stride.

Of course, everything hurts -- joints, calf muscles, a toe that refuses to warm.
When someone with more spring to the step passes by, I feel a pang of loss: I'll
never be that fast again. And then, loathing at having that thought. It's a bad
day when the most creative thing you do is come up with an unoriginal form of
self-pity.

It helps to have smarter people musing on the same subject. ''There is no
escaping the tragedy of life, which is that we are all aging from the day we are
born.'' So writes Atul Gawande, surgeon, author and courier of common sense, in
his book ''Being Mortal.'' He goes on to show that the real tragedy is not every
click of the postpartum clock, but how we have come to see aging as a disease.

I came to Dr. Gawande's book after meeting a most remarkable man in this alpine
town set against the overly ambitious geology of Rocky Mountain National Park --
Tom Hornbein. He's also a doctor, elfin and energetic, bearded and balding, who
will defy gravity on many a day by clipping himself into a climber's bolt on a
vertical flank of said Rocky Mountains. He's 84.

Climbers know Dr. Hornbein for his historic accomplishment in 1963: ascending
the West Ridge of Mount Everest, with Willi Unsoeld, and surviving a night at
28,000 feet without tent or sleeping bag. If not the most extraordinary
achievement in mountaineering, it is very high on the all-time list. ''The night
was overpoweringly empty,'' he wrote. ''Mostly there was nothing. We hung
suspended in a timeless void.''

He got lucky, as there was no jet stream wind on that night. But luck, as they
say, is the residue of design, and Tom Hornbein is nothing if not methodical.
His book, ''Everest: The West Ridge,'' is widely recognized as a classic. It's
aging well, in part, because so many contemporary books on mountain climbing are
all about score settling and product placement.

I was whining, in as diplomatic a way as possible, about reaching an age when
the high summits no longer have quite the pull they did for me, when a beer and
a brat on the 40-yard line can be just as enticing as looking down at cloud
cover from Mount Rainier's apex. After listening to Hornbein describe a routine
that includes regular rock climbing with Jon Krakauer, another Colorado author
and mountaineer, I asked him about his secret to aging.

It may be true, as George Orwell said, that ''at 50, everyone has the face he
deserves.'' Orwell died at 46, so his observation was purely speculative. But
what about the body we deserve? Hornbein clearly takes care of his, though he
doesn't make any of the annoying claims of the aging-well proselytizer.

He said he experienced very little physical loss in his 50s and 60s. In his 70s,
body parts started to creak and pop, and he noticed gradual decline with every
year. In his 80s, he's slower, much more cautious, and cognizant of his
limitations. The will is there, if not always the way. But he shows up, proof
again of the adage about success.

During a recent warm weather spell, ''I got out with a young friend to do some
bolt-clipping sport route he'd prepared for me to lead,'' he said. ''Not
difficult, but quite enough.''

Hornbein brought up Gawande's book. He laughed at himself, noting that he was at
an age when death is a regular topic of conversation. Hornbein goes to a lot of
funerals. Friends, including some who touched the roof of the world, are dead or
dying. He said all of this with a twinkle in his eye. Or at least it seemed that
way to me.

Gawande makes the point that we've got to get over the idea that aging is a
disease. ''People live longer and better than any time in history,'' Gawande
writes. ''But scientific advances have turned the process of aging and dying
into medical experiences.'' And he concludes, ''Death of course is not failure.
Death is normal.''

Keeping normal at a safe distance, however, requires some deliberation and some
risk-taking -- both in moderation. The mountaineers who made history a
half-century ago, and are alive today, like to cite this admonition: There are
old climbers, and bold climbers, but no old, bold climbers.

Hornbein is too modest to add a coda. There may come a time, not so long from
now, when the steps to his front porch will seem like Everest. But listening to
him talk about plans for the coming days, in and out of the mountains, I drew
one conclusion. He stays in motion, whether going up, down or sideways.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/mortality-and-its-discontents.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (86%);
CLIMBING (86%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); AGING (68%); WRITERS (67%); EXTREME SPORTS
(64%)

STATE: MOUNT EVEREST (92%); HIMALAYAS (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Creative Vision, So Down to Earth

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW;
Pg. 25

LENGTH: 893 words


One of the smallest but most salient works in ''Jean Dubuffet: Soul of the
Underground,'' at the Museum of Modern Art, is a sketchbook page covered with
tiny contour drawings of footprints. Made during one of Dubuffet's late-1940s
sojourns in El Goléa, a Saharan oasis, it hints at the inspiration he would find
under his soles over the next couple of decades.

''Look at what lies at your feet!'' Dubuffet wrote in a 1957 essay. ''A crack in
the ground, sparkling gravel, a tuft of grass, some crushed debris, offer
equally worthy subjects for your applause and admiration.''

In MoMA's stimulating show, drawn entirely from its collection, we can see how
Dubuffet's earthbound gaze nourished his reinvention of the painted surface. On
view are several canvases smeared with a mixture of oil, putty, sand and gravel,
some of them with incised drawings that seem to equate painting with plowing.
Here too are small sculptures made with bits of organic and industrial detritus,
gnarled grapevine roots and pieces of slag and charcoal.

We also come to see him as a prolific and wildly inventive printmaker, one who
inked impressions of leaves, fruit peels, and dirt and created a substantial
''encyclopedia'' of organic textures. (The project was ambitious enough to
involve multiple print shops, all running at once.) He often combined
lithography with assemblage, cutting up and rearranging his prints to form new
images that were then reprinted to look seamless. ''Everything combines and
interferes,'' as Dubuffet said of his technique.

Altogether, ''Soul of the Underground'' offers a new, more process-oriented way
of looking at this Art Brut founder. It suggests that the rawness he espoused
had as much to do with groundedness, in the literal and metaphysical senses, as
it did with primitivism.

That philosophy, especially clear in the show's many landscapes or landscapelike
abstractions, is apparent even in Dubuffet's figurative works. ''Portrait of
Henri Michaux,'' from 1947, seems to excavate this Belgian artist and poet from
a thick ground of oil, putty, pebbles and sand. And in ''Beard of Uncertain
Returns,'' from 1959, an unruly thicket of facial hair -- a sort of underbrush
-- creeps over the picture plane, edging out the face to which it is attached.

The show's still lifes, though less prominent, have a similar gravitational
pull. Drawings like ''Table Laden With Objects'' tilt the genre's usual frontal
perspective, giving us a bird's-eye view of a cluttered surface. ''I am
convinced that any table can be for each of us a landscape as inexhaustible as
the whole Andes range,'' Dubuffet wrote.

A similar vantage point characterizes his actual landscapes, which often seem to
hover just over the ground, sometimes forsaking the sorts of postcard views that
usually tempt artists. A 1956 collage-painting with the look of stained glass
and the self-descriptive title ''Soil Ornamented With Vegetation, Dead Leaves,
Pebbles, Diverse Debris,'' for instance, was inspired by the terrain surrounding
Vence, a medieval French village. Ignoring the rolling hills and glimpses of the
Mediterranean, Dubuffet chose to highlight ''the dwarf, close-cropped vegetation
and the pitiful plants which grow along the sides of these poorly kept roads.''

He often made impressions from bits of foliage dipped in paint. Sometimes, as in
''Baptism of Fire'' (1959), he glued leaves and seedpods directly to the canvas
and painted over them. When it suited him, he also used synthetic materials to
create earthy effects; ''Soul of the Underground'' (1959), the show's title
piece, owes its silvery, mineral-like sheen to crumpled aluminum foil.

His love of texture reaches an apex in the ''Phenomena'' group of lithographs,
the source of many of his other prints. During a five-year frenzy of
printmaking, he inked just about every kind of surface imaginable (including
orange peels and human skin). He also took sandpaper and chemicals to the
lithographic stones, creating difficult-to-categorize abstractions that embrace
chance and accident.

MoMA is showing just a sampling of the 324-piece series, but it's enough to give
a sense of the project's range. And nearby are some of the lithographs Dubuffet
made from cutup and assembled snippets of ''Phenomena,'' goofy composite
characters like ''Carrot Nose'' and ''The Inflated Snob II'' that play down the
serious, scientific tone of the source prints.

He also worked images from ''Phenomena'' into some of his book collaborations
from the early 1960s, which feature handwritten or rubber-stamped texts with
unusual spacing and placement. Just a couple of these are on view, but their
playful approach to language ought to inspire an exhibition of Dubuffet's
literary projects.

In the meantime, this exemplary collection show -- organized by the senior
curator Jodi Hauptman and the associate curator Sarah Suzuki from MoMA's
department of drawings and prints -- makes us appreciate Dubuffet as a restless
innovator and recycler. And it reminds us that while many European postwar
artists had their heads in the clouds (the light and space explorations of the
Zero Group, currently surveyed at the Guggenheim, come to mind), Dubuffet
believed that the future of art was to be found just underfoot.

''Jean Dubuffet: Soul of the Underground'' runs through April 5 at the Museum of
Modern Art; 212-708-9400, moma.org.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/design/jean-dubuffet-at-museum-of-modern-
art.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Jean Dubuffet's ''Soul of the Underground,'' and left,
''La Vin en Barbe,'' both from 1959. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, NEW
YORK, JEAN DUBUFFET, 2014 ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK/ADAGP, PARIS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (70%);
METAPHYSICS (62%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); ANDES (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The M235i Stands With the BMW Classics

BYLINE: By TOM VOELK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRIVEN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words


STARBUCKS claims it offers more than 80,000 drink combinations. It has nothing
on BMW.

Take the 3 Series, for example. The sedan alone can be had 10 different ways,
from base 320i to track-ready M3. That doesn't take into consideration different
trims, such as Luxury Line and M Sport. And there's the Sport Wagon and Grand
Turismo hatchback versions, too. Throw color choices into the mix, and the
indecisive are doomed.

The new 2 Series, which replaces the 1 Series, is no exception. Three inches
longer, it's effectively the same size as the coveted 3 Series models of the
early 1990s to mid-2000s. Enthusiasts discuss these cars, known as the E36 and
E46, in hushed reverent tones. The new larger models? Not so much.

For drivers, the M235i is an answered prayer if they can live with two doors.
With M Performance tuning, it is not the straight espresso that the expected M2
should be, or a skinny latte that is the entry-level 228i. Potent, but practical
as a daily driver, the M235i a double-shot cappuccino. No foam. No sugar. No
full-on M car needed.

The M235i's 3-liter in-line-6 engine with a twin scroll turbo makes 320
horsepower and 330 pound-feet of torque low in the power band. BMW says this
rear-wheel-drive -- all-wheel drive is optional -- car can go from zero to 60 in
4.8 seconds. Used to their full potential, the upgraded brakes may cause the
seatbelts to leave marks.

The go-to machine for attempts at destroying my clean driving record has been
Cadillac's ATS. The M235i makes me think twice about that. Even with electric
power steering (hydraulic power steering helped give the company's classics
superb road feel), there's good heft and feedback from the meaty leather-wrapped
wheel. Seats hug like mom, the engine growls like dad.

Purists who feel that BMW has dumped them for more mainstream buyers can
consider committing again. The M235i is the real deal, a reconciliation letter
from the Bavarians. Want a pretty BMW coupe instead? Go for the 4 Series, which
starts at $42,000 for the 428i and hits $47,000 for the more potent 435i.

The 2, also available as a convertible, appears more svelte than the 1 Series,
but keeps some of the stubby silhouette. But on a winding road, the M235i is a
beautiful excuse for a coffee run.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/automobiles/autoreviews/video-review-the-m235i
-stands-with-the-bmw-classics.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN CAMPBELL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (72%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, &
PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuba Again Arrests Artist Seeking Dissidents' Release

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 469 words


MEXICO CITY -- A performance artist advocating free speech in Cuba was arrested
for the third time in two days on Thursday, her supporters said, along with
several dissidents after they went to a jail demanding the release of government
opponents rounded up in a crackdown this week.

The artist, Tania Bruguera, who was born in Cuba and splits her time between
there and New York, had made clear in statements after her initial detention
this week that she was determined to see the release of everyone else who had
been detained.

It was Cuba's biggest move against the opposition in the two weeks since the
United States and Cuba announced they would renew diplomatic relations.

Human rights monitors said that up to 50 government opponents were arrested
around the time that Ms. Bruguera was detained Tuesday before she could carry
out an open mike performance in Havana's Revolution Square in which she planned
to ask citizens to speak about their visions for the country.

Most of the activists were eventually released. But the independent news site
14ymedio.com, whose editor was briefly detained, said about 15 dissidents
remained in custody into Thursday, though some were released as the day wore on.

Ms. Bruguera, after a second arrest and release on Wednesday, went to a
municipal jail on Thursday along with several dissidents, pressing for the
release of the other detainees. It was unclear why she and the others were taken
into custody, and the government made no statement.

Ms. Bruguera had said her performance would test the climate for change in Cuba
under the diplomatic thaw with the United States, which announced softened
restrictions on trade and travel but promised to keep pressure on Cuba to
improve human rights. The State Department condemned the arrests of several
dissidents on Tuesday but has not commented on Ms. Bruguera.

The Cuban authorities called her plan a political provocation. Although it
denied her a permit for her performance, it had sought to negotiate for an
alternative site, but Ms. Bruguera said the sides could not agree.

Ted Henken, a professor at Baruch College who has written on social movements in
Cuba, said Ms. Bruguera had not been known as a major dissident figure, but her
art often reflected perceived political injustices in Cuba and elsewhere. The
daughter of a Cuban diplomat, she has explored in her work what she considers
the promise and the failings of the revolution.

''It's a good thing,'' Mr. Henken said, ''that the welcome news two weeks ago of
the diplomatic breakthrough between the U.S. and Cuban governments is
accompanied now with a vivid reminder that the Cuban government still needs to
open up to the Cuban people and begin dismantling the often overlooked internal
embargo it holds on the exercise of fundamental freedoms of the Cuban people.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/americas/cuba-again-arrests-artist-seeki
ng-dissidents-release.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PRISONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN
RELATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); PEACE
PROCESS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (78%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Michigan State Rallies in Final Seconds to Top Baylor in Cotton Bowl

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MICHIGAN STATE 42, BAYLOR 41; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 655 words


ARLINGTON, Tex. -- After their only two losses came against playoff teams,
Connor Cook and Michigan State finished off their season with a three-touchdown
comeback in the fourth quarter against playoff-snubbed Baylor.

Cook threw a 10-yard touchdown pass to Keith Mumphery with 17 seconds left to
give the No. 7 Spartans a 42-41 victory in the Cotton Bowl, the lead-in game on
New Year's Day to the two national semifinals that the two-time Big 12 champion
Baylor (11-2) hoped to be a part of instead.

''For us to win in such an emotional and dramatic fashion like you just saw out
there, really just I think with all the guys coming back, all the juniors,
really just makes us feel good and brings us closer together,'' Cook said.

The Spartans (11-2) got the winning touchdown after Marcus Rush blocked Chris
Callahan's 43-yard field goal attempt with 1 minute 5 seconds left.

When Baylor got the ball back for one last try, Bryce Petty was sacked on
consecutive plays before Riley Bullough's clinching interception.

Petty completed 36 of 51 passes for a Cotton Bowl-record 550 yards and three
touchdowns, two to the speedy freshman K.D. Cannon and the other to the
390-pound backup guard LaQuan McGowan, which put Baylor ahead, 41-21, late in
the third quarter.

Jeremy Langford ran for 162 yards and three touchdowns for the Spartans, whose
losses were to the Pac-12 winner, Oregon, and the Big Ten champion, Ohio State.

Langford's 1-yard plunge with just under five minutes left got the Spartans to
41-35. It came the play after Cook's 11-yard scramble was initially called a
touchdown but ruled short after a replay review.

Callahan had a 46-yard field goal attempt that ricocheted off the right upright
to start the fourth quarter. Michigan State then got Cook's 8-yard touchdown
pass to tight end Josiah Price and recovered an onside kick.

Cook threw a 39-yard pass on the first play after the recovery, but was
scrambling to avoid pressure on the next when he threw an awkward pass right to
linebacker Taylor Young, who ran 84 yards to the end zone.

Young's apparent touchdown was wiped out by an illegal block, pushing Baylor
back to its 43. After Petty's fourth-down incompletion, Michigan State went 60
yards in nine plays for Langford's final score.

Michigan State won its fourth consecutive bowl game, this one the
highest-scoring Cotton Bowl game ever. The Spartans were only the second Big Ten
team in the game, which was played for the 79th time.

Baylor finished fifth in the final College Football Playoff rankings, a spot
ahead of T.C.U., the team the Bears shared the Big 12 title with despite beating
the Frogs, 61-58, in October. T.C.U. won its bowl game handily, beating
Mississippi, 42-3, in the Peach Bowl on Wednesday.

''We've played a lot of really good games over the last seven seasons. Won a lot
of really good games. And this is one of the tougher non-wins that I've ever
experienced,'' Baylor Coach Art Briles said. ''It's got nothing to do with the
big picture. The small picture right now is letting a game get away from us
today.''

It was tied, 14-14, after the first quarter, but Baylor went ahead, 24-14, at
the half on Petty's 1-yard touchdown run and Callahan's 25-yard field goal.

Cannon, already with a 49-yard touchdown catch, got the Bears started in the
second half when he split two Michigan State defenders and was in a full sprint
when he reached out with both hands and made a fingertip grab near the 35. He
gathered the ball in and ran to the end zone to finish a 74-yard touchdown
before Callahan added another field goal.

Cannon finished with eight catches for 197 yards, and Corey Coleman had seven
catches for 150 yards, including a 53-yard score on a throw from his fellow
receiver Jay Lee.

The Bears had 583 yards, even with minus-20 yards rushing. Michigan State had
552 yards, including Cook's 314 yards passing.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/ncaafootball/michigan-state-rallies-in-
fourth-to-beat-baylor-in-cotton-bowl.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An extra point by Michael Geiger, center, led Michigan State
past Baylor on Thursday in a 42-41 win. It was the highest-scoring game in
Cotton Bowl history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONALD MARTINEZ/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS
(89%); RANKINGS (76%); ATHLETES (75%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Classical

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 913 words


Full reviews of recent classical performances: nytimes.com/classical. A
searchable guide to these and other performances is at nytimes.com/events.

Opera

'Aida' (Friday and Monday) This revival of the Metropolitan Opera's grand
production of Verdi's classic has gotten into a groove since it opened snoozily
in October. Two American sopranos singing at the Met for the first time take on
the title role, Marjorie Owens on Friday (opposite Carl Tanner) and Tamara
Wilson on Monday (opposite Marcello Giordani). The potent mezzo Violeta Urmana
is Amneris, and the resonant baritone George Gagnidze is Amonasro. The cast also
features two impressive young basses, Dimitry Belosselskiy and Soloman Howard.
Marco Armiliato conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln
Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org. (Zachary Woolfe)

&#x2605; 'Hansel and Gretel' (Saturday and Thursday) Richard Jones' surreal,
macabre production of Humperdinck's glorious fairy-tale opera is one of the
Metropolitan Opera's best shows. In English translation for the Met's annual
family holiday presentation, this run closes with two central duos: the soprano
Heidi Stober and the mezzo Christine Rice, on Saturday, and Andriana Chuchman
and Jennifer Johnson Cano, on Thursday. While the supporting cast is also
appealing, and Andrew Davis leads a light, luminous orchestral performance, the
real stars here are Humperdinck and Mr. Jones. Saturday at 1 p.m., Thursday at
7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000, metopera.org.
(Woolfe)

&#x2605; 'The Merry Widow' (Saturday, Tuesday and next Friday) The Broadway
director and choreographer Susan Stroman and a musical-theater star, Kelli
O'Hara, make their Met debuts in this Lehar classic, set in Paris and filled
with dance. They are joined by Renée Fleming, in her first staged performances
as Hanna Glawari; the baritone Nathan Gunn and the tenor Alek Shrader, who are
the love interests; and the veteran baritone Thomas Allen, who plays the envoy
of the fake Balkan nation of Pontevedro. Jeremy Sams provides the English
adaptation, and Andrew Davis conducts. Saturday at 8 p.m., Tuesday and next
Friday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212-362-6000,
metopera.org. (Woolfe)

&#x2605; 'La Traviata' (Wednesday) Willy Decker's modern-dress, strangely
powerful 2010 production of this Verdi work is back at the Metropolitan Opera.
The opening night performance was hindered by the last-minute withdrawal,
because of illness, of the young tenor Stephen Costello. His replacement, the
appealing Sardinian tenor Francesco Demuro, saved the day. Mr. Demuro, as
earlier scheduled, is now singing the role for the rest of the run. The soprano
Marina Rebeka brings a shimmering, bright voice and alluring temperament to
Violetta. Quinn Kelsey is a vocally formidable Germont. Marco Armiliato, a house
regular, conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, 212-362-6000,
metopera.org. (Anthony Tommasini)

Classical Music

Artek Holiday Concert (Saturday) It's about time an ensemble chose Haydn's
exhilarating music for holiday fare. Artek, which presents historically informed
performances of early music, is offering the program ''Music for a Prince: The
Esterhazy Orchestra.'' The concert focuses on the pieces Haydn wrote during the
three decades he worked in the court of Prince Esterhazy: Symphony No. 6 (''Le
Matin'') and 49 (''La Passione''), Concerto in F for Violin and Keyboard, and an
overture and aria from ''Armida.'' At 8 p.m., Immanuel Lutheran Church, 122 East
88th Street, Manhattan, 212-866-0468, immanuelnyc.org. (Tommasini)

&#x2605; Bargemusic (Friday through Sunday) The music-making at Brooklyn's
popular floating concert hall is not slowing down a bit during the holidays. If
you want some new music for the new year Bargemusic offers the next in its Here
and Now series of contemporary music programs, with works by Jesse Mills, David
Del Tredici, Amy Williams, Annie Gosfield, Brett Dean and others. The enticing
performers include the Horszowski Trio and the brilliant pianist Ursula Oppens.
Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing, next to
the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006, bargemusic.org. (Tommasini)

New York Philharmonic (Friday, Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday) Led by Juanjo
Mena, the orchestra performs colorful classics: Rimsky-Korsakov's ''Capriccio
Espagnol,'' Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 1 (with the young master Daniil
Trifonov) and Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6, ''Pathétique.'' On Thursday a new
program, led by Alan Gilbert, features Ravel's ''Valses Nobles et
Sentimentales'' and more Tchaikovsky (selections from ''Swan Lake''). Most
important, the orchestra completes its Nielsen Project with that Danish
composer's Clarinet Concerto, featuring its new principal clarinetist, Anthony
McGill, as soloist. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30
p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, 212-875-5656, nyphil.org. (Woolfe)

&#x2605; 'Saul' (Friday and Sunday) A highlight of Trinity's Twelfth Night
Festival is the church's acclaimed choir and Baroque orchestra, conducted by
Julian Wachner, in a staged production of Handel's dramatic oratorio ''Saul.''
There is an option for premium performance-level table seating, where you feel
like you are in Saul's banquet hall. Friday at 6 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Trinity
Church, Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-602-0800,
trinitywallstreet.org. (Tommasini)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/music/opera-classical-music-listings-for-
jan-2-8.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (93%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%);
CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); THEATER (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Missouri 33, Minnesota

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; MISSOURI 33, MINNESOTA 17; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 442 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- Marcus Murphy ran for 159 yards, Russell Hansbrough added 114
yards and a touchdown and No. 16 Missouri beat Minnesota, 33-17, on Thursday in
the Citrus Bowl.

Missouri (11-3) won its third straight bowl game to reach 11 victories for the
fourth time in team history.

Minnesota (8-5) trailed by 19-17 entering the fourth quarter, but Missouri
pulled away on Hansbrough's 78-yard touchdown run and Maty Mauk's 7-yard scoring
pass to Bud Sasser.

Mauk settled down to throw two touchdown passes after interceptions on the
Tigers' first two possessions.

The Tigers forced three turnovers.

Minnesota quarterback Mitch Leidner was 21 of 31 for 258 yards and a touchdown.

The Tigers used an onside kick to open the third quarter to stretch their
halftime lead to 13-7.

The Golden Gophers responded on the ensuing series with a 54-yard touchdown pass
from Leidner to tight end Maxx Williams. Williams leapt over cornerback Aarion
Penton and stepped over another defender before diving into the end zone.

But Missouri quickly answered, needing only three plays after a muffed Minnesota
punt for Mauk to give the Tigers a 19-14 lead on an 18-yard touchdown run.

It tightened to 19-17 by the start of the fourth quarter before Hansbrough got
free and rumbled for his score that put the Tigers up by 9 with 9 minutes 28
seconds to play.

Missouri survived a disastrous offensive start to lead, 10-7, at halftime in a
game that started with the teams combining for three turnovers in the first four
minutes.

Missouri's Mauk opened the game by being picked off by Derrick Wells on the
Tigers' third play from scrimmage. Minnesota would give it right back, though,
when Leidner fumbled after being sandwiched in the backfield by defensive ends
Markus Golden and Shane Ray.

The Tigers then went just four more plays before Mauk's pass was intercepted for
the second time, this time in the end zone by Briean Boddy-Calhoun.

The Gophers finally ended the drought on the ensuing series, capping an 11-play,
80-yard drive with a 20-yard touchdown run by Rodrick Williams.

It was part of a bruising first quarter that saw Minnesota gain 76 yards on the
ground.

That was flipped in the second quarter, as the Tigers used its own rushing
attack to set up the passing game.

First, after a punt, they used their best starting field position of the half to
get on the board with Andrew Baggett's 21-yard field goal.

Mauk then made the best of Missouri's final possession of the half, finding
Sasser for a 25-yard touchdown strike.

In all, the Tigers outgained the Gophers, 156-41, in the second quarter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/sports/ncaafootball/missouri-tops-minnesota-in
-citrus-bowl.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marcus Murphy, above, ran for 159 yards as Missouri defeated
Minnesota. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM GREENWOOD/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (74%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Teach Congress a Lesson

BYLINE: By DAVID N. CICILLINE and SCOTT RIGELL.

David N. Cicilline is a Democratic representative from Rhode Island. Scott
Rigell is a Republican representative from Virginia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 604 words


WASHINGTON -- OVER the last decade, Congress's approval ratings have gone from
bad to worse to outright terrible, dropping from about 40 percent at the end of
2004 to a meager 15 percent today, according to Gallup. The American people are
frustrated with the gridlock and hyperpartisan atmosphere in Washington, but a
large part of the problem is the perception that lawmakers believe the rules
don't apply to them.

And it's not just a matter of perception: Since 2008, the number of disciplinary
actions taken by the House Ethics Committee against members of Congress has
quadrupled.

Senators and congressmen have a responsibility not only to lead by example, but
also to clean up the abuses of power that contribute to the public's plummeting
confidence in Congress. Among other reforms, there's one simple, common-sense
change that the House can pass right now to prevent future violations and help
restore the public's trust in Congress: require all members to take annual
ethics training.

The Senate has already taken this step. The 2007 Honest Leadership and Open
Government Act -- passed in response to the convictions of several former
representatives and lobbyists, including Jack Abramoff -- required senators and
their staffs to take ''ongoing'' ethics training. But the bill remained silent
when it came to ethics training for members of the House (other, existing rules
require our staffs to participate in annual training).

The 2007 act also introduced a long list of rules changes intended to rein in
corruption; the problem is, more than half of the 435 House members were sworn
in before those rules changed in 2007, and nothing in the law requires them to
know the new rules.

To close this loophole, we have introduced the Ensuring Trust and Honorability
in Congressional Standards (Ethics) Act, which would make continuing ethics
training mandatory for all lawmakers. The Washington Post has called this bill
the ''No Member Can Reasonably Vote Against This Act'' -- though, amazingly,
some of our colleagues just might. They contend that a training session would do
little to curtail the sort of grand abuses of power that have marred Congress in
recent years. But according to a representative from Public Citizen, a
nonpartisan public-interest group, many of the ethical infractions we have seen
stem not from intentional corruption but rather ignorance or misunderstanding of
the rules.

Ethics rules can be complex and evolve over time, and there are a lot of them:
As the House Ethics Committee website notes, ''Ethics rules and regulations have
grown substantially since the 1960s.'' Moreover, new technology, like social
media, and changing campaign finance laws make it difficult for members to
figure out where the ethical line is. Members who use social media are often
confused about what type of information they can share on their official website
and what information they should share on their campaign site.

The idea that House members are exempt from receiving continuing education about
the ethics rules they are expected to follow makes no sense. Why is it such an
imposition for members to take one hour out of the year to familiarize
themselves with the ethics rules?

When the House reconvenes in a few days, one of its first steps will be to adopt
new rules for the 114th Congress. Aside from our bill, we urge our colleagues to
include mandatory training in those rules. We have a chance to close the
loophole in the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act, strengthen ethics
rules and take a step toward restoring the public's confidence in Congress. We
hope our colleagues will seize it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/opinion/teach-congress-a-lesson.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(62%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (53%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (53%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Facing Sluggish Start for New Year

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words


BEIJING -- After a rough 2014, China, the world's second-largest economy,
appeared to be starting the new year on a weak note, reinforcing expectations
that Beijing will roll out more stimulus measures to avert a slowdown that could
cause job losses and debt default.

China's factory activity is sputtering, underlining the challenges facing the
country's manufacturers as they fight rising costs and softening demand in a
cooling economy. In addition, a property slump is expected to last well into
2015, companies continue to struggle to pay off debt, and export demand may
remain erratic, leaving the services sector as China's lone economic bright
spot.

The nation's official purchasing managers index slipped to 50.1 in December from
50.3 in November, a government report showed on Thursday -- its lowest level of
the year, clinging just above the 50-point level that separates growth from
contraction on a monthly basis.

''This indicates that industrial growth is still in a downward trend, but the
pace is slowing,'' Zhang Liqun, an economist at the Development Research Center,
said in a statement accompanying the report.

A similar private survey on Wednesday showed that activity in December shrank
for the first time in seven months. That survey focused on smaller companies,
which are under greater strains.

Many analysts expect economic growth in the fourth quarter to slow only
marginally from 7.3 percent in the third quarter, though weak data suggest that
may be too optimistic. If full-year growth is less than the government's 7.5
percent target, it would be the weakest expansion in 24 years.

Economists who advise the government have recommended that China lower its
growth target to around 7 percent in 2015.

On Nov. 21, in a bid to spur growth and keep borrowing costs down, the central
bank unexpectedly cut interest rates for the first time in more than two years.
It has also injected more funds into the banking system in recent months and
relaxed restrictions to persuade risk-averse banks to lend more.

In addition, the economic planning agency has been approving more infrastructure
projects.

While its recent moves may have bought the central bank some time to see if
conditions improve, many economists still expect more interest rate cuts as well
as reductions in banks' required reserve ratios this year, perhaps as soon as
the first quarter.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/international/china-facing-sluggish-s
tart-for-new-year.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (90%); BANKING & FINANCE
(89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); EMERGING
MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LAND
USE PLANNING (76%); TRENDS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); BUSINESS
CONDITIONS INDEX (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); INTEREST RATES (62%); EXPORT
TRADE (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cage Law Expected to Push Up Egg Prices

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 614 words


FRESNO, Calif. -- The new year is expected to bring rising egg prices across the
United States as California starts requiring farmers to house hens in roomier
cages.

The new standard, backed by animal rights advocates, has been criticized by
chicken farmers in Iowa, Ohio and other states who sell eggs in California and
will have to abide by the same requirements. California is the nation's largest
consumer of eggs and imports about one-third of its supply.

To comply, farmers will have to put fewer hens into each cage or invest in
revamped henhouses, most likely passing the costs on to consumers.

California voters in 2008 approved a law to get egg-laying hens out of cramped
cages and put them, by Jan. 1, 2015, into larger enclosures that give them room
to stretch, turn around and flap their wings. State legislators passed a
companion piece in 2010 requiring out-of-state compliance.

In anticipation, egg prices have risen already, said Dave Heylen of the
California Grocers Association. The holiday season, cold weather across the
country and increased exports to Mexico and Canada also contributed to a
year-end price increase, he said, but he expects supplies to remain adequate to
meet demand.

Daniel Sumner, an agricultural economist at the University of California, Davis,
said prices initially could rise sharply this year but he expected them to
eventually settle 10 to 40 percent higher in California and return to their
normal prices elsewhere in the country.

If farmers reduce the numbers of chickens they have so they can comply with
California's cage law, Mr. Sumner said, the number of eggs available could
decline. ''When there's that much uncertainty, I'm thinking there may be some
disruption in the market,'' he said.

Jim Dean, chief executive of Centrum Valley Farms in Iowa and Ohio, said he had
one building that could hold 1.5 million hens that is about half full to meet
California's standards, and another building may have to be completely
overhauled. One reason is that producers like him in cold climates will have to
install heaters to replace the warmth generated by the more closely packed
chickens.

''You're talking about millions upon millions of dollars,'' he said. ''It's not
anything that's cheap or that can be modified easily, not in the Midwest.''

Wayne Pacelle, president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United
States, said he thought the costs to consumers would be minimal and worth it for
the welfare of chickens.

''This is the last bastion of cage confinement in industrial ag,'' said Mr.
Pacelle, whose organization helped push for the changes.

Starbucks said in December that it would eliminate the sale of eggs from caged
hens, Mr. Pacelle said, following the lead of Burger King and Whole Foods
Market.

Low-income people who rely on eggs as a cheap source of protein may be hurt the
most by California's cage law, according to a report this week by the Egg
Industry Center at Iowa State University. Estimating a 15 percent price
increase, the report said the cost of a dozen eggs could rise 27 cents.

California has prevailed in lawsuits, including six from major egg-producing
states that said the state was dictating market prices in other states in
violation of the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. Appeals are pending.

Ken Klippen of the National Association of Egg Farmers said California's egg
law, in addition to driving up the cost at the grocery store and putting
pressure on egg supplies, would result in more injuries to chickens. The roomier
pens mean chickens are more likely to run, raising the risk of a broken leg or
wing.

''You're not going to help the chicken,'' he said. ''You're not helping
consumers.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/eggs-prices-expected-to-rise-as-calif
ornia-cage-law-takes-effect.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chickens huddle together in their cages at an egg-processing
plant at the Dwight Bell Farm in Atwater, Calif., in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO
JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%);
PRICES (90%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); TABLE
EGGS (89%); POULTRY (89%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL &
WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (72%);
EXECUTIVES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); CALIFORNIA GROCERS ASSOCIATION
(55%)

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (90%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Philippines: Blaze Destroys a Slum

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 115 words


A huge blaze believed to have been ignited by firecrackers razed nearly a
thousand shanties and killed three people in a slum near the capital, Manila,
one of more than a dozen fires across the country linked to raucous New Year's
celebrations. Strong winds fanned the flames racing through a row of shanties
nearly half a mile long in a village in Quezon City, a suburb of Manila, before
dawn on Thursday, said a local official, Noel Carino. Firefighters struggled to
get near the burning homes because of narrow alleys. A Bureau of Fire Protection
spokesman, Renato Marcial, said that nearly a thousand houses, mostly shanties
and huts, had been destroyed, displacing about 4,000 families.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/asia/the-philippines-blaze-destroys-a-sl
um.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (86%)

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (90%)

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nigeria: 8 Wounded in Church Bombing

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 87 words


A suicide bomber blew himself up at the gates of a church in the northeastern
city of Gombe during a New Year's Day service, wounding eight people, an
official for Nigeria's Red Cross said Thursday. No group has claimed
responsibility for the attack. The extremist group Boko Haram, which is waging
an insurgency to establish an Islamist state, mainly operates in the three
northeastern states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe, but its fighters frequently set
off bombs in other states. It was the second attack in two days in Gombe.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/africa/nigeria-8-wounded-in-church-bombi
ng.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); RELIGION
(88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); BOKO HARAM
(87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (84%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (84%)

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kenya: Soldiers Ambushed by Gunmen

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words


Gunmen attacked a truck carrying Kenyan soldiers near the border with Somalia on
Thursday, seriously wounding three of them, the police said. No group
immediately claimed responsibility for the assault. But it bore the hallmarks of
the Shabab, the Somali Islamist militant group. The attack on Thursday took
place in the village of Mangai in Lamu County, the area's police commander,
Ephantus Kiura, said. The Shabab have said they will continue their assaults to
persuade Kenya to pull its troops out of Somalia, where its forces have joined
other African Union troops battling the militants.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/africa/kenya-soldiers-ambushed-by-gunmen
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-SHABAAB (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(84%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (56%)

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (94%); KENYA (94%); AFRICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iraq: Civilian Deaths Increase in 2014

BYLINE: By AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 115 words


Violence in Iraq killed more than 15,000 civilians and security personnel in
2014, according to government figures issued Thursday, making it one of the
deadliest years since the American-led invasion in 2003. Figures compiled by the
Health, Interior and Defense Ministries put the death toll at 15,538, compared
with 17,956 killed in 2007 at the height of Sunni-Shiite sectarian violence. The
2014 toll was more than double the 6,522 people killed in 2013. The United
Nations put the number of civilians killed in Iraq during 2014 at 12,282. But
Iraq Body Count, a project based in Britain that tracks violence in Iraq, gave a
higher toll, saying that 17,073 civilians were killed last year.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/middleeast/iraq-civilian-deaths-increase
-in-2014.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

France: Hundreds of Cars Set on Fire

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 67 words


The Interior Ministry said Thursday that 940 cars were set on fire by vandals on
New Year's Eve, fewer than the 1,067 set aflame the previous year. A ministry
spokesman, Pierre-Henry Brandet, said on BFM-TV that cars had been burned around
the country, particularly in the east, as well as in suburban Paris, notably the
Seine-Saint-Denis region -- where riots that spread throughout France started in
2005.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/europe/france-hundreds-of-cars-set-on-fi
re.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (85%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Growth in South Korea Exports Exceeded December Forecasts

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 135 words


South Korean exports grew more than expected in December, but protracted
weakness in Europe and China is clouding the prospects for 2015. Shipments in
December grew 3.7 percent over a year earlier, the strongest growth since
September, the trade ministry said on Thursday. South Korea, the world's
seventh-largest exporter, is the first major exporting economy in the world to
report trade figures every month, thus providing a quick indication of the state
of global trade. The trade ministry cautioned that exports in 2015 would post
growth of only 3.7 percent after a 2.4 percent gain in 2014. Exports for the
whole of 2014 set a record high of $573.1 billion, underlining strengthening
competitiveness for some of its companies, led by the smartphone maker Samsung
Electronics and the automaker Hyundai Motor.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/growth-in-south-korea-exports-exceede
d-december-forecasts.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); SHIPMENTS (88%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (84%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (84%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (84%);
AUTOMAKERS (84%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (65%); SMARTPHONES (65%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (69%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (69%); 005380 (KSE) (69%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE)
(56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111
AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES
(69%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO
& VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION
BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Consortium of Canal Builders Wins Settlement in Panama

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 128 words


A consortium led by the Spanish builder Sacyr said on Thursday that it had won a
$233 million settlement in a dispute over cost overruns in an expansion of the
Panama Canal, about half what the group had been seeking in the lawsuit. The
consortium, which also includes the Italian builder Salini Impregilo, Jan De Nul
of Belgium and Constructora Urbana of Panama has filed a series of claims
totaling some $2.3 billion over a dispute that halted work early last year to
allow bigger vessels to pass through the canal; the one settled on Thursday was
related to cement quality. The government-run Panama Canal Authority said on
Thursday in a statement that it was still deciding whether to appeal. The
expanded canal is set to begin operation in the first quarter of 2016.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/business/consortium-of-canal-builders-win-sett
lement-in-panama.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE
(90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS
(68%)

COUNTRY: PANAMA (93%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stopping Goals, and Opening Up

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE
TIMES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1017 words


THE KEEPERA Life of Saving Goals and Achieving Them

By Tim HowardWith Ali Benjamin. Illustrated. 309 pages. Harper. $25.99.

If you want to know what one of his spectacular crashes feels like, Evel Knievel
once told a reporter, strap on a helmet and sit on the hood of a car. Have
someone get that car up to 90 miles per hour. ''Then you hold your nose and fall
off,'' he said.

If you want to know what it's like to be a professional goalkeeper, I've long
suspected, arrange for a line of cannons to fire twisting soccer balls at your
head and private bits at speeds approaching 100 m.p.h. A miss can be disastrous.

This is a reality Tim Howard confirms in his new memoir, ''The Keeper.'' He
describes watching his onetime teammate Landon Donovan kick a ball so hard that,
had the opposing team's keeper not ducked at the last second, ''his head might
have gone into the goal along with the ball.''

You've got to be cool and quick to be a high-level goalkeeper, and few are
cooler or quicker than Mr. Howard. You remember him. He was the bearded keeper
on the United States men's national team during last summer's World Cup in
Brazil, a man who made so many dramatic saves (and set a tournament record
during a game against Belgium) with such a nonchalant affect that he became a
hero to millions, this writer included.

Mr. Howard writes about that surreal time: ''My assistant, Amber, showed me the
'Things Tim Howard Could Save' memes that had been popping up all over the
Internet. There I was, saving the Titanic. Saving a swimmer from the shark in
'Jaws.' Saving Janet Jackson from her Super Bowl wardrobe malfunction.'' On the
Wikipedia page for secretary of defense, someone briefly substituted Mr.
Howard's name for Chuck Hagel's.

There were many reasons to root for Mr. Howard. He was raised by a single mother
in an apartment complex in North Brunswick, N.J. His father, a long-haul
trucker, had moved out before his son could form any memories of him.

Mr. Howard grew up with obsessive-compulsive disorder and Tourette's syndrome.
His disorders have manifested themselves, throughout his life, in facial and
speech tics, in compulsive behavior and in extreme sensitivity to noise, touch
and light.

You root for his book, too. While soccer memoirs are a staple on international
best-seller lists, we don't see many of them in this country. Soccer is a
second- or third-tier sport in the United States, and books about it are mostly
aimed at the coaches of children's leagues.

I don't want to oversell ''The Keeper.'' It's a quickie, composed in a few
months with the help of a co-writer, Ali Benjamin. To read the book, you will
require a certain tolerance for sports clichés. But a good story gets told. My
13-year-old self would have read it straight through three times. My 49-year-old
self was happy enough to polish it off in an afternoon, with lumps forming only
two or three times in his throat.

Don't come to ''The Keeper'' for the gritty and libidinous details about what
it's like to play professional soccer in the English Premier League, where Mr.
Howard was a goalkeeper for Manchester United before moving to Everton, his
current team.

This isn't a soccer-world update of ''Ball Four.'' There are no nightclubs, no
drugs and -- despite the fact that Mr. Howard gets married and divorced in the
course of the book -- no WAGs, the British term for the often eye-popping
''wives and girlfriends'' of players. Mr. Howard's book is mostly about hard men
on a difficult mission, and as such it can be nearly as single-minded as Ernest
Shackleton's diary.

Mr. Howard was 10, and doing poorly in school, when symptoms of
obsessive-compulsive disorder and Tourette's began to appear. He was compelled
to clear his throat constantly, to roll his eyes and to jerk. At one stage he
had to touch people before he could speak to them.

''With each of them, it was the same pattern: that awful sensation welling up,
the one that could only be relieved, inexplicably, by some action,'' he writes.
''As soon as I did it, I felt normal again. Seconds later, the cycle would
repeat itself.''

A doctor tells his mother that there is often ''a flip side'' to Tourette's, an
unexpected benefit. In Mr. Howard's case, it was a kind of Zen calm and an
ability to see things on the soccer field that others seemingly could not. ''I
could see the flicker of a striker's eyes before he pivoted,'' he writes.
''Sometimes I even saw it in time to warn my defender.''

He was a big, strong kid on the field, and he caught the eye of coaches. His mom
drove him everywhere to play, often staying in third-rate hotels and eating
peanut butter and jelly sandwiches made with store brands because she couldn't
afford anything more.

Mr. Howard played for America's Youth National Team and skipped college (he was
still a poor student) to sign with a low-level professional team, the New Jersey
Imperials. He earned $13,000 a year and felt rich.

After a few years, he caught the eye of Manchester United, where his salary
leapt to more than $1 million a year. The British news media greeted his arrival
with tittering headlines like this one, from The Guardian: ''United Want
American With Brain Disorder.'' He won over Manchester fans, however. In the
stands, they began to sing a ditty about him, to the tune of ''Chim Chim
Cher-ee'' from ''Mary Poppins'':

''Tim Timminy, Tim Timminy, Tim Tim-eroo We've got Tim Howard and ... ''

Well, the rest is unprintable here.

Mr. Howard eventually lost his starting position in Manchester, and he never
felt truly at home until he went to play at Everton, a smaller, scrappier
Premier League team in Liverpool. He's gone on to be an important advocate for
children with Tourette's syndrome.

He'll be 39 by the time the next World Cup rolls around, ancient for a soccer
player, yet he hopes to be on the field. He remembers a phone call from
President Obama after the last one. ''I don't know how you are going to survive
the mobs when you come back home, man,'' he recalls Mr. Obama saying to him.
''You'll have to shave your beard so they don't know who you are.'' We'd know
Tim Howard, either way.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/books/tim-howards-the-keeper-tells-that-athlet
es-story.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C23)
 Tim Howard (C26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); SOCCER (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%);
SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); FIFA WORLD
CUP (75%); SPORTS (75%); TRUCK DRIVERS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); BIOGRAPHY
PUBLISHING (68%); BESTSELLERS (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); BEHAVIOR
DISORDERS (64%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%);
MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (52%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ben Ammi Ben-Israel, Leader of Black Americans Who Migrated to Israel, Dies at
75

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 868 words


Ben Ammi Ben-Israel, a former Chicago metal worker who led a migration of
hundreds of fellow black Americans to what they consider their ancestral
homeland, Israel, died on Saturday in a hospital in Be'er Sheva, Israel. He was
75.

His organization, the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem, announced his
death on its website. The cause was not disclosed.

To his followers, who called him the father or the holy father, Mr. Ben-Israel
was a prophet-like figure who maintained that he had a vision in 1966 in which
the angel Gabriel told him to lead an exodus of black Americans to Israel.

Since the first African Hebrews arrived there in 1969, the community has grown
to about 3,000 members, half of whom were born in Israel. Most live in the city
of Dimona, at the edge of Israel's Negev Desert, and two nearby towns.

''We were returning to be reconciled with the Creator,'' Mr. Ben-Israel said in
a 2008 interview with WBEZ, a public radio station in Chicago.

The African Hebrews, like many black Americans in a wider movement that sprang
up in the early 1900s, believe that their ancestors were biblical Israelites,
members of the tribe of Judah who dispersed to West Africa after the destruction
of the Second Temple in Jerusalem in A.D. 70. Generations later, they say,
descendants of those Israelites were taken to America as slaves.

Under Israel's Law of Return, any Jew can live there and become a citizen. But
the African Hebrews do not consider themselves Jews and refuse to convert.
''That is our tribal origin,'' said Ahmadiel Ben-Yehuda, a spokesman. ''We're
not adherents to the religion of Judaism.''

For decades, Israelis regarded the African Hebrews as a strange and possibly
dangerous cult. The African Hebrews wear vibrant clothing, follow a vegan diet
and do not smoke or drink. Birth control is prohibited. The men often have
multiple wives.

Since they were not Jews, the Israeli government denied them work permits and
health care and threatened to deport them. Mr. Ben-Israel, in turn, lashed out
with anti-Semitic remarks and accusations of racism.

''We came here offering 'shalom,' '' Mr. Ben-Israel told The New York Times in
1971. ''We have been met with no jobs, no decent housing and Jim Crow policies
similar to what we left behind.''

Later that year, he told The Baltimore Sun that two million blacks from the
United States would wrest Israel from its Jewish inhabitants. ''The Lord
personally ordered me to take possession of Israel,'' he said.

More followers made their way to the African Hebrew compound in Dimona,
overstaying tourist visas. Tensions flared anew on April 17, 1986, when the
police surrounded the village to prevent a planned protest march. Mr. Ben-Israel
made an impassioned proclamation of strength to his followers but without the
inflammatory talk of earlier years, and they did not push ahead with the march.

''We're sons and daughters of peace,'' he said. ''We will not leave. We will
wait. We will wait.'' In 1990, the Israeli government offered the African
Hebrews a path to permanent residency and citizenship. In return, the African
Hebrews agreed to stop the flow of new members.

The community soon became more entwined with Israeli society. Many of its
children who grew up in Israel have served in the country's military. The
African Hebrews have opened a small chain of vegan restaurants, and they
manufacture tofu cheese for a vegan pizza sold by the Domino's pizza chain.

Mr. Ben-Israel became an Israeli citizen in 2013.

He was born Ben Carter in Chicago on Oct. 12, 1939. After dropping out of high
school, he served three years in the Army while earning his equivalency diploma,
Mr. Ben-Yehuda, the spokesman, said. After his discharge he worked as a
metallurgist at the Howard Foundry on the West Side of Chicago, where, he
recounted, a black co-worker came up to him one day in 1961 and asked, ''Did you
know we are descendants of the biblical Israelites?''

Mr. Ben-Israel adopted his Hebrew name after studying the Bible. In the turmoil
of the 1960s, he allied himself with those who believed that blacks would be
better off leaving the United States than trying to change it from within
through the civil rights movement. They established a congregation and a meeting
place, calling it the A-Beta Hebrew Israel Cultural Center.

Mr. Ben-Israel took about 350 of his followers to Liberia in 1967 as part of
what he called a cleansing process, which lasted two and a half years. Some
followers died. A few remained in Liberia. Most went back to the United States,
but Mr. Ben-Israel and about 140 others went on to Israel.

He is survived by four wives, Tikvah, Yoninah, Baht Zion and Baht Ammi; 25
children; 45 grandchildren; and 15 great-grandchildren.

His followers spoke of Mr. Ben-Israel as having been anointed by God to lead
them, though he made no claims to being divine, Mr. Ben-Yehuda said. Yet, he
said, Mr. Ben-Israel was once asked if he was the messiah, and he answered with
a parable:

''Someone came up to two people -- a wise man and a fool -- saying, 'Ben Ammi is
the Messiah!' The fool jumped up and said, 'No, he's not!' Whereas the wise man
looked around at the state of the world and replied, 'I don't know, but I sure
hope that he is!' ''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/world/middleeast/ben-ammi-ben-israel-leader-of
-black-americans-who-migrated-to-israel-dies-at-75.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RELIGION (89%);
JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (87%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%);
ANTISEMITISM (78%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%);
RACE & RACISM (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (53%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (52%); PUBLIC RADIO (52%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Piketty Says 'Non' to Legion of Honor

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


The economist Thomas Piketty, the author of the surprise best-seller ''Capital
in the Twenty-First Century,'' has turned down the Legion of Honor, the highest
decoration offered by the French government.

''I do not think it is the government's role to decide who is honorable,'' Mr.
Piketty told Agence France-Presse, adding, ''They would do better to concentrate
on reviving growth in France and Europe.''

Mr. Piketty, who teaches at the Paris School of Economics, had previously
advised candidates from France's Socialist Party and in 2012 signed a letter in
support of François Hollande, now the president, but has since been critical of
some of the government's economic policies.

In the nearly 700-page ''Capital in the Twenty-First Century,'' which has sold
more than a half-million copies and turned its author into a global intellectual
sensation, Mr. Piketty drew on more than a century of data on wealth
accumulation across multiple countries to argue that capitalism naturally tends
toward inequality because of the tendency of return on capital to outstrip
economic growth.

The book, which included a call for a wealth tax as high as 80 percent, has
prompted widespread debate among economists, as well as a memorable riff from a
temporarily goateed Stephen Colbert, who denounced Mr. Piketty as a ''French
Fried Fraud'' pushing ''Pepé-Le-Punitive tax rates.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/01/piketty-turns-down-the-legion-of-ho
nor/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (77%); FRENCH PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
(70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%)

COMPANY: TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY FOX INC (58%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%)

TICKER: FOX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS
(58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL
SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (69%); STEPHEN COLBERT (54%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plotlines? Brush Strokes Are Enough

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S
NOTEBOOK; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1632 words


I tend to be a sucker for movies about art and artists. It almost doesn't matter
whether these films are good, bad or middling. Watching them is like watching
sports or maybe a game show. You keep score. How much is right, how much seems
off, how much is so inaccurate it makes you squirm. And, yes, there's also a
certain know-it-all satisfaction in catching mistakes.

Still, for an art critic it's not just about adding up points. You also watch
art movies with a great emotional investment, making you more like a nervous
parent at a child's soccer game. A bundle of mixed emotions and insider-outsider
tensions are involved. You want films about artists to help decode art for the
public, too. But you also want them to ring true in terms of your own knowledge
and experience, to portray the world of art honestly and respectfully.

I got a window on my so-called objectivity after seeing ''Mr. Turner,'' Mike
Leigh's engrossing, if decidedly elliptical, treatment of the last years of the
great British painter J. M. W. Turner (1775-1851), whose semiabstract emphasis
on paint as pure material is a cornerstone of modern art. My companion and I
were discussing the film in the theater's elevator and two other people asked
our opinion; I said I loved it for getting so much right about art. What did
they think? ''Nothing happened,'' came the blunt reply. And so, another reminder
that art-worlders can like films about art for reasons unappreciated by others.

The past year brought a surfeit of films about art, from the Frederick Wiseman
documentary ''National Gallery,'' a sleek, hypnotic portrait of the London
museum that houses one of the world's greatest collections of European
paintings, to ''Big Eyes,'' Tim Burton's inspiring yet confused, alternately
overacted and underacted feature about the painter Margaret Keane and her fight
to wrest credit for her images of saucer-eyed waifs from her sociopath husband,
Walter. (Among other squirm-inducing details, John Canaday, a Midwesterner who
was an art critic for The New York Times in the 1960s, is played by a haughty
Terence Stamp with a British accent and ascot.)

There was even a new breed of 3-D offerings, including the essentially pointless
''Inside the Mind of Leonardo in 3-D,'' in which the actor Peter Capaldi recites
and enacts excerpts from Leonardo's notebooks, which is interesting. Much less
so is seeing that artist's sublime landscape drawings rendered in 3-D, like
pop-up greeting cards.

The movies that stayed most with me form an odd unlikely triad, but they connect
because each -- sometimes inadvertently -- says so much about the activity
central to both making and experiencing art, which is simply the act of looking,
whether as work, pleasure or exploration of both the world and the self.

''Mr. Turner'' is high on my list of best art biopics ever. The other two are
documentaries so unlike as to be different species: ''National Gallery''
proceeds without voice-over, watching and listening to the people who work at
the museum and to those who come to see the art. In contrast is the scruffy
''Tim's Vermeer,'' directored by the magician Teller and enthusiastically
narrated by his partner magician, Penn Jillette. It concerns Tim Jenison, an
inventor from Texas who becomes so obsessed with the mystery of how Vermeer made
his paintings that he ultimately tries to make one himself and -- in a process
that is D.I.Y. to the nth degree -- to some extent succeeds.

Speaking as an art critic, and not a Turner specialist, I found ''Mr. Turner''
blissfully squirm-free. The main reason: Turner's selfish personality and
single-minded devotion to his art is the film's through line -- its driving
force -- supplemented by glimpses of the collateral damage to those around him.
The deep content of this movie is a trifle clichéd but vividly rendered: Genius
is by definition strange and also hard work; ambition has its price; and talent
can hit anyone, including the son of a barber (in Turner's case) whose ample
gifts and ability to smooth some of his rougher edges helped him fit in with
aristocratic patrons who could be pretty eccentric themselves. I heard that some
people were put off by the extensive vocabulary of grunts and growls with which
Turner, brilliantly played by Timothy Spall, often communicated, but it seems
perfect for a curmudgeonly loner who remains true to his working-class accent.

Mainly the film spends a lot of time showing Turner quietly doing what all
artists do: looking and thinking. Luckily, Turner does so while traveling around
Britain and Europe, often on foot, searching for subjects, closely observing
light and weather, making rapid sketches all the while. (Mr. Spall, who draws
and paints in real life, also looks convincing at an easel.) We repeatedly see
Turner taking in majestic expanses of seashore, stony buttes or windy moor.
These natural attractions are enhanced by the exquisite cinematography of Dick
Pope, who gives the opening shot of nearly every sequence the beauty of a
carefully composed painting.

There are delightful accuracies large and small, from the revolving palette
Turner designed for himself, to the raucous (all male) jostling of Varnishing
Day at the Royal Academy of Arts, when, just before an exhibition opens, the
artists put finishing touches on their canvases while one-upping one another
competitively. In one scene Turner ignores the artist working next to him on a
canvas involving much red. This is the landscape painter John Constable, the
only contemporary who was Turner's equal, whom our hero ridicules in a
well-known incident with a bit of deft bravado: He adds a bright red buoy to his
dour seascape to match his neighbor's work.

In another famous, if sometimes debated event, has Turner lashed to the mast of
a ship struggling through a snowstorm to better experience its force. The scene
is shot too tight, perhaps to save money; I was hoping to see the prow of the
ship violently slamming into waves. But the movie leaves no doubt about the
omnivorous eye, trained on nature or art, that drove Turner's ambition.

Mr. Wiseman's ''National Gallery'' is in its own way as beautiful as Mr. Leigh's
Turner film. This is partly because of the languid, seemingly random way the
camera wends through the museum's grand, pristine spaces and past its astounding
paintings -- somewhat like the movement of the eye -- and partly because of
diamond-sharp editing that pulls everything together.

Throughout the film there are long shots of visitors looking, under art's spell:
puzzled, rapt, delighted. The hush is broken primarily by docents talking about
individual paintings to various groups, often schoolchildren. Some deliver
homilies that can nonetheless open eyes: ''Paintings change and how you look at
them changes as well,'' one says.

Others ponder specifics. In front of Rubens's ''Samson and Delilah,'' a docent
points out the complex expression of Delilah as she watches a Philistine cut the
hair of the man she has just betrayed and notes that the light in the painting
comes from the left, the same direction as in the actual room -- in the house of
an Antwerp alderman -- for which it was commissioned.

The movie tracks the people who keep the place going, from janitors polishing
the floors and conservators in their laboratory to the director. No one is
identified, but you figure it out by what they do or say. The museum's director
(Nicholas Penny) is the one arguing with development officers who think the
National Gallery isn't approachable enough. These interactions are interesting
but coming back to the art, and talk, in the galleries always feels like coming
up for air.

''Tim's Vermeer'' is an accidental minor masterpiece that in proving one thing
also proves its opposite. Mr. Jenison, the inventor, thinks that Vermeer made
his paintings by using a lens, as the British painter David Hockney and others
have proposed, together with a small mirror that transfers portions of a scene
to a horizontal surface. Mr. Jenison travels to Yorkshire, England, to show his
new device to Mr. Hockney, who seems impressed, noting that every painting is
document, in a way, of its own making.

Mr. Jenison, whose sincerity and determination are at the movie's core, sets out
to make a copy of Vermeer's ''The Music Lesson,'' part of Queen Elizabeth's
Royal Collection. (Buckingham Palace allows him to look at it for 30 minutes.)
This involves a lot of starting from scratch and includes creating a set
identical in size, light source and furnishings to the room in Delft where
Vermeer painted most of his works. Mr. Jenison also had period garments made for
the two people in the painting (he used a male model and his daughter) and
ground his own pigments. These challenges are followed by 120 days of
painstaking work using his lens-mirror combination and a very small brush. The
process is clearly an ordeal for hand, back and eye.

The result looks like a Vermeer from a distance but is quite uneven closer in. A
white ceramic pitcher has a nice Vermeerish glow; the woman's intricate coif
looks like unskilled paint by numbers. Of course, there is no chance to compare
the fruit of Mr. Jenison's labors next to the real thing, but he takes it to Mr.
Hockney, who says only, with gentle tact, that Mr. Jenison has made a document.

The lesson, of course, is that Mr. Jenison may have discovered Vermeer's secret
tool, but he completely lacks Vermeer's touch. On the voice-over, Mr. Jillette
crows, ''Tim has made a Vermeer!'' Mr. Jenison is considerably more modest. It
is hard not to admire his perseverance and hard work. But it is also impossible
to ignore that the joys and rewards of looking, so evident in ''Mr. Turner'' and
''National Gallery,'' as well as in Mr. Hockney's work, turn to drudgery in
''Tim's Vermeer.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/an-art-critics-view-of-mr-turner-and-othe
r-art-films.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Spall plays the British painter J. M. W. Turner in Mike
Leigh's film ''Mr. Turner.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (C23)
From the top, Timothy Spall as the single-minded Mr. Turner
a scene from Frederick Wiseman's ''National Gallery''
and Tim Jenison inspecting a Vermeer in ''Tim's Vermeer.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FILM4
FOCUS FEATURES INTERNATIONAL & BFI
ZIPPORAH FILMS
 SHANE F. KELLY/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FILM (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%);
SOCCER (72%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Listings: Art

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 6030 words


Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of
recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other
art shows is at nytimes.com/events.

Museums

&#x2605; Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'Beyond the Supersquare' (through Jan. 11) In
the mid-20th century, certain Latin American cities looked like the most modern
cities on earth. Not only was their architecture imaginative, so were the ideas
behind it: that design could shape civic life; that art and architecture were
inseparable; that while Europe and the United States were the cultural powers of
the day, South America had a shot at tomorrow. The momentum broke down when a
rash of right-wing military coups swept the continent. But the link between art
and architecture remained firm and continues to. That's the subject of this
subtle, buoyant think-piece of a show of contemporary work, which extends to an
open-air pavilion designed by Terence Gower, set in the lush garden of the
Andrew Freedman home across from the museum. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th
Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, 718-681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)

&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Killer Heels: The Art of the High-Heeled Shoe'
(through Feb. 15) Whether you view extra-high heels with lust or horror, as
objects of empowerment or objectification, this in-depth survey of elevating
footwear from past and present, East and West, is a model of the curatorial
craft. It examines its subject from several fruitful angles, including
unflattering ones, interspersed with excellent labels, relevant objects of art
and especially design, clips from famous films and videos both didactic and
artistic. Its main flaw: dim lighting dictated by fragile materials means that
some shoes are most visible in the catalog. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect
Park, Brooklyn, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)

&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Judith Scott -- Bound and Unbound' (through March 29)
Judith Scott's mesmerizing sculptures sit like large, unopened bundles, contents
mysterious, in the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn
Museum. In a few, solid forms can be made out under wrappings of yarn, string
and fabric strips; others suggest gift-wrapped boulders. You can call them
abstract and stop there, or go further and connect them to art history,
specifically the history of fiber art, or go further and consider them in the
light of Ms. Scott's history: She was born in 1943 with Down syndrome, started
making art only in her early 40s and kept making it until her death at 61.
However approached, the work is complex and brilliant. 200 Eastern Parkway, at
Prospect Park, Brooklyn, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Cooper Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum (continuing) The stately doors
of the 1902 Andrew Carnegie mansion, home to the Cooper Hewitt, are open again
after an overhaul and expansion of the premises. Historic house and modern
museum have always made an awkward fit, a standoff between preservation and
innovation, and the problem remains, but the renovation has brought a wide-open
new gallery space, a cafe and a raft of be-your-own-designer digital
enhancements. Best of all, more of the museum's vast permanent collection is now
on view, including an Op Art weaving, miniature spiral staircases, ballistic
face masks and a dainty enameled 18th-century version of a Swiss knife. Like
design itself, this institution is built on tumult and friction, and you feel
it. 2 East 91st Street, at Fifth Avenue, 212-849-8400, cooperhewitt.org.
(Cotter)

&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Masterpieces From the Scottish National Gallery'
(through Feb. 1) As it did last year with masterworks from the Mauritshuis, the
Frick has welcomed 10 paintings from the Scottish National Gallery, in
Edinburgh, home to a renowned collection of fine art from the Renaissance to the
end of the 19th century. It's a quieter sort of exhibition, exemplified by the
under-the-radar entrance of Sargent's ''Lady Agnew of Lochnaw.'' It's also a
rangier show, one that isn't as identifiably Scottish as the Mauritshuis works
were Dutch -- even considering the commanding Sir Henry Raeburn portrait of a
kilted Macdonell clan chief. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, 212-288-0700,
frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'From the Margins: Lee Krasner and Norman Lewis,
1945-1952' (through Feb. 1) Inspired by a pairing in the museum's 2008 show
''Action/Abstraction: Pollock, de Kooning and American Art, 1940-1976,'' this
exhibition orchestrates a profound and sensitive conversation between Krasner
and Lewis -- one that takes into account their shared visual language as well as
different cultural backgrounds (as a Jewish woman and an African-American man).
It also suggests that both artists have long been hidden in plain sight: Krasner
as the spouse of an art celebrity, Lewis as a black artist whose paintings were
more formal than political. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200,
thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Helena Rubinstein: Beauty Is Power' (through March 22)
The first museum show devoted to the life and art collection of the cosmetics
magnate Helena Rubinstein is a master class in modernism-as-marketing -- one
that comes with a strong female perspective on 20th-century visual culture. It
shows us how Rubinstein adapted Cubism, Surrealism and other avant-garde art and
design movements for her personal brand, highlighting new and different
standards of beauty and exhorting women to control their own images through
makeup and grooming. Mixing biography, business, art, fashion and décor, it
recreates rooms from Rubinstein's salons and reassembles parts of her diverse
collection, which included African, pre-Columbian and Oceanic artworks. 1109
Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Bartholomeus Spranger: Splendor and Eroticism in
Imperial Prague' (through Feb. 1) This show is intriguing as much for the story
it tells of an eventful and extraordinarily fortunate career as for the works on
view, which range from pictures of standard Christian subjects to extravagantly
theatrical images of pagan sex and revelry. Working in Prague for the Holy Roman
emperor Rudolf II, Bartholomeus Spranger (1546-1611) painted and drew
Mannerist-style allegories involving nude and nearly nude gods and goddesses
athletically entwined in anatomically improbable positions. His images were
copied by expert engravers and disseminated in immense quantities throughout
Europe. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Cubism: The Leonard A. Lauder Collection'
(through Feb. 16) This no-strings-attached gift of 81 Cubist works more than
lives up to expectations. Concentrating on the four horsemen of the Cubist
apocalypse (Braque, Gris, Léger and Picasso), it outlines the style's heady
transformation of art while giving the museum a foundation in modernism
commensurate with its holdings in other eras. It's a stunning show and thrilling
event. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Grand Design: Pieter Coecke van Aelst and
Renaissance Tapestry' (through Jan. 11) The Met presents its third spectacular
show of European tapestries in a dozen years and its first to concentrate on a
single artist, the polymath Pieter Coecke van Aelst. It may repeatedly make you
gasp, whether at the size or realness of the images, their human dramas and
sumptuous surfaces, or simply the immense open space that forms the exhibition's
spine. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Making Pottery Art: The Robert A. Ellison Jr.
Collection of French Ceramics (ca. 1880-1910)' (through March 15) Nearly all the
40 works in this show -- from a collection recently donated to the museum -- are
in a traditional form of vases, bowls and platters. They represent a marvelous
variety of styles and influences, including Art Nouveau, Arts and Crafts,
classic Chinese traditions and European folk art. What they share is a love for
processes and materials and a candid way with the human touch. Most intriguing
of all is a curiously clunky small vase by Paul Gauguin, who might have been the
George Ohr of European ceramics if he'd stuck with it. 212-535-7710,
metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Thomas Hart Benton's ''America Today''
Mural Rediscovered' (through April 19) The prickly American Regionalist Thomas
Hart Benton had his share of detractors. But even they would probably
acknowledge that his early mural ''America Today'' is the best of its kind, a
raucous, cartwheeling, wide-angle look at 1920s America that set the standard
for the Works Progress Administration's mural program and has remained a New
York City treasure. Now installed at the Met in a reconstruction of its original
setting (a boardroom at the New School for Social Research), it captivates with
period details (from the cut of a flapper gown to the mechanics of a blast
furnace) and timely signs of socioeconomic and environmental distress (exhausted
coal miners and hands reaching for coffee and bread). 212-535-7710,
metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

MoMA PS 1: 'Bob and Roberta Smith: Art Amnesty' (through March 8) Bob and
Roberta Smith is the cognomen of a British artist who specializes in humorously
mocking art institutions and the conventional attitudes they tend to promulgate.
The ostensible idea of this show is to give people an opportunity to officially
retire from making art and to ceremonially discard works of art they own but no
longer want. Unloaded works are displayed along with jazzy signs painted by Mr.
Smith on all kinds of surfaces. One proclaims, ''Joseph Beuys conclusive proof
not everyone is an artist.'' 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island
City, Queens, 718-784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)

MoMA PS1: 'Samara Golden: The Flat Side of the Knife' (through Aug. 30) Standing
at a railing where you look into the museum's two-story-tall Duplex Gallery, you
behold a confoundingly complicated interior architecture with furniture,
stairways, musical instruments, wheelchairs and many other domestic items
rendered in silvery, foil-clad foam board. The gallery's floor is covered by a
grid of large mirrors so that everything is doubled. What you think is up may
really be down and what you take to be real might be a virtual reflection of the
real. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens,
718-784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)

Morgan Library & Museum: 'The Untamed Landscape: Théodore Rousseau and the Path
to Barbizon' (through Jan. 18) Nearly 150 years after his death in 1867, this
19th-century French landscape painter receives his first retrospective in the
United States. The show features only drawings and oil studies, but it provides
a lucid and revelatory summary of his sensibility and achievement. Rousseau
loved nature and drawing with equal passion, and this exhibition is suffused
with a determination to explore all that is both ardent and brilliant. 225
Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'Marisol: Sculptures and Works on Paper' (through
Jan. 10) This 30-piece survey, organized by the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art,
makes virtues of the artist's restlessness and eclecticism. It includes her
underappreciated works on paper alongside sculptural tableaus that combine
woodcarving and assemblage (for instance, ''The Family,'' a funky Nativity scene
from 1969 that is dominated by a neon-haloed, heavily bedazzled Virgin). It
could have done more, however, to explore her Latin American folk-art influences
and Venezuelan roots, which deserve at least as much scrutiny as her ties to
American Pop art. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, 212-831-7272,
elmuseo.org. (Rosenberg)

Museum of Arts and Design: 'What Would Mrs. Webb Do? A Founder's Vision'
(through Feb. 8) Paying tribute to museum founder Aileen Osborn Webb
(1892-1979), a well-connected philanthropist, patron of the arts and, in the
museum's new parlance, a ''maker,'' this collection show rich in midcentury
objects also brings to life Mrs. Webb's craft-related activities and
organizations beyond the museum. (She had founded the American Craft Council in
1939 and, before that, organized cooperatives of craftspeople up the Hudson in
Putnam County during the Depression.) With her vision of a museum connected to
various networks and marketplaces, Mrs. Webb affirmed craft -- or ''making,'' or
whatever you call it -- as a deeply social activity and a source of economic
self-empowerment. 2 Columbus Circle, Manhattan, 212-299-7777, madmuseum.org.
(Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'The Forever Now: Contemporary Painting in an
Atemporal World' (through April 5) Despite being predictable and market-oriented
in its choice of 17 artists, this museum's first painting survey in decades is
well worth seeing. About half the artists are exceptional and the rest are
represented by their best work. Based on the premise that all historical
painting styles are equally available today, the exhibition has been smartly
installed to juxtapose different approaches: figurative and abstract, digital
and handmade, spare and opulent. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Henri Matisse: The Cut-Outs' (through Feb. 10) A
popular image of the elderly Matisse is of a serene, bespectacled pasha propped
up in bed and surrounded by doves and flowers. But in the years around 1940, he
must have felt he was living a nightmare. He and his wife of more than four
decades separated. He underwent debilitating surgery for cancer. During World
War II, he fled south to Nice, only to have that city threatened with
bombardment. Through everything, he worked on. It is this Matisse -- the
invalid, insomniac, night-worker and waking dreamer -- we meet in the marvelous,
victory-lap show that has arrived in New York from London, trailing light,
praise and lines around the block. 212-708-9400, moma.org; admission is by timed
tickets. (Cotter)

Museum of Modern Art: 'The Paris of Toulouse-Lautrec: Prints and Posters'
(through March 22) In his printed works, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec chronicled
and publicized the music halls, theaters, circuses, operas and cafes of Paris
with terrific verve, sly wit and surprising subtlety. This enthralling show
presents approximately 100 examples drawn from the museum's permanent
collection. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Robert Gober: The Heart Is Not a Metaphor'
(through Jan. 18) This 35-year retrospective, haunting 13 beautifully-installed
galleries at the museum, presents tenderly handmade sculptures and installations
more real than surreal that are as American as apple pie -- with the sugar left
out. Their familiar yet startlingly altered forms -- including playpens, sinks
and easy chairs -- and truncated human limbs and bodies, have a sharpness that
continually bring us up short, conjuring memories both private and shared,
including the attacks of Sept. 11. 212-708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)

&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Sturtevant: Double Trouble' (through Feb. 22)
Among the first things you see in MoMA's taut, feisty retrospective of the
American artist Elaine Sturtevant is work by far better known figures: Joseph
Beuys, Jasper Johns, Marcel Duchamp. In each case, however, the pieces are by
Ms. Sturtevant herself, who spent much of a long career adopting and adapting
the art and styles of others to create a body of work entirely her own, one
which raises questions about the value of art, about the hows and whys of
producing it, and about the degrees to which quasi-replication can be an
exercise in flattery, parody, objectivity, originality and love. 212-708-9400,
moma.org. (Cotter)

Museum of the Moving Image: 'What's Up, Doc? The Animation Art of Chuck Jones'
(through Jan. 19) One of the great producers of animated cartoons in the
predigital era, Mr. Jones created Road Runner and Wile E. Coyote and made movies
starring previously existing characters like Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck. This
entertaining show includes 136 original drawings and paintings and has 23 video
versions of films directed by Mr. Jones showing in whole or in parts in a
screening room and on monitors throughout. 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria,
Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Egon Schiele: Portraits' (through Jan. 19) Of the
approximately 125 items in this terrific show, there are only 11 oil paintings,
which is a good thing. Except for a large picture of his wife, Edith, in a
colorful striped dress, Schiele's works on canvas are dark and turgid. But his
drawings are nimble and nuanced. Working on paper with pencil, charcoal, ink,
gouache, watercolor and crayons, he portrayed himself and others with infectious
avidity. There's hardly a single sheet here that doesn't warrant close looking
for its virtuoso draftsmanship and psychological acuity. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at
86th Street, 212-628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; New Museum: 'Chris Ofili: Night and Day' (through Jan. 25) This
intoxicating midcareer survey presents six distinct bodies of paintings and
drawings, as well as a few sculptures, tracing a remarkable development. It
reveals an artist restlessly pushing his art to new extremes of decorativeness
and harshness, darkness and threat, funky extravagance and suavity. Painting
itself undergoes several transmutations. Race, religion, pop culture and nature
are touched on. Color triumphs in several forms. The art is never shortchanged.
235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org.
(Smith)

New-York Historical Society: Annie Leibovitz: 'Pilgrimage' (through Feb. 22) No
living celebrities are portrayed in ''Pilgrimage,'' but lots of celebrated
figures from the past are indirectly represented, from Thomas Jefferson and
Emily Dickinson to Eleanor Roosevelt and Robert Smithson. In the spring of 2009,
Ms. Leibovitz set out on a two-year journey that took her to about two dozen
historic sites in the United States and Britain. Most of these were house
museums dedicated to famous individuals, where she photographed the rooms they
inhabited and objects they owned and used. Though often poetically atmospheric,
these pictures are disappointingly less lively than her portraits of famous
entertainers. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400,
nyhistory.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'The All-Knowing Buddha: A Secret Guide' (through
April 13) This show presents 54 paintings that illustrate step-by-step
instructions for followers of Tibetan Buddhism. Delicately painted on
10-by-10-inch paper sheets, most of the pages depict a monk having fabulous
visions in a verdant landscape. Thought to have been commissioned by a Mongolian
patron and executed by unidentified artists in a Chinese workshop sometime in
the 18th century, it is a fascinating and remarkably thorough manual for seekers
of higher consciousness. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, 212-620-5000,
rubinmuseum.org. (Johnson)

Rubin Museum of Art: 'Francesco Clemente: Inspired by India' (through Feb. 2)
The first Clemente retrospective in New York in more than a decade ties the
peripatetic Italian-born painter to a single country. At just 20 works or so,
it's not exactly comprehensive. It is, however, thoroughly immersive. The
installation, in the Rubin's skylit top-floor galleries, evokes the structure of
an Indian temple with a combination of large and small spaces; it has an open
central area of paintings, intimate nooks for sculpture and a ''sanctum'' of
watercolors. This finely articulated sense of place is the most novel aspect of
an exhibition that otherwise, like many previous Clemente exhibitions, seems to
coast on his cosmopolitan charms. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, 212-620-5000,
rubinmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

Skyscraper Museum: 'Times Square, 1984: The Postmodern Moment' (through Jan. 18)
In this smart, pithy show, 20 architectural panels capture the essence of
another show, the ''Times Tower Site Competition'' held by New York's Municipal
Art Society 30 years ago, when over 500 architects made proposals for the famous
triangular site in Times Square. Philip Johnson and John Burgee were proposing a
suave 4.2 million-square-foot ensemble of four skyscrapers that would help
''clean up'' the surrounding urban squalor, and they favored an open square at
the center of their project. The Municipal Art Society protested the proposal by
asking for alternatives to replace the Times Tower. The dispute proved a turning
point in New York's urban history and, more broadly, in American architectural
history, as the postmodernism of the Johnson towers gave way to a highly
eclectic, free-for-all postmodernism devoid of his mansards or triumphal arches.
39 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, 212-968-1961, skyscraper.org. (Joseph
Giovannini)

Galleries: Uptown

&#x2605; 'Local History: Castellani, Judd, Stella' (through Jan. 17) Despite a
flimsy premise that proposes a shared, and Minimalist, history, this
exceptionally beautiful exhibition is a must-see. Its numerous early works by
the American artists Frank Stella and Donald Judd and the Italian Enrico
Castellani, revisit a point in the early 1960s when the artwork's
three-dimensional nature was redefined. Dominique Lévy Gallery, 909 Madison
Avenue, at 73rd Street, 212-772-2004, dominique-levy.com. (Smith)

Galleries: 57th Street

&#x2605; Pablo Picasso: 'Picasso and Jacqueline: The Evolution of Style'
(through Jan. 10) This exhibition is fairly candid about the fact that its
raven-haired, green-eyed subject (Picasso's last companion and second wife,
Jacqueline Roque) is not so much a muse as she is an art-historical Zelig. In
paintings from the mid-1950s, she is a odalisque in Turkish costume, in tribute
to Picasso's great rival Matisse (who died in 1954) and to Delacroix, whose
harem fantasy ''Women of Algiers in Their Apartment'' inspired a substantial and
varied group of Picasso paintings and etchings. At other times, she appears to
us as a prim Goya Madrileña in a black head scarf or as a calmly exhibitionist
member of Manet's luncheon party. Pace galleries, 32 East 57th Street,
Manhattan, 212-421-3292, and 534 West 25th Street, Chelsea, 212-929-7000,
pacegallery.com. (Rosenberg)

Galleries: Chelsea

'Disturbing Innocence' (through Jan. 31) At the start of this entertaining and
provocative exhibition organized by the painter Eric Fischl, you encounter
ominous images of suburban homes in photographs by James Casebere and Gregory
Crewdson, paintings by Peter Drake and a sculpture by Roy Lichtenstein. Moving
into the main part of the exhibition you discover what goes on behind closed
doors: a riot of polymorphous perversity in the form of paintings, photographs
and sculptures, by more than 50 artists, representing children, dolls,
mannequins, robots and toys. Flag Art Foundation, 545 West 25th Street,
212-206-0220, flagartfoundation.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Martin Puryear (through Jan. 10) Late in long careers, some artists
settle for delivering signatures rather than fresh work, but not Martin Puryear.
His first solo show was in 1972, and for his latest, which is also his debut at
Matthew Marks Gallery, he has come up with an exploratory group of sculptures
and etchings. They are all ingenious variations on a single historical image,
the so-called Phrygian cap, the soft, red conical hat that became an emblem of
anti-loyalist resistance and antislavery sentiment during the French Revolution.
The result is work that's political, playful, sweet to the eye and deep. 502 and
522 West 22nd Street, 212-243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Cotter)

Galleries: Other

&#x2605; 'The Memphis Group' (through Jan. 31) Postmodernism may mean different
things to different people, but certainly one of its most memorable
manifestations was that of the Memphis Group, the Milan-based designer
collective started by Ettore Sottsass in 1981. Featuring playfully eccentric
bookcases, tables, chairs, vases, lamps and other domestic items mostly by Mr.
Sottsass and including works by six other group members, this exhilarating pair
of exhibitions is a must for students of 20th-century design. Through Jan. 31 at
Koenig & Clinton, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea, 212-334-9255,
koenigandclinton.com. Through Jan. 11 at Joe Sheftel Gallery, 24A Orchard
Street, Lower East Side, 212-226-4900, joesheftelgallery.com. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Chris Verene: 'Home Movies' (through Jan. 17) Mr. Verene has been
photographing members of his extended family and circle of friends in his
hometown, Galesburg, Ill., regularly for the past 30 years. Along with eight
photographs resembling enlarged snapshots from a personal photo album, this show
presents something new and different: a 30-minute video titled ''Home Movies.''
Made with low-budget cameras, it's a riveting, sad and sometimes comical series
of short, documentary portraits of poor, white, working-class people getting by
in a time of pervasive economic hardship. Postmasters, 54 Franklin Street,
TriBeCa, 212-727-3323, postmastersart.com. (Johnson)

Public Art

'Archeo' (through March) Shortening the word archaeology, this exhibition
focuses on technology and obsolescence. Marianne Vitale's sculptures made from
steel components of railroad switches known as frogs are one highlight; Jessica
Jackson Hutchins's neo-hippie assemblages with found ceramics and a hand-woven
hammock another. Across the bar from the Standard Hotel, Josh Kline takes the
most activist stance, with smoothies made from prescription drugs and consumer
products, while a mural by the veteran artist Ed Ruscha -- a new commission
separate from ''Archeo'' -- announces ''Honey, I Twisted Through More Damn
Traffic Today,'' perhaps capturing the ethos of the tourist-clogged High Line.
At the High Line, enter at Washington and Gansevoort Streets,
art.thehighline.org. (Martha Schwendener)

Out of Town

&#x2605; Dia:Beacon: 'Carl Andre: Sculpture as Place, 1958-2010' (through March
9) Minimalism was the late 20th century's great hope for a heroic American art
on the Abstract Expressionism model. Carl Andre was one of Minimalism's
founders. This career survey of his low-to-the-ground modular sculptures looks
terrific in Dia's sonorous, sunlight-washed spaces. It also poses the question
of how such monument-minded art can feel so modest, intimate -- even delicate.
The real treat here is the chance to see dozens of manuscript pages of Mr.
Andre's 1960s poems, which he referred to as ''typewriter drawings.'' Carefully
shaped on the page in lines and blocks, they are evidence of a sculptor-to-be at
work. 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., 845-440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston: 'Goya: Order and Disorder' (through Jan.
19) The snapshots of savagery that the news media withholds -- of torture and
rape in progress -- Francisco Goya placed front and center in his art. In ''The
Disasters of War,'' he is a virtuoso of violence, shading it, savoring it,
prodding it toward us with blunt intent. If these prints and even more harrowing
images from his private albums of drawings were the entire contents of ''Goya:
Order and Disorder'' it would make for a punishing visit. Instead, this terrific
exhibition adds portraiture and religious painting to form the broadest view of
the artist's career in America in more than two decades. 465 Huntington Avenue,
Boston, 617-267-9300, mfa.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; National Museum of African Art: 'Conversations: African and African
American Artists in Dialogue' (through early 2016) For its 50th anniversary,
this museum has brilliantly thread together work from two sources: its own
holdings in African material and the Camille O. and William H. Cosby Jr.
collection of African-American art. The Cosby collection, weighted toward
canonical figures like Romare Bearden and Charles White, will bring in the
crowds, but it is the curators and museum itself, which is in a period of
renaissance, that have made the show rise well above predictability. Smithsonian
Institution, 950 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, 202-633-4600,
africa.si.edu. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts: 'David Lynch: The Unified Field'
(through Jan. 11) The director of ''Eraserhead,'' ''Blue Velvet,'' ''Mulholland
Drive'' and other great movies, Mr. Lynch started out with aspirations to be a
fine artist. After three semesters studying painting at Pennsylvania Academy of
the Fine Arts in 1966 and '67, he quit to pursue film, but he never gave up on
painting, and since completing ''Inland Empire'' in 2006, he's been especially
busy making nonmoving art. A must for Lynch completists, this show presents
about 90 paintings and drawings dating from 1965 to the present. 118 North Broad
Street, Philadelphia, 215-972-7600, pafa.org. (Johnson)

Last Chance

Asia Society and Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Becoming Robot' (closes on Sunday)
Close on the heels of a large Nam June Paik survey in Washington last year comes
this show, which seems to have two aims in mind: to situate Paik, who was born
in Korea in 1932 but spent most of his career in New York, as a prescient
imaginer of various forms of digital technology and social media, and to
consider his identity as an Asian artist, or at least as a kind of Zen floater
who made some of his most interesting work from pixels and sound waves circling
through space. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, 212-517-2742,
asiasociety.org/new-york. (Cotter)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Crossing Brooklyn: Art From Bushwick, Bed-Stuy and Beyond'
(closes on Sunday) Billed as a ''major survey'' of Brooklyn artists, this
35-person show favors artists who venture outside their studios to do various
activities social and otherwise. Much is tepid and didactic, but some things are
amusing. Nobutaka Aozaki makes portraits of people using a black marker to add
their distinctive features to the yellow smiley face on plastic shopping bags.
In a triptych of video self-portraits that she made in an airplane lavatory,
Nina Katchadourian lip syncs to a Bee Gees song. A video by William Lamson, in
which at certain points he appears to be standing on the calm surface of the
Delaware River, has a transcendentalist vibe. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect
Park, Brooklyn, 718-638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zero: Countdown to Tomorrow, 1950s-60s' (closes on
Wednesday) One of the most experimental of all postwar European art tendencies
finally receives a full-dress survey in an American museum, one that was built
and opened during its first flowering. While the work's pursuit of newness --
moving parts, mirrored surfaces and glowing lights -- wears thin, the seamless
pairing of exhibition and architecture is perfect. Both seem alternately radical
and quaint. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, 212-423-3500, guggenheim.org.
(Smith)

&#x2605; 'Luminós/C/ity.Ordinary Joy: From the Pigozzi Contemporary African Art
Collection' (closes on Thursday) For this new Harvard art gallery, the architect
David Adjaye has transformed two awkwardly configured ground-floor offices into
a small but viable exhibition space, and, doubling as curator for the inaugural
show, packed the space with sterling work culled from a problematic private
collection. The Cooper Gallery fills an important globalist gap at Harvard,
where African art has otherwise no consistent presence. Ethelbert Cooper Gallery
of African & African American Art, 102 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
coopergalleryhc.org. (Cotter)

&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Assyria to Iberia at the Dawn of the
Classical Age' (closes on Sunday) Is art from the past pertinent to the present?
Absolutely. The evidence is there in this magnificently complex show of art from
parts of the Middle East, or as the Met prefers to call it, the Near East, that
now include Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey. The exchange of
materials, ideas and beliefs traced in shipwreck-salvaged objects here speak of
a world as globally networked as our own. The wars depicted in Assyrian relief
panels are as horrific as those being fought on the same turf today. Look at any
precious thing in the show -- a Babylonian gold pendant, a Phoenician ivory
carving -- and know that their equivalents are being looted and sent to
destinations unknown today. 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: Amie Siegel: 'Provenance' (closes on Sunday) Stylish
aesthetics and fashionable conceptualism trump documentary realism in
''Provenance,'' an extremely suave film by Amie Siegel. The 40-minute movie is
an instance of institutional critique, an art genre that tries to expose and
subvert the workings of the capitalist art market. Specifically, it's about the
scandalous trade in furniture produced for Chandigarh, the utopian city in
northern India designed by Le Corbusier and his team and built from 1951 to
1965. Although visually and emotionally captivating, it leaves obscure details
that a more conventional documentary would bring to light. 212-535-7710,
metmuseum.org. (Johnson)

&#x2605; Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Paul Strand: Master of Modern Photography'
(closes on Sunday) This museum, which mounted the last major Strand
retrospective in 1971, has given us an elegant and convincing reappraisal. It
depicts Strand as a modernist turned humanist, and a photographer who was just
as much a cinephile. Drawing from the Philadelphia museum's sizable Paul Strand
Collection (most of it acquired since 2010), this show of some 250 prints takes
in the full sweep of his career and some three-quarters of the 20th century. It
includes film excerpts and a generous sampling of his photo books, projects that
feed back into the early photographs and reveal longstanding interests in
duration and narrative. Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, 215-763-8100,
philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Pablo Picasso: 'Picasso and the Camera' (closes on Saturday) This
gallery's fifth Picasso show organized by the artist's biographer John
Richardson is supposed to be a sweeping assessment of Picasso's relationship to
photography. But it's a messy, fragmented affair, with a cluttered installation
by the Broadway set designer David Korins. Viewers who can see past the slanted
columns covered in blown-up photographs will, however, find some fantastic
paintings, including the colorful Synthetic-Cubist canvas ''Instruments de
Musique sur un Guéridon,'' the 1932 acrobatic nude ''Le Repos,'' and a marvelous
series of 1939 portraits of Dora Maar in a strangely shaped red hat. Gagosian
Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, Chelsea, 212-741-1717, gagosian.com. (Rosenberg)

&#x2605; Rhode Island School of Design Museum: 'What Nerve! Alternative Figures
in American Art, 1960 to the Present' (closes on Sunday) This revelatory
exhibition focuses on four groups of artists who rejected New York-style
abstraction and conceptualism in favor of offbeat sorts of figurative
representation: the six-artist group the ''Hairy Who,'' which exhibited in
Chicago from 1966 to '69; nine artists associated with the San Francisco-born
trend known as Funk; the four art- and zine-producing members of the noise band
Destroy All Monsters (1973 to '77) of Ann Arbor, Mich.; and the Providence,
R.I., four-man collective Forcefield. 20 North Main Street, Providence, R.I.,
401-454-6500, risdmuseum.org. (Johnson)

Sculpture Center: 'Puddle, pothole, portal' (closes on Monday) Inspired by the
cartoon art of Saul Steinberg and the movie ''Who Framed Roger Rabbit?,'' this
23-artist show invites viewers to consider the ways and wherefores of comical
art. It's generally more droll than laugh-out-loud funny. Consisting mostly of
three-dimensional objects, it focuses on comedic art's formal properties like
absurdist contradiction, exaggerated scale and dysfunctional mechanics.
Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens, 718-361-1750,
sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/design/museum-gallery-listings-for-jan-2-
8.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISOL/LICENSED BY VAGA, NEW YORK
 HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); HISTORY (89%); ART HISTORY (89%); FOOTWEAR
(89%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); FILM
(78%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); FABRICS (60%); COUPS (54%); DOWN SYNDROME
(50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (77%); SOUTH AMERICA
(72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recalling Blind Tom, an Autistic Pianist Born to Slavery

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES;
Pg. 27

LENGTH: 996 words


The pianist Blind Tom began drawing crowds to his performances as a child in the
1850s. His black family and various white guardians fought for rights to earn
money from his career until his death in 1908. Blind Tom himself, who was born
into slavery and given a series of last names over the years, was autistic and
unable to fathom the legal battles.

Near Tom's hometown, Columbus, Ga., a county judge named George R. Greene, who
died last year, at 63, spent decades buying artifacts related to Blind Tom and
researching the musician's accomplishments and tragic life. In February, James
D. Julia's auction house in Fairfield, Me., will offer Mr. Greene's collection
(estimated at $10,000 to $20,000 for everything), which was long displayed at
his private local history museum in a former post office in Phenix City, Ala.,
near Columbus.

Mr. Greene found portraits of Blind Tom, concert ads, witness descriptions of
his strange leaps and rambling speeches during shows, and sheet music for songs
that he composed partly based on street sounds and hymns. Deirdre O'Connell, the
author of ''The Ballad of Blind Tom'' (Overlook Press), wrote in an email that
while Mr. Greene bought some rare individual pieces, the collection's most
valuable aspect ''is its completeness.''

At the Phenix City museum, Mr. Greene also filled cases with locally excavated
prehistoric arrowheads, Civil War ammunition and ads for 1950s politicians. John
Sexton, a consultant to the Julia auction house, said Mr. Greene's museum ''had
everything Columbus you could think of, from the mundane to the important.''

The Greene family has already sold a few pieces from the museum. In June, its
silver flute made for Blind Tom sold for about $38,000 at Cowan's Auctions in
Cincinnati to the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and
Culture. One of Tom's pianos also apparently survives; Mr. Greene was planning
to buy it just before his death, but Mr. Sexton said that the current owners'
whereabouts is unknown.

On Jan. 24, Case Antiques Auctions & Appraisals in Knoxville, Tenn., will offer
other Greene museum material related to the Columbus area, including
19th-century portraits of slaveholders and cloth dolls depicting black people.

A TROVE OF STOCK PHOTOS

In a silent auction that ends on Jan. 14, bidders can make offers of at least $5
million for the inventory of Brown Brothers, a stock photo agency that Arthur
and Charles Brown founded in Manhattan in 1904. Since 1972, the company has been
housed in an outbuilding at a nondescript farmhouse near Scranton, Pa. Hundreds
of thousands of prints and negatives there document news unfolding worldwide
through the 1960s, as well as general topics from clouds to hobos.

Ray Collins, 62, a member of the family that inherited the agency from the
Browns in the 1950s, recently gave a tour with Eric Caren, the dealer who has
set up the January auction. The visitors wore gloves that quickly blackened as
they browsed through 7,000 dusty boxes. No computers were on hand to direct them
to subjects of interest, just binders and handwritten catalog cards.

The box spines have labels as specific as ''Sailors & Soldiers at Coney
Island,'' ''Pay as You Enter Cars'' and ''Old Clocks.'' One spine is ominously
marked ''Keep These Negatives in This Box or Else.''

Mr. Collins, Mr. Caren and the visitors pulled out images of presidential
campaigns, athletes, unfinished Manhattan skyscrapers, North African markets,
railroad stations and starlets. A box of Hindenburg photos revealed a Hitler
portrait hanging in that zeppelin's otherwise bland dining room, burned corpses
at the site of its disastrous mooring in 1937 in New Jersey, and coffins draped
in Nazi and American flags.

Glass negatives are interleaved with prints in some of the boxes. During the
1972 move to Pennsylvania, Mr. Collins said, ''Not one glass negative was
broken.'' He added, ''I can only hope and pray it's done as well this time.''

Mr. Caren said he had been discussing the auction lot with institutions, photo
agencies, dealers and collectors. During the tour, the dealer Seth Kaller was
opening box after box, documenting the wide travels of the Brown Brothers staff
to capture current events. ''Some of these photos really take you to the
moment,'' he said.

Mr. Collins said that when potential buyers first arrive, they often intend to
examine each photo. Then they realize the scale of the holdings.

''The aura sort of wears off,'' he said. ''They realize they have to speed it up
a little.''

He will miss owning the inventory and the excitement of seeing the company name
in print, he said. ''I grew up reading newspapers and magazines sideways,''
scanning for the words Brown Brothers run vertically in photo credits, he said.

Mr. Caren, in addition to marketing the Brown Brothers material, is also
offering his own huge batch of inventory. He is asking $8 million, or best
offer, for 200,000 graphics, photos and other paperwork reporting American news,
starting with 17th-century descriptions of colonists arriving. Like the Brown
Brothers boxfuls, his wares come with no searchable database. Only he knows
where anything is.

''It's the most poorly organized collection that you'll ever see, but it's
filled with wonderful things,'' he said. Wherever it ends up, he added: ''I will
come with it. I will organize it. It's a passion.''

In April, Bonhams in New York offered a group of about 200,000 pieces during an
auction of other Caren inventory, but it did not sell. Mr. Caren has also
auctioned pieces through Swann Auction Galleries in Manhattan and has more sales
planned, he said.

Daile Kaplan, a photography specialist at Swann, said that news agency images
like the Brown Brothers trove rarely come on the market in large numbers. In
October, a bidder paid $8,750 at Swann for an album with 97 photos from the
1910s depicting battlefields and politicians. The stock shots came from the
Underwood & Underwood agency, a longtime Brown Brothers competitor.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/arts/recalling-blind-tom-an-autistic-pianist-b
orn-to-slavery.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ephemera related to Blind Tom, an autistic pianist born to
slavery, is headed to auction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES D. JULIA)
 A Brown Brothers photographer documenting construction of the Woolworth
Building in Lower Manhattan during the early 20th century. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROWN
BROTHERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SLAVERY (90%); FAMILY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); HISTORY
(89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION
(78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); AUTISM (76%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (75%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (75%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (75%);
COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (71%); WRITERS (66%); MISC INFORMATION
SERVICES (60%); JUDGES (56%)

CITY: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%);
COLUMBUS, OH, USA (72%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (52%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%);
ALABAMA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shelling Strikes Afghan Wedding Party, Killing at Least 25

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED and TAIMOOR SHAH; Azam Ahmed reported from Kabul, and
Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 419 words


KABUL, Afghanistan -- At least 25 civilians were believed to have died in
southern Afghanistan after shelling amid fierce fighting struck a wedding party,
Afghan officials said Thursday.

The attack occurred Wednesday night in the Sangin district of Helmand Province,
the site of some of the heaviest fighting in the country in the past year.
Afghan officials said they had begun an investigation of the attack, which
wounded more than 50 people, mostly women and children.

''We talked to A.N.A. command, but they are denying it,'' Haji Mohammad Jan
Rasolyaar, the deputy governor of Helmand, said, referring to the Afghan
National Army. ''That area is a front line, but the incident is an unfortunate
one.''

Civilian casualties are on the rise in Afghanistan and reached a peak in 2014,
according to the United Nations. There were estimates that the death toll would
exceed 10,000 in 2014; exact figures are not yet available. The rise in
casualties reflects, in part, deadlier ground fighting between Afghan forces and
the Taliban.

Sangin was a focus of Taliban violence in the past year, which engulfed soldiers
and police officers fighting to hold on to the center of the district.

In Helmand more broadly, more than 1,300 members of the security forces were
killed from June to November. In Afghanistan over all, more than 5,000 members
of the security forces died last year, an increase from 2013 and a record number
since the start of the war.

The increase in deaths comes as coalition forces take on a new mission in
Afghanistan, stepping back entirely from a combat role to advise and assist
Afghan forces. But the change will be subtle for most members of the Afghan
security forces, who for more than a year have been fighting on their own.

Officials said that a joint committee of representatives of the police and the
army, as well as elders, would be sent to the area to determine what had
happened. Villagers said they believed that the army was firing rockets or
mortar rounds into the village of Bayanzai in Sangin, where a wedding party had
gathered awaiting the return of the bride, officials said.

''We just sent a delegation comprised of A.N.A. and A.N.P. and elders to Sangin
to find out the real cause of the attack and why and how the wedding party has
been targeted,'' said Omar Zwak, the spokesman for the provincial governor,
referring to the army and the Afghan National Police. ''We don't know the
accurate figures for casualties. There are more wounded people who have been
shifted elsewhere.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/02/world/asia/afghanistan-wedding-party-shelling-
deaths.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALIBAN
(90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); POLICE FORCES
(78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ARTILLERY &
ORDNANCE (74%); ARMED FORCES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials POPISH, LAWRENCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 14 words


POPISH--Lawrence. Forever in our thoughts, our love is eternal. Mom, Dad & Nancy
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROSENBERG, FRED L.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 264 words


ROSENBERG--Fred L.,died peacefully a month shy of his 96th birthday while
independently living in his new home amid new friends at Kendal on Hudson in
Sleepy Hollow, NY on December 23, 2014. Fred passed ten years to the day after
the death of his beloved wife of 56 years, artist Joan Mattison Rosenberg, who
never left his thoughts. Navy Lieutenant on LST 281 in a D-Day Landing, and
later captain of LST 357 in the Pacific, Fred went on to success as textile
marketing executive for leading knit firms including Fab Industries, creating
many iconic fabrics such as "Supersuede."

An avid sportsman, he played outfield for Syracuse University in the Class of
1939, semi- pro baseball in Boston, and into his 90s helped coach and took
batting practice with The Kettle softball team in a Central Park league.
Published playwright, poet, composer, and spirited performer for friends and
family, Fred was a favorite piano pupil of Paul Creston, crooned with an
orchestra in college, and was a lifelong student of music, literature and art.
Warm, loving and spiritual, Fred is survived by his close sister Janet Black of
Pocasset, MA, his dear daughter Vicki Rosenberg, his admiring son Eric and
daughter-in-law Helen, and his devoted grandchildren Karen Rosenberg, Stuart M.
Rosenberg, and Stuart's wife Halsey Varady. Memorial Service Sunday, January 25,
2015 at 11am at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Contributions in
Fred's memory may be made to The Art Students League of New York, attn: Joan M.
Rosenberg Memorial Scholarship Fund, 215 West 57th St., NYC, NY 10019. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); WORLD WAR II
(76%); FABRICS (75%); SOFTBALL (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); BASEBALL
(74%); MUSIC (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%);
WRITERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HUDDY, JOHN E.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 181 words


HUDDY--John E.,55, died suddenly on December 29, 2014. John was a graduate of
Kings Park High School and received his degree in Architecture from The Cooper
Union and also obtained a degree in Philosophy from Stony Brook University. In
2009 Cooper Union named him "Alumnus of the Year." John had also served as
Trustee. In addition, he taught classes in construction management and donated
his salary to The Cooper Union. John was a founding member of the School of
Architecture Deans Circle. John was Vice President of Zubatkin Owner
Representation, LLC and was a well-liked and respected individual within the
construction industry. He leaves his loving family; his parents Martin and Anita
Huddy; his sister Diane Oswald; brother-in-law Gary Oswald and nephews Kyle and
Dillon. We respectfully request that, in lieu of flowers, a donation be made to
The Cooper Union. Visitation at Hawkins & Davis Funeral Home, 17 Manor Rd.,
Smithtown, NY on Sunday from 2-4pm and 7-9pm. Funeral service at 10am on Monday.
Cremation to follow. A memorial in New York City will be planned for January.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (75%);
ALUMNI (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FRANK, CLAUDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 77 words


FRANK--Claude. On behalf of the Board of Directors and the entire Performers of
Westchester family, we are saddened and mourn the loss of our great friend, long
time pianist-in-residence and Board member Claude Frank. It has been our honor
and privilege, often, over the last 17 years to grace our audiences with his
sublime, unforgettable artistry. The angels are surely happy but he will be
sorely missed. George Rehl, President Jung Lin Executive Director 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); KEYBOARD
INSTRUMENTS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); EXECUTIVES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BERMAN, PEGGY T

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 422 words


BERMAN--Peggy T. Of Greenwich, CT, passed away on December 28 at the age of 87.
She died peacefully in her sleep in the comfort of her own home, where she
remained a keen observer of all things worldly, just as she had before and
throughout her 62 years of marriage to her late husband Jim. Peggy was born in
New York City on April 13, 1927 to the late Samuel and Sadie Tenenbaum. The
family moved to Far Rockaway, NY where she flourished as a student.

She was the recipient of many youth academic awards for greater New York,
including ones for Latin, of which she perhaps was most proud. She became one of
the younger students ever accepted to Smith College at age 16, and she earned
her degree as a PHI BETA KAPPA member of the Class of 1947. She married Jim on
May 27, 1951, and they had two sons: Chris, born in 1955, and Andy, born in
1957. She worked for Time Magazine, a career that began before she became a
mother, and it spanned 30 years. She was primarily a researcher, a unique one at
that. For years, she was the back of the book rover, which meant every week she
would add her assistance to whatever section of the magazine needed extra
brainpower; whether it be the arts, medicine, law, travel, or even sports. She
was honored to be a trusted member of the Presidential Election coverage team
every four years. She and Jim raised their sons primarily in what was then known
as Town of Rye, NY, where they lived from 1958 until 1974, and then in
Greenwich, where she lived for the past 40 years. During the boys' school years,
and a bit beyond, she served as a trustee for the Hackley School in Tarrytown,
NY. Peggy was a connoisseur of the Arts, frequently attending the symphony,
opera, theater, and various museums. Yet, she also relished traveling. The
family once had a home in Weston, VT, and later in Sun Valley, ID, where she
enjoyed hiking, tennis, skiing, and sightseeing. She was fortunate enough to see
many distant parts of the world. When travel proved too difficult in recent
years, she could always count on crossword puzzles and bridge. She is survived
by her two sons, Chris and Andy, and their wives, both named Katherine Berman.
She will be greatly missed by her grandchildren Meredith, Doug, Sara, and Riley.
A remembrance will be held Monday, January 5th at 11am at Congregation Emanuel
of Westchester in Rye, NY. In lieu of flowers, expressions of sympathy may be
made to Smith College or the Bruce Museum in Greenwich. To leave an online
condolence, please visit www. leopgallaghergreenwich.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); PREGNANCY &
CHILDBIRTH (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ELECTIONS
(71%); SINGLE SEX EDUCATION (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); STUDENT HONOR
SOCIETIES (70%); SKIING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); IDAHO, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SCHWARTZ, MURIEL "MICKI"

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 372 words


SCHWARTZ--Muriel "Micki", died peacefully at her Westport, CT home on December
23. Born in the Bronx, Micki grew up in New York City with her parents Isidor
"Eddie" and Eva Laks, her late brother Henry and sister Sandra. She and her
husband, the late Hilton Schwartz, both graduated from NYU. Micki continued her
schooling at the Bank Street College of Education.

The newlyweds moved to Fresh Meadows, Queens, where they had two children, Donna
and Evan, and made many lifelong friends. In the late 1950s, Micki and Hilton
followed Hilton's best friend and cousin Herbert Abrams to Westport, where they
lived the rest of their lives. Micki and Hilton's third child, Ellen, was born a
few years after their move to Westport. Micki had a variety of careers including
schoolteacher, homemaker and travel agent, but her true profession was World
Traveler. She wanted to see everyplace in the world, and came mighty close to
succeeding. Hiking on the glaciers in Argentina? Check. China in the 1980s?
Check. Galapagos? Paris-London-Barcelona-all-of-Europe? Treed by rhinos in
Nepal? Of course. Micki also loved all things cultural: music, theater, art,
performances of all manner. And in-between all of this, she was a great cook, a
tennis player, and threw terrific, fun parties. Micki somehow managed to have
the energy, eagerness, determination and adventurousness to pack 36 hours of
activity into every 24-hour day. Micki was also stylish, compassionate and
generous, active throughout her life in numerous political and community
organizations. She seemed to live her life in accordance with a quotation from
Horace Mann that she kept posted in her home, "Be ashamed to die until you have
won some victory for humanity." Besides Hilton, Micki's greatest love was for
her grandchildren: Oscar, Marcel, Elsa, Elissa and Brooke. She is survived by
her children, their husbands Dean Trindle, Bob Fitterman and Emmanuel Dupuy
d'Angeac, her grandchildren, her adored sister, and many, many cousins, nieces,
nephews and beyond, all of whom she cherished. A farewell gathering was held at
her home on December 28. If desired, donations in Micki's name would be
appreciated by the Westport Public Library, NephCure or the National MS Society.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH
(78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TENNIS (65%); SPORTS (65%); ATHLETES (50%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%);
BARCELONA, SPAIN (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEPAL (74%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
