
                               1 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Updating the Mac's Software

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Q&A; Pg.

LENGTH: 709 words


Q. Should I always install updates of Mac OS X and individual applications? I've
heard that over time, they can really slow down one's computer. How do you know
which are important?

A. Any update with ''security'' in the name is usually important, and some
versions of OS X can even install those automatically for you. Security patches
are designed to close off vulnerabilities in the software and generally keep
your Mac safer.

Apple has been annually updating OS X for the last several years and the new
versions can bring some nice features. As with any operating system update,
though, you could experience quirks, bugs and a learning curve as you get used
to it. Depending on your hardware, a new system may run more slowly on older
Macs than on the newer models, although system updates are usually intended to
improve speed. Apple has a list of suggestions if your Mac feels sluggish,
including clearing space on an overstuffed hard drive. Mac-themed sites usually
have their own advice as well.

If you are nervous about updating to a new version of OS X or installing a major
upgrade to a favorite app, wait a few days after its release and then check
Apple's Mac Support pages or Mac-blog forums; the support pages for your other
Mac apps may also detail any known issues. If there are major problems plaguing
the software, odds are someone will be complaining about it online and you can
better decide if the update is worthwhile for you. The crowd-sourced Roaring
Apps application compatibility table has tested more than 600 apps to see if
they run on various versions of OS X, and is another good site to consult.

Apple is not shy about advertising each new edition of OS X in the Mac App
Store, even if you have decided to skip it. To avoid seeing OS X update notices
all the time, open the App Store by clicking its icon in the Mac's Dock. When
the Store window opens, click the Updates tab. When you see the large banner
urging you to upgrade, right-click (or hold down the Control key and click) on
the banner and choose ''Hide Update.''

Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference begins on June 8, and the company
traditionally uses the event to announce its next iteration of OS X. If you have
not upgraded to the current OS X Yosemite yet, another new version of the Mac's
operating system will most likely be available before the end of the year.

Checking a Laptop Charger That Gets Too Hot

Q. The electrical adapter to my laptop gets very warm when I have it plugged in
to charge my computer. Is this normal, or should I be worried?

A. Most power adapters do feel quite warm to the touch, especially if you have
the laptop turned on and are working as you recharge. This is normal. Just make
sure you have plenty of ventilation around the charger and laptop while they are
plugged in so heat does not get trapped under mounds of magazines, papers and
other desk debris.

But if the charger is so hot that it hurts to hold it -- or it smells like
burning plastic when it is plugged in -- you should disconnect it immediately
and investigate further. Check the length of the cord for damage to the outer
casing, particularly if you have house pets that like to chew, as some animals
have a taste for electronic accessories.

You should also examine the tip of the cord and the power jack on the laptop.
Look for broken or bent pins inside -- or anything else obstructing the plug and
port. An incomplete or faulty connection could be preventing the charger from
working properly.

If you have the power adapter plugged in and the laptop on, check the computer's
battery icon to see if it is actually charging. If the charging icon in not
steadily visible, the adapter may be malfunctioning.

Broken power adapters for electronic devices are potential fire hazards. To be
on the safe side, consider getting a replacement approved by your laptop's
manufacturer, or just ordering another one directly from the company.
Third-party adapters are often less expensive but can vary in quality, so
research any product before buying it. The Consumer Product Safety Commission
has occasionally issued recalls for faulty power cords and chargers from
manufacturers, and the agency's database is worth a search if you want to be
really diligent.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/technology/personaltech/updating-the-macs-soft
ware.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PRODUCT
ENHANCEMENTS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%);
INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITIES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%);
CROWDSOURCING (65%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE
MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING
(92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS &
COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES
(92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

James Misses, and a Sense of Destiny Evaporates

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1077 words


OAKLAND, Calif. -- In those final, frantic seconds of regulation that must have
felt like the interminable eight-day wait for the start of the N.B.A. finals,
Andre Iguodala was alone against the best basketball player on the planet.

All around Oracle Arena, fans wore yellow T-shirts that displayed the Golden
State Warriors' season-long slogan, ''Strength in Numbers.'' But now, out on the
left wing, in a tense and deadlocked Game 1, Iguodala was on his own against the
one-man wrecking crew named LeBron James.

The score was 98-98. The stakes already seemed high for the Warriors, defending
a home-court advantage they had worked all season to earn against James and his
Cleveland Cavaliers. But nobody in that tension-filled moment could have
suspected how much was on the line for the Cavs -- the likely nullification of
the pact between James and destiny for deliverance of a major-sport championship
to his native northeast Ohio in his first season back as homecoming King.

As he accepted a pass from Kyrie Irving, left of the key, James had already
torched the Warriors for 42 (of 44) points on a variety of jumpers, runners and
floaters. The good news for the Warriors -- or at least a good reason for Coach
Steve Kerr to not run a second trapping defender at James -- was that Iguodala
had made James's shot selection more challenging than any of the other defenders
Kerr had deployed.

''You know, it's funny to say when a guy gets 44 points that the defender did a
really good job, but I thought Andre did extremely well, made LeBron take some
tough shots,'' Kerr said after James misfired from 21 feet, the Warriors
survived in regulation, thrived in overtime and took Game 1, 108-100.

The Cavs, conversely, lost more than a series opener on the road. For the rest
of a much-anticipated series that may not last long, they will play without
Irving, their dynamic point guard and second-best player, who in overtime
fractured a left knee that has been tendinitis-ridden all spring.

Surgery looms. Cleveland mourns.

That last sequence in regulation could be remembered as the series' crossroads.
Because the sky over Cleveland's pro teams invariably turns cloudy, and Irving's
long-term relationship with the franchise could be fractured along with his
kneecap, we may have to revisit the belief that James is fated to end the city's
51-year championship drought.

Might it all have been different had he not settled for a step-back jumper?
Might he have spared Irving the injury by saving the Cavs from overtime? Part of
the deal is being left to wonder.

Iguodala is listed at 6 feet 6 inches and 215 pounds, spotting James a couple of
inches and about 40 pounds. He is an 11-year veteran, a sturdy two-way
contributor, a throwback player who earns $12 million-plus but is willing to
come off the bench.

''One of the smartest defenders in the league,'' Kerr said. ''He's not stronger
than LeBron, but he is very strong. A big thing guarding LeBron is angles,
right? It's trying to figure out where he's going because he's looking for
teammates. He's looking to score. There's a lot going on.''

With the game on the line, all the great ones create fear bordering on hysteria,
no matter where they are on the floor. Asked if he had James where he wanted
him, Iguodala said, ''You would like to think that, but last year he beat us on
a shot similar to that at home in the regular season.''

In a similar situation and location earlier in these playoffs, James also spared
the Cavaliers a potential three-games-to-one series deficit against Chicago with
a buzzer-beater from far out in the left corner.

But he has been statistically well below average from long range throughout the
playoffs, so there can be little doubt that James cut the Warriors a break by
not challenging Iguodala.

With a good view of the action from the bench, the former Knick David Lee said,
''We're constantly in help mode when LeBron's got it, and obviously if he makes
progress and is getting toward the hoop, you've got to come and trap.''

James probably noticed Draymond Green cheating off his man, moving to the left
side of the lane, anticipating a drive that never came. But perhaps the earlier
possessions in which Iguodala had bodied up and kept James from attacking the
paint were also in James's head.

''My mind-set was we're either going to go out of here with a win or going into
overtime,'' was what James said about the play Thursday night.

Iguodala, who scored 15 points and made a fourth-quarter 3-pointer with one
sneaker off, said: ''I kind of knew what play he wanted to get into. Just going
left, step back, and I was right there on him, and he was still able to get off
the shot. So at that point you just want percentages to kick in and help you
out.''

It was a low-percentage attempt, and the ball wound up in the far right corner,
in the desperate hands of the ex-Knick Iman Shumpert, whose heave was close
enough to cause thousands of hearts inside Oracle Arena to skip a few beats.

Having soared for a block on Stephen Curry from behind to set up the last play
in regulation, having filled his stat line with 23 points, 7 rebounds, 6 assists
and 4 steals, Irving drove on Klay Thompson around the two-minute mark of
overtime, and his knee buckled.

Irving left the arena on crutches. His father, Drederick, was seen slamming a
door near the team's locker room. In an ESPN.com report, Drederick Irving and
Jeff Wechsler, Kyrie's agent, were said to be at odds with the franchise,
suspecting the player's long-term health may have been jeopardized for
short-term gain.

But until the injury, Kyrie Irving said he felt ''amazing'' in the 44 minutes he
played. Was that too many minutes under the circumstances? Would the knee have
given out, sooner or later?

Again, we'll never know about that and what might have been had James not
settled for the step-back. While acknowledging that he hadn't slept well
overnight, he shrugged off those questions on Friday, made everyone laugh when
asked about the Warriors' strategy of letting him score 44 while keeping his
teammates, with the exception of Irving, under control.

''You don't let me have 40,'' he said. ''I go get 40.''

With Irving now on the sideline next to Kevin Love, with J. R. Smith now the
secondary option, James may on occasion need 60. He will need to take his
talents to the rim, be better than ever.

Against these Warriors, that's still unlikely to be enough.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/basketball/lebron-jamess-missed-buzzer-
beater-rattles-cavaliers-sense-of-destiny-in-nba-finals.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LeBron James (23) had 44 points in Game 1 but missed a potential
winning shot while being guarded by the Warriors' Andre Iguodala in the fourth
quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYLE TERADA/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(77%); RUNNING (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS &
INJURIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
(84%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (92%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA,
CA, USA (89%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walmart's $1 Billion Web Drive

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words


FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. --  In the world of brick and mortar, Walmart is a titan,
ringing up more than $1 billion of sales a day.

But in the online world, the retailer's business, while growing, remains far
behind Amazon. With less than one-sixth the online sales of Amazon, Walmart has
been repeatedly outgunned and outsmarted by Amazon's price-matching,
robot-utilizing, competition-crushing machine.

And now that sluggish sales are persisting at its supercenters, and with
consumers spending more and more time shopping online, Walmart's need to play
catch-up in its online business loomed large at its annual shareholder
conference on Friday. Doug McMillon vowed to tackle that quandary as part of the
changes he outlined as the company's relatively new chief executive.

Walmart's board also voted on some changes on Friday, by electing only the third
chairman in the company's history. The post again went to a member of the
founding Walton family, Greg Penner, 45, who will replace Rob Walton, son of
Walmart's founder, Sam Walton, and chairman for the past 23 years. Mr. Penner is
Rob Walton's son-in-law.

''One customer can shop with us in so many different ways -- in stores, on their
phones, at home,'' Mr. McMillon told 14,000 shareholders and Walmart workers
gathered at an arena outside the retailer's Bentonville headquarters. ''We'll
win one customer at a time.''

As part of its effort to become competitive on the web, Walmart has made a
flurry of tech hires, committed to a billion-dollar war chest and announced a
delivery program to challenge the king of online orders, Amazon Prime.

Walmart is set to start sending invitations this week to a pilot program called
Shipping Pass, which offers unlimited, free three-day shipping from its online
store for $50 a year.

Shipping Pass is a direct challenge to Amazon Prime, which charges shoppers a
$99 annual fee for unlimited, free two-day shipping. It is also a desperate bid
by Walmart, analysts say: The retailer is unlikely to make money on such a
cut-rate offer.

Walmart, however, needs to make up for lost time online, said Burt P. Flickinger
III, managing director of the Strategic Resource Group, a New York-based retail
consulting firm.

''Walmart.com has been severely mismanaged,'' Mr. Flickinger said. ''Walmart
would go a few years and invest strategically and significantly in e-commerce,
then other years it wouldn't,'' he said. ''Meanwhile, Amazon is making moves in
e-commerce that's put Walmart so far behind that it might not be able to catch
up for 10 more years, if ever.''

Looking up at the leader is an unfamiliar perch for Walmart, which for decades
had dominated retailing with a vast supplier network, stripped-down supercenters
and rock-bottom prices. Before Amazon, Walmart was the retailer that undercut
everyone else with impossible-to-beat prices and hefty scale, muscling them out
of business.

But despite declaring a decade and a half ago -- in 1999 -- that Walmart.com was
a priority for the company, the retailer has failed to translate its dominance
in stores to online shopping. For years, it has struggled to figure out how to
best deliver fresh food and groceries.

It hired Jeanne P. Jackson, an e-commerce pioneer and former chief executive of
Banana Republic and head of online operations at Gap, to overhaul its online
presence. But Walmart's then-notoriously insular, and by some accounts,
male-dominated culture, drove Ms. Jackson away in less than two years.
Gradually, market anticipation that Walmart would become a viable competitor to
Amazon dissipated.

In the meantime, Amazon beat one rival after another, dropping prices by
double-digit percentages to undercut newcomers and swiftly driving them out of
the market.

Mr. McMillon, a Walmart veteran who took the helm at the retailer last year,
wants to again put e-commerce front and center, pledging to invest $1 billion in
its online operations this year. Under Mr. McMillon, Walmart has expanded the
number of products sold on Walmart.com to seven million from one million just
three years ago. That number is set to rise to 10 million by the end of the
year, though that is a fraction of the estimated 300 million items for sale on
Amazon.

This spring, Walmart opened four new centers dedicated to filling online orders,
each the size of 20 football fields. Its e-commerce team, based in San Bruno,
Calif., a Silicon Valley suburb, has grown to 2,500 staff members from just 500
employees four years ago, and the retailer's technology employees now engage in
hackathons, alongside product and merchandising meetings.

In the last fiscal year, Walmart's global e-commerce sales rose by 22 percent
from the previous year to $12.2 billion. In the United States, Walmart is now
the third-largest Internet retailer after Amazon and Apple, according to a
ranking compiled by JPMorgan Chase.

''We've built a tech company inside the world's largest retailer,'' said Neil M.
Ashe, who heads Walmart's e-commerce business.

Amazon is hardly Walmart's only online rival. Walmart's traditional competitors,
including Costco and Target, are quickly increasing their online sales. And the
upstart Jet.com has raised more than $200 million to create a nationwide
e-commerce business that offers the absolute lowest price on consumer products
with a system that drives costs down by shipping from nearby retailers, and by
allowing shoppers to save by combining orders or waiving returns.

But Mr. Ashe, who previously led CBS Interactive, said that Walmart's strength
lay in the many ways it could link its large physical footprint with its online
business to offer customers a whole spectrum of ways to shop.

''Even the same customer doesn't want the same thing every time,'' Mr. Ashe
said. ''And only we can provide that unique combination of deliver it to your
home when you want, pick up at our stores and the stores themselves. That unique
combination is where we think the world is going, and where we think we are the
only ones that can provide that.''

One new example of a way Walmart is blending a brick-and-mortar environment with
its online offerings is its pilot Walmart Pickup-Grocery, a center that
resembles a gasoline stand just a stone's throw away from the company's
headquarters.

Here, shoppers sign in at a digital kiosk, park their cars and pick up the items
that they ordered on Walmart.com. During a recent visit, a sport utility vehicle
pulled up to the kiosk, then into one of the parking spots and was met within
minutes by a Walmart employee who wheeled out an order of groceries in a trolley
and loaded the purchase into the vehicle.

Walmart still has just one stand-alone pickup station in the United States, but
has four other pilot markets where online orders can be picked up at regular
stores. It is also testing home delivery in some areas. But it stresses that
these are trials and has not announced plans for a nationwide introduction.

Walmart's overseas subsidiaries are also ramping up their e-commerce business,
in some cases surging ahead of American stores. The pickup station, for example,
is an adaptation of an idea already in place at Walmart's subsidiary in Britain,
Asda. In China, delivery workers on scooters ferry 22-pound bags of rice to
customers.

''It's exciting,'' Mr. Ashe, the e-commerce chief, said following the
shareholders' meeting. ''We can serve you literally in ways no other retailer
can."




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/walmart-lagging-in-online-sales-is-st
rengthening-e-commerce.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Walmart employee at the retailer's Pickup-Grocery test store,
where customers can collect an online order without having to leave their cars.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS)
The customer sign-in kiosks at Walmart's new test store, which offers service
similar to a drive-through. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALMART) (B1)
 Some of the 14,000 Walmart shareholders and employees who gathered on Friday
for the company's annual meeting, where Greg Penner was named chairman.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DISCOUNT
& CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); EXECUTIVE
MOVES (73%); HISTORY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (70%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT
DEPARTMENT STORES (98%)

PERSON: S ROBSON WALTON (92%); DOUG MCMILLON (79%)

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Saturday

BYLINE: By ALEC M. PRIESTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 753 words


8 P.M. (MAX) BLADE RUNNER (1982) Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) is a blade runner
-- an agent tasked with eliminating, or ''retiring,'' rogue robots, or
replicants. Deckard struggles with emotional connections to one replicant as he
dangerously engages with others. Ridley Scott directed this gritty and ethereal
noir. ''Science-fiction devotees may find 'Blade Runner' a wonderfully
meticulous movie and marvel at the comprehensiveness of its vision,'' Janet
Maslin wrote in The New York Times. ''Even those without a taste for gadgetry
cannot fail to appreciate the degree of effort that has gone into constructing a
film so ambitious and idiosyncratic.''

12:00 P.M. (IFC) THE MATRIX (1999) The Wachowskis wrote and directed this sci-fi
thriller, which won four Oscars. Neo (Keanu Reeves), a hacker, learns from
Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) that life is not as it appears -- it's really a
computer-generated fiction called the Matrix, imposed on humans by robotic
overlords who harvest their energy. They must protect the last real human city,
Zion, while battling the machines and the evil Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving).
''With enough visual bravado to sustain a steady element of surprise (even when
the film's most important Oracle turns out to be a grandmotherly type who bakes
cookies and has magnets on her refrigerator), 'The Matrix' makes particular
virtues out of eerily inhuman lighting effects, lightning-fast virtual scene
changes (as when Neo wishes for guns and thousands of them suddenly appear) and
the martial arts stunts that are its single strongest selling point,'' Janet
Maslin wrote in The Times. ''As supervised by Yuen Wo Ping, these airborne
sequences bring Hong Kong action style home to audiences in a mainstream
American adventure with big prospects as a cult classic and with the future very
much in mind.''

6 P.M. (Sundance) UNFORGIVEN (1992) Clint Eastwood won an Oscar for directing
this western revenge story, which was also named best picture. When prostitutes,
abused by two local cowboys, are denied justice by the sheriff, they put a
$1,000 bounty on the cowboys' heads. Bill Munny (Mr. Eastwood), Ned Logan
(Morgan Freeman) and English Bob (Richard Harris) set out to collect, but must
also overcome a sadistic sheriff (Gene Hackman) who rules the town. ''As written
by David Webb Peoples and directed by Mr. Eastwood, 'Unforgiven' is a most
entertaining western that pays homage to the great tradition of movie westerns
while surreptitiously expressing a certain amount of skepticism,'' Vincent Canby
wrote in The Times.

6:25 P.M. (MAX) BLADES OF GLORY (2007) Two rival figure skaters -- Chazz Michael
Michaels (Will Ferrell) and Jimmy MacElroy (Jon Heder) -- are barred from
competition after fighting each other on the ice. Michaels is a macho drunk and
MacElroy a spoiled rich kid. They discover that if they link up they will be
allowed to skate again, as a duo. They compete with the Van Waldenbergs, a
brother and sister played by Will Arnett and Amy Poehler. ''The movie's
satirical take on competitive figure skating, from its music for gliding pas des
deux (Andrea Bocelli) to the goofy absurdity of children's ice shows in which
Chazz, exiled from competition, is forced to work, to its tacky space-age
costumes, is affectionately knowing,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times.

8 P.M. (ESPN) X GAMES Moto X and BMX competitions take place at the extreme
sports event at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Tex.

8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) 100 THINGS TO DO BEFORE HIGH SCHOOL C. J. Martin (Isabela
Moner), Fenwick Frazier (Jaheem Toombs) and Christian Powers (Owen Joyner),
known as Crispo, are three young friends trying to make the most of their lives
before they're forced into high school. In this series premiere, they tackle
their greatest fears.

9 P.M. (Discovery) LIFE STORY The premiere of this six-part mini-series, a
coproduction of the BBC, focuses on animal infancy. The second episode, at 10,
follows animals from infancy to independence.

What's Streaming Now

SENSE8 The lives and minds of eight strangers living around the world are
suddenly connected in this sci-fi thriller from the Wachowskis. All 12 episodes
of the premiere season of this Netflix original series are available for
streaming. ''In terms of television, it's probably closest to ABC's series
'Lost' and NBC's 'Heroes,' but more cosmopolitan, with snazzier camera work and
a lead character who has particular resonance at the moment,'' Alessandra
Stanley wrote in The Times. (Netflix.com)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/television/whats-on-tv-saturday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROS. PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMY AWARDS (89%); FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); FILM GENRES
(76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (76%);
MARTIAL ARTS (50%)

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (90%); CLINT EASTWOOD (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Deep Pocket for Democrats to Open Polls

BYLINE: By MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words


A Democratic legal fight against restrictive voting laws enacted in recent years
by Republican-controlled state governments is being largely paid for by a single
liberal benefactor: the billionaire philanthropist George Soros.

Mr. Soros, the Hungarian-born investor whose first major involvement in American
politics was a voter-mobilization drive in the 2004 presidential race, has yet
to commit the many millions of dollars that Hillary Rodham Clinton's allies hope
he and other like-minded billionaires will pour into the ''super PAC'' directly
aiding her campaign.

But it turns out that Mr. Soros has already agreed to put as much as $5 million
into the litigation effort, which Democrats hope will erode restrictions on
voter access that they say could otherwise prove decisive in a close election.

The lawsuits -- which are being led by a lawyer whose clients include Mrs.
Clinton's campaign -- are attacking a variety of measures, including
voter-identification requirements that Democrats consider onerous, time
restrictions imposed on early voting that they say could make it difficult to
cast ballots the weekend before Election Day, and rules that could nullify
ballots cast in the wrong precinct.

The lawyer, Marc Elias, who specializes in voter-protection issues, was in
contact with Mr. Soros in January 2014 when Mr. Elias was exploring a series of
federal lawsuits before that year's midterm elections and in advance of the 2016
campaign, according to Mr. Soros's political adviser, Michael Vachon. (Mr. Elias
declined to comment on Friday about the funding of the lawsuits.)

The goal is to try to influence voting rules in states where Republican
governors and Republican-led legislatures have enacted election laws since 2010,
and to be ready to intervene if additional measures are passed over the next 17
months.

Mr. Soros described himself as proud to be part of the legal battles. ''We hope
to see these unfair laws, which often disproportionately affect the most
vulnerable in our society, repealed,'' he said.

Two suits that Mr. Soros is supporting were filed in Ohio and in Wisconsin last
month. He is also helping to pay for a case that Mr. Elias and several other
groups filed last year in North Carolina.

Democrats say the new laws disproportionately affect the poor, minorities and
young people. A Government Accountability Office study last October found that
states with more stringent voter identification laws had a larger decline in
voter turnout than states that did not have such new restrictions.

Republicans have argued that the new laws are much-needed protection against
election fraud, and they dismiss the litigation -- which could soon expand to
cases in Georgia, Nevada and Virginia, Democrats say -- as little more than a
gambit to energize minority voters in support of Democratic candidates.

But Mr. Vachon described it as an attempt to push back at Republicans who he
said were ''using the legislative process'' for partisan purposes.

''It is disingenuous to suggest that these laws are meant to protect against
voter fraud, which is nearly nonexistent,'' he said. ''Clearly they are meant to
give Republicans a political advantage on Election Day.''

Mr. Elias's clients include four major national Democratic Party committees, as
well as the Clinton presidential campaign, which is not a party to the lawsuits,
though Mrs. Clinton's team has spoken favorably of them.

Mrs. Clinton seized on voting rights this week, attacking some of her potential
Republican opponents in a speech in Houston on Thursday for voting laws enacted
in their states, and calling for automatic voter registration nationwide when
people turn 18.

''I call on Republicans at all levels of government with all manner of ambition
to stop fear-mongering about a phantom epidemic of election fraud and start
explaining why they're so scared of letting citizens have their say,'' Mrs.
Clinton said.

Some of the Republicans she named, notably Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, responded in kind.

''Secretary Clinton doesn't know the first thing about voting rights in New
Jersey or in the other states that she attacked,'' Mr. Christie said, according
to The Record, a newspaper in northern New Jersey. ''My sense is that she just
wants an opportunity to commit greater acts of voter fraud around the country.''

And Mr. Walker said Mrs. Clinton's ''rejection of efforts to make it easier to
vote and harder to cheat not only defies logic, but the will of the majority of
Americans.''

Mr. Soros's first venture into Democratic politics came in 2004, when he
provided millions of dollars to try to unseat President George W. Bush,
including through a voter mobilization drive called America Coming Together.

While Mr. Soros has not pledged money to the super PAC focused solely on Mrs.
Clinton, Mr. Vachon said he has given $1 million this year to the
research-focused super PAC American Bridge. The legal actions filed by Mr. Elias
are in keeping with the type of advocacy Mr. Soros has favored: efforts at the
nexus of policy, politics and movement-building.

Mr. Vachon said Mr. Elias first approached him early last year about supporting
a voting rights lawsuit in North Carolina, where student identification cards
are not considered acceptable forms of photo ID. The restrictions in North
Carolina ended a program in which teenagers filled out a form and were then
registered automatically to vote on their 18th birthday.

Joining with the N.A.A.C.P., the Justice Department and the American Civil
Liberties Union, Mr. Elias argued that the law was onerous for younger voters in
violation of the 26th Amendment, which lowered the voting age to 18 from 21.

The North Carolina case is pending.

Mr. Elias and Mr. Vachon have discussed filing other suits in some of the 21
states that have added voting restrictions since the 2010 Republican electoral
wave, if those states seek to tighten voting access any further.

''I expect there will be more,'' Mr. Vachon said.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Soros, the liberal billionaire, has agreed to invest up
to $5 million to contest ID requirements and early-voting limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%);
LIBERALISM (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%);
ELECTION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (89%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%);
US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
(78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%);
GOVERNORS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Door Opens for 24 Teams

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 397 words


Opening Day

Canada plays China in Edmonton, Alberta, to kick off the tournament at 6 p.m.
Saturday as the first game of a doubleheader, with New Zealand against the
Netherlands to follow. Fox Sports will broadcast each of the tournament's 52
games live.

How It Works

The Women's World Cup has been expanded to 24 teams from 16 for the first time,
and this year there are eight first-time entrants. The top two finishers in each
of the six groups, as well as four third-place finishers, will advance to the
knockout rounds.

The Favorites

Germany has won two of the past three World Cups and the last six European
championships, so it is first among equals until someone proves otherwise. The
United States is a natural rival, but the teams have kept their distance since
the last World Cup, meeting twice in 2012 and twice more in 2013. (Three of
those games ended in ties.) But the days of one or two dominant teams are long
gone. France has beaten several serious contenders in the past year; Japan is
the defending champion; Sweden, Norway and Brazil figure to be tough outs; and
it is high time a newcomer broke into the top tier.

United States Schedule

The United States opens the World Cup on Monday against Australia in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, then plays Sweden (Friday) and Nigeria (June 16). If the Americans win
their group -- not a certainty with Sweden in it -- they will play a round of 16
match on June 22 against a third-place group finisher, and will probably avoid
France and Germany until the semifinals. If they finish second, however, they
may face Brazil in their first knockout-round game.

Is This the Year?

The United States' quest for its first World Cup title since 1999 will hover
over the team for as long as it is in the tournament, and there is optimism that
it will make a strong run at the trophy. Why not? The United States has never
failed to reach the semifinals, and it lost on penalties in 2011. But its
midfield struggles to dominate games, and its best player, Alex Morgan, will be
-- where exactly? Nursing a bone bruise, Morgan has not played in eight weeks.
The good news is the United States has the deepest roster in the tournament, and
thus the option to rest, replace or rotate any number of players in any number
of ways. ''Don't freak out,'' forward Abby Wambach has been telling anyone who
will listen. ''We'll be fine.''

ANDREW DAS




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/soccer/womens-world-cup-2015-door-opens
-for-24-teams.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Women's World Cup begins with a doubleheader Saturday and
runs through July 5 in six cities across Canada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARMEN
JASPERSEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Abby Wambach, far right, has high hopes for the United States, saying, ''We'll
be fine.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE SCARNICI/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: GROUP A
GROUP B
GROUP C
GROUP D
GROUP E
 GROUP F

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); CONTUSIONS (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

CITY: WINNIPEG, MB, CANADA (73%)

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (73%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); GERMANY (92%);
FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); NORWAY (79%); NIGERIA (69%); AUSTRALIA (58%);
NORDIC COUNTRIES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Frugal When They Don't Have to Be

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1404 words


BOB WEIDNER likes to play a game when he goes to a high-end outlet store like
Brooks Brothers or Ralph Lauren: How many things can he buy and not spend more
than $100? On his last visit, the answer was seven.

''Every year, we go up to the outlets and find a deal,'' he said. ''It's worth
it.''

His wife, Angela Marchi, who chides him for darning his socks (just the toes,
not the heels, he said), prefers to buy her clothes twice a year when her
favorite stores put last year's styles on sale. But she recently made an
exception and bought her husband a Tommy Bahama shirt he had wanted -- on a
website that sells slightly worn clothes.

''He refused to pay full price,'' she said.

You wouldn't know it from their shopping habits, but Ms. Marchi, 56, a senior
health care executive who has run hospital chains, and Mr. Weidner, 57, a senior
researcher at a large nonprofit company, are worth millions of dollars. And
while they own three homes -- condominiums in Naples and Boca Raton, Fla., and a
house in Lebanon, Pa., where they grew up, none of them are huge. One splurge is
an annual trip to Italy.

The couple are the face of the self-made millionaire who has the financial
security of true wealth, not the fleeting rush of sudden riches. While the
popular perception of millionaires is that they are more ostentatious than
frugal, recent research shows that single-digit millionaires, at least, are
generally far more mindful about how they save, spend and invest their money.

''It's about paying attention to what makes you happy and not just doing what
our society tells us to do,'' said Donna Skeels Cygan, a financial adviser in
Albuquerque and the author of the book ''The Joy of Financial Security.''

''They look upon money as a tool,'' she said of couples like Ms. Marchi and Mr.
Weidner, with whom she has worked. ''It's an important tool. They don't neglect
it, but they also don't worship it.''

A recent report from UBS Wealth Management found that people with more money are
generally happy, which probably doesn't come as much of a shock. ''I would say
that millionaires in general are very happy,'' said Paula Polito, chief client
strategy officer at UBS Wealth Management Americas. ''I wouldn't confuse
happiness with contentment or satisfaction or achievement.''

The UBS report found that satisfaction rose in line with wealth: 73 percent of
those with $1 million to $2 million, 78 percent of those with $2 million to $5
million and 85 percent of those with over $5 million reported that they were
''highly satisfied'' with life.

What piqued my curiosity was how conflicted the report's respondents seemed to
be about the source of their wealth. They often have jobs that entail long
hours, high pressure and working vacations.

''Part of this pressure to keep going is less about greed and more about
insecurity that might be self-imposed,'' Ms. Polito said. ''If you ask people,
'If you knew you had five more years to live, would you act differently?' they
say they would. That's a showstopper.''

Money buys happiness, the report said. But what good is that happiness if the
millionaires who have it cannot enjoy the freedom the money gives them, the
freedom that most people would love to have?

I set out to talk to people who had what I considered an attainable level of
wealth for people with well-paying jobs and the ability to control their
spending and saving through their lifetime. They had wealth starting at several
million dollars, but it did not stretch above the $10.86 million estate tax
exemption level for couples.

(Once people's wealth goes substantially past the estate tax exemption, they
need tax and legal advisers for planning to minimize the estate tax. It's a good
problem to have, but it changes how they think about money.)

There were common threads in this group. These were people who had all made the
money in their own lifetimes and done that as much by saving, investing and
making careful choices about spending as by making large salaries.

One of the big choices was what they spent money on. A common thread was
frugality about cars. Not only did they buy modestly priced vehicles, they kept
them for a long time.

But fancy cars were more of a proxy for unnecessary purchases. Steve Ingram, a
real estate and oil and gas lawyer in Albuquerque, said he and his wife simply
didn't care that much about material possessions.

''We have some nice things, but I drive a car for 10 years and then trade it in
and get another car for 10 years,'' he said. ''We like to travel, and we'll
spend the money for that because it's worth it having a real experience
together.''

Mr. Ingram, 53, said he and his wife, Mary, 50, went to Charleston, S.C., and
Savannah, Ga., last summer and on a New England foliage trip in the fall.

''We did go to Las Vegas one time and went into Cartier and bought watches for
each other,'' he said. ''That was a real splurge. Or maybe we'll buy a piece of
art on vacation. That's the time you let go a bit.''

Heather and John Darby, both in their mid-60s, said they waited until they were
going to retire to build the house they always wanted, after making do with more
modest homes. Their dream house is 3,600 square feet in Columbia, Mo., 15
minutes from the center of town, and far from their old lives in Los Alamos,
N.M.

But they said they realized that what they really liked about their home was the
privacy, so they bought three adjoining half-acre lots. ''They form a semicircle
that is a buffer between our property and where anyone else would build,'' Mr.
Darby, a nuclear engineer, said. ''I tend to spend money on good investments.''

Why the habits that helped many of these people save millions of dollars persist
when they are wealthy is harder to say. They may want to leave money to charity
or to their children. Or they may simply not want for more than they have.

''Whether or not they realize it, they pay attention to what makes them happy,''
Ms. Cygan said. ''They have selective ways to spend on extravagances.''

Or they may not be comfortable spending because they have worked and saved their
whole lives, said Sandra Bragar, director of wealth management at Aspiriant, an
adviser that has clients with $3 million to $200 million.

She said she often encouraged clients to spend money on things that make their
lives better or easier, like housekeepers, trainers and even personal chefs, but
also on experiences that will make their lives fuller.

Either way, this group learns from its mistakes. Ms. Marchi said she and her
husband had not been immune to the siren song of a large, beautiful home. ''The
two times that we did it we said, 'Why did we do this?' '' she said. ''It's just
two of us. We don't need this much space.''

They lost money on both houses when they had to sell them to move for work.

Given that experience, she never imagined having three homes, but she has a
thought-out explanation. Naples is their permanent residence; the home in
Lebanon, Pa., is close to her sister and elderly mother. They bought the condo
in Boca Raton, where she works, cheaply, fixed it up and pay less on their
mortgage each month than they would pay in rent.

And while she said she expected to lose money on their home in Lebanon when they
were ready to sell it, she did not consider that a mistake. After her father
died nine years ago, she said, she liked being able to fly up and stay close to
her mother. It's an example of spending money on something that matters.

But are multimillionaires who darn their socks really just cheapskates? Or are
those little habits integral to their accumulation of wealth and part of the
reason they have achieved a level of financial comfort?

''It's interesting because it's less about greed,'' Ms. Polito said. ''They've
come from the middle class, the working class, and they still believe they're
part of the 99 percent, no matter what, because that's how they identify
themselves.''

And they don't seem to take their wealth for granted. Ms. Marchi and Mr. Weidner
play a gratitude game each night. One night this week, Ms. Marchi said she was
grateful for antibiotics for an infection she had. For Mr. Weidner, it was
shepherd's pie -- made by his mother-in-law.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/your-money/skimping-on-the-splurges-even-as-a-
millionaire.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Weidner and Angela Marchi, outside their home in Lebanon,
Pa. They are worth millions, but choose not to live that way. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (86%);
RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); HEALTH CARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HOSPITALS
(67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); WRITERS
(61%)

COMPANY: UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (73%)

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (55%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (53%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); NEW MEXICO, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); ITALY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Walmart Board Elects New Chairman

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 412 words


FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. -- Walmart's board elected a new chairman on Friday, only the
third chairman in the retail giant's history. The post again passed on to a
member of the founding Walton family.

Greg Penner, 45, will replace Rob Walton, who has been chairman for 23 years and
is a son of Walmart's founder, Sam Walton.

Mr. Penner has held several positions at Walmart, including senior vice
president for finance and strategy for Walmart.com and chief financial officer
in Japan. He is married to the daughter of Rob Walton, who will continue to
serve on the board.

''I'm deeply honored to follow in his footsteps and recognize the deep
responsibility I have to our associates, all shareholders and the board,'' Mr.
Penner said, referring to his father-in-law.

Oliver Chen, a retail analyst at Cowen and Company, the financial services
company, said in a research note that Mr. Penner could probably use his
background in e-commerce and finance to balance growth, investment and capital
returns. ''He brings a younger energy to Walmart, while continuing family
tradition,'' Mr. Chen said.

Walmart's board has been criticized for a lack of independence of its board from
the company's management, at a time Walmart faces questions over a bribery
scandal in Mexico, executive compensation and slowing growth at its stores in
the United States and overseas.

Five of the 15 directors are either affiliated with the company or are insiders,
according to Glass, Lewis & Company, a leading independent proxy advisory firm.

''We believe this raises concerns about the objectivity and independence of the
board and its ability to perform its proper oversight role,'' the firm said in a
proxy paper before Friday's meeting.

Shareholder resolutions submitted this year call for the board to be led by a
chairman who is independent of family or business ties to Walmart and to allow
shareholders to make board nominations. Another resolution calls for more
transparency on management compensation plans and programs.

''Tens of thousands of associates receive so little each year that they are
eligible for food stamps. That's a double standard and that has to stop,'' said
Mary Watkins, a Walmart employee, shareholder and member of the labor union
affiliate group, Our Walmart, who presented the resolution on executive
compensation at the shareholders' meeting.

As expected, the resolutions did not pass. The Walton family controls more than
50 percent of Walmart's shares.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/walmart-annual-shareholder-meeting.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER
PROXIES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); FAMILY (77%); BANKING &
FINANCE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (58%); ELECTRONIC
COMMERCE (52%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); COWEN GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); COWN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT
DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING
(69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (69%)

PERSON: S ROBSON WALTON (93%)

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ukraine Presses for International Support

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1152 words


KIEV, Ukraine --  In what amounted to a multidimensional confidence-building
campaign, President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine tried on Friday to rally
international support for his country and to maintain pressure on President
Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, including economic sanctions.

Mr. Poroshenko held a major news conference, gave interviews to foreign
journalists, spoke by phone with President Obama and Chancellor Angela Merkel of
Germany, and prepared to welcome two visiting prime ministers to Kiev, Shinzo
Abe of Japan and Stephen Harper of Canada.

His diplomatic activities precede a summit meeting of leaders of the Group of 7
nations that is scheduled to begin Sunday at Schloss Elmau in the Bavarian Alps,
with security issues on the agenda.

In each of his efforts, Mr. Poroshenko stressed Ukraine's resolve to stem the
Russian-backed separatist forces in the eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions, its
commitment to an overhaul of the national government, and its continued need for
international support, including financial assistance, as the economy remains on
the brink of default.

''We will defend our country, our territorial integrity and our independence by
ourselves,'' Mr. Poroshenko said in an interview with journalists from a small
group of foreign news organizations, including The New York Times. ''We have
weapons for that. But unfortunately we are fighting with the weapons from the
20th century, from the time of the Soviet Union, against the Russian -- most
modern -- weapons of the 21st century.''

He added, ''Here we are defending freedom, we are defending democracy, we are
defending European values, and the actual reason of this war is the right of the
Ukrainian people to live under European standards, with European values, in the
European Union.''

Fighting has flared recently in eastern Ukraine, a year after Mr. Poroshenko
pledged to end the conflict. A cease-fire agreement brokered in February has
reduced the violence but has never completely halted it.

In some of the deadliest fighting since the accord, more than 20 soldiers were
killed Friday in Maryinka, a town just west of the city of Donetsk. Mr.
Poroshenko said at his news conference that Ukrainian troops had repelled an
attack by as many as 1,000 pro-Russia fighters and captured 12 of them,
including at least one Russian citizen.

''We had some storming action by between 500 and 1,000 servicemen of the
militants, with a large number of tanks and armored machinery, apparently
counting on being able to quickly capture Maryinka,'' Mr. Poroshenko said.

He said Ukraine had informed international monitors from the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe that it would move heavy weapons back to
defend the town, reversing a previous agreed withdrawal.

The Kremlin has insisted that its military is not involved in Ukraine, though it
acknowledges that some Russian citizens are fighting alongside separatist
rebels; it says they are volunteers. Ukraine and its allies say Russia is behind
the fighting and point to evidence that includes funerals of Russian soldiers
killed in action.

The United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting in New York on
Friday to discuss the escalation in the fighting. The Council was briefed by
Jeffrey Feltman, under secretary general for political affairs, and Alexander
Hug, the deputy head of the Organization for Security and Cooperation's
monitoring mission in Ukraine.

''We are either looking at a return to a deepening intractable conflict or a
momentary upsurge,'' Mr. Feltman said. ''We cannot afford either scenario.''

Mr. Hug said the Maryinka fighting ''constitutes a new, worrying development in
the conflict in eastern Ukraine.''

Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, said Russia
and the Ukrainian separatists were to blame for the fighting and were trying to
claim more territory in eastern Ukraine. ''It seems the contact line can shift
to include the territories that they feel they deserve,'' she said.

In the interview, Mr. Poroshenko said Ukraine had no choice but to keep trying
to carry out the February cease-fire accord, brokered in Minsk, Belarus, even
though fighting continued. He said his government's understanding was that the
Russian-backed separatists were not mounting a ''big offensive.''

''That is certainly positive,'' he said, ''but we don't have a cease-fire.''

In his call with Mr. Obama on Friday, Mr. Poroshenko appeared to get exactly
what he wanted. The White House said in a statement that the two presidents
jointly ''called on Russia and the separatists it backs to abide'' by the
cease-fire and that Mr. Obama ''reaffirmed the strong support of the United
States for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity.'' The statement said
it was necessary ''to maintain costs on Russia and the separatists until they
fulfill all provisions of the Minsk agreements.''

The European Union's economic sanctions against Russia over the conflict are
scheduled to expire at the end of July, and the union has begun talking about
extending them. That issue is expected to come up at the Group of 7 meeting.

Critics of Ukraine, including Russia and the separatist leaders in Donetsk and
Luhansk, say the government in Kiev is to blame for cease-fire violations, and
they assail it for refusing to move forward with political components of the
accord, including local elections and greater local autonomy. Mr. Poroshenko
insists that his government cannot make any political concessions until weapons
and fighters are removed from the east and the border with Russia is brought
back fully under Ukrainian control.

In public remarks on Friday and in a lengthy address to Parliament on Thursday,
Mr. Poroshenko said his government was preparing to tighten its blockade of the
separatist-controlled regions in the east, despite provisions in the Minsk
agreement calling for restoring pension payments and other government aid to
those areas.

Mr. Poroshenko acknowledged in the interview that conditions were increasingly
desperate for civilians who remained in the east, many of them older people and
the infirm. But he said that his government had no choice but to seal the region
off and that pressure from the separatists would cause many residents there to
refuse aid from Kiev even if it could be delivered safely.

In a sign of how the country's Western supporters say things are changing in
Ukraine, Mr. Poroshenko said his government would support a gay pride parade
scheduled for Saturday in Kiev, which had drawn threats from right-wing groups.

''I will not participate in it,'' he said, ''but I don't see any reason to
impede this march, because it's a constitutional right of every citizen.''

His stance contrasted sharply with that of Russia, where an effort to hold a gay
pride march was quashed in Moscow last week and participants were arrested.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/ukraine-poroshenko-maryinka-fight
ing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ukrainian service members hauled a cart of ammunition on Friday
in Maryinka, a town near Donetsk where they have been battling pro-Russia
separatists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVGENIY MALOLETKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)  MAPS: Fighting
in Maryinka killed over 20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); GERMAN
CHANCELLORS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); PRIME
MINISTERS (76%); AGREEMENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); REBELLIONS &
INSURGENCIES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%);
MOUNTAINS (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%)

PERSON: PETRO POROSHENKO (92%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%); STEPHEN HARPER (75%);
SHINZO ABE (70%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%)

STATE: ALPS (72%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%);
EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wawrinka Ousts Tsonga to Earn First Final in Paris

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 835 words


PARIS --  Stan Wawrinka had made it into his first French Open final at age 30,
and the first question that came his way at his news conference involved Roger
Federer.

''Great for that first question to put Roger in it,'' Wawrinka said.

It has been a challenge -- and remains a challenge -- to find the spotlight in
the Federer era, but Wawrinka has made the bigger impact in Grand Slam
tournaments in the last two seasons.

After winning his first major title at the Australian Open in 2014, Wawrinka is
quite an upgrade here from last year when he lost in the first round.

''It's difficult to keep a cool head every week,'' he said. ''That's the big
difference with the Big 4.''

Clearly, the Big 4 -- Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray --
have set a new standard for oligarchical rule.

But Wawrinka is threatening to turn into tennis royalty himself. His tough,
grinding 6-3, 6-7 (1), 7-6 (7-3), 6-4 victory over Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France
on Friday at Roland Garros was a reflection of his growing self-belief and
maturity.

''A Roland Garros final is a dream for me,'' said Wawrinka, who comes from
French-speaking Switzerland and won the French Open junior title in 2003. ''It's
a tournament I appreciate. I feel at home even though the French fans are of
course supporting the French. It's the tournament I watched when I was young,
and I've always loved playing on clay.''

It remains unclear whom he will play. Djokovic, the No. 1 seed, and Murray, at
No. 3, arrived in the semifinals with undefeated records on clay this season.
But their match was stopped because of an impending storm, with Djokovic
leading, 6-3, 6-3, 5-7, 3-3.

The match was scheduled to resume at 7 a.m. Eastern time Saturday, before the
women's final. Djokovic, who has beaten Murray seven times in a row, dominated
for most of the first three sets, but Murray shifted the momentum by breaking
Djokovic's serve at 5-5 in the third with a flurry of phenomenal shots on the
run, beginning with a forehand passing shot off a Djokovic lob.

Djokovic had not dropped a set in his first five matches, and Murray was up a
break in the fourth set, too, before Djokovic returned the favor. The atmosphere
and quality of play were exceptional, with extended rallies the rule, including
one of 33 strokes.

Wawrinka's and Tsonga's latest duel was grueling for a different reason with
early-afternoon temperatures in Paris well over 90 degrees. The 3-hour-46-minute
match took a heavy physical toll, and a mental one, too. After one long game in
the second set, Tsonga mistakenly headed for his chair one game too early for
the changeover.

But Wawrinka's ability to dodge danger on his serve ultimately made the
difference. The backhand and the service return have long been Tsonga's weak
points, and on Friday he converted only one of 17 break points.

''We can't rewrite the story,'' Tsonga said.

It was the second major disappointment Wawrinka has inflicted on Tsonga in
France in the last six months. He also beat him convincingly on the opening day
of the Davis Cup final in Lille last November as the Swiss went on to win the
most prestigious team trophy for the first time.

Tsonga had a forearm problem in Lille, which did not help matters, but what
hurts him, above all, is his inability to do consistent damage with his
backhand. He hit some spectacular one-handers on Friday, including a passing
shot with a flick of his wrist that Wawrinka could only applaud.

But the two-hander is his baguette-and-butter shot off that wing, and it remains
too soft too often. The best players of the moment -- Djokovic and Murray -- are
more balanced threats. So is Wawrinka, whose magnificent one-handed backhand is
one of the game's great shots but who can also dictate terms with his heavy
forehand.

Henri Leconte thus remains the last Frenchman to reach the final at the French
Open.

In the women's final, No. 1-seeded Serena Williams is set to face No. 13 Lucie
Safarova of the Czech Republic.

Williams, 33, is trying to win her 20th Grand Slam singles title. Safarova, a
left-handed 28-year-old, will be playing in her first Grand Slam singles final
and is 0-8 against Williams in official matches. But while Safarova played
doubles Friday, Williams skipped practice and remained in her Paris apartment,
trying to recover from an illness.

She was visibly ill during her three-set victory Thursday over Timea Bacsinszy,
and in a statement Friday she confirmed she had ''some kind of flu.''

''I need time and obviously don't have a lot of it, but it helps that I can be
at my apartment and have my family and friends with me,'' she said.

Safarova and her partner, Bethanie Mattek-Sands, are into the women's doubles
final. The last woman to win the French Open singles and doubles in the same
year was Mary Pierce in 2000. Can Safarova, against the odds, do the same?

''We will see,'' she told French television. ''I will count on Serena being
there 100 percent, and I will be ready for the fight.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/tennis/french-open-2015-wawrinka-advanc
es-to-final-over-tsonga.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stan Wawrinka on his way to a 6-3, 6-7 (1), 7-6 (3), 6-4 victory
over Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); LANGUAGE &
LANGUAGES (73%)

PERSON: JO-WILFRIED TSONGA (90%); ROGER FEDERER (90%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (79%);
ANDY MURRAY (79%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); AUSTRALIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Golf; Woods Barely Makes Cut

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


David Lingmerth had a seven-under-par 65 at the Memorial Tournament in Dublin,
Ohio, and a one-shot lead going into a weekend that will include Tiger Woods --
but just barely. On his final hole Woods got up and down from 40 yards with a
6-foot par putt for a 70 to make the cut on the number.

â-  Suzann Pettersen shot a seven-under 65 for a share of the second-round lead
with Mariajo Uribe in the Manulife L.P.G.A. Classic in Cambridge, Ontario.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/golf/woods-barely-makes-cut.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (82%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Williams's Grand Slam March

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 326 words


On Saturday at the French Open, Serena Williams will go for her 20th Grand Slam
singles title and third in a row. She is second on the Open era career list,
behind Steffi Graf's 22. Williams's opponent, 13th-seeded Lucie Safarova, will
be playing her first Grand Slam singles final, though she won the women's
doubles title at the Australian Open this year. A look at some of the numbers in
Williams's remarkable 18-year career at Grand Slam events:

19-4 Williams's record in Grand Slam finals. She last lost in a major final at
the 2011 United States Open, to Samantha Stosur. That was also the last year
Williams failed to win at least one Grand Slam trophy.

11 Number of different players Williams has defeated in those 23 Grand Slam
finals, including her sister Venus six times.

1992 The last time a woman won the French Open after also winning the previous
United States Open and Australian Open (Monica Seles).

4 The number of three-set matches Williams has won at this year's French Open,
her most during a Grand Slam event since she won four three-setters during her
title run at the 1999 United States Open.

33 The numbers of times Williams has come back from a set down to win a Grand
Slam match.

5 The number of times Williams has not lost a set during a run to a Grand Slam
title. Surprisingly, it is Safarova, not Williams, who is entering the final
having not lost a set in the tournament.

3-1 Williams's record in Grand Slam finals against opponents playing their first
Grand Slam final. Two of the players she beat -- Jelena Jankovic (2008 United
States Open) and Agnieszka Radwanska (2012 Wimbledon) -- have yet to appear in
another major final.

2 Number of players who won their first Grand Slam title by defeating Williams
in the final: Maria Sharapova (2004 Wimbledon) and Stosur (2011 United States
Open). Venus Williams is the only other player to defeat Serena in a Grand Slam
final (2001 United States Open, 2008 Wimbledon)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/tennis/serena-williamss-grand-slam-marc
h.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Serena Williams after winning a point during her semifinal
victory on Thursday. She is seeking her 20th Grand Slam singles title.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS
(90%); TOURNAMENTS (78%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (93%); VENUS WILLIAMS (79%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (58%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scott Walker's Effort to Weaken College Tenure

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 441 words


Gov. Scott Walker's proposal for weakening tenure at Wisconsin's highly
respected state university system and undermining the faculty's role in campus
governance will appeal to conservative voters whose support he needs to win the
Republican presidential nomination.

But if this proposal becomes law, it will damage the university, perhaps
irreparably. It will make it harder to recruit top-tier faculty members, who
have the pick of other institutions that respect academic independence and where
they do not have to fear dismissal for taking controversial views or for doing
research that might be frowned upon by politicians.

It has become fashionable to portray academia as a haven for people who enjoy
job security while others are subject to layoffs and downsizing. But most
college instructors are not protected by tenure. According to federal data, only
20.35 percent of instructional faculty at American colleges are full-time,
tenure-track workers (down from 45 percent in 1975). Colleges rely heavily on
miserably paid part-timers who flee the campus when class is finished so they
can get to the next job.

Tenure protections were devised in the mid-20th century to protect academics
from political reprisals. Current Wisconsin state law respects this tradition,
allowing tenured faculty to be fired for just cause or in financial emergencies.

A committee of state lawmakers last week approved a new proposal that would
remove tenure from state law, leaving the matter to the university system's
18-member Board of Regents, 16 of whom are appointed by the governor with the
confirmation of the State Senate. Under the proposal, the board would be able
set new, vaguer standards for firing tenured faculty: ''when such an action is
deemed necessary due to a budget or program decision requiring program
discontinuance, curtailment, modification or redirection.'' Another provision
would weaken the faculty's voice in policy and personnel decisions.

Faculty members have ample reason to suspect Mr. Walker's motives. Earlier this
year, he issued a budget containing devastating spending cuts that also sought
to amend the university's mission statement to make it sound more like a trade
school than a prominent research institution. He backed away from the new
language after the state erupted in protest.

The Legislature, which will take up the new proposals later this month, can
still reject them. Rubber-stamping them would set the state university on a
course that Wisconsinites could regret for decades to come.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/scott-walkers-effort-to-weaken-college
-tenure.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TENURE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%);
GOVERNORS (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTRATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (90%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plenty of Notice for Rubios on the Road

BYLINE: By ALAN RAPPEPORT and STEVE EDER; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 647 words


Senator Marco Rubio has been in a hurry to get to the top, rising from state
legislator to United States senator in the span of a decade and now running for
president at age 44.

But politics is not the only area where Mr. Rubio, a Republican from Florida,
has an affinity for the fast track. He and his wife, Jeanette, have also shown a
tendency to be in a rush on the road.

According to a search of the court dockets in Miami-Dade and Duval Counties in
Florida, the Rubios have been cited for numerous infractions over the years for
incidents that included speeding, driving through red lights and careless
driving. A review of records dating to 1997 shows that the couple had a combined
17 citations: Mr. Rubio with four and his wife with 13. On four occasions they
agreed to attend remedial driving school after a violation.

Mr. Rubio's troubles behind the wheel predate his days in politics. In 1997,
when he was cited for careless driving by a Florida Highway Patrol officer, he
was fined and took voluntary driving classes. A dozen years later, he was given
a ticket for speeding on a highway in Duval County, which includes Jacksonville,
and found himself back in driver improvement school.

Things got more complicated in 2011 when Mr. Rubio was alerted that his license
was facing suspension after a traffic camera caught him failing to stop at a red
light in his beige Buick. His lawyer, Alex Hanna, paid a $16 fee to delay the
suspension and it was eventually dismissed.

''Senator Rubio's license has always been in good standing,'' Mr. Hanna said in
a statement provided by Mr. Rubio's campaign. ''This matter was resolved by the
court system and at no point was the license suspended by the D.M.V.''

That was not the last time Mr. Rubio was given a ticket. In 2012 he was caught
failing to obey a stop sign, but the infraction was dismissed.

Ms. Rubio's driving record is messier.

According to the records, her driver's license faced suspension on three
occasions, including after a 2009 episode where she was driving a white Cadillac
at 58 miles per hour on a road in West Miami with a speed limit of 35 m.p.h. She
paid a $302 fine and agreed to attend a four-hour course at a local traffic
school.

However, Ms. Rubio, who also took a four-hour basic driver improvement course
after a careless driving incident in 2000, failed to complete the class and had
to pay another $34 penalty.

A year later, in 2010, she was stopped for driving 23 m.p.h. in a school zone
where the speed limit was 15 m.p.h. She was fined $185.

It is not clear how the infractions have affected the Rubios' car insurance
policy or premiums. On at least one occasion, Ms. Rubio was cited for lacking
documentation that her car was insured.

The Rubios have spent more than $1,000 paying traffic penalties over the years,
but after Mr. Rubio was elected to the Senate in 2010, they took a different
approach to handling their tickets.

Mr. Rubio hired Mr. Hanna, a lawyer in Miami who is also a donor to Mr. Rubio's
campaign, whose website sales pitch says, ''Have you received a traffic ticket?
Don't pay it.'' With Mr. Hanna's help, Mr. Rubio's last two citations were
dismissed and seven of Ms. Rubio's last eight were cleared.

Mr. Rubio's campaign had no comment on the traffic violations or whether Ms.
Rubio's license was ever actually suspended.

And not all accidents become police matters. This year, Ms. Rubio, a former
cheerleader for the Miami Dolphins, sideswiped a Porsche Panamera while driving
her husband's Ford F-150 pickup truck to an event at the Delano Hotel in Miami
Beach. According to The Miami Herald, the police declined to take a report on
the incident because it was a ''minor'' fender bender.

If Mr. Rubio is fortunate to make it as far as the White House, there will be
many perks that come with the job. Chief among them, however, might be having a
driver.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Marco Rubio and his wife, Jeanette. They have received
17 driving citations since 1997. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%);
FINES & PENALTIES (89%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION &
REVOCATION (89%); DRIVER EDUCATION (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (86%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COURTSHIP & DATING (76%); DRIVERS LICENSES (74%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); LAWYERS (69%);
AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (65%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (91%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (78%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Caught Between Fresh Horses and Triple Crown Tradition

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

Email: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1000 words


When eight thoroughbreds break from the post at Belmont Park on Saturday,
American Pharoah will be the only one who has run in all three legs of the
Triple Crown.

Seven fresh (or at least fresher) horses will be trying to ruin yet another
Triple Crown contender's bid for history.

This seems neither fair nor sporting, like Usain Bolt having to face sprinters
who have skipped the heats and jumped straight into the Olympic 100-meter final,
or the Cleveland Cavaliers skipping three playoff rounds and advancing directly
to the N.B.A. finals.

Racing's fresh-horse dilemma is not new, but it reflects an intriguing moral,
political and economic conundrum in an industry that has been attacked for its
treatment and mistreatment of animals as it wages an increasingly desperate
fight to remain relevant.

After last year's Belmont Stakes, Steve Coburn, a co-owner of California Chrome
who was frustrated that his horse's Triple Crown hopes had just been dashed by
the lightly raced Tonalist, complained that ''this is a coward's way out.'' He
said that horses who have not participated in the first two legs of the Triple
Crown should not be allowed to jump in on the third. A number of trainers have
chosen to borrow Coburn's phrase, ''the coward's way.''

Of the horses who have upset Triple Crown hopefuls at the Belmont since the last
Triple Crown winner -- Affirmed in 1978 -- only three had also run in the
Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes:

â-  In 1987, Bet Twice, after finishing second to Alysheba at Churchill Downs
and Pimlico, prevailed at Belmont.

â-  In 1989, Easy Goer beat Sunday Silence, after also finishing second twice.

â-  In 1998, Victory Gallop also ran second twice before beating Real Quiet.

Shug McGaughey, who trained Easy Goer, dismissed Coburn's postrace complaints.

''I thought it was ridiculous,'' he said. ''These guys are training these
horses, trying to do the best they can for the horse, and for the safety of the
horse and to get them to the race the best way they possibly can. That's a
trainer's responsibility.''

Yet the industry must do what it can to stay relevant and attract the casual
fan. Nothing would do that like a Triple Crown winner, or, failing that, a
rivalry between horses and jockeys who have faced one another in all three
Triple Crown races.

But making substantive change has been the Achilles' heel of a fractured
industry with no central leadership. And so as with nearly everything else in
racing, there is no consensus about the Triple Crown's fresh-horse problem,
which seems to fly in the face of true sportsmanship.

''It doesn't bother me at all,'' Bob Baffert, American Pharoah's trainer, said
Friday.

Baffert said he didn't blame trainers for skipping the Preakness, or for
avoiding American Pharoah until they sensed the right moment to challenge him.

''I don't blame them for not running against him,'' he said. ''It shows respect
for the horse.''

Baffert also does not want to change the schedule of the Triple Crown races, nor
does he want to add cash inducements to encourage the running of more horses in
all three legs of the series.

''That's history,'' Baffert said. ''I want to keep it like that; otherwise it
means nothing. It wouldn't be the same.

''Once you change tradition, it ruins it. It wouldn't mean anything. It would be
the Kentucky Derby, and that would be it.''

Then there's Elliott Walden, the president and chief executive of WinStar Farm,
who was the trainer of Victory Gallop in 1998 when he spoiled the Triple Crown
push by the Baffert-trained Real Quiet.

Walden said that he favored the idea of creating Triple Crown rivalries by
devising a break between races that would allow the horses to rest, and to show
up fresh at the Belmont, or at least with the same degree of fatigue.

Walden said that he favored having four-week intervals between Triple Crown
races, a schedule laid out last year by Tom Chukas, then the president of the
Maryland Jockey Club. Chukas suggested a format change that would preserve the
Kentucky Derby's traditional date on the first Saturday in May, but would move
the Preakness to the first weekend in June and the Belmont to the first weekend
in July.

''You've got to change tradition or accept the fact that people are going to
skip the Preakness,'' Walden said. ''You can't have your cake and eat it, too.
Either you want to see the horses compete in three legs or you don't.''

Those differing opinions, of course, are the problem: This multiheaded industry
cannot make up its mind. Would a financial incentive -- say a $250,000 bonus to
each horse that runs the three legs -- do the trick?

''Some people would probably look at that,'' McGaughey said. ''I'm not sure that
I would, and I don't think there are a lot of trainers that would if they
thought their horse wasn't exactly right coming out of the Derby.

''It might make you think about it, but I don't think it would be a determining
factor.''

McGaughey said he could live with more time between the Triple Crown races,
though he agreed with Baffert that the mystique of the Triple Crown was in
solving Belmont's mile-and-a-half distance.

How can this be accomplished without endangering the horses? Can it?

''The horse has always got to come first, especially in this heightened day of
animal cruelty,'' Walden said. ''Back in the '70s, '80s, '90s, you just ran in
all three races as long as your horse was O.K. If you were to force horses to
run in races that their connections didn't feel they were ready for, it wouldn't
be a good thing. It would be a potential harmful thing.''

Regardless of whether the horses are rested or weary, all eyes will be on the
Belmont on Saturday.

A Triple Crown victory by American Pharoah against a pack of fresh horses will
bring much-needed attention to racing, though I doubt it will be the silver
bullet some predict it could be.

Another failed attempt, however, will bring an industry with an array of
problems another leg closer to irrelevance.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/caught-between-fresh-horses-and-triple-
crown-tradition.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (77%); SPORTS
& RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS (76%); ANIMAL
WELFARE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: USAIN BOLT (72%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

City Grants Widow, 93, Rent Subsidy After Lawsuit

BYLINE: By NIKITA STEWART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 677 words


New York City officials said on Friday that they were reversing a decision that
significantly raised the rent for a 93-year-old widow who was in danger of being
evicted, and that they would review the cases of other older and disabled
tenants in the same predicament.

The widow, Qiao Xiao He, who lives in a sixth-floor walk-up in Chinatown, was
one of eight low-income residents who are plaintiffs in a federal lawsuit filed
this week against the city's Finance Department.

The suit contended the city had improperly kicked the residents out of a program
that froze their rents. Coming at a time when Mayor Bill de Blasio has been
fighting to preserve and create housing for low-income New Yorkers, the suit
seemed to catch officials off guard.

''I don't come to work on a daily basis with a target of how many people we are
going to reject or who we're going to deny benefits,'' said the city's finance
commissioner, Jacques Jiha, who was named in the suit. ''I got into public
service to create opportunities to help people, not to hurt people.''

The tenants were seeking benefits from one of two programs, the Senior Citizen
Rent Increase Exemption, and a Disability Rent Increase Exemption. Those in the
programs, generally low-income tenants living in rent-regulated apartments, have
their rents frozen, with the city paying the difference between the frozen and
actual rent in the form of a property tax credit given to the landlord.

In each complaint, the head of the household, who was listed in city records as
the beneficiary of the program, had recently died, and their survivors assumed
they could take over the benefit since they, too, were eligible. But according
to the lawsuit, filed by the city's public advocate, Letitia James, and two
legal groups, the tenants were rejected because they missed a newly enforced
deadline requiring that they apply for a ''benefit takeover'' within 60 days of
their relatives' deaths. The lawsuit said the city never told the tenants about
the requirement.

Mr. Jiha said on Friday that the city's finance agency will continue to enforce
the 60-day rule. But he said its ombudsperson, who just began working two weeks
ago under a new law that created the position, reviewed Ms. He's case and
recommended a reversal, and would also look at other cases. Ms. He's rent jumped
to $790 from $523.86 a month after her application was rejected; she gets $629
per month in Social Security income.

Anita Wu, Ms. He's lawyer, shared the news with her on Friday. ''She's smiling
and laughing,'' Ms. Wu said. ''She said she is very happy and she is very
grateful to her attorneys.''

Mr. de Blasio said the Finance Department was expanding efforts to explain the
process. ''We should take extra care to ensure that seniors who are deserving of
assistance do not fall through the cracks,'' he said in a statement.

But advocates for the tenants responded tepidly on Friday, and said the lawsuit
would continue. ''The reversal for one is obviously not enough,'' said Grace
Shim, executive director of the MinKwon Center for Community Action, one of the
groups that filed the lawsuit.

She also said the city must rethink the 60-day deadline. ''The last thing
someone is thinking about when their spouse passes away is changing their status
on Scrie,'' she said.

It was unclear exactly how many people lost benefits because of the deadline.
But those who did appear to have been the victims of changes made to try to root
out fraud while the program was expanding.

Mr. Jiha cited a 2011 audit by the city comptroller that found that the Finance
Department was not accurately monitoring the deaths of beneficiaries and was
continuing to give millions of dollars in benefits to unqualified households.

New laws last year raised the income limit for both programs to $50,000 from
$29,000, adding about 6,000 people to the more than 64,000 enrolled last year.
The 60-day deadline is not new, officials said, but the city had not
consistently enforced it and had not put it on application forms until the new
threshold began.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/new-york-grants-subsidy-to-widow-afte
r-lawsuit-over-rent-freeze-eligibility.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); SUITS
& CLAIMS (90%); CITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY
(90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%);
RENT CONTROL (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LOW COST
HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES
(75%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX
LAW (64%); TAX CREDITS (50%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Union Chief Who Fought Mayor Wins Fifth Term With 70% of the Vote

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER; Liam Stack contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 501 words


Beating back his first challenge in a decade, Patrick J. Lynch, the irascible
police union boss, was re-elected on Friday as the president of the New York
City Patrolmen's Benevolent Association.

Mr. Lynch, 51, received 70 percent of the vote and defeated two opponents, Brian
Fusco and Ronald Wilson, to win a fifth four-year term.

His re-election came six months after he fought a nasty public war with Mayor
Bill de Blasio during which he attacked the mayor for showing sympathy to
protesters who marched after the death of Eric Garner, a Staten Island man who
was put in a chokehold by the police. Mr. Lynch later declared that Mr. de
Blasio had ''blood on the hands'' in the murders of two Brooklyn police
officers.

Announcing his victory, Mr. Lynch said in a statement, ''We are extremely
gratified that our members have recognized the hard work and successes that Team
Lynch has achieved on their behalf.'' He said he would continue to work in the
members' best interests.

Mr. Fusco, a high-ranking association official and a former ally of Mr. Lynch,
called it a hard-fought race. ''The members of the P.B.A. were able to hear our
positions on the critical issues facing police officers,'' he said. ''The
members have spoken, and we respect their decision.''

In a statement, Mr. Wilson thanked his supporters. ''Now it's time for the union
to all band together and stand behind Paddy,'' he said.

Throughout the campaign, Mr. Lynch, who has led the union since 1999, faced
criticism from his challengers over his failure to secure a contract for the
23,000 members of his union who have been working without one since 2010. He was
also assailed for not stopping Gov. David A. Paterson from slashing pension
benefits for newly hired officers in 2009.

A wily politician given to strategic bursts of outrage, Mr. Lynch alienated some
of his members, and much of the public, this winter when he called on the police
to sign petitions to keep Mr. de Blasio from attending their funerals if they
were killed on the job, and he quietly stood by as his officers engaged in a
work slowdown on summonses and quality-of-life arrests.

In January, some of Mr. Fusco's supporters rose in mutiny against him during an
association meeting at a catering hall in Queens, demanding that he drop his
fight with the mayor and concentrate instead on the business of the union.

Though an opinion poll around that time showed that nearly 80 percent of New
York voters considered his attacks on Mr. de Blasio ''too extreme,'' Mr. Lynch
focused his campaign on his constituency of rank-and-file officers. He visited
roll calls at precinct station houses around the city to promote his successes,
including his claim of having raised police salaries by more than 50 percent
during his tenure.

Mr. Lynch was unapologetic for having sparred with the mayor, saying that he was
merely giving voice to his members' beliefs and that his angry statements
eventually caused Mr. de Blasio to show more respect for the police.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/patrick-lynch-re-elected-to-lead-new-
york-police-union.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick J. Lynch in December after two officers were killed in
Brooklyn. He was re-elected Friday as president of the New York City Patrolmen's
Benevolent Association, defeating two opponents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN HAGEN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%);
VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); PETITIONS (77%); MURDER (75%);
TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%); DAVID PATERSON (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Look, Ma, No Hands!

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 843 words


On Wednesday morning, during Google's annual meeting, a shareholder named John
M. Simpson stood up to question the company's top executives about its
self-driving car program. They were not friendly questions.

Simpson, 67, works for a nonprofit called Consumer Watchdog, where he directs
its Privacy Project. In recent years, he has focused largely on Google, which,
he told me, he hopes to prod into ''being more respectful of people's privacy
when they do business.'' Owning Google stock allows him to ask questions at the
annual meeting.

In the run-up to this week's meeting, Simpson issued a string of press releases
critical of Google's self-driving vehicles. He feared that Google would collect
data from car owners, stripping away even more of people's privacy. He noted
that Google's ''autonomous cars,'' as they're called, have been involved in 11
accidents (two recent fender-benders brings it up to 13). He listed what he said
were the technology's flaws: for instance, that it can't make out hand signals
from a driver in another car.

Finally, Simpson noted that Google -- and Google alone -- envisions cars that
have no steering wheels or brakes, cars where everyone is a passenger. Simpson
views this as Google's hubris, pointing out that other car companies view
self-driving technology as a complement, not replacement, for the driver. ''We
think there always needs to be the ability of a human to take over if need be,''
he told me. Having looked into it more closely, I've come to the opposite
conclusion.

Google's effort to build a self-driving car is part of the division called
Google X, led by a scientist with the too perfect name of Astro Teller. The goal
of Google X is to attempt ''moonshots'' -- efforts that require a radical
solution that, if they succeed, would solve a huge problem (while making a nice
return for Google, of course). The big problem self-driving cars could help
solve, said Teller in a recent speech, is the ''1.2 million people who die every
year in car accidents.''

During the six years Google has been working on self-driving technology, its
cars have been taught to understand how to traverse the roads. With their
combination of robotics, sensors and computing power, they know how to stop at a
stop sign, look for oncoming pedestrians, change lanes, get on the freeway and
anticipate all the various problems that drivers face.

Using retrofitted Lexuses, Google has driven a million miles autonomously. More
recently, it has built several dozen small cars without steering wheels and
brakes and is ready to test them in the streets of Mountain View, Calif. (though
the State of California is insisting that Google add a steering wheel and brakes
to the cars it sends out for this experiment).

It's true that Google is alone in envisioning a world of completely driverless
cars, while other car companies see self-driving technology as merely an extra
feature that can be turned off. Google's conclusion is not the result of hubris,
however. Unlike its new cars, the retrofitted Lexuses also allow for human
driving.

Google realized that when people had the ability to drive autonomously, they
paid less attention to what they were doing. ''People don't even pay attention
to driving when they are driving,'' said Teller. The cars, which have 360-degree
vision and can ''see'' much further ahead than humans, were at their safest when
people didn't have the option of taking the controls.

Alain Kornhauser, a self-driving car expert at Princeton University, pointed out
to me that when the auto companies install autonomous features to aid drivers,
it won't be the humans who escape accidents by taking over from the technology
-- which is what Simpson assumes. Rather, the technology will step in to
override human error.

Google notes that in every accident its cars have been involved in, all of them
minor, the self-driving cars have never been at fault -- except on the one
occasion when a Google driver took the controls. And all the ''flaws'' Simpson
notes are things that Google has either solved or is in the process of solving.

At the annual meeting, Simpson asked Google if it would pledge not to use any
customer data it gathers from driverless cars for marketing purposes. David
Drummond, the company's general counsel, ducked the question, saying it was too
early to make any such pledge. Simpson also asked Google to release the accident
reports. In truth, Google has released plenty of information about the
accidents, and on Friday began issuing monthly reports that include descriptions
of accidents.

Simpson and other consumer advocates are right to press Google -- and all the
big tech companies -- on privacy issues. The profligate use of our data has
become a big concern for many Americans. But on the question of whether Google
should be promoting completely autonomous cars, he couldn't be more wrong. The
sooner they are a reality, the safer we'll all be.â[#x2dc]

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/joe-nocera-look-ma-no-hands.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTONOMOUS MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (88%); EXECUTIVES
(78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES (77%); ROBOTICS (73%); CONSUMER
WATCHDOGS (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Safety Agency Acknowledges Errors in G.M. Ignition Case

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and REBECCA R. RUIZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words


Ever since General Motors began recalling cars with a defective ignition switch
that has been linked to at least 109 deaths, Mary T. Barra, its chief executive,
has repeatedly apologized for the automaker's failings in what became the
gravest safety crisis in its history.

On Friday, it was the regulators' turn to acknowledge their role, after more
than a year of casting blame on G.M.

Two internal reports released by the Transportation Department identified a
series of failings by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that
allowed millions of defective G.M. cars to go unrepaired for more than a decade.
The ignition switch could suddenly turn off, stalling the engine and disabling
the airbags.

While the reports still focused blame for the defect squarely on G.M., the
nation's largest automaker, they also included an unusually blunt assessment of
mistakes made by regulators.

The agency, for example, admitted it had clues of the defect that it did not pay
attention to, and acknowledged that it failed to use its full authority to hold
G.M. accountable.

In response, the government is revising its investigative procedures, stepping
up efforts to obtain safety data from automakers and creating an oversight team
of outside experts to help put the changes into effect.

Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx acknowledged on Friday that there were
''deficits'' in the investigative process at the safety agency and ''room for
self-improvement'' in how the government regulates the safety of autos.

''We have taken a set of actions that will aid in improving the effectiveness of
N.H.T.S.A.,'' Mr. Foxx said in a conference call with reporters.

The admissions drew sharp responses from members of Congress who have been
critical of the government's inability for years to recognize that defective
ignition switches in G.M. cars could suddenly cut engine power and disable
airbags, putting occupants at risk of death or serious injury.

''There needs to be a complete overhaul of this failing agency,'' said Senator
Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut. ''The results of this report are
long overdue.''

The agency's new administrator, Mark R. Rosekind, took over in December and has
since instituted a more aggressive stance toward the auto industry, pushing in
particular for quicker responses on continuing safety issues at Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles and the Japanese airbag manufacturer Takata.

Mr. Rosekind said on Friday that he had not disciplined or fired any government
officials for their role in failing to force G.M. to fix its defective small
cars before the automaker began recalling 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalts, Saturn
Ions and other affected models in February of last year.

But he said the G.M. scandal, which set off a record number of vehicle recalls
for the entire industry in 2014, was the catalyst for substantial changes in how
the agency ensures that some 250 million vehicles in America are safe to drive.

''The G.M. experience changed the culture here,'' Mr. Rosekind said. ''What that
means is challenge the information you're getting, and challenge the assumptions
you are pursuing.''

Asked if that meant government investigators would be more skeptical of the
safety data provided them by auto companies, he said the agency's future
approach would be to ''trust, but verify'' any information from carmakers.

That is a seminal shift in how government regulators have long dealt with
automakers, which are required by law to supply data on crashes, accident
victims and internal defect investigations.

G.M. has already paid a $35 million fine to the government for its prolonged
failure to recall its unsafe cars, despite the fact that a number of its
engineers, lawyers and product specialists were aware of ignition problems.
Additionally, the company still faces probable criminal charges by the Justice
Department, according to people with knowledge of its investigation.

In a statement on Friday, G.M. did not address its part in spurring broad
changes in government safety investigations. ''We support the changes to
N.H.T.S.A.'s organization announced today, and we will continue to work
collaboratively,'' the company said.

In a shift, the agency said it would put manufacturers ''on notice'' about
potential defects as soon as it identified troubling cases, without waiting to
accumulate extensive evidence.

The agency will also adopt a ''risk control'' program that better aligns various
departments and encourages more sharing of safety information.

It also proposed a formal process to reach out to lawyers who represent accident
victims, partly to make government investigators aware of secret settlements
between automakers and litigants on safety issues.

The agency said it would be monitored for the next year by a team of outside
experts including former officials of the National Transportation Safety Board
and NASA, as well as by a professor of medicine and engineering at the
University of Michigan.

Their goal will be to prevent the errors made by the agency in its bungled
investigation into G.M.'s flawed ignition switches, which were detailed in the
two reports released on Friday.

In one of the reports, N.H.T.S.A. acknowledged it did not pay sufficient
attention to a Wisconsin state trooper's report in 2007 that suggested a crash
that killed two young women had been caused by the ignition switch.

The agency also criticized itself for not exercising its full legal powers to
hold G.M. accountable, noting that it had not required full responses from the
company on the details of fatal accidents.

''Rather than push back and request more information, N.H.T.S.A. analyzed the
incomplete responses,'' the report said.

The agency's admissions are a striking contrast to the tone it took last year
under its acting administrator, David J. Friedman, who in congressional hearings
repeatedly focused blame for the deadly ignition defect on G.M.

Mr. Rosekind said on Friday that his task was to reform and improve the agency,
rather than punish government officials who went too easy on G.M. or missed
clues about the root cause of stalling vehicles.

''G.M. intentionally deceived and withheld information,'' he said. ''That's
different than someone who had good intentions and made a human error.''

He added that the reports highlighted the need for more funding for his agency
in the coming federal budget -- a key to enacting its overhaul.

The report calls for more than doubling the number of staff members devoted to
defect investigations. The agency has 54 full-time employees devoted to its
defects division. It is requesting 85 new ones next year and ultimately hopes to
add another 336 people, it said.

One safety advocate argued that the changes made by safety agency did not go far
enough, and urged the agency to open up investigative reports to the public.

''It still soft-pedals why they have gone from one defect crisis to another,''
said Sean E. Kane of the consulting firm Safety Research and Strategies. ''What
is missing is any mention of the importance of transparency.''

Friday's reports do not conclude scrutiny of the agency's handling of the
defect, however. The Transportation Department inspector general has been
conducting its own examination and results are expected later this month.

For one family tragically affected by the G.M. defect, the reports did bring
some sense of closure.

''From Day 1 I said, isn't N.H.T.S.A. just as guilty as General Motors is?''
said Ken Rimer, stepfather of Natasha Weigel, who died in the Wisconsin crash
highlighted in the reports. ''It's terrific they are finally owning up to their
mistakes.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/nhtsa-admits-missing-clues-to-gm-igni
tion-defects.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%);
AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE
SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (73%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); AIRBAG MFG (69%); CONFERENCE
CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: FCAU (NYSE) (58%); F (BIT) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES &
PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%);
NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR
VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%)

PERSON: MARY BARRA (92%); ANTHONY FOXX (72%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Pistons Hire Agent Arn Tellem as a Front Office Executive

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 382 words


Arn Tellem, one of the most influential and powerful agents in professional
sports, has agreed to become the vice chairman of Palace Sports and
Entertainment, the company that owns the Detroit Pistons.

The hiring was announced Friday by Tom Gores, who owns the Pistons and Palace
Sports and Entertainment. Tellem is expected to start in his new role on Aug. 3,
after transitioning from his current job as vice chairman of Wasserman Media
Group, where he oversees the company's team sports division.

Under Gores, Tellem will be responsible for business strategy, public affairs,
planning and development, and will operate as a liaison to the Detroit-area
community, the company said in a statement. Tellem will move to Detroit.

''It has been a privilege spending so much of my life helping guide the careers
of professional athletes,'' Tellem said in a statement, ''but making a
difference to a community gives you a deeper sense of purpose.''

With the Pistons, Tellem will be in charge of league-related initiatives as one
of the team's alternates on the N.B.A.'s Board of Governors.

Stan Van Gundy, the Pistons' president and coach, will continue in those roles
as the head of basketball operations.

''Arn brings a unique perspective that will make our entire organization
stronger,'' Van Gundy said in a statement.

Tellem, who graduated from University of Michigan Law School in 1979, began
representing professional baseball and basketball players in the early 1980s --
one of the rare agents to become a power broker in both sports. After founding
Tellem & Associates in 1989, he joined Wasserman in 2006.

At Wasserman, where the basketball division has been led by B. J. Armstrong and
Thad Foucher, the company's list of N.B.A. clients includes Russell Westbrook of
the Oklahoma City Thunder, Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls, Marc Gasol of the
Memphis Grizzlies and Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans. Wasserman also
represents Joe Johnson and Brook Lopez of the Nets.

Since 2008, Tellem and his group have been responsible for $3.5 billion in
player contracts, according to the Wasserman website.

''Given his experience and all of his success,'' Arn could have gone just about
anywhere, and he chose Detroit,'' Gores said in a statement. ''This is a big win
for Detroit.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/basketball/pistons-hire-agent-arn-telle
m-as-a-front-office-executive.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BASEBALL (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (64%)

COMPANY: PALACE SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT (93%); TELLEM & ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT PISTONS (96%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%);
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (93%)

PERSON: DERRICK ROSE (79%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA
(79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS,
USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Improved Hiring Reports Lift the Dollar, but Not the Market

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 612 words


A burst of hiring last month led to a drop in the bond market Friday as traders
placed bets that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates later this year.

Despite the good economic news, the stock market drifted to another loss,
finishing lower for the second week in a row.

The Labor Department reported that United States employers added 280,000 workers
to their payrolls in May and also raised its estimate of the number of people
hired in March and April by a combined 32,000.

Traders reacted immediately to the report, dropping United States government
bonds and shooting their yields up. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note bounced
to a high for the year, 2.43 percent, before drifting back to 2.41 percent. The
dollar gained strength against the Japanese yen and other major currencies.

''I was pleasantly surprised,'' said Russell Price, Ameriprise Financial's
senior economist. ''This adds to the recent spate of positive data that shows
the economy is really pulling out of its winter slump.''

Still, the major stock indexes finished mixed.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 56.12 points, or 0.3 percent, to
17,849.46. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.01 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,092.83, while the Nasdaq edged up 9.33 points, or 0.2 percent, to
5,068.46.

Big banks and other companies that benefit from rising interest rates made
gains: JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and PNC Financial Services reached new
closing highs.

Jeremy Zirin, head of investment strategy at UBS Wealth Management, said the
rapid rise in interest rates over recent months had unsettled some investors. In
April, when traders were more concerned about the strength of the global
economy, the yield on the 10-year Treasury slipped below 1.9 percent.

In general, a rise in interest rates reflects economic growth, but a quick leap
could slow the economy down by causing a sudden drop in lending.

Mr. Zirin said investors ''want to see the rise in bond yields be more tempered.
They can handle higher interest rates as long as they come at a measured pace.''

In Europe, markets were rattled by Greece's decision to bundle together its
coming payments to the International Monetary Fund.

The move heightened concerns that the country would default on its debts and
drop the euro. At an emergency session of Greece's parliament on Friday, Prime
Minister Alexis Tsipras said his government cannot accept ''irrational''
proposals.

Greece's stock market led the way lower. The benchmark Athens index slumped 5
percent. Elsewhere, both France's CAC 40 and Germany's DAX ended with a loss of
1.3 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 sank 0.8 percent.

Japan's Nikkei 225 finished with a drop of 0.1 percent, and South Korea's Kospi
fell 0.2 percent. In China, Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 1.1 percent, and the
Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.5 percent.

Precious and industrial metals futures settled mostly lower. Gold lost $7.10 to
$1,167.80 an ounce, and silver slipped 12 cents to $15.98 an ounce. Copper
picked up a penny to close at $2.69 a pound.

In other commodity trading, the price of oil rose 2 percent following news that
the number of rigs drilling for oil in the United States decreased. Benchmark
United States crude rose $1.13 to settle at $59.13 a barrel in New York. Oil
finished the week down 1 percent. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oil
used by many American refineries, rose $1.28 to $63.31 in London.

In other futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, wholesale gasoline
rose 4.9 cents to $2.030 a gallon; heating oil rose 2.6 cents to $1.870 a
gallon; and natural gas fell 3.6 cents to $2.590 per 1,000 cubic feet.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Friday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE
(89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES
(89%); CURRENCIES (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT
BONDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS
(77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC
GROWTH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT
(69%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL
INC (69%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); AMP (NYSE) (69%);
PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE
COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523120
SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (69%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GREECE (91%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE
(79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistan Sets 8 of 10 Free in Shooting of Schoolgirl

BYLINE: By DECLAN WALSH; Ismail Khan contributed reporting from Peshawar,
Pakistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 683 words


LONDON --  Pakistani officials said Friday that a court had released eight of
the 10 men accused of conspiring in the shooting of the schoolgirl activist
Malala Yousafzai, in an admission that brought new scrutiny of Pakistan's
faltering efforts to try Islamist militants in the courts.

The men had been charged with organizing the 2012 attack on Ms. Yousafzai, who
was shot in the head as she traveled to school in the northwestern Swat Valley.
She survived her injuries and went on to become a global symbol of defiance and
an advocate for the education of girls, winning the Nobel Peace Prize in
December.

Although the Taliban gunmen were believed to have fled to neighboring
Afghanistan, the authorities announced the arrest of 10 men and put them on
trial in April at a military-run internment center in Swat. The media and the
public were barred from the hearings.

When the trial ended on April 30, a prosecutor told reporters that all 10 had
confessed to a role in the attack, and the police said they had been convicted
and imprisoned for 25 years each.

But on Friday, when the court published its written judgment, it revealed that
only two of the accused men, identified as Izharullah Rehman and Israrur Rehman,
had been convicted and imprisoned, sentenced to life. The eight others had been
freed.

''They were released for lack of evidence,'' said Azad Khan, the regional deputy
police chief, adding that the government would probably appeal the decision.

Mr. Khan emphasized that there was ''no conspiracy or mystery'' in the case and
that the initial, mistaken reports of the convictions had stemmed from the
secretive nature of the trial.

Still, news of the eight men's release offered an illustration of the problems
facing Pakistan's judicial system, where incompetence, intimidation and
expediency can conspire to frustrate justice in even the highest-profile cases.

Pakistani courts frequently try Islamist militants behind closed doors to avoid
threats against judges, police officers and witnesses. But such trials are
hampered by poor evidentiary standards and the security forces' widely
documented pattern of rounding up suspects, sometimes on flimsy grounds, and of
obtaining confessions through torture.

Conditions are particularly difficult in the Swat Valley, where Ms. Yousafzai
lived until the 2012 attack, because of continuing insecurity and because
civilian authority is largely subordinate to the military, which mounted a major
antimilitant operation in the valley in 2009.

In January, Pakistan's Parliament voted to hand the military sweeping powers to
try suspected Taliban fighters. In April, the military announced its first
sentences in that system: six men condemned to death, and a seventh sentenced to
life imprisonment.

But the military's authority to hand down such strong sentences was challenged
in the civilian courts, and the Supreme Court ruled that the sentences could not
be carried out. Legal arguments on the validity of the military courts continued
this week.

After the 2012 Taliban attack, Ms. Yousafzai was flown to Britain for emergency
treatment. Her global celebrity as a symbol of defiance against the Taliban, and
as a best-selling author and speaker, was cemented in December when she was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize alongside an Indian rights activist, Kailash
Satyarthi, and became the youngest-ever Nobel laureate.

Now 17, Ms. Yousafzai lives with her family in Birmingham, England, where she is
attending secondary school. Continuing Taliban threats have prevented her from
returning to Pakistan, although she says she would like to go home.

Despite the strong military presence in Swat, militants continue to carry out
sporadic attacks, often stealing into the valley from their hiding places across
the border in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan.

The Pakistani authorities say they believe that the four prime suspects in the
attack on Ms. Yousafzai -- the Taliban leader Maulana Fazlullah; his spokesman,
Sirajuddin; Habib ur-Rehman; and a militant known by a single name, Abdullah --
are hiding in Afghanistan.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/pakistan-says-court-has-freed-8-of-
10-accused-in-attack-on-malala-yousafzai.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Malala Yousafzai

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
CONSPIRACY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ADMISSIONS
& CONFESSIONS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); TALIBAN (89%); DECISIONS
& RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LITIGATION
(78%); ARRESTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%);
SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); APPEALS
(69%)

PERSON: MALALA YOUSAFZAI (92%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Days Before Election in Turkey, Blasts at Rally Kill 2

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU; Robert Mackey contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 581 words


ISTANBUL --  A huge opposition political rally in the predominantly Kurdish city
of Diyarbakir on Friday ended with smoke, panic and defiance as two explosions
killed two people and wounded more than 100 others, a senior government minister
said.

The blasts came as Selahattin Demirtas, the leader of a pro-Kurdish group, the
People's Democratic Party, prepared to address hundreds of thousands of
supporters at the rally, one of the final campaign events before Sunday's
national election.

Officials initially said a faulty transformer had caused the explosions, but the
energy minister, Taner Yildiz, told CNN Turk that the blasts occurred away from
electrical equipment, ruling out a malfunction. Video of the second explosion,
and the ensuing panic, was shared online by Hayat TV, a broadcaster that came
under fire from the authorities for covering protests in Istanbul in 2013.

The episode occurred at a particularly tense time in Turkish politics, with just
two days left until the country votes in what analysts have described as one of
the most consequential elections in its history.

The governing Justice and Development Party hopes to win a supermajority in
Parliament that would allow it to rewrite the Constitution and establish a
strong executive presidency, a goal of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the party's
co-founder and Turkey's longtime prime minister who last year was elected to the
presidency, which had been a largely ceremonial post.

The People's Democratic Party, on the other hand, has been campaigning hard to
become the first Kurdish party to secure representation in Parliament. If it
achieves that goal, with 10 percent or more of the vote, it could deny Mr.
Erdogan his supermajority. Over the course of the campaign, the party has been
the target of sharp criticism, and attacks involving guns and explosives.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said an investigation into Friday's deadly
explosions was underway. ''Whatever is behind this incident -- whether it was a
power transformer explosion, an assassination attempt, an act of provocation --
we shall investigate it,'' he said addressing supporters in the southeastern
city of Gaziantep. ''I call on my brothers in Diyarbakir: Please beware of
exploitation of the incident and provocations.''

Throughout the campaign, Mr. Davutoglu has assailed Mr. Demirtas and demonized
his party by linking it to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party, fueling
tensions in the country's southeast.

Last month, simultaneous bomb blasts ripped through offices of the People's
Democratic Party in the southern cities of Adana and Mersin. At least six people
were wounded.

In a written statement, Mr. Erdogan called Friday's attack a ''provocation''
that was designed to undermine peace ahead of the election.

Television footage showed scenes of chaos unfolding after the explosions. People
rushed to carry out the wounded as others stayed to begin an immediate protest.
After organizers announced that the rally had been canceled, the police
dispersed crowds that remained with tear gas and water cannons.

With conflicting reports as to the cause of the blasts, some Kurdish Twitter
users studied images of the blast sites posted online, looking for evidence of a
bombing. Speaking to reporters afterward, Mr. Demirtas said it was
''thought-provoking'' that the episode took place right before the election.
''Whatever the cause of the blast,'' he said, ''I am calling on the people of
Diyarbakir to keep calm.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/days-before-election-in-turkey-bl
asts-at-rally-kill-2.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protest on Friday after two explosions at a campaign rally for
the opposition People's Democratic Party in Diyarbakir. More than 100 were
wounded
 the cause has not been determined. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEDAT SUNA/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE
DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ASSASSINATION (71%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

France Says It Opposes Israel Boycott

BYLINE: By DIAA HADID; Jodi Rudoren contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and
Alissa J. Rubin from Paris.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 820 words


RAMALLAH, West Bank --  France is ''firmly opposed'' to a boycott of Israel, the
French foreign minister said Friday, after the partly state-owned French
telecommunications company Orange said it would seek to withdraw its brand from
the Israeli market.

The company's decision was seen in Israel as the latest in a rapid succession of
blows meant to isolate and punish the country over its policies toward the
Palestinians. Last week, Israel's opponents tried to eject it from FIFA, the
global soccer governing body, and on Tuesday, the National Union of Students in
Britain decided to align itself with the goals of the boycott movement.

The chief executive of Orange, Stéphane Richard, denied that his remarks about
withdrawing from Israel were related to pressure from boycott activists.

Activists have been trying for years to get people, organizations and
governments around the world to shun Israel and Israeli businesses, arguing that
the Jewish state systematically violates Palestinians' rights. So far, what is
known as the B.D.S., or boycott, divestment and sanctions movement, has had
little financial effect, but it has started a global conversation.

For their part, French diplomats have been trying to reignite movement in the
United Nations Security Council on long-stalled Middle East peace talks that
would establish an independent Palestinian state, while trying to keep France's
relations with Israel on an even keel.

Those factors, combined with the fact that the French state owns a substantial
minority stake in Orange, made the company's announcement and its timing
diplomatically sensitive. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel called it
a ''miserable statement'' on Thursday and called on France to condemn it.

Orange does not directly operate in Israel; it licenses the Orange name there to
an Israeli company, Partner Communications. Mr. Richard said Wednesday that he
would end that arrangement and take the company out of the Israeli market
''tomorrow morning'' if it were not for the legal and financial penalties the
company would incur.

''Although it is up to the president of the Orange group to determine the
commercial strategy of the company, France is firmly opposed to a boycott of
Israel,'' the French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said Friday.

Still, referring to France's opposition to the construction of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank, Mr. Fabius said in the statement, ''France and the
European Union have a constant position known to all on colonization.''

Mr. Richard said in emailed comments that he ''sincerely'' regretted ''the
current confusion and controversy regarding Orange and Israel.''

''We do not engage in any form of political debate,'' Mr. Richard said. ''Orange
does not support any form of boycott, in Israel or anywhere else in the world.''

The chief executive said Orange's decision to scale back from the Israeli market
stemmed from not wanting to continuing licensing the brand to a third-party
operator. Mr. Richard said Israel was the only country where Orange was in this
position. He said the company would withdraw as ''soon as contractually
possible.''

The license with Partner is valid until March 31, 2025, he said.

''Our objective is that the Orange brand is used in a coherent and consistent
manner in the interests of all our customers, employees, shareholders and the
societies in which we do business,'' Mr. Richard said. The company denied
reports in Israeli news media that in April, Orange extended its agreement with
Partner for 10 years. Mr. Richard said they inherited the agreement with Partner
when they purchased the Orange brand 15 years ago.

Boycott campaigners went after Orange because its Israeli licensee's cellphone
service covers and operates in the occupied territories. They brought pressure
to bear in France and also in Egypt, where Orange is the 99 percent owner of
Mobinil, an Egyptian communications company, according to Omar Barghouti, a
prominent figure in the B.D.S. movement.

''This most certainly played the decisive role in Orange's announcement,'' Mr.
Barghouti wrote in response to written questions from a reporter, adding, ''It
did the math.''

Israeli officials, and many Israelis, say the boycott movement unfairly singles
out their country for condemnation in a region where serious human rights abuses
are endemic. Commentators like Hanoch Daum, writing in Yediot Ahronoth, say they
see an undercurrent of anti-Semitism in the movement.

But in another emerging conversation, even many who reject the boycott movement
say its momentum is directly related to how the world views Israel's occupation
of the Palestinian territories since 1967.

''The world is teaching us a lesson about having it both ways: It can't be
done,'' Eitan Haber wrote in the same newspaper. ''Either we continue to
disregard the world, or we meet its demands and, after 48 years, give up the
dream.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/middleeast/france-says-it-opposes-boycot
ting-israel.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP
(90%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%);
JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
(77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); SOCCER (75%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%);
DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%);
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%); POLITICAL
DEBATES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (51%)

COMPANY: ORANGE SA (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); UNITED
NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: ORAN (NYSE) (96%); ORA (PAR) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE)
(96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%);
MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Irving Done for Season as Knee cap Is Fractured

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 439 words


OAKLAND, Calif. --  With Kyrie Irving officially gone for the remainder of the
finals, the Cleveland Cavaliers must figure out a way to compete with a powerful
Golden State Warriors team that may have been too much for them even when they
were at full strength.

''If he's not able to go, it's something that's not new to us,'' LeBron James
said Friday before it was announced that Irving had fractured his left kneecap
in overtime of Thursday night's 108-100 Game 1 defeat. ''So next man up, and
guys will be ready for the challenge.''

Be it Matthew Dellavedova replacing Irving at point guard, or Iman Shumpert or
even J. R. Smith, the Cavaliers understand this is not the Eastern Conference
anymore. This opponent is not the Atlanta Hawks, whom the Cavs swept in the
conference finals despite Irving's missing two games and the loss of power
forward Kevin Love for the postseason in the first round.

''There are a few things that you would love to have going late in the season,''
James said. ''That's being healthy, having a great rhythm, and then you need a
little luck as well. We've had a great rhythm. We haven't had much luck, and we
haven't been healthy.''

He added: ''But I haven't gotten discouraged. I understand the moment that I'm
in, and I'm not too much worried about the game. I'm worried about the moment.
I'm happy with the moment.'' After Irving had played 44 minutes in Game 1,
scoring 23 points and making a huge block from behind on Stephen Curry to give
the Cavaliers the last shot in regulation in a 98-98 game, his knee buckled as
he drove on Klay Thompson in overtime.

Irving left Oracle Arena on crutches and was still using them, Coach David Blatt
said, when he left the team hotel Friday morning to have a magnetic resonance
imaging exam. The test showed no ligament damage. The operation is expected to
sideline Irving for four to five months, and any setbacks could carry into next
season.

After the announcement, Irving wrote on Instagram: ''I want to thank everyone
for the well wishes. Saddened by the way I had to go out but it doesn't take
away from being a part of a special playoff run with my brothers. Truly means a
lot for all the support and love. I gave it everything I had and have no
regrets. I love this game no matter what and I'll be back soon.''

The knee -- along with a sprained foot -- had plagued Irving throughout the
spring, and he had been given a diagnosis of tendinitis. Irving said an
eight-day break between the conference and league finals had left him feeling
''amazing'' heading into Thursday night. His play gave the Cavaliers reason to
believe he had recovered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/basketball/kyrie-irving-out-of-nba-fina
ls-with-broken-kneecap-cavaliers-say.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (91%); GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (84%); ATLANTA
HAWKS (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (78%)

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA,
CA, USA (74%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surveying the Wages of Labor War

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words


This year, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York recommended raising New York City's
minimum wage to $11.50, with a minimum of $10.50 elsewhere in the state.
Lawmakers rejected the proposal, which is not really a surprise if you know the
history that inspired ''Injunction Granted.'' A 1936 play created by the Living
Newspaper Unit of the W.P.A.'s Federal Theater Project, it has been given a
devoted if rickety revival by the Metropolitan Playhouse.

A history of labor unions and of the collusion among plutocrats, politicos and
the judiciary to curtail workers' freedoms and rights, the play was something of
a scandal in its day. Hallie Flanagan, the leader of the Federal Theater
Project, called it ''bad journalism and hysterical theater.'' She had already
received criticism for the perceived politics of her group, and the
uncompromisingly leftist slant of the play (to say nothing of the Communist
Party literature for sale in the lobby) put her in a difficult position. She
shuttered ''Injunction Granted'' early.

In 28 very short scenes -- the first set in 17th-century England, the last in
1936 America -- the drama details the antagonism between labor and capital in
bursts that are sometimes satiric and sometimes deadly earnest, particularly
when a Samuel Gompers or a Eugene V. Debs or a John L. Lewis speaks. All the
fairness and goodness are on labor's side. The judges and the capitalists, not
so much (though occasionally you get a somewhat sympathetic politician).

A few more gradations and a little nuance might have helped, but that doesn't
seem to have been the goal of the play's creators, many of them former members
of the New York Newspaper Guild, which had its own labor struggles. Though far
from a subtle play, it sometimes seems an urgent and unfortunately resonant one.

The Metropolitan revival is perhaps more enthusiastic than it is expert, with a
cast of five playing scores of roles, not always credibly. The director, Alex
Roe -- who also appears, uncredited, as a Harlequinesque M.C. -- has added a
snappy prequel and an epilogue, which remind audiences that performers are
employees, too. But what's in between is often clumsy, with dropped lines,
missed cues and scattershot lighting and sound.

Still, the Metropolitan Playhouse remains a resource for forgotten American
drama and, in this case, neglected chapters of history. It keeps the ticket
prices low and the good will high. ''Injunction Granted'' may not be its finest
effort, but as Off Off Broadway houses go, the Metropolitan is a collective
bargain.

''Injunction Granted'' continues through June 28 at the Metropolitan Playhouse,
220 East Fourth Street, East Village; 800-838-3006, metropolitanplayhouse.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/theater/review-metropolitan-playhouse-tackles-
labor-history-in-injunction-granted.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%);
THEATER (90%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(78%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); JOURNALISM
(71%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); PRICES (67%); TICKET SALES (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unruly Prices Add to Anxiety Ailing Ukraine

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Sofiia Kochmar contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words


KIEV, Ukraine --  Olesia Verchenko looked over a selection of blackened avocados
at a supermarket here recently.

Their price has roughly doubled over the last year, notwithstanding the stickers
on them advertising a 25 percent discount.

''I don't think anybody takes avocado anymore, so they are basically rotting on
the shelves,'' said Ms. Verchenko, an economist.

While the rest of Europe tries desperately to shrug off low inflation, Ukraine
has added rapidly rising prices to its long list of problems during its civil
war with Russian-backed rebels. Official inflation figures showed that prices
rose 61 percent in April compared with a year earlier. But many prices have
doubled and tripled.

Ms. Verchenko, a 37-year-old mother of two boys and a professor at the Kiev
School of Economics, specializes in arcane subjects like options pricing, but
she took some time to explain less esoteric market dynamics. Like the price of
candy.

She once bought chocolates from Roshen, the company owned by the Ukrainian
president, Petro Poroshenko, for about 80 Ukrainian hryvnia a kilogram, or
$3.89. Now they are 203.

''You can see inflation in those candies,'' she said during a visit to a grocery
store near her office.

The price of everything seems to have gone up sharply, including tea, apples and
fresh fish.

At a glass display case, she pointed to slices of cake. The prices were quoted
for every hundred grams, instead of per kilogram as they once were.

''Before it was always per kilo, but now you have too many numbers,'' she said.
''It looks better like that. You don't want to scare your customers away.''

When she recently went shopping for a mattress, she noticed that prices were
missing entirely.

For many bigger ticket items, she said, ''They don't really put price tags out
anymore.''

''You choose what you want, you ask how much it is, and then you see whether you
can afford it or not.''

High inflation is just one of the many problems befalling Ukraine at the moment.

Thousands have died in the war, many more have been displaced, and Ukraine has
been cut off from parts of the industrial east. The crisis in Ukraine, where new
violence has erupted, is likely to loom large over the Group of 7 meeting in
Germany that starts on Sunday.

Potential investors in Ukraine have been scared off. Output is expected to
shrink 7.5 percent this year.

A lifeline came this year, when Ukraine negotiated a $25 billion loan package,
including $17.5 billion from the International Monetary Fund. As part of that
deal, the government is embroiled in contentious negotiations with Ukraine's
creditors in hopes of bringing another $15.3 billion of relief by restructuring
the country's debts.

Austerity measures and tax reforms have also been enacted in tandem with
negotiations with the West; there have been cuts in energy subsidies, pension
haircuts and tax increases aimed at the wealthy and businesses.

Two factors have worsened inflation. The value of Ukraine's currency has
plummeted since the war began, driving up the cost of imported goods. And energy
prices have soared as the government has cut its historically high subsidies.

That has made life more difficult for average Ukrainians and for businesses,
which face high borrowing costs.

''I'm not dreaming of credit,'' said Yaroslav Rushchyshyn, who founded a garment
manufacturer in Lviv, in Ukraine's west, and is on the board of a coalition of
entrepreneurs in the region. ''It's too expensive.''

Natalie Jaresko, Ukraine's Chicago-born finance minister, said, ''I think we'll
be able to bring inflation down over the course of the rest of the year.''

But she was blunt about the stresses inflation poses.

''For a business, it's a challenge to have to borrow at 30 or 35'' percent, she
said in an interview. ''Our goal is to have real growth again by 2016. That
means the banking sector has to be lending to real business, and for it to be
lending to real business, inflation has to come down.''

Another problem, she said, is that ''when you have this kind of inflation, you
have less confidence in your currency,'' adding, ''People will start pulling
their money out of the banks. The deposit withdrawals weaken an already weakened
banking system.''

One enterprising entrepreneur, Michael Chobanian, has opened what he calls a
Bitcoin embassy and is evangelizing about the controversial virtual currency at
a time when faith in traditional currencies is wavering.

''Considering the situation with the currency, it gave Bitcoin a huge boost, so,
yes, there is definitely interest,'' he said in a recent interview. ''Although
with Bitcoin, the first time you hear about it, you usually think it's a scam or
a Ponzi scheme.''

The strains of inflation are showing.

''Drugs in Ukraine cost as much as gold,'' said Dmytro Sherembey, the founder of
Patients of Ukraine, an advocacy group. ''For patients, it was a catastrophe
last year.''

Government subsidies for medications have not kept pace. They were based on a
world where a dollar was worth about eight Ukrainian hryvnia. But the dollar
soared to more than 30 hryvnia by February before settling back to about 21 at
the end of May.

''Families go to the pharmacy and pay three times more, but the salaries are the
same,'' said Mr. Sherembey.

Many others are just trying to keep their heads above water.

Vitaly Nakonechnyi, 31, said the weakness of the hryvnia ''influences the price
of everything I buy'' and led him to look for a job with higher pay. He found
one as a barista at a coffee shop that looks like an old train car, in a central
Kiev park dominated by a Soviet era statue of the Ukrainian poet Taras
Shevchenko.

Victor Halavin, a 60-year-old bus driver, said, ''In my flat, electricity,
water, everything is up,'' adding, ''Bread used to be 4 hryvnia. Now it's 7.''

He stood next to his yellow bus with a cigarette pressed tightly between thumb
and index finger and reflected on the last year. ''It's too much revolution in
our life,'' he said.

Economic hardship is nothing new here. The transition after the fall of the
Soviet Union to a market economy has been a rocky one, sapped by corruption and
antiquated regulations. The contrast with neighboring Poland, which took a much
more aggressive approach to transforming its economy, has been particularly
stark. Poland's per capita output is about three and a half times that of
Ukraine.

Ms. Verchenko keeps the inflation problem in perspective.

''I remember how it was in the early '90s,'' she said. ''I was still a student
in high school when we had 10,000 percent a year. That was hyperinflation! What
we have now? It's not that bad.''

When she was in high school, she had to carry millions of karbovanets, the local
currency that temporarily replaced the ruble after the Soviet Union fell, just
to buy bread.

''I remember jokes of everyone being millionaires,'' she said.

For her, like many others, there are additional concerns while shopping. At the
grocery store, she flipped over a package of crackers and pointed to the
beginning of the bar code.

''This is not a Ukrainian code,'' she said. The first numbers on a product's
international bar code indicate where it was registered, though it does not
always coincide with where the product was manufactured. Still, some Ukrainian
shoppers aren't taking chances.

''Russia would be 46,'' Ms. Verchenko said. ''So 46, no, no. Don't take 46.''

Everyone was reading bar codes now, she said.

''We don't know all countries, but we know Russia is 46.'' And Ukraine's code
starts with 482.

She turned over a bottle of juice and examined the code on the back label.

''I can't promise it's good, but it's Ukrainian.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/international/high-inflation-exacerba
tes-ukraines-troubled-situation.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''You can see inflation in those candies,'' Olesia Verchenko,
above, a professor at the Kiev School of Economics, said during a grocery trip.
Prices at markets and other shops have surged. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); 2014
UKRAINIAN PROTESTS & UPRISING (79%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%);
WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); DISPLACED PERSONS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%); TAXES
& TAXATION (61%); TAX REFORM (60%)

PERSON: PETRO POROSHENKO (79%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (91%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Nestlé Pulls Maggi Noodles From Shelves Across India

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR; Bhadra Sharma contributed reporting from Kathmandu.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 586 words


NEW DELHI -- Nestlé's unit in India said on Friday that it would withdraw its
popular Maggi brand of instant noodles from stores across the nation, after
mounting concerns over reports that some samples contained high levels of lead.

''Trust has been shaken and therefore it is not conducive to have our product on
the shelf, we felt, in spite of the product being safe,'' Nestle's chief
executive, Paul Bulcke, said on Friday at a news conference in New Delhi.

After Nestlé's announcement Friday, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of
India ordered a recall, saying all nine variants of the noodles were ''unsafe
and hazardous for human consumption.''

At least five more states in India had banned the sale of the noodles on
Thursday. Gujarat, one of those states, initiated a monthlong ban of the
product, after samples tested positive for higher than permissible levels of
lead.

The government in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir also issued a monthlong
ban on the sale of Maggi noodles pending tests on samples, though a state
official said that the ban would be lifted if the noodles are found to be safe.

Uttarakhand issued a ban on the sale of Maggi for three months, after it found
two samples of the noodles contained monosodium glutamate, commonly known as
MSG, without listing the ingredient, according to the health secretary, Om
Prakash. He said that the state was conducting tests on 300 samples of the
noodles, and should they be found safe, the ban would be lifted. The state of
Assam also banned the sale of Maggi noodles over concerns about the safety of
the product.

Tamil Nadu issued a three-month ban on the sale, storage and manufacturing of
Maggi and three other brands of noodles, according to The Press Trust of India.

The Nepal government also banned the sale and import of the noodles, according
to Purna Chandra Wasti, a spokesman for the Department of Food Technology and
Quality Control, who added that the department had been collecting samples for
testing on Thursday.

Mr. Bulcke said that because of the confusion over MSG, which he said could have
come from naturally occurring glutamate from various ingredients, the company
would also remove the ''No Added MSG'' label from packages.

At least three states have said that they have not found tested Maggi samples
unsafe, according to The Press Trust of India, and the company has conducted
external and internal tests on almost 1,600 samples of the product, finding lead
levels to be ''well within the limits specified by food regulations,'' the
company said.

Maggi's ubiquity in Indian markets is a reflection of its appeal as a
quick-cooking solution for busy Indians. Three Bollywood actors who have
endorsed the product in the past have been the target of a court case in the
Indian state of Bihar for their endorsement after a consumer became ill.

''India is important to us and that's why I am here,'' Mr. Bulcke said on
Friday. He said that Nestlé had been in India for 100 years.

The public outcry over the noodles, which are widely sold and consumed in India,
has picked up since the authorities in Uttar Pradesh last month revealed that
they had found lead in samples tested at nearly seven times the permissible
limits. The authorities in the state have initiated a case against the company.
The Delhi government issued a 15-day ban on the product on Wednesday after
preliminary test results revealed higher than permissible levels of lead in
samples, and the presence of MSG without proper labeling.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/nestle-pulls-maggi-noodles-from-shelv
es-across-india.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASTA & NOODLES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); LEAD
(77%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); FOOD SAFETY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES
(75%); FOOD ADDITIVES (70%); QUALITY CONTROL (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%);
EXECUTIVES (56%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (50%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (90%); PRESS TRUST OF INDIA LTD (53%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE &
TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT
MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM
CACAO BEANS (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES
(53%)

PERSON: PAUL BULCKE (55%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%)

STATE: JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%); UTTARAKHAND, INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA
(79%); KASHMIR (79%); ASSAM, INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

For Sibling Formula One Teams, Winning Isn't Everything

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CANADIAN GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 1251 words


It is generally accepted that Formula One teams exist to win.

But for the Red Bull and Toro Rosso teams, which are both owned by the Austrian
energy drink company Red Bull, there has been a different approach since their
founding in 2005 and 2006, respectively: Red Bull is meant to win, while Toro
Rosso is expected to be a training ground for young drivers.

At times, however, the feisty training outfit has overshadowed its big brother.

This season, although Red Bull is currently higher in the championship, in
fourth position with 52 points, while Toro Rosso is in eighth position, with 15
points, the numbers are not representative of their overall performance. Toro
Rosso has outshone Red Bull several times this season and taken the spotlight at
almost all of the races.

That is largely thanks to a car that has more successfully incorporated the weak
Renault hybrid engine. But it is also thanks to the extraordinary results of its
young drivers, the rookies Carlos Sainz Jr., 20, and Max Verstappen, 17.

But two weeks ago in Monaco, at one of the most difficult races in Formula One,
order was restored: While the Red Bull drivers, Daniil Kvyat and Daniel
Ricciardo, finished fourth and fifth -- their best result of the year -- Sainz
and Verstappen both made costly errors.

Sainz was penalized for not obeying an order to take his car to the weigh-in
area and was forced to start at the back of the grid. Verstappen drove the race
like the teenager without a driver's license that he is, crashing out in a
foolhardy effort to overtake a car where it was impossible to do so.

He was given a penalty of five grid positions at the Canadian Grand Prix this
weekend and was criticized by other drivers as not being ready to race in the
elite series.

Until then, however, Verstappen had been widely praised for his maturity and
driving. Problems, mostly with the car, have meant that he has scored points in
only one of the six races. Sainz, on the other hand, has scored consistently, in
four of six races.

At the Red Bull team, the promising Ricciardo and Kvyat have disappointed
because of a relatively poor car and engine. Kvyat, particularly, had been
expected to do better than he has.

Another year in which Toro Rosso outshone Red Bull was 2008. At the time, Red
Bull had not yet won any races, and it suffered a sudden dip in the quality of
its chassis and struggled. Toro Rosso, meanwhile, was using a chassis based on
the 2007 Red Bull, and it captured the first Formula One victory for the energy
drink company when Sebastian Vettel won the Italian Grand Prix at Monza.

It was slightly embarrassing for the energy drink empire, as it was the Toro
Rosso name, and not the Red Bull name, that was broadcast around the world, as
the team and marketing roles were reversed. Vettel moved to Red Bull the
following year, and he and the team went on to win four world championships,
from 2010 through 2013.

Toro Rosso, based in Faenza, Italy, has a factory with a much smaller staff and
less up-to-date workshops than those at Red Bull's base in Britain. But its two
rookies this year have sometimes outqualified and outraced the drivers at Red
Bull, including at the Spanish Grand Prix in May, when, on the last lap, Sainz
passed Kvyat, moving up from 10th to ninth position and thus winning 2 points
instead of just 1 in the process.

''It was tricky because I didn't want to crash with a Red Bull -- it is the last
thing that I want,'' Sainz said. ''But it was my home Grand Prix, and it was P9,
and 2 points for Toro Rosso are crucial this year, and I wanted to get them.''

The notion of using Toro Rosso as a training team actually came, to a degree,
from the team upon which it was built: Minardi. The Italian team had for years
raced at the back of the grid, failing to score a single podium in its 20 years
in the series. But it was recognized as a training ground for future winners,
from Fernando Alonso, a two-time champion, to Mark Webber, the Australian driver
who would go on to race at Red Bull, primarily as teammate to Vettel until 2013.

''Since 2006, we have been the finishing school for the Red Bull junior
program,'' said Franz Tost, the Toro Rosso team director. ''We are highly
experienced at managing young drivers, and it's a source of great pride that the
current Infiniti Red Bull Racing line-up both learned their craft here, as did
quadruple F1 world champion Sebastian Vettel.''

The Red Bull driver system, in fact, is a highly competitive one in which there
have been surprises as management makes few concessions. If this year the two
young drivers at Toro Rosso are making the Red Bull drivers look less
interesting, last year Ricciardo, who had graduated from Toro Rosso to Red Bull,
outperformed his teammate Vettel, winning the only three races not won by the
Mercedes drivers, Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg.

Ricciardo has said that most of his problems this year, however, have to do with
the failure of the Red Bull car.

''I think the car is pretty much the same,'' he said of the car compared with
last year. ''I think everyone else has found some improvements for their
weaknesses. Why we haven't made that step, I don't know. Obviously we've got
good resources in the team, and all the financial side and the workshop;
everything we've got there is of good quality.''

Kvyat, who spent only one season at Toro Rosso before graduating to Red Bull
this year as a replacement for Vettel, who made a surprise move to Ferrari, has
been overshadowed by Ricciardo.

''Daniil Kvyat's had a tough run so far,'' said Christian Horner, the Red Bull
team director. ''Things haven't gone cleanly on his side of the garage; he's had
some good races and he's had some times that he's struggled. But he's young;
he's developing all the time. We can see a great deal of potential in him.''

Kvyat remains philosophical.

''The team knows much better than you what I'm capable of,'' he said when asked
about his relatively poor results. ''All the laps, the qualifying, the race --
they see much more because they have the data and they know what I can do.''

Comparing the two teams, Ricciardo said the biggest difference is the larger
staff and infrastructure at Red Bull.

''The pure size, the size and numbers -- the factory and the workshops are a lot
bigger,'' he said. ''On paper -- again, I think the team knows it -- on paper we
should be significantly quicker than Toro Rosso.''

Toro Rosso's Tost agreed, pointing out that his team remains a smaller structure
with a different goal. ''We must be realistic,'' he said. ''There are teams and
cars in front of us. They have double of the budget as us. They have a
fantastic, good competitive package, and it's not easy to compete against
them.''

Horner has been watching the Toro Rosso drivers closely this year.

''I think it's one of the positive stories in Formula One at the moment, those
two young rookies that Red Bull have given a chance,'' he said. ''They're here
on merit, and it shows that the junior program is most definitely working.''

So, with an often better car, does a Toro Rosso driver still aim to join Red
Bull?

''For sure,'' Sainz said. ''That ambition doesn't change. I am here to prove
myself, and to prove to Red Bull what I am capable of. I know that Red Bull is
going through a tough time right now, but I'm sure that in two or three races --
or if it is not this year, then next year -- they will go back to where they
belong. And I want to be in that car when that comes.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/autoracing/for-sibling-formula-one-team
s-winning-isnt-everything.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (92%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); ENERGY DRINKS (89%);
BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%);
SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%)

PERSON: SEBASTIAN VETTEL (79%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

In Formula One, Success Breeds Success-Or Does It?

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CANADIAN GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 1420 words


It is no cliche to say that success in Formula One racing is often a matter of
momentum.

There's more to it than just the winning car's momentum as it races to victory.
Often, a team seems to move from victory to victory like a pendulum swinging on
inexorably. Once a driver gets started winning, he seems to power on from title
to title.

As the series prepares for the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal this weekend, the
movement of the pendulum is in favor of the Mercedes team. But for both of its
drivers, Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg, who have won all but one of the
season's six races so far, it is no longer clear which of them has the momentum.

With three victories in the first four races, Hamilton began 2015 as he had
finished 2014, when he won his second world title. But Rosberg has now won the
last two races. At the Monaco Grand Prix two weeks ago, things had seemed to be
in Hamilton's favor as he dominated the race until 12 laps before the end. But a
congruence of bad calculation and confusion between him and his team over an
extra pit stop resulted in Rosberg being handed the victory.

It was Rosberg's second triumph in a row this season, and his third straight in
Monaco, a feat achieved by only three other drivers: Ayrton Senna, Alain Prost
and Graham Hill.

But despite Rosberg's momentum, all eyes will be on Hamilton this weekend. The
British driver has won the Canadian race three times, including his first-ever
Formula One victory, in 2007.

''Everything that needs to be said about Monaco has already been said,''
Hamilton said. ''We'll learn from it and move forward together like we always
do. I just want to get back out there and bounce back -- and I could hardly ask
for a better place to do that than Montreal. This is always one of my favorite
weekends.''

The mind-sets of the two Mercedes teammates have been watched closely this
season, as the reigning world champion has appeared to be liberated by his
second title and his rival has appeared to be crushed by having fallen short of
the title in the last race last year.

Hamilton, driving for McLaren, missed winning the 2007 world title in his first
year in Formula One by only 1 point, but he came back the next season and won
the 2008 title by 1 point. In 2013, he made a daring move to the Mercedes team,
which had been struggling for three seasons to score even a spot on the podium
with its illustrious, multiple world champion driver Michael Schumacher and
Rosberg.

Then with a new set of technical regulations for engines last year, Mercedes
produced the best new hybrid technology in the series and the team dominated.
Hamilton and Rosberg fought for the title all year, with Hamilton winning more
races but Rosberg having more consistent results.

Hamilton won the title in the last race, in Abu Dhabi in November. He was on a
roll that continued into this season: Until the Spanish Grand Prix last month,
he had won nine of the previous 11 races. In Spain, Hamilton slipped up slightly
during qualifying and at the start of the race, and Rosberg took full advantage
to score pole position and then win the race.

Until then, according to Paddy Lowe, the Mercedes technical director, Rosberg
had not been driving badly, but Hamilton was simply on a higher level.

''Lewis is performing really at the top of his game,'' said Lowe, who was also
at McLaren with Hamilton. ''I've worked with Lewis actually throughout his
Formula One career and I would say at the moment he's really at his peak -- the
best he's been driving so far.''

''That's a tough prospect for any driver to compete with,'' he added. ''I think
Nico is doing a good job; it's just tough to beat Lewis.''

Just as Hamilton has the momentum in Canada, with three victories there, Rosberg
has now beaten Hamilton in Monaco in the last three years. And with his
back-to-back victories in Spain and Monaco, the German has curbed Hamilton's
momentum. But after Monaco, Rosberg said that Hamilton -- who had scored the
first Monaco pole position of his career -- had performed better than him.

This year, Hamilton has seemed liberated by his second world title, as if free
of doubts and pressures that had built up since his previous title, in 2008.

Rob Smedley, a racing director at the Williams team, sees it as a natural
process.

''I think with any sportsman, if you keep getting positive results it's a
virtuous circle,'' Smedley said. ''If you keep getting positive results it
brings more and more positivity to what you're doing, and you believe more and
more in yourself and small things get you down less, and you just tend to get
the best out of yourself and the people around you. And I guess that's what's
happening with Lewis.''

Only 16 of the 32 drivers who have won a drivers' title in Formula One since the
series began in 1950 have won more than one title. But nine of those have won
consecutive titles.

Hamilton has said several times this year that his mental state has never been
better.

''I'm probably the happiest I have been for a long, long time, career-wise,'' he
said, ''and then outside, yeah it's great when you can do things that you want
to do if you know they are not a distraction and then you can perform. I'm very
careful of the things that I choose to do, that they don't get in the way of
ultimately preparing for my races and becoming world champion, which is my final
goal. Then in the car, my age, I feel the best that I have ever been.''

Jackie Stewart, who won three drivers' titles in the late 1960s and early 1970s,
said that commitments with sponsors in the years following his titles had
distracted him so much from his racing that he won his three titles in alternate
years.

Felipe Massa, who now drives at Williams but who was the Ferrari driver who lost
the championship by 1 point to Hamilton in 2008, said that just as winning the
title can lead to an increase in a driver's powers, so the blow of losing it
under difficult circumstances -- the way he lost in 2008 and Rosberg did last
year -- can negatively affect a driver's performance the following season.

''Motivation, and the mind workings, are important,'' Massa said. ''You see it
happening to many drivers to lose time because something is going on and they
are not really perfect.''

''It's important to be in good shape with your mind, doing everything correct,''
he added. ''Everything in our world is in the details. If you are losing
something in your head, maybe you lose one or two tenths and maybe that is
enough. It's part of our job to have everything right in the head.''

Fernando Alonso, the 2005 and 2006 world champion when driving for Renault, also
lost the title by just 1 point, in 2007, along with his McLaren teammate
Hamilton. Alonso said that winning consecutive titles depended on the psychology
of the driver.

''It depends on everyone's personality and character,'' said the Spaniard, who
is now back at McLaren after several years at Ferrari. ''It could help you to
take some weight off the shoulders and to take some pressure off after winning a
championship. The following year you are more relaxed and perhaps you could
perform better. Or it could be the opposite: You relax a little bit, you lose a
little bit of that extra motivation and you are a little bit slower. It depends
for everyone.''

Jenson Button, who won the world title with the Brawn team in 2009, agreed that
winning the championship can have different effects on drivers in the following
season.

''I think some people the next season have more confidence, they're more relaxed
and they can be a better driver,'' said Button, who is now Alonso's teammate at
McLaren. ''And some people find that they have more pressure because they have
won a world championship and everyone's trying to beat them. So it can work in
different ways.''

Hamilton has acknowledged that he has felt the pressure. ''When you have had a
year like last year, to continue with it is not easy, to repeat what you have
done before or even to do it better is really not easy,'' he said. ''I've got to
really stay on my toes, really kind of try to be innovative with the things that
I do on the track and to continue to extract the most from the car, and more if
possible.''

But Toto Wolff, the Mercedes team director, scoffed at reading too much into the
mental states of his drivers.

''These guys are resilient, tough guys,'' he said. ''I wouldn't interpret too
much whether somebody bounces back now or whether the dynamics have changed.
It's just another race.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/autoracing/in-formula-one-success-breed
s-success-or-does-it.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL SCHUMACHER (79%); LEWIS HAMILTON (79%)

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (72%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); MONACO (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

In 2011 Montreal Race, Many Records, One Great Drive

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CANADIAN GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 870 words


Like with a great pop song, defining what makes a great Formula One race is
difficult. You just know it when you see -- or hear -- it.

In the nearly 50 years of Canadian Grand Prix history, there have been many
spectacular and thrilling races. Gilles Villeneuve's first Grand Prix victory at
his home race, the first in Montreal, in 1978 is high on the list; the race in
1991, when Nigel Mansell cruised to apparent victory on the final lap, waving to
the crowd, only to have the car stall and finish sixth, was another. As was Jean
Alesi's single career victory, on his birthday, at the 1995 Canadian Grand Prix
in his last year at Ferrari.

But the Canadian Grand Prix of 2011 was something else altogether. At a time
when the series is devising ways to spice up the show, that race proved that the
ingredients for a great race can't always be imagined beforehand. In fact, many
of the things that made the race exceptional are what the series fights against.

In a format that defines itself as a sprint, the 2011 Canadian Grand Prix holds
the record for the longest in Formula One history, at 4 hours, 4 minutes and 39
seconds, including a two-hour break when the rain was too intense.

The race also holds the record for the highest number -- six -- of safety car
interventions. And at a time when fans and some drivers and series insiders are
calling for faster Formula One cars, the 2011 race winner's average speed of
46.5 miles per hour, or 74.4 kilometers per hour, is the slowest in history.

Moreover, Formula One usually tries to limit the number of pit stops per race --
or seek an ideal number of two or three -- but the winner in Canada made a
record five pit stops and served a drive-through-the-pits penalty for having
driven too quickly behind the safety car.

Yet it is also for the incredible performance of that driver, McLaren's Jenson
Button, that the race is remembered. Until then, the season had been dominated
by Sebastian Vettel of the Red Bull team, which had won five of the previous six
races. In Canada, despite all the rain, the safety cars and the delay, Vettel
had led the race from the first lap to the last. But he then made his first
serious driving error of the season and it cost him the race.

Well into the last lap, Vettel went wide on the drying track into a wet area, in
a half-spin, giving Button just the time to take the lead and go on to win.
Thirty laps earlier, Button had been in 21st, or last, position. It was one of
the most exceptional fight-backs in the series' history.

''That was a very emotional four hours,'' Button said after the race. ''As we
always say, the last lap is the important one to be leading. I enjoyed it very
much fighting through the field -- that feeling of getting one up on someone. To
fight from last position -- it's definitely my best race.''

But more than anything, it was the exceptional circumstances of the race that
made the day, and no change in the technical or sporting rules would have made
much of a difference. Even so, it was because of this race, the longest in
history, that the series set a maximum length of four hours for a race that has
been suspended.

Button's victory in those conditions was not a fluke, though. He is known for
excelling in wet, chaotic conditions, notably getting his and his Honda team's
first-ever victory during a wet, chaotic race in Hungary in 2006. His smooth
driving style and sense of the circuit under such conditions is legendary.

But at the start of the 2011 race in Canada, Button's prospects looked poor and
things got even worse: He had placed his McLaren only seventh on the grid. He
would end up having accidents with his teammate, Lewis Hamilton, whom he
accidentally forced into the wall and out of the race, and with Fernando Alonso,
whom he also forced out of the race. In both cases, the stewards chose not to
penalize him, as the accidents were clearly related to the poor visibility and
wet track.

The stewards did penalize him for driving too quickly behind the safety car,
however, and that and his other pit stops put him at the back of the pack more
than halfway through the race.

But his team's tire choices and the timing of his pit stops would play in his
favor, along with the drying track. He was one of only two drivers to have
changed his tires six times, and with the constantly shifting state of the
track, the changes served him perfectly. As the end of the race neared, he was
gaining two seconds per lap on the leaders with his fresh, supersoft tires.

With 16 laps remaining he passed Mark Webber and Michael Schumacher, who were in
second and third place. Only Vettel remained, and it was under pressure from
Button that the German made his mistake, spinning on the wet track and allowing
Button to pass.

''I think it was one of the best wins in the history of F1, let alone his,''
said Martin Whitmarsh, the McLaren team director.

It was also one of the greatest Canadian Grand Prix races in history. Although
it made Button second in the championship, the season would end with the second
of Vettel's four titles. Button would win the Hungarian and Japanese Grands Prix
later that year, but he stayed second in the series -- 122 points behind Vettel.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/autoracing/in-2011-montreal-race-many-r
ecords-one-great-drive.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); POP & ROCK (73%)

PERSON: SEBASTIAN VETTEL (79%)

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Barcelona Trio May Be the Best Ever

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; GLOBAL SOCCER; Pg.

LENGTH: 687 words


LONDON --  After the filthiest fortnight imaginable, and before the lawyers
feast on FIFA's carcass, there is just a chance that true stars will shine in
Berlin on Saturday night.

The prize in the Olympic Stadium is worth more than money. It is legitimate to
ask if Lionel Messi, Luis Suárez and Neymar constitute the most incredible trio
of strikers in one lineup since Alfredo Di Stéfano, Ferenc Puskas and José
Héctor Rial.

Comparisons across the decades light a bonfire of argumentation. Di Stefano,
Puskás and Rial will remain unbeatable in the memories of older fans, but the
game has changed since they scored, almost at will apparently, for Real Madrid
between 1955 and 1960.

One thing that hasn't changed is that Europe -- Spain in particular -- attracts
the finest global talent like gold dust to speculators. Barcelona's front three
against Juventus this weekend are an Argentine, a Brazilian and a Uruguayan.
Real of 50 years ago was led by two Argentines and Puskás, a Hungarian.

What magic they reaped, and what devastation Messi and his two cohorts have
wreaked in the Spanish league and in the Champions League this season. When
Barça paid out  over $100 million to sign Suárez last summer, the most prevalent
questions were why does it need another goal scorer, why not fix the defense
instead, and why in any case buy the villain Suárez who was banned through
August, September and October after biting the shoulder of Italy's Giorgio
Chiellini at the World Cup?

The first answer is that great players adapt. Messi changed his role, not as one
imagined by dropping deeper to create for the other two, but by moving out to
the right wing.

But with Messi cutting inside, onto his favored left foot yet with breathtaking
pace and balance and dancing spontaneity, he was still able to outscore the
others, while also assisting each of them with regularity.

The outcome, in cold statistics, is Messi 58 goals in 55 games, Neymar 38 goals
in 48 appearances, and Suárez 24 goals from 40 matches. A grand total,
unprecedented in any Spanish club, of 120 goals from just three men. And the
math says nothing of Messi's mesmerizing moves or the chances he sets up for
others; it says nothing of the way that Suárez stretches defenses with his
running down of lost causes, and little of the way that Neymar still so impishly
gives the impression of playing for the sheer joy of it.

How is Juve to cope with this trident? Juventus has reached this showpiece by
eliminating Real Madrid, which in Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema and Gareth
Bale had, on paper at least, a credible -- and even more expensive -- trio of
its own.

Laced with organization, experience and hunger, this collective effort has
driven Juve toward the same triple peak of league, domestic cup and Champions
League titles that Barça is pursuing.

Each team also has a golden oldie on the brink of retirement, at least from
playing at this level. Xavi, the first man to play 150 games in the Champions
League, will probably start on the bench, but come on at some stage to mark his
farewell before he leaves to semiretirement in Qatar with Al Sadd.

The Juventus playmaker Andrea Pirlo negotiated the past week with the M.L.S.
team New York City FC.

At 35 and 36 respectively, Xavi and Pirlo depart as playmakers who have
distinguished European soccer.

And Juventus will contest Saturday's final without the veteran Chiellini, who
tore a calf muscle in training Wednesday.

Maybe all that running, all that pushing of mind and muscle carrying Juve
further than the experts predicted, is taking a toll on the Italians as they
head for the hardest task of all. Barcelona, toughened up at the back, changed
in midfield, and simply irresistible in the attack, is the heavy favorite to win
in the Olympic Stadium.

Remember, though, the words of Gianluigi Buffon, the captain, the night when
Juve knocked out last season's champion Real in Madrid. ''I expect,'' he said,
''not to have any regrets. We will not go to Berlin as tourists, after all the
work and the journey we've made; we are there to play a game that means a huge
amount to us.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/soccer/magical-trio-gives-barcelona-an-
edge.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); OLYMPICS (79%);
SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FIFA WORLD CUP (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS
(78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (92%); GARETH BALE (78%); CRISTIANO RONALDO (58%)

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); ITALY (76%); GERMANY (73%); EUROPE (56%);
HUNGARY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Real Estate Magnate Pushes for a Casino in North Jersey

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1237 words


Jeff Gural, the New York real estate tycoon, had cleaned up well.

The shaggy, steel-gray beard was gone. The customary khakis had given way to a
blue suit. As he sat on a dais on Thursday at the Meadowlands Racetrack he has
operated in East Rutherford, N.J., for over two years, a smile spread across his
face.

A dozen elected officials were in the room to endorse putting a referendum
before voters this fall to expand gambling to northern New Jersey and to support
Mr. Gural's vision for a $1 billion casino at the racetrack. In a surprise,
Vincent Prieto, a Democrat who is the State Assembly speaker, also showed up to
express his support.

Though he was not at the event, Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican who had once
been cool to the idea, has also become a proponent of a casino in the northern
part of the state.

Building allies among elected officials and capitalizing on a growing momentum
to expand gambling in New Jersey, Mr. Gural is seeking to edge closer to what
has long been a tantalizing goal: a gambling site just a few miles from New York
City.

His pitch: With over 14 million adults within 50 miles of the racetrack, Mr.
Gural and his partner, the Hard Rock, estimate that their proposed Hard Rock
Casino could generate $400 million a year in tax revenues; half of that would go
toward reviving Atlantic City, where four casinos closed last year.

''It's a spectacular project,'' Mr. Gural said.

It must still overcome opposition from Atlantic City and lawmakers in South
Jersey and win a statewide referendum. But the battle over the future of
gambling in New Jersey has placed Mr. Gural, 73, at the nexus of a fierce
tristate gambling war in which Pennsylvania casinos have sucked the life out of
Atlantic City; the only casino in New York City is a runaway success; and a $1
billion casino resort in the Catskills is being built to grab patrons from North
Jersey as well as New York and Pennsylvania.

Mr. Gural has essentially sat down at the regional blackjack table to play three
simultaneous hands. Not only is he bidding for a casino at the Meadowlands
Racetrack, seven miles west of Manhattan, but he will also soon submit a bid for
a full-scale casino in Nichols, N.Y., near the northern border of Pennsylvania.

Then there is his pat hand: Mr. Gural and his partners own the land underneath
the Sands Casino Resort in Bethlehem, one of Pennsylvania's most successful
casinos.

And he does not even like casino gambling.

It is really all about his lifelong love of horses, he said.

''Saving the horse industry is just as important as saving Atlantic City,'' said
Mr. Gural, who owns farms in Stanfordville, N.Y., and Litchfield, Pa., where he
raises as many as 80 Standardbred horses. ''There was no way that horse racing
could succeed in New York, or ultimately New Jersey, without it being subsidized
by another form of gambling.''

Until recently, Mr. Gural's day job was running a major commercial real estate
company, Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, and overseeing a family portfolio of about
40 buildings.

A few years ago, he sold the family firm, although he remains at Newmark as
chairman.

His love of horses and horse racing began in high school, growing up in
Woodmere, on Long Island, about a half-mile from Roosevelt Raceway, a now
defunct harness track. ''We'd go for the last race at night -- it was free,'' he
said. ''We'd bet one race and go home.''

Mr. Gural worked with his father, Aaron, in the real estate business. In 1978,
he and his friend Barry M. Gosin, Newmark's chief executive, bought out Mr.
Gural's father.

Mr. Gural, who lives in the El Dorado on the Upper West Side of Manhattan,
earned a reputation as a rare liberal Democrat in the real estate industry and
as a ''soft touch'' for charities.

''He's a mark for any charity, if it's a worthwhile cause,'' Mr. Gosin said.
''He likes money to pay the bills, but he's never been motivated by money.''

After New York State started allowing racetracks to install electronic slot
machines, Mr. Gural bought and reopened two bankrupt harness tracks -- Tioga
Downs and Vernon  Downs in central New York, both of which have slot machines.
Mr. Gural said the tracks employed hundreds of people in one of the most
depressed parts of the state and had generated over $300 million for public
education.

In 2012, Mr. Gural signed a deal with Governor Christie to operate the
Meadowlands Racetrack, after the state decided to cease subsidizing the
state-owned complex, a victim of the decline in the popularity of horse racing.

He lined up partners -- Hard Rock owns a one-sixth stake -- and built a $120
million grandstand.

Judging from a recent Saturday night, the Meadowlands, which features a large
sports bar and several restaurants, attracts younger patrons than can be found
at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, whose slot-machine parlor has been hugely
successful.

But if Mr. Gural is not motivated by money, he also does not want to preside
over failing tracks in New York and New Jersey. The betting was that the slot
parlors at New York tracks and the Meadowlands would eventually house full-scale
casinos.

''I would not have done the Meadowlands if I didn't think -- it's common sense
-- that there'd be a casino,'' he said.

But until recently, Governor Christie preferred to focus on reviving Atlantic
City, where gambling revenues have fallen by half from their $5.2 billion peak
in 2006. Alex Bumazhny, a casino analyst at Fitch Ratings, predicts at least two
more of the eight remaining casinos there will close.

The problem for the gambling industry is that there are too many casinos chasing
too few gamblers -- the Northeast, in particular, is considered saturated, with
more casinos on the way.

Still, Mr. Bumazhny is far more optimistic about the prospects for a casino in
the Meadowlands, or in Jersey City, where a businessman, Paul Fireman, has
proposed a $4 billion casino resort with a 95-story tower and 14 restaurants
next to a golf course he owns.

''It's probably one of the better locations in the United States,'' he said.

In an attempt to woo support from Atlantic City and South Jersey, Mr. Gural has
proposed a 55 percent tax rate on gambling revenues from the proposed
Meadowlands project, half of which would be funneled to noncasino projects in
Atlantic City. Governor Christie now favors casinos in North Jersey as long as
new tax revenues are used to help Atlantic City.

Mr. Gural, Mr. Fireman, the governor and many North Jersey politicians and
business leaders are pressing for a referendum on gambling in North Jersey this
November. To make that happen, the Legislature must vote on scheduling a
referendum before Aug. 3.

But that prospect faces a difficult hurdle: Stephen M. Sweeney, the president of
the State Senate who is from South Jersey. Senator Sweeney, a Democrat and a
probable candidate for governor, has tried to walk a fine line, saying a casino
question should be put off until 2016 when there would be higher voter turnout.

That, however, would put it in the middle of a presidential campaign, when it
would be harder and far more expensive to promote an expanded gambling message
to voters, Mr. Gural said. He added that he and Mr. Allen were ready to spend as
much as $20 million on an advertising campaign.

''This is not a fight between North Jersey and South Jersey,'' Mr. Gural said.
''This is about what's good for the state of New Jersey.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/real-estate-magnate-pushes-for-a-casi
no-in-north-jersey.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeff Gural, a New York real estate tycoon who loves horse
racing, at the Meadowlands Racetrack, which he operates, in East Rutherford,
N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
 A rendering of the Hard Rock International, a casino proposed for the
Meadowlands Racetrack in East Rutherford, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZIMMERMAN
ARCHITECTS) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (90%); GAMBLING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (78%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%);
REFERENDUMS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CARD GAMES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (71%); HORSES (62%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (62%); TAXES &
TAXATION (52%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%)

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%);
APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strident Speech From Greek Leader, Who Nevertheless Says a Deal Is Near

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1200 words


Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras declared on Friday that his government would not
accept a new bailout plan proposed this week by Greece's creditors, telling a
cheering assembly of the Greek Parliament in Athens that he would not allow the
creditors to ''humiliate'' the country.

''Greek people should be proud, because the government is not going to give in
to absurd proposals,'' Mr. Tsipras said.

Despite the rhetoric, Mr. Tsipras said he believed Greece and its creditors were
''closer than ever'' to an agreement, noting that ''it is clear now to
everyone'' that Greece's plans are ''realistic.''

The government's negotiating strategy will ''soon bear fruit,'' he said.

He called on the government's opposition members, who include former Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras, to declare whether they would support the deal being
offered by Greece's international creditors -- the International Monetary Fund,
the European Central Bank and the other eurozone countries.

Mr. Tsipras's defiant speech, broadcast live on national television and picked
up internationally by the BBC, seemed aimed most directly at a rising faction of
dissenters on the far left of his party. A number of the dissenters have called
for Mr. Tsipras to repudiate the creditors' demands or even consider holding new
elections to reaffirm his government's mandate to push back against austerity.

The speech came a day after Greece said it would not make a scheduled debt
repayment to the I.M.F. that was due on Friday. That decision bought the country
some time to renegotiate a new debt deal with its international creditors but
raised further uncertainties about whether an agreement could be reached.

Drawing lawmakers' applause Friday night, Mr. Tsipras described the creditors'
plan as including ''impossible targets,'' a reference to austerity measures that
he said he was elected to repudiate, including higher electricity taxes and
further pension cuts to help bring down Greece's mountain of debt.

He added that he was ''unpleasantly surprised'' by the proposal as it was
presented to him this week in Brussels by the European Commission's president,
Jean-Claude Juncker.

Mr. Juncker has tried to play something of a peacemaker between Athens and
Greece's creditors, many of whom are exasperated with what they see as Greek
slowness in putting into effect reforms promised by the previous government in
exchange for bailout loans.

Without a new agreement with the creditors, Greece could run out of money and
default on its debts in a matter of weeks. If that happens, one big fear is that
Greece either will be forced or will choose to leave the eurozone, threatening
the integrity of the euro currency union.

''We don't just need an agreement, we need a solution -- a solution that will
end once and for all the discussion about an exit of Greece from the eurozone,''
Mr. Tsipras said.

Mr. Tsipras said a counterproposal that he sent to the creditors in the last
week, which contained considerably easier terms for releasing some 7.2 billion
euros, or about $8 billion, in fresh financial aid, was the only ''realistic''
plan and was the basis on which he would negotiate.

The creditors' plan, by contrast, seemed to be some kind of ''bad negotiating
trick,'' he said, adding that he hoped the proposal would be withdrawn.

''Let us not back down from our just demands,'' he said.

Before Greece sends creditors its counterproposals, he asked for opposition
parties to offer theirs and to clarify whether they would back the creditors'
plan.

Mr. Samaras took the floor and directed sharp comments at Mr. Tsipras. ''You
lied to the Greek people,'' he said. ''The country is heading toward a third
memorandum'' -- a reference to a third bailout program.

Greece agreed to bailout programs in 2010 and 2012, totaling ?240 billion.

In a second address to Parliament later in the evening, Mr. Tsipras dismissed
Mr. Samaras's comments. ''There is no way this government and this Parliament
will vote for a third memorandum,'' he said.

Even as the prime minister braced for a domestic political uproar on Friday, he
stirred international politics by speaking with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia by telephone to discuss energy and business cooperation before Mr.
Tsipras's planned visit to St. Petersburg this month for an economic forum.

Mr. Putin and Mr. Tsipras previously held conversations about a gas pipeline
project that Moscow would like to pursue with Greece, but which the United
States has urged Athens to resist.

The timing has raised questions about what Mr. Tsipras intends to achieve, other
than sending signals that his country might have other sources of financial aid
if he and his European creditors cannot come to terms.

A Greek government official made a point of publicizing the Tsipras-Putin call.

The Athens stock market fell on Friday by 5 percent, pulled down by the shares
of big Greek banks. Greek bonds also fell from favor, driving up yields -- a
measure of government borrowing costs -- nearly three percentage points, to just
below 24 percent on the two-year bond.

European financial markets were down broadly on Friday, partly over the Greece
uncertainties.

Athens has proposed bundling the 1.6 billion euros, or $1.8 billion, it owes the
I.M.F. in June into a single payment at the end of the month, largely in
anticipation that a bailout deal will be reached by then, although the Fitch
Ratings Agency warned Friday that the risk that Greece would default altogether
on those debts ''cannot be discounted.''

A missed payment, Fitch warned, could lead the European Central Bank to restrict
the emergency funding it is providing to Greek banks, and could force the
government to place limits on how much money depositors can withdraw from the
banks.

Greece's deputy social security minister, Dimitris Stratoulis, a Syriza
hard-liner, told Greek television on Friday that if the country's creditors ''do
not back down from this package of blackmail,'' the government would ''have to
seek alternative solutions -- elections.''

A new opinion poll on Friday showed that four in 10 Greeks supported holding new
elections.

The threat of new elections might be yet another bargaining tactic as Greece
negotiates with creditors to try to keep further austerity conditions from any
bailout deal. Opinion polls show that if elections were held today, Syriza,
which swept to power on pledges to repudiate austerity, would very likely win. A
victory would be the second affirmation in less than six months that the Greek
electorate backs Mr. Tsipras's anti-austerity drive.

''If the people reaffirmed the present government, it would be more embarrassing
for the Europeans'' pressing for continued -- even if watered-down -- austerity
in Greece, said Harry Papasotiriou, a professor of political science at Panteion
University in Athens. ''It would reaffirm the current Greek government's
mandate.''

Elections might also provide Mr. Tsipras with an opportunity to sweep far-left
dissenters from the ranks of Syriza, by not putting them on electoral lists, Mr.
Papasotiriou added.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/international/greece-debt-talks-syriz
a-imf-european-central-bank.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, right, and members of his
government on Friday in Athens during a parliamentary session on Greece's debt
crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALKIS KONSTANTINIDIS/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%);
GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); EURO (87%);
ELECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); CURRENCIES
(67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (93%); JEAN-CLAUDE JUNCKER (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM
(78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regret Over a Rupture With Moscow

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BERLIN MEMO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 775 words


BERLIN --  When seven world leaders meet this weekend in Germany, their agenda
will include maintaining pressure on Russia over Ukraine, a policy on which the
host country's chancellor, Angela Merkel, has proved a reliable ally for
President Obama.

Yet for all that Ms. Merkel has done to use her nation's growing influence on
the world stage to counter Russian aggression, Germany's role in seeking to
isolate President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia -- who has been excluded from the
gathering for a second year -- has left the host country feeling rankled and a
bit mournful about the rupture of a relationship it had spent decades
cultivating.

''Everything that we tried to build with Russia in the last 25 years is slipping
away, and is in danger,'' said Gernot Erler, the government's envoy for Russia
and much of the old Soviet bloc, who has been visiting the region since his
student days in the 1960s.

The sense of regret at Germany's inability to bring Russia into the European
fold and to build a relationship that would transcend their bloody history stems
from economic and ideological ties dating well back into the era when Germany
was divided in two.

In 1970, Willy Brandt, the first West German chancellor to visit post-1945
Poland, atoned for his country's Nazi crimes in Eastern Europe by kneeling at
the Warsaw ghetto. Since then, the easing of tensions known as Ostpolitik has
guided Germany in its dealings with Russia and its bloc.

After the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, the two countries drew as close as perhaps
they had ever been in centuries of trading and warring.

With his forays into Ukraine, Mr. Putin altered the dynamic. The choice put him
at odds with the West and highlighted, particularly in the Baltic States and
Poland, lingering Cold War fears about Russia's true aims. In Germany, even
veteran proponents of close ties were troubled by bloodshed they could not have
imagined more than a year ago in a Europe they thought had left war behind.

Ms. Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and whose conservative worldview holds
no romanticism about the Soviet Union, nonetheless worked hard over many years
to make a diplomatic partner out of Mr. Putin. They still speak frequently,
though their relationship has grown more strained in recent months.

But the disappointment over how things turned out is felt particularly acutely
by her center-left coalition partners, the Social Democrats, who were once led
by Mr. Brandt. A former chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, who is a personal friend
of Mr. Putin's and works for an affiliate of the Russian natural gas giant
Gazprom, went so far as to say it was a mistake to turn the Group of 8 into the
Group of 7 by excluding Mr. Putin from the talks.

Helmut Schmidt, who as chancellor in 1975 helped start the Group of 7, was also
sympathetic to Mr. Putin.

''I see clearly that Putin is offended by the fact that, in his view, the West
does not take him seriously enough,'' Mr. Schmidt, 96, told the news agency DPA.
Mr. Schmidt said the Russian leader was fulfilling what he saw as his duty to
restore the Russian state after its ''Wild West'' years under Boris N. Yeltsin.

The business community, and a majority of Germans, have largely supported
Berlin's tough stance with Russia, particularly after a Malaysian passenger jet
was shot down over Ukraine.

But the leaders of the two main German institutions for doing business with
Russia appealed to Ms. Merkel to let Mr. Putin back into the Group of 7, arguing
that Russia was needed to get peace in Ukraine, to deal with chaos in the Middle
East or to forge an agreement to address climate change.

Some warned that the West risked losing Russia to deals with China, India or the
Middle East.

''Russia has an alternative to Europe,'' Mr. Schröder said. ''That is not true
the other way around.'' Last year, Russian-German business declined 18 percent
over all.

Russia, still a partner in some diplomatic ventures, is unlikely to return to
the summit meeting unless Mr. Putin changes his tack in Ukraine -- a possibility
that seemed even more remote in recent days as the rickety cease-fire there
teetered on collapse.

The German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a Social Democrat,
highlighted on Thursday that ''we should have no interest in seeing the G-8
turning permanently into the G-7.''

''We urgently need Russia,'' he said, to help solve conflicts in Iraq, Libya and
Syria and over the Iranian nuclear program. Yet the West, he added, could not
ignore that Russia had broken international law.

Exactly, Ms. Merkel said, emphasizing that seven, not eight, ''should sit at the
table'' this weekend.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/germany-russia-merkel-putin-g-7.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GERMAN CHANCELLORS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); COURTSHIP & DATING (74%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); WAR
& CONFLICT (64%); NATURAL GAS (63%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%);
NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (60%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210
NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS
OPERATIONS (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%);
SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS (60%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%);
BARACK OBAMA (57%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); WARSAW, POLAND
(79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (92%);
UKRAINE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); BALTIC STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Remains From Germanwings Crash to Be Released

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words


PARIS --  The remains of some of the 150 people who died in the crash of a
Germanwings jet in the French Alps will be returned to relatives early next
week, Lufthansa, the airline's parent company, said Friday evening. The
announcement brings to an end more than two days of uncertainty for the families
after the transfer was suspended because of last-minute paperwork errors.

In a statement, Lufthansa said that an initial flight from Marseille, France,
bearing the remains of 30 German victims would arrive in Düsseldorf, Germany,
late Tuesday on a dedicated cargo plane and that their coffins would be handed
over to the families early on Wednesday.

Further transfers from France to the victims' home countries are expected to
take place ''in the coming weeks'' and should be completed by the end of June,
Lufthansa said.

The reversal comes just days after dumbstruck relatives in 17 countries received
word that several of the victims' death certificates, which were issued by the
French authorities, contained factual or typographical errors that had rendered
them invalid. The news prompted the airline to suspend its plans to repatriate
the remains until the errors were corrected -- setting off an outpouring of
anger by some of the families, many of whom had already scheduled funerals and
memorial services for next week.

''The French authorities are working flat out to ensure that all the formal
requirements for the repatriation of the victims can take place as quickly as
possible,'' Friday's statement said. ''Lufthansa remains in close contact with
the families to make sure that the transfers take place according to their
wishes.''

The delay in repatriating the victims had come after the French authorities
spent weeks isolating the DNA of all those aboard from remains that were
recovered from the blackened crash site in the French Alps, where investigators
say the co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, deliberately steered the flight into the
ground on March 24.

Among the services that will be able to proceed as planned are more than a dozen
funerals scheduled to begin on June 12 in Haltern am See, near Cologne, Germany.
The town was home to 16 high school students and two of their teachers who died
en route to Düsseldorf from a weeklong exchange program with another school in
Spain.

Ulrich Wessel, principal of the Joseph König high school in Haltern am See,
said: ''It is a great relief for us all, but especially for the parents'' of the
students. ''At least they now have certainty that their children are finally
coming home.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/some-germanwings-victims-remains-
to-be-returned-on-schedule.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); GERMANWINGS PLANE CRASH (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (84%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT
ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%);
INVESTIGATIONS (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(65%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (92%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111
SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION,
SCHEDULED (92%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (74%)

STATE: ALPS (88%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Health Care Expansion Is Rejected in Florida

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN; Lizette Alvarez contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words


MIAMI --  In another rebuke of the Obama administration's efforts to expand
health care to the uninsured, Florida's Republican-led House of Representatives
soundly rejected a plan on Friday that state officials said would have covered
as many as 650,000 residents.

It was the third time that legislators had considered and spurned some version
of health care expansion since passage of the Affordable Care Act, and it
represented a victory for Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, who had changed his
mind in the past on whether to support any such enlargement but was firmly
opposed this time.

One after another, opponents of the bill stood in the House chamber and called
the measure an example of federal overreach, a too-expensive entitlement program
and an offspring of President Obama's health care law.

The vote in the House was 72 to 41 against the measure, with all 37 Democrats
and four Republicans voting yes. It was a far different outcome from the one in
the Senate, which solidly backed the plan in a 33-to-3 vote on Wednesday.

The Florida Health Insurance Affordability Exchange would have used more than
$18 billion over 10 years in federal funds to expand the pool of low-income
Floridians eligible for health insurance and help them buy it from private
providers.

Instead, House Republicans, using their 81-to-39 majority and an almost uniform
opposition to using federal dollars to broaden the pool of patients covered
under Medicaid, criticized the new plan, calling it nothing more than Medicaid
expansion under another name.

''It's something we cannot afford, not only in Florida but in the rest of the
nation, if we have government controlled health care,'' said Representative Doug
Broxson, a Republican in the Third District, in the Florida Panhandle. ''History
tells us that anything the government is involved in tends to expand. I'm very
concerned that we could spend all our gross national product on health care, and
it would take away from every other program we have in the state.''

Florida is one of 22 states that have refused to expand Medicaid under the
Affordable Care Act.

Census Bureau figures show that 4.8 million Floridians, or 24.2 percent of the
state's population, are uninsured, compared with 15.3 percent nationally.

Rejection of the bill came despite an appeal from the chairman of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, Jason Furman, who argued in a report issued
by his office on Thursday that a vote to expand Medicaid coverage in Florida
''would have major health benefits for its low-income citizens.'' The report
said that Florida's price tag for uncompensated care would be $790 million lower
in 2016 if expanded coverage were fully in effect.

The bill's failure means that its proponents will not have another chance to
expand coverage until next year. The vote came during a special session,
scheduled to end on June 20, that was called to prepare and vote on a budget.

Governor Scott, who is allied with Republicans in the House, is in a dispute
with Republicans in the Senate over a separate $1 billion that Florida will lose
by July if Medicaid is not expanded. That money is part of a program that helps
public hospitals pay for the unreimbursed cost of patients who cannot pay their
bills, and legislators are trying to find ways to make up the shortfall.

During Friday's hearing before the vote, Representative Shevrin D. Jones, a
Democrat whose district includes parts of Broward County, waved off Republicans'
objections to what they derisively called Obamacare.

''Who cares what care it is?'' he asked. ''As long as we're taking care of the
people.''

Mr. Jones went on to recount how in 2009, before he became a lawmaker, he
suffered a blood clot and was found to have Protein S deficiency. Since he was
uninsured, his parents covered the $37,000 cost of his hospitalization and
treatment, he said.

''What happens to those individuals who can't afford that?'' Mr. Jones asked in
a telephone interview during the hearing. ''What happens when they can't go get
themselves checked?''

Charly Norton, the executive director of the independent advocacy group
FloridaStrong, said in an email that the vote was ''yet another example of
representatives choosing senseless political games over Florida families.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/health-care-expansion-is-rejected-in-florid
a.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH
CARE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US
PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%);
POPULATION SIZE (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CENSUS
(64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICK SCOTT (58%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corruption in FIFA? Its Auditors Saw None

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words


Despite longstanding suspicion of corruption, world soccer's governing body has
received a clean bill of financial health for 16 consecutive years from KPMG,
one of the world's top auditing, accounting and consulting firms.

No one has challenged the accuracy of the annual reports of the body, FIFA,
which are prepared according to international accounting standards by KPMG's
office in Zurich, where FIFA is based. But that only heightens the puzzling
disconnect between the different pictures that are emerging of FIFA as an
organization: riddled with bribes and kickbacks in the view of prosecutors, yet
spotless according to the outsider most privy to its internal financial
dealings.

''It's legitimate to raise questions about the effectiveness of the audits,
given that the risks were already widely rumored,'' said Barry Jay Epstein, a
financial-reporting expert and certified public accountant who is a principal in
Epstein & Nach, a consulting firm based in Chicago that specializes in forensic
accounting. Mr. Epstein, who wrote a widely used professional handbook on
accounting and auditing, added that if the Justice Department's accusations of
$150 million in bribes and kickbacks related to World Cup bidding and other
soccer events ''turn out to be founded, then analytically, something should have
shown up'' in KPMG's audits ''that would have required deeper investigation.''

Andreas Hammer, a spokesman in Zurich for KPMG's Swiss offices, declined to
comment, saying in an email that ''as FIFA's statutory auditor, we are bound by
professional confidentiality and have to refrain from any comment regarding our
client.''

As FIFA's first and only outside auditor, KPMG has worked for the organization
since 1999, one year after Sepp Blatter, who resigned on Tuesday as president
just days after being re-elected to a fifth term, began his tenure. KPMG took on
a client long criticized for its lack of transparency and its corporate
governance issues.

But it is an important relationship for both sides. For FIFA, it means a member
of the Big Four accounting club is signing off on its books. KPMG also audits,
at FIFA's request, dozens of FIFA member associations -- 40 of them last year.
''Having one of the big auditors of course helps to give some credibility to
your accounts,'' said Jean-Pierre Méan, an advisory council member at
Transparency International Switzerland, part of a global anti-corruption
organization.

Over its most recent four-year financial cycle, 2011 to 2014, FIFA had $5.7
billion in revenue, mostly from the sales of rights to marketing, licensing,
television broadcasting and hospitality, and more than $5.4 billion in expenses.
It has reserves of more than $1.5 billion. Referring to its ''internal controls
system,'' or I.C.S., intended to root out fraud, FIFA wrote in its 2009 annual
report that ''communication with KPMG is extremely important for the members of
the internal audit committee because KPMG as external auditors have a very
detailed picture of the FIFA I.C.S. following the in-depth audits that they have
performed.''

Roger Neininger, the board chairman of KPMG in Switzerland, took the podium last
week at FIFA's annual congress in Zurich, just two days after the United States
Justice Department indicted 14 current and former senior FIFA officials and
sports marketing executives on 47 counts of racketeering and corruption. Mr.
Neininger has been the auditor-in-charge of FIFA's annual report since 2011,
though the 2014 report omits that title. His role at the closed-door sessions,
to recommend that FIFA's executive committee approve KPMG's signoff on the
year's annual report, sent a clear signal: KPMG was standing by its client.

Accounting firms often contend that their audits are only as good as the
information they receive from clients, but they are supposed to recognize
patterns or anomalies that suggest they should dig a little deeper.

A key element in the Justice Department's case is a $10 million payment that
prosecutors say was transferred in 2008 from FIFA to accounts controlled by a
soccer official, Jack Warner, as a bribe in exchange for helping South Africa
secure the right to host the 2010 World Cup.

Mr. Epstein said that while the $10 million payment could be insignificant, or
immaterial in accounting terms, given FIFA's size, it would not be immaterial in
qualitative terms. ''That's something people would want to know about,'' he
said.

KPMG had questioned another payment a decade earlier. In a 1999 ''Revised Audit
Management Letter'' sent to FIFA, KPMG noted an unusual payment in connection
with the Confederations Cup -- an important tournament involving soccer's
continental champions that is now held the year before the World Cup.

''To cover the excess expenditure at the Confederations Cup in Saudi Arabia, the
organizer has made an additional payment of 470,000 Swiss francs,'' the letter,
obtained by the independent journalist Andrew Jennings, says in German. ''The
payment was authorized by the president of FIFA, but without the authorization
of the finance committee or the executive committee.''

It is unclear to whom the payment was made or which Confederations Cup in Riyadh
was involved -- Saudi Arabia hosted them in 1995 and 1997, part of the four-year
financial cycle covered in the 1999 letter.

Even before the indictments, there was no shortage of potential red flags.

In 2002, Michel Zen-Ruffinen, FIFA's secretary general at the time, wrote an
explosive report accusing Mr. Blatter and his lieutenants of extensive fraud.
The report, parts of which were published in the Swiss news media, contended
that from 1999 to 2002, FIFA, which was struggling financially, booked 336
million Swiss francs in revenue from its sale of marketing rights to the 2006
World Cup in Germany -- an unusual move for an organization that at the time
used accounting methods that recorded income when it was received, not in
advance, according to accounting experts.

KPMG noted the move in its audit of the period. Mr. Zen-Ruffinen's report added
that FIFA had destroyed financial documents before 1998, a year before KPMG was
hired.

In 2008, a trial in Zug, Switzerland, of former executives of International
Sports and Leisure, a FIFA-affiliated marketing firm that had collapsed amid
allegations of fraud and theft, fell apart after the group's lawyers produced
internal documents contending that FIFA was involved.

By 2012, FIFA named Michael J. Garcia, a prominent former federal prosecutor, as
the lead investigator of its ethics committee. Mr. Garcia, who extended his
inquiry into bidding practices for the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022
World Cup in Qatar, gave FIFA his final report last September but resigned from
the role in December after FIFA released a redacted version that Mr. Garcia
complained was erroneous and misleading.

And last November, a member of FIFA's eight-person audit and compliance
committee, Canover Watson, was charged in his native Cayman Islands with fraud
and money laundering in connection with procurement of a card-swipe system for
the public hospitals there. FIFA's most recent annual report notes that Mr.
Watson has ''temporarily left the committee.''

''You're looking for the tip of the iceberg in an audit,'' Mr. Epstein said,
adding that in KPMG's work for FIFA, ''the tip should have gotten the auditor's
attention sometime over the years.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/soccer/as-fifa-scandal-grows-focus-turn
s-to-its-auditors.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Neininger, board chairman of KPMG in Switzerland, spoke
May 29 at FIFA's annual congress in Zurich. He has been auditor-incharge of
FIFA's annual report since 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHIAS HANGST/FIFA, VIA GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); 2015 FIFA CORRUPTION SCANDAL (92%); ACCOUNTING &
AUDITING FIRMS (91%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (91%); SOCCER (91%); CORRUPTION
(90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BRIBERY (90%);
AUDITS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS
(78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%);
INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FORENSICS (67%); BROADCASTING
INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: KPMG (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721
ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%)

CITY: ZURICH (91%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Hollywood Lobbying Group Keeps Dodd as Boss

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words


LOS ANGELES -- Despite a tenure marred by a major legislative setback and a slow
response to the Sony computer attack, Christopher J. Dodd, the leader of
Hollywood's top lobbying organization, was given a three-year contract extension
on Friday.

Mr. Dodd, a former Democratic senator from Connecticut, will remain chairman and
chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America until 2018, the
group said.

In a statement issued on behalf of its member companies -- 20th Century Fox,
Paramount Pictures, Walt Disney Studios, NBCUniversal, Warner Bros. and Sony
Pictures Entertainment -- Mr. Dodd was called ''an impactful leader and a
vigorous champion for the industry.''

The statement added, ''We are confident he will continue to effectively help
steer our interest through a challenging media and policy landscape.''

Mr. Dodd, 71, was hired in 2011 to restore luster to the association. He has
successfully worked since then to improve Hollywood's access to China, a
fast-growing movie market but one where the government limits the number of
Western films. Tax incentives for production have been another focus, along with
combating online piracy.

In addition to lobbying efforts, the organization regulates movie advertising
and runs the movie rating system.

Hollywood in some ways is still stinging from the 2012 failure of the Stop
Online Piracy Act. The Motion Picture Association was badly beaten by a
consortium of technology companies in its efforts to get the bill passed.

Mr. Dodd was also criticized for being missing in action -- at least publicly --
in the early part of the online attack on Sony Pictures late last year; the
problem turned out to be a lack of consensus among member companies about
offering support to Sony.

The Motion Picture Association did not disclose the terms of Mr. Dodd's new
contract. Tax records show he has been paid about $3.3 million annually.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/media/christopher-dodd-stays-on-as-to
p-hollywood-lobbyist.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (91%); FILM (91%);
LOBBYING (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); FILM GENRES (72%); MOVIE RATINGS (71%); ONLINE PIRACY (71%);
INTERNET CRIME (71%); CONTENT RATINGS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION
(66%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); LEGISLATION (65%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC
(71%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (76%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING
(71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE &
VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Norway Will Cut Coal Investment in Pension Fund

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words


Norway's $890 billion government pension fund, considered the largest sovereign
wealth fund in the world, will sell off many of its investments related to coal,
making it the biggest institution yet to join a growing international movement
to abandon at least some fossil fuel stocks.

Parliament voted Friday to order the fund to shift its holdings out of billions
of dollars of stock in companies whose businesses rely at least 30 percent on
coal. A committee vote last week made Friday's decision all but a formality; it
will take effect next year.

The decision -- which could seem paradoxical, given that Norway is a major
producer of oil and gas -- is certain to add momentum to a push to divest in
fossil fuel stocks that emerged three years ago on college campuses. The Church
of England announced last month that it would drop companies involved with coal
or oil sands from its $14 billion investment fund, and the French insurer AXA
said it would cut some $560 million in coal-related investments from its
portfolio.

Members of the Rockefeller family, whose fortune derives from Standard Oil, also
pledged last year to remove fossil fuel investments, beginning with coal, from
their philanthropic Rockefeller Brothers Fund.

There is no question that the decision by various funds to sell fossil fuel
stocks has little or no impact on the vast market capitalization of most
companies. For that reason, the divestment movement has long been dismissed by
many institutions, especially oil companies, as symbolic.

But divestment decisions from funds like Norway's are important because they
require, as a first step, discussions that once seemed taboo, said Bob Massie, a
longtime climate activist and a founder of the Investor Network on Climate Risk,
an organization of institutional investors affiliated with the business
environmental group Ceres.

''It lays the groundwork for the transformation of cultural and political views
in a major topic that people would rather avoid,'' he said. ''This requires
people to say, 'What are we going to do? What are our choices? What do we
believe in?' ''

Mr. Massie, who was deeply involved during the 1980s in the South African
divestment movement and who wrote a well-regarded history of it, said that in
both cases, ''There's a mysterious process by which an 'unthinkable, ridiculous'
proposition becomes 'possible.' ''

Divesting from the economically battered coal industry is a more selective move
than a broad action against all fossil fuels, of course. But Jamie Henn, a
co-founder of 350.org, a group that has promoted divestment, said that coal was
the most environmentally damaging fossil fuel, and that the various divestment
decisions ''send a clear political signal that we think will hasten the
industry's inevitable decline -- and push governments to take broader action.''

Marthe Skaar, a spokeswoman for Norges Bank Investment Management, which manages
the huge Norwegian fund, said its goal was ''safeguarding and building financial
wealth for future generations in Norway.'' Its reasons for divesting include
''long-established climate-change risk-management expectations,'' she said.

The fund's 30 percent threshold for divestment applies to whether a company's
business is based on coal, as in mining companies, or the percentage of its
revenue that comes from coal. The second category would include power companies
that burn coal.

Norway's decision underscores its ambivalence about fossil fuels. The fund
itself is nicknamed the ''oil fund'' because its wealth comes from the nation's
oil and gas revenues. But proponents of the move say that it helps prevent
Norway from compounding the environmental damage that its own production causes
by investing in environmentally destructive companies.

Truls Gulowsen, the head of Greenpeace Norway, called his country's decision ''a
great first step'' that showed his nation now understood that it was ''nonsense
to use oil money to invest in coal.'' Now the nation must further understand
''the nonsense of investing oil money in more oil,'' he added.

Svein Flatten, a member of Parliament from the Conservative Party, said that
lawmakers acted because investments in coal companies have ''both financial
risks and climate risks.'' He added, however, that this was not a step toward
any other action. ''The fund shall not be, and they really are not, a tool for
political purposes,'' he said.

Many institutions have pushed back against the divestment movement. Drew Gilpin
Faust, the president of Harvard, has stated that while climate change is an
important issue, the university can address it through research, education and
its own practices, and that dropping fossil fuel investments is not ''warranted
or wise.'' The endowment, she has said, should not be used ''to impel social or
political change.'' Middlebury College, where 350.org founder Bill McKibben
teaches, has also resisted student pressure to divest.

David W. Oxtoby, the president of Pomona College in California, opposes
divestment. He said in an interview that schools and institutions that announce
divestment decisions often do so in symbolic moves with no real sacrifice or
change of policy.

''We actually don't have any investments in coal, but to make an announcement of
that type didn't seem terribly useful,'' he said. Dr. Oxtoby, a climate
researcher, called the divestment activism a distraction from efforts that could
bring about real change, such as getting government to tax oil and gas to reduce
consumption.

Norway's decision, Dr. Oxtoby said, is similarly symbolic -- especially when
compared with the kind of commitment that might involve leaving significant
portions of the nation's oil and gas reserves untapped.

The business trends that have made coal an undesirable investment will
ultimately humble oil and gas companies as well, Mr. Massie said. He cited
research that suggests averting some of the worst outcomes of climate change
will require leaving much of today's fuel reserves unburned. This means
companies with large fossil-fuel reserves could be forced to leave them in the
ground.

Those ''stranded assets,'' he argued, will be a financial burden on the
companies. The oil industry has roundly rejected the stranded-asset hypothesis,
however.

Those who resist calls for divestment often say they prefer to pursue a strategy
of engagement with fossil fuel companies, which means using their influence as
investors to encourage companies to alter their policies.

''The choice of whether to divest or not is good,'' said Geeta B. Aiyer, the
founder of Boston Common Asset Management, an investment firm with a focus on
sustainability, ''but it's only the beginning.'' She said that engaging with
companies across the board could help bring about a future with lower levels of
carbon emissions.

Mr. Massie said he was skeptical that working with the oil industry companies
would lead to any major changes in their strategy or policies. ''The results are
not likely to be substantial,'' he said. ''And we have run out of time.''

Bevis Longstreth, a former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange
Commission under President Ronald Reagan who has become a divestment activist,
said that the most compelling part of Norway's decision was dropping stocks of
companies that burn a significant amount of coal. That, he said, is ''a really
big deal'' that could push companies to shift the mixture of their power
generation.

He added that his participation in the divestment fight might seem odd given
that he was rooted for so long in the financial establishment.

''Am I crazy? No. I'm an advocate,'' he said. ''And I've got nine
grandchildren.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/science/norway-in-push-against-climate-change-
will-divest-from-coal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coal-fired plant in Germany. Norway's $890 billion government
pension fund will shift money away from companies using coal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PATRIK STOLLARZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (91%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY
(90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%);
SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COAL INDUSTRY
(73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); OIL SANDS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL
RESOURCES (68%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (62%)

COMPANY: AXA (84%)

TICKER: CS (PAR) (84%); AXJ (ASX) (84%); AXA (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%);
NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Small Steps Beat Big Leap for Vodafone and Liberty Global

BYLINE: By FIONA MAHARG-BRAVO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 413 words


It is good to talk. And Vodafone, the $100 billion British mobile giant, is
right to open formal, if noncommittal, lines of communication about asset swaps
with Liberty Global, Europe's leading cable group.

Vodafone shares fell 2 percent in morning trading, suggesting disappointment
among investors who had thought a merger was in the cards. Smaller-scale
deal-making is probably the right way forward, but it could get complicated.

Few quibble with the strategic logic of finding some way to combine Vodafone's
and Liberty's footprints, particularly in Northern Europe. Analysts at Morgan
Stanley estimate that a combination would create 15.7 billion pounds, or $24
billion, in savings. Joining forces would produce a powerful player selling a
converged package of TV, broadband, landline and mobile services. Liberty's
chairman, John C. Malone, said in an interview on May 19 that a tie-up in Europe
would create ''enormous'' shareholder value.

A straightforward merger looks difficult. Vodafone's enterprise value is about
£92 billion, or $140 billion, while Liberty's is just less than $90 billion.
Investors wondered if Vodafone could ease the path to a big deal by first
spinning off its emerging-market assets. Even then, governance could prove
tricky. Mr. Malone controls Liberty through supervoting shares. The companies
also have different views on capital structure and returns. In Mr. Malone's
words, Vodafone has low leverage, low risk and high cash payout, whereas Liberty
prefers to increase equity value.

That may explain why Vodafone said on Friday that the two were thinking about an
''exchange of selected assets.'' This would be cleaner than an unwieldy joint
venture but also raises questions.

The companies overlap mainly in Germany, the Netherlands and Britain. It is hard
to see Vodafone, which already owns Kabel Deutschland, leaving Germany to Mr.
Malone. It could swap its British and Dutch assets for Liberty's German
businesses, which have similar enterprise values, according to RBC. But a German
deal may face antitrust hurdles because the two would create the dominant player
in that market.

Vodafone's shares may have sagged, but they are still 7.5 percent higher than
they werebefore speculation over a tie-up intensified on May 19. Reaching a deal
will be difficult, but may well be worth the trouble.

Fiona Maharg-Bravo is Reuters Breakingviews Madrid correspondent. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/small-steps-beat-big-leap-fo
r-vodafone-and-liberty-global.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%);
EMERGING MARKETS (72%); BROADBAND (69%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); DEMERGERS &
SPINOFFS (57%)

COMPANY: VODAFONE GROUP PLC (94%); LIBERTY GLOBAL PLC (90%); VODAFONE D2 GMBH
(85%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); KABEL DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (53%)

TICKER: VOD (NASDAQ) (94%); VOD (LSE) (94%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (90%); MS (NYSE)
(57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE)
(94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE &
OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES
(90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE
COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE
COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (90%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%);
CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vodafone Confirms Talks on a Liberty Global Deal

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 512 words


LONDON --  The British telecommunications company Vodafone said on Friday that
it was in early-stage talks with Liberty Global, the European cable and wireless
operator controlled by John C. Malone, over exchanging assets between the
companies.

The announcement is the first time that Vodafone, the world's second-largest
operator by subscribers after China Mobile, has confirmed discussions with
Liberty Global. Market speculation about a potential deal has circled the two
telecom companies for months.

Just as in the United States, where the cable and wireless industry is
undergoing a new round of consolidation, Europe has also experienced a number of
multibillion-dollar takeovers, as the region's companies like Deutsche Telekom
of Germany and Telefónica of Spain have jockeyed for position.

Vodafone has been at the center of this deal-making, but it has come under
increased pressure to bolster its limited cable and broadband offerings across
its main European business. Its rivals like BT, the former British telecom
monopoly, have started to offer so-called quadruple-play services of fixed-line
phone, mobile phone, high-speed Internet and pay TV.

On Friday, Vodafone said that it was talking with Liberty Global about
potentially exchanging assets, though it declined to say which units may be part
of any deal. The company added that it was not in talks to combine all of its
assets with those of Liberty Global, and that the talks might not lead to a
deal.

Vodafone's share price fell 1.9 percent in early trading in London.

The announcement came weeks after Mr. Malone, whose American cable business
Charter Communications has agreed to buy Time Warner Cable for $56 billion, told
Bloomberg News that there could be ''substantial synergies'' if Liberty Global
combined its European units with those of Vodafone.

Both companies have significant operations in Germany, the Netherlands and
Britain. Antitrust regulators, however, may force Liberty Global and Vodafone to
sell off assets if they agree to a deal, to ensure customers' choice is not
reduced.

Vodafone's assets in Europe are primarily in wireless, which would complement
Liberty Global's broadband services in the region.

But analysts said it was unlikely that Mr. Malone would want to gain control
over Vodafone's sizable operations in emerging markets like India and South
Africa.

That is because Liberty Global does not have operations in those countries and
could not benefit from the cost savings and other advantages of combining local
units.

Vodafone reported a 4.7 percent drop, to 25.9 billion pounds, or about $39.6
billion, in its European service revenue in the 12 months through March 31, as
Vodafone responded to the region's continuing economic malaise and to low-price
offerings from rivals. Service revenue refers to sales from voice, data and
messaging services.

In contrast, service revenue for Vodafone's emerging markets division rose 5.8
percent, to £12 billion, over the same period, as the unit benefited from the
increasing use of smartphones to access the web.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/vodafone-in-talks-to-exchange-assets-
with-liberty-global.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%);
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); BROADBAND (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%);
WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY
(89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS
(78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); JOINT
VENTURES  MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%)

COMPANY: VODAFONE GROUP PLC (98%); BT GROUP PLC (92%); VODAFONE D2 GMBH (92%);
LIBERTY GLOBAL PLC (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (57%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC
(56%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (53%)

TICKER: VOD (NASDAQ) (98%); VOD (LSE) (98%); BT.A (LSE) (92%); BT (NYSE) (92%);
LBTYA (NASDAQ) (90%); DTE (FRA) (57%); DTE (BIT) (57%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (56%); TWC
(NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE)
(98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); SIC4812
RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT
RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%);
SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (89%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (88%);
INDIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How a Carried Interest Tax Could Raise $180 Billion

BYLINE: By VICTOR FLEISCHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; STANDARD DEDUCTION; Pg.

LENGTH: 1011 words


When Hillary Rodham Clinton opened her campaign for the Democratic presidential
nomination in Iowa, the first substantive issue she raised was a safe one:
carried interest. ''There's something wrong when hedge fund managers pay lower
tax rates than nurses or the truckers that I saw on I-80 as I was driving
here,'' she said.

President Obama also raised the issue at a recent forum on inequality, calling
fund managers our society's ''lottery winners.'' Taxing carried interest at a
low rate is, for many of us, a simple issue of fairness. The richest among us
should not pay tax at a low rate on labor income.

Private equity moguls and other defenders of the status quo object to the
characterization of carried interest as labor income. But they also argue that
there just isn't that much money at stake.

Taxing carried interest at ordinary income rates would raise about $18 billion
over 10 years, according to a Treasury estimate of President Obama's recent
budget proposal. The Joint Committee on Taxation, which scores congressional
legislation, has made similar estimates in the past.

One or two billion dollars a year is more than most of us can find in between
the seat cushions. It would roughly double what Congress gives the I.R.S. to
spend on information technology. Still, the number is small enough that it makes
raising the issue seem petty and vindictive. Referring to carried interest has
become a badge of solidarity, a touchstone for measuring class allegiances.

We should not overlook the substance of the issue. By my calculations, the
government's estimate is low by an order of magnitude. Taxing carried interest
at ordinary rates would generate about $180 billion in revenue over 10 years.

Here's how I get to a different bottom line. ''Carried interest'' is the
investment fund manager's share of the profits of the fund. Managers of private
equity funds, venture capital funds and many hedge funds pay tax at the
long-term capital gains rate on much of their income. Because this return
represents a return on labor efforts, not a financial return, I have argued in
the past that carried interest should be taxed at higher ordinary income rates.

Figuring out how much money is at stake isn't easy. As I argued a few weeks ago,
we should require investment funds to report carried interest separately on tax
returns.

In the meantime, I looked at the latest available data from the I.R.S.
Statistics of Income division. There is no separate reporting of carried
interest, but buried deep in the data there is a line that reports the income of
''partnership general partners'' -- that is, when the partner earning income is
itself not an individual, but a partnership or limited liability company.

This entry in the data turns out to be a pretty good proxy for carried interest,
as the fund manager of an investment fund is typically itself organized as a
partnership. (By contrast, it is not unusual for the general partner of a real
estate partnership to be an individual.)

The I.R.S. data is broken down by industry. In 2012, finance partnerships earned
just over one trillion in income, about half of which ($527 billion) was taxed
at long-term capital gains rates or preferential dividend rates. Within this
group, ''partnership general partners'' reported $78 billion in income. The same
group reported $53 billion in 2011 and $56 billion in 2010. About $40 billion,
or half of the $78 billion, was taxed at low rates; applying a 20 percent rate
increase would raise $8 billion a year.

One could argue, I suppose, that 2012 was not a representative year. But recent
years have been even better. For example, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts alone earned
about $8 billion in carried interest in 2014. The Blackstone Group reported
earning $4 billion in carried interest.

My starting point for carried interest -- the data on ''partnership general
partners'' -- is underinclusive. Individuals and corporations organized under
Subchapter S also receive carried interest. And then one must add back in other
industries, like real estate, that also generate carried interest.

If you add the amount of carried interest earned by general partners, there is
about $200 billion annually in carried interest income, of which about $100
billion is taxed at low rates. Applying a 20 percent tax rate increase yields
$20 billion a year, or $200 billion over 10 years. Applying a 10 percent haircut
for factors like the actual invested capital of managers and anticipated changes
in behavior, and the bottom line is $180 billion over 10 years.

The vast difference between the government's estimate and my own is attributable
to the anticipated behavioral response to the tax change, which one can think of
as dynamic scoring on a microeconomics level.

For example, imagine that we doubled the capital gains rate to 40 percent from
20 percent. We would not get twice as much revenue as we do now. Some owners of
appreciated property would feel ''locked in'' and defer the sale of assets.

The government's low revenue estimate results from this ''X factor'' of
anticipated behavioral response. But, unlike holding on to appreciated stock,
there is no easy way to avoid realizing the income from carried interest.

Simple workarounds, like borrowing money from limited partners to buy direct
interests in the funds, have been closed off. More complex workarounds, like
having managers invest directly in portfolio companies, change the fundamental
economics of private equity investing, where performance is measured on a
fund-wide basis. I first proposed taxing carried interest at ordinary rates in
2006, and I've had thousands of conversations about it with tax lawyers. If
there were an easy workaround, someone I know would have heard something about
it.

Cynics say that the rich always figure out a way to avoid paying tax. This is
not true. The system has many flaws, but the fact remains that closing loopholes
raises revenue.

And there's this: If it were so easy to avoid paying tax on carried interest,
why would the industry fight so hard?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/how-a-carried-interest-tax-c
ould-raise-180-billion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MANAGERS
& SUPERVISORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%);
US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); TAX LAW (89%);
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%);
TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%);
BUDGETS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (71%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (60%); LOTTERIES (55%); BUDGET
PROPOSALS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

S.E.C. Reaches Compromise in Computer Sciences Fraud Case

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and PETER EAVIS; Peter J. Henning contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission has long sought to make an example out of
the Computer Sciences Corporation, a large technology company with government
contracts around the world. And on Friday, the S.E.C. seized the opportunity,
bringing civil charges against eight former employees and executives and
extracting a $190 million penalty from the company for ''manipulating financial
results.''

But it almost didn't happen. In recent weeks, infighting at the highest level of
the S.E.C. imperiled the case, one of the agency's biggest stands against
accounting fraud in a decade. And the case nearly collapsed last month after the
S.E.C. missed a legal deadline for charging some of the wrongdoing, according to
people briefed on the matter -- a misstep that forced the agency to reduce the
penalty for at least one executive.

The problems, which serve as the latest reminder of how political divisions
disrupt the agency's enforcement efforts to punish corporate wrongdoing, emerged
after Computer Sciences publicly disclosed last year that it settled with the
S.E.C.'s enforcement division. The case hit a wall when some of the S.E.C.'s
commissioners, a majority of whom must approve enforcement settlements, balked
at the settlement, according to the people who were not authorized to speak
publicly.

The case pitted the commission's two Democrats, who channel the public uproar
over corporate misdeeds, against two Republicans, who argue that big corporate
fines unfairly punish shareholders. In this case, a Republican commissioner
complained that the $190 million penalty was too harsh, while at least one
Democrat called for charges against a former controller at the company, whom the
S.E.C. did not plan to penalize. That approach raised alarms in the defense bar,
which had already complained that individual employees were becoming bargaining
chips in this political fight.

Mary Jo White, the agency's chairwoman and a political independent who pledged
to crack down on corporate misdeeds when she took over the agency two years ago,
would typically break such a stalemate. But federal ethics rules required her to
step aside because her husband, a partner at the law firm Cravath, Swaine &
Moore, helped represent Computer Sciences in the S.E.C. investigation.

The investigation centered on accounting missteps that arose from the company's
large and troubled contract with Britain's National Health Service. The company,
the S.E.C. said, altered accounting related to the contract to avoid hits to its
profit in 2010 and 2011.

The resulting case, and the tale of how a divided S.E.C. still managed to pull
off a last-minute deal, offers a crash course in S.E.C. politics. S.E.C.
enforcement actions are supposed to stick to the facts and the law, but they are
also beholden to politically appointed commissioners. And when Ms. White is
recused -- Cravath has handled roughly 10 cases during her tenure -- the
enforcement division's path to a deal becomes even narrower.

Such fissures have also appeared in S.E.C. rule-making, prompting a wave of
negative news articles. The scrutiny reached a climax this week, when Senator
Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts and an outspoken critic of Wall
Street, attacked Ms. White in a letter, calling her tenure ''extremely
disappointing.'' Ms. Warren cited The New York Times's coverage of the Computer
Sciences case as a basis for her concern.

And yet, this case also highlights the potential for compromise at the S.E.C.
Rather than abandon a crucial case -- and allow a wrongdoer to escape punishment
-- it appears that the Democratic commissioners overcame their disagreements
with the enforcement division and reached a deal, even though it did not include
charges against the former controller. Ultimately, the S.E.C.'s actions reached
as high as the company's former chief executive, Michael Laphen, and its chief
financial officer, Michael Mancuso.

''The significant sanctions in this case against the company, C.E.O. and C.F.O.
reflect our focus on ensuring that such misconduct is vigorously pursued and
punished,'' Andrew J. Ceresney, head of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said
in a statement.

On Friday, Computer Sciences restated its financial statements to reflect
accounting errors. ''We are pleased to settle this longstanding civil
investigation that focused largely on accounting issues from 2009 to 2012,''
Richard C. Adamonis, a company spokesman, said in a statement.

The S.E.C. did not require Computer Sciences to admit wrongdoing. Although the
S.E.C. initially sought admissions, the people briefed on the matter said, the
company argued that doing so would imperil its work as a government contractor.

As Computer Sciences struggled to carry out its contract with Britain's health
service, the company faced the prospect of reduced earnings, according to the
S.E.C. Instead, the company's accountants adjusted a model in a way that shored
up profits.

The British health service also made cash advances to the company that the
S.E.C. contended were effectively a loan. When financial analysts asked Mr.
Mancuso whether cash flows had benefited from such advances, he replied that the
company had achieved it ''the old-fashioned hard way.'' But after Mr. Mancuso
learned that the company received a $580 million advance, he sent an email to
colleagues that said the company had ''dodged a bullet.''

Much of the S.E.C.'s investigation focused on the former employees and
executives. Five of the eight executives charged by the S.E.C. agreed to settle,
including Mr. Laphen, who agreed to pay a $750,000 penalty. Computer Sciences
will also take back about $3.7 million in his compensation.

Lawyers for Mr. Mancuso and Mr. Laphen did not respond to requests for comment.

In addition, the S.E.C. charged six former Computer Sciences finance employees,
some who held relatively low-level positions overseas and others who appeared to
be at the center of the scheme. Half of the former employees settled, while the
S.E.C. sued the others.

The agency's former controller was conspicuously absent from the list of people
charged. The S.E.C.'s enforcement division had sent him a so-called Wells
notice, warning that it was planning to charge him, but his lawyers persuaded
the S.E.C. to stand down.

In recent weeks, to help sway the Democrats to approve the case, the S.E.C.'s
enforcement division discussed charging the former controller, the people
briefed on the matter said. Kara M. Stein, one of the Democrats, questioned
whether enough high-ranking executives were being charged. The other Democrat,
Luis A. Aguilar, has made individual charges a focus of his enforcement
platform.

Hoping to appease Michael S. Piwowar and Daniel M. Gallagher, the agency's
Republicans, the enforcement division discussed lowering the corporate penalty
to about $100 million. Mr. Gallagher had already agreed to $190 million, while
Mr. Piwowar was a holdout.

But questions soon arose as to why commissioners would overrule the judgment of
the investigators who handled the case. And eventually, Ms. Stein backed down.
The final vote was 3 to 1, the people said; Mr. Piwowar dissented.

But during that debate, before settling on the $190 million penalty, a legal
deadline for filing a portion of the case expired because some of the misconduct
took place more than five years ago.

The missed deadline forced the S.E.C. to lower the fine against at least one of
the individual defendants -- not Mr. Mancuso or Mr. Laphen -- whose misconduct
took place partly outside the five-year deadline.

Concerns also arose about the treatment of some lower-level defendants. As the
S.E.C. ramped up its investigation, a lawyer for some of the former employees
requested emails and other documents from Computer Sciences. The documents, in
theory, would help the former employees mount a defense.

But lawyers for Computer Sciences balked, inferring that S.E.C. investigators
might deny so-called cooperation credit from Computer Sciences if it shared the
documents. While doing so is not improper for the S.E.C., it is generally
frowned upon in legal circles.

S.E.C. officials dispute that they linked the cooperation credit to the
company's sharing of documents, noting that cooperation is not determined until
the end of a case. The officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, argue
that it is generally up to companies, not the S.E.C., to decide whether to
withhold documents from former employees.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/divided-sec-reaches-compromi
se-in-computer-sciences-case.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above left, Computer Sciences Corporation's headquarters in
Falls Church, Va., and above right, its second office in Merrifield, Va. At
right, Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the S.E.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%);
FINES & PENALTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%);
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS (89%);
CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FINANCIAL
RESULTS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); ETHICS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS
(74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS
(73%); POLITICS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & REPORTS (71%)

COMPANY: COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (94%); CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%)

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN
(94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (90%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Jeffrey Peek Named an Executive Vice Chairman at Bank of America

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 503 words


Jeffrey M. Peek, who once lost a race to become the chief executive of Merrill
Lynch, is coming home, in a way.

Mr. Peek will become executive vice chairman of global corporate and investment
banking at Bank of America, which bought Merrill Lynch during the financial
crisis, according to an internal memorandum sent on March 31.

In his new role, Mr. Peek will focus mainly on working with banks, insurers and
other financial institutions, according to the memo, which was written by
Christian Meissner, Bank of America's head of global corporate and investment
banking.

He will start this summer and report to Mr. Meissner.

The move will be the latest career shift for Mr. Peek, who was most recently
vice chairman of investment banking at Barclays. Most of his career was at
Merrill Lynch, where he rose through the ranks, eventually overseeing operations
like investment research and asset management.

He earned a spot on a short list of contenders to take over Merrill Lynch in the
early 2000s, but he lost to a rival, E. Stanley O'Neal. He then had a brief
stint at Credit Suisse First Boston.

But Mr. Peek is perhaps best known for his tenure at the CIT Group, a once-staid
midmarket lender that he sought to build into a more serious challenger to
better-known financial institutions.

Under him, the company moved to a splashy headquarters in Midtown Manhattan and
expanded its offerings, including adding consumer loans. But the company ran
aground shortly after the financial crisis, eventually filing for bankruptcy.

CIT has since rebounded and returned to the public markets, and it is now led by
John A. Thain -- who, as chief executive of Merrill Lynch, sold the business to
Bank of America.

A spokesman for Bank of America confirmed the contents of the memo, which was
previously reported by Bloomberg News.

Here is the full text of the memo from Mr. Meissner:

I am pleased to announce that Jeffrey Peek has been appointed executive vice
chairman of Global Corporate & Investment Banking, focused primarily on the
financial institutions space. He will join our firm in early summer, be based in
New York and report to me. Jeffrey will be responsible for deepening key client
relationships, driving growth through origination efforts and advisory services,
and increasing collaboration across the firm to best serve our clients.

Jeffrey is a seasoned banker with more than 30 years experience and proven
leadership skills. He joins us from Barclays where he served as vice chairman of
Investment Banking. Prior to that, he worked at CIT Group as president and chief
operating officer and was later promoted to CEO and chairman. He was vice
chairman at Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and spent nearly 20 years at Merrill
Lynch where he rose to the level of executive vice president of Merrill Lynch &
Co., and served as head of Investment Banking and president of Merrill Lynch
Investment Managers.

Please join me in welcoming Jeffrey back to the firm and wishing him much
success in his new role.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/jeffrey-peek-named-a-vice-ch
airman-at-bank-of-america.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); APPOINTMENTS (92%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (91%);
MERCHANT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC
CRISIS (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%);
INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); CUSTOMER
RELATIONS (64%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE
GROUP AG (90%); CREDIT SUISSE (USA) INC (81%); CIT GROUP INC (55%); MERRILL
LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (90%);
CS (NYSE) (90%); CIT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES
OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY
INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (81%);
NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); NAICS522291
CONSUMER LENDING (55%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY M PEEK (94%); JOHN THAIN (79%); STAN O'NEAL (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Lloyds Bank Fined $180 Million Over Handling of Insurance Complaints

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY and PATRICK SCOTT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 556 words


LONDON -- British regulators on Friday said they had imposed a fine of about
$180 million on the Lloyds Banking Group over its handling of customer
complaints about a contentious loan insurance product that has cost the industry
billions of dollars. As a result, the bank said it would cut its 2015 bonus
pool.

The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, announced the penalty, which it
called its largest-ever retail fine, as part of a settlement with the lender for
unfairly treating customers after they complained from March 2012 to May 2013
about the improper sales of payment protection insurance, or P.P.I.

The regulator said the bank had rejected 37 percent of complaints related to 2.3
million policies, even though in some cases the complaints had not been fully
investigated and Lloyds had known that its processes were flawed.

The bank said that it would reduce the company's bonus pool for this year by 30
million pounds, or about $46 million, and that its senior managers would forfeit
£2.65 million in bonuses already awarded.

''The size of the fine today reflects the fact that so many complaints were
mishandled by Lloyds,'' the regulator said in a statement. ''Customers who had
already been treated unfairly once by being missold P.P.I. were treated unfairly
a second time and denied the redress they were owed. Lloyds' conduct was
unacceptable.''

Norman Blackwell, chairman of the Lloyds Banking Group, said the bank accepted
the Financial Conduct Authority's findings and apologized to the customers
affected.

António Horta-Osório, the group's chief executive, said that while ''our
intentions were right, we made mistakes in our handling of some P.P.I.
complaints.''

''I am very sorry for this,'' he continued.

He said that executives ''remain fully committed to improving our operational
procedures and ensuring we do the right thing for our customers.''

The government held as much as 40 percent of Lloyds after the lender received a
bailout of £17 billion in 2008, and it has continued to reduce that stake. This
week, the government said that its latest sale of shares put the stake at below
19 percent and that additional share sales would run through December.

Payment protection insurance has cost British lenders about $29 billion over the
past four years as they have seen waves of complaints from consumers over the
product. The insurance was sold broadly by banks in Britain to consumers taking
out mortgages, applying for credit cards and seeking other loans. More than 45
million policies were sold from 1990 to 2010.

The complex pricing and the terms of the policies made the insurance
inappropriate for many consumers, according to the Financial Conduct Authority.

Banks in Britain have been pushing regulators to cap the time frame in which
consumers can seek redress as the amount of claims has far surpassed the
lenders' original estimates and the number of claims has not fallen as quickly
as expected.

The Financial Conduct Authority announced in January that it would review the
efforts that banks have made to compensate consumers and would examine whether
further intervention was appropriate. The regulator is expected to announce the
results of its review this year.

Lloyds was the largest provider of the product by far, and it has set aside
about £12 billion to cover claims.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/lloyds-banking-group-payment-protecti
on-insurance-fine.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%);
FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE
(78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PRICES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); CREDIT CARDS
(70%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONDUCT AUTHORITY (83%)

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (92%); LLOY (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF
FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: ANTONIO HORTA-OSORIO (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lehman to Pay Barclays $1.3 Billion to Settle Suit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words


One of the longest-running legal fights from the financial crisis, rooted in the
dismantling of Lehman Brothers, is near an end.

The trustee overseeing the winding down of Lehman's brokerage unit said on
Friday that the remaining estate would pay $1.28 billion to settle a lawsuit
filed by Barclays, the British bank that acquired the bulk of Lehman's North
American brokerage business.

The pact, if it wins court approval, would conclude about six years of fighting
between Barclays and the trustee, James W. Giddens, over that sale.

It is the latest milestone in the slow dissolution of Lehman, which collapsed in
September 2008 after last-minute efforts to sell the firm to Barclays fell
apart. The firm filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 15, becoming the
biggest-ever Chapter 11 case and setting off global market turmoil that roiled
the financial world.

In this chaos, Barclays agreed to buy the core of Lehman's operations for about
$1.3 billion.

In late 2009, Mr. Giddens filed suit against Barclays, arguing that the bank
''secretly'' put together a deal to gain an immediate multibillion-dollar
windfall after the takeover of the Lehman assets was completed.

At issue were margin accounts, which Barclays argued were assets that were part
of its transaction. The Lehman estate has contended that those accounts amounted
to cash that should not have been handed over to the British bank.

Barclays steadfastly denied those claims, arguing that nothing was secret about
the sale contract or its terms.

The lawsuit has been part of an effort by the trustee to recover as many assets
as possible to pay out to the Lehman brokerage estate's creditors and customers.
Thus far, creditors have received about $5.9 billion, or a little over a quarter
of all allowed unsecured creditor claims. Customers have received more than $106
billion in distributions.

The first judge who oversaw Lehman's bankruptcy case originally ruled that while
Barclays did not receive an improper gain from the sale, the brokerage estate
was owed several billion dollars. Yet that decision was overruled by a panel of
appeals court judges, who decided that Barclays could hold onto those assets
after all.

Mr. Giddens took his fight to the Supreme Court late last year, but the court
declined to hear his appeal.

Under the terms of Friday's agreement, the brokerage estate will pay Barclays
about $1.3 billion. In turn, the estate will have about $600 million to pay out
to creditors, releasing them from a reserve dedicated to the legal fight.

According to Mr. Giddens, the settlement will save the Lehman estate about $80
million that it otherwise would have had to pay, based on court rulings.

Both sides also agreed to drop any remaining claims.

''It has always been our duty to prudently and diligently pursue every avenue of
recovery for assets we believe belong to the estate, and we did so on behalf of
creditors by taking the Barclays litigation all the way to the Supreme Court,''
Mr. Giddens said in a statement. ''This agreement ends years of litigation and
achieves the best result under the circumstances as winding-down and closing out
the estate continues in earnest.''

The move will yield a $750 million pretax gain for Barclays when it reports its
second-quarter earnings next month, the bank said in its own statement.

The proposal still requires the approval of the judge overseeing Lehman's
bankruptcy case, Judge Shelley C. Chapman of the Federal Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. She is scheduled to consider the matter at a hearing this month.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/lehman-to-pay-barclays-dollar1-3-bill
ion-to-settle-suit.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Barclays headquarters in east London. In a lawsuit filed in
2009, Lehman Brothers accused Barclays of secretly putting together a deal to
gain an immediate multibillion-dollar windfall after the takeover of the Lehman
assets was completed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL COURT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%);
SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS
INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); APPEALS (85%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DECISIONS
& RULINGS (77%); JUDGES (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%);
APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); AGREEMENTS (76%); SUPREME
COURTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

TICKER: TAPR (NASDAQ) (92%); BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC
(92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Britain's Health Service Aided Struggling Computer Sciences

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 878 words


Britain's National Health Service has long provided free and universal health
care to the country's residents.

In one case, though, it appears to have provided an unusual therapeutic benefit
to corporate America.

A United States regulator on Friday asserted that the N.H.S. made cash payments
to a large United States technology company that were used to make it look
healthier than it truly was. In its action, the Securities and Exchange
Commission accused the Computer Sciences Corporation of overstating profits and
concealing serious problems from its investors. The S.E.C. extracted a $190
million penalty from the firm, one of the largest for accounting fraud in recent
years, and the company's former chief executive and chief financial officer were
also punished.

Much of the wrongdoing, according to the S.E.C., stemmed from a large but deeply
troubled information technology contract that Computer Sciences struck with the
N.H.S. Computer Sciences constantly struggled to satisfy the terms of the
contract, which led to a series of difficult renegotiations with the British
government from 2008 through 2011.

The S.E.C. said that Computer Sciences had carried out a fraud because it failed
to write down earnings when it knew that the contracts had lost value. The case
created infighting among the S.E.C.'s politically appointed commissioners about
how harsh punishments should be. But the agency was not divided over whether
Computer Sciences had issued erroneous financial statements.

''C.S.C. repeatedly based its financial results and disclosures on the N.H.S.
contract it was negotiating rather than the one it actually had and misled
investors about the true status of the contract,'' Andrew J. Ceresney, director
of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said in a statement.

The Computer Sciences case goes back to a vexing time for the N.H.S., which was
aiming to overhaul its vast medical records. Several companies, including
Computer Sciences, entered contracts with the N.H.S. for the work. Accenture, a
large technology firm, soon pulled out of its projects, allowing Computer
Sciences to assume the extra work. But Computer Sciences soon stumbled badly
with its projects, unleashing a firestorm of criticism of the company. One
member of Parliament, for instance, said in 2011 that Computer Sciences was
''holding the taxpayer to ransom,'' according to media reports.

But the taxpayer may have been unwittingly helping Computer Sciences.

Leading up to that time, according to the S.E.C., the N.H.S. made cash payments
to Computer Sciences that the firm then used to make it look stronger than it
was. On paper, these payments were cash advances that the N.H.S. agreed to pay
for future work. But the S.E.C. said that they were structured in such a way
that they were effectively loans with a 5 percent interest rate.

These advances bolstered Computer Sciences' free cash flow, a measure of how
much cash a company is taking in that investors consider important. Cash that a
company obtains from loans would not normally go into free cash flow. But
because Computer Sciences did not classify the advances as loans, the company
was able to book them in free cash flow. This was allowed under generally
accepted accounting principles, but the S.E.C. said that company's chief
financial officer, Michael Mancuso, had failed to make the required disclosures
about the advances.

The cash advances were not small, and Computer Sciences became dependent on
them, the S.E.C. said. They peaked in the firm's 2010 fiscal year, which ended
in April of that year. The N.H.S. advanced $580 million in the closing days of
that period, prompting Mr. Mancuso to send an email to some employees in which
he said that the company had ''dodged a bullet.'' Wall Street analysts who
covered the company, primarily Rod Bourgeois, who was at Bernstein at the time,
were deeply skeptical of Computer Sciences' cash flow and peppered management
with questions in conference calls.

The S.E.C. order also describes how free cash flow helped drive compensation
payments to senior executives at Computer Sciences. ''Absent the $580 million
N.H.S. cash advance,'' the complaint asserts, ''C.S.C.'s free cash flow results
would have fallen hundreds of millions of dollars short of the bonus plan
target, resulting in no payout to the executives.''

The S.E.C.'s complaint does not say whether the N.H.S. knew that the cash
advances played a decisive role in helping Computer Sciences to meet its public
cash flow estimates. A spokeswoman for Britain's Department of Health said on
Friday that she could not comment. Many of the cash payments were made when the
Labour Party governed Britain. A Conservative Party-led government assumed power
in May 2010.

Still, the N.H.S. did express some concerns, according to the S.E.C. These
focused on how the company wanted to speak about the contract in public. In
November 2011, the N.H.S. was informed about comments about the contract that
Computer Sciences was thinking of using in a script for an earnings call. The
N.H.S., according to the S.E.C.'s complaint, wrote back: ''We are of the opinion
that the comments could give the impression that the project is 'on track' with
its delivery (which is clearly not the case).''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/britains-health-service-aide
d-struggling-computer-sciences.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE &
REPORTS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%);
BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPUTING &
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS
(75%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (85%); ACCENTURE PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (85%); ACN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN
(85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING
SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Political Brand of Sominex

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 844 words


When I have trouble falling asleep, I do lists. Like running through the names
of all the presidents, along with several factoids for each one. I was rather
proud of this talent until friends sent me a video clip of Ellen DeGeneres
interviewing a 5-year-old girl who could do it better.

Then, pathetically, I moved on to vice presidents, becoming the only person on
my block who knew the backstory on Schuyler Colfax.

There are all sorts of variations of this game. I once tried to mentally list
all the contestants on a season of ''The Amazing Race'' in order of elimination.
But the point here is that this could be a practical use for our ever-growing
pantheon of presidential contenders. When you get weary and you can't sleep,
count the candidates instead of sheep.

They're current events and slumber-inducing, too.

Three seems like a good number of facts at this point in the political calendar.
All non-issue-related. You don't really want to dwell on Rick Perry's agenda
when he might be gone again by Labor Day.

And nothing too psychological, like why Lindsey Graham decided to come snarling
out of the gate like a rabid otter. (''Kill terrorists, grow jobs.'') Actually,
he's been working on that persona for some time. During a Senate meeting on gun
control, Graham wondered what an assault rifle ban would mean ''in an
environment where the law and order has broken down, whether it's a hurricane,
national disaster, earthquake, terrorist attack, cyberattack where the power
goes down and the dam's broken and chemicals have been released into the air and
law enforcement is really not able to respond and people take advantage of that
lawless environment.''

O.K., that's not going to induce slumber. Let's start over. Close your eyes ...

Rick Perry: Former Texas governor. Only candidate for president currently under
indictment. Once shot a coyote while jogging. Has a rap-country campaign song
that goes: ''Rick Perry supporter/Let's protect our border.''

Whoops, that was four.

Lindsey Graham: Senator from South Carolina. Besties with Senator John McCain.
Once suggested he'd drown himself if Barack Obama took North Carolina, but
failed to follow through.

George Pataki: Former New York governor. Middle name is Elmer. Father spent his
later years in a home for indigent volunteer firefighters.

Rick Santorum: Former senator from Pennsylvania. Held up a big piece of coal
during his official announcement. Really fond of sweater vests.

And those are just the Republican candidates we've acquired over the past 10
days! Let's look at the Democrats:

Lincoln Chafee: Former Republican senator. Former independent governor. Used
announcement speech to call on the nation to adopt the metric system.

Martin O'Malley: Former governor of Maryland. Plays in Celtic rock band.
Allegedly a model for the mayor in ''The Wire.''

Bernie Sanders: Senator from Vermont. Wrote a weird piece on rape fantasies 43
years ago that he recently described as ''something Like '50 Shades of Grey.' ''
Carries a brass key chain from the Eugene V. Debs campaign.

Hillary Clinton: Once claimed, in a 2008 campaign ad, that she was ''raised on
pinochle and the American Dream.'' Likes to watch home-rehab shows on HGTV.
Author of five books, including ''Dear Socks, Dear Buddy: Kids' Letters to the
First Pets.''

And now, back to the Republicans. Should we do Scott Walker? No, he's not an
official candidate. Even though it would be interesting to discuss whether
''college dropout'' is a fair factoid. And Jeb Bush has only announced that he's
going to announce something when he gets back from a trip to Estonia. You have
to have some rules about these things or else you'll have 400 candidates to go
through, including your neighbor Fred who just put a sign on his lawn,
proclaiming his availability.

Also, I don't think we have to worry about Donald Trump at this point. Trump has
picked a day for a big announcement, but it could well be news that Caitlyn
Jenner will be a contestant on ''Celebrity Apprentice.''

Marco Rubio: Senator from Florida. Owns a sword named Chang. First job was
building cages for exotic birds.

Ben Carson: Retired neurosurgeon. Played on screen by Cuba Gooding Jr. Called
Barack Obama a ''psychopath.''

Rand Paul: Senator from Kentucky. Cuts his own hair. Once accused of forcing a
classmate to worship ''Aqua Buddha.''

Carly Fiorina: Former C.E.O. of Hewlett-Packard. Got fired from Hewlett-Packard.
Once ran for Senate with an ad that portrayed her Republican opponent as a Demon
Sheep.

Mike Huckabee: Former governor of Arkansas. Fried squirrels in a popcorn popper
during college. Accepted $130,000 in gifts during his tenure in Little Rock,
including a stadium blanket and a chainsaw.

Ted Cruz: Senator from Texas. Born in Canada. Claims he stopped liking rock
music after 9/11.

Drowsy yet? If it hasn't worked by now, try imagining them all jumping over a
fence.â[#x2dc]

I invite you to join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/gail-collins-a-political-brand-of-somi
nex.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); GOVERNORS
(88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); CYBERCRIME (65%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (65%); CYBERTERRORISM (65%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (87%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (71%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA
(58%); ELLEN DEGENERES (57%); RICK SANTORUM (53%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (50%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA
(79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taco Bell Doughnut Ball Is Dusted in Cap'n Crunch

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING |; Pg.
2

LENGTH: 86 words


Taco Bell, which last week said it would remove artificial colors and flavors
from its menu by the end of this year, announced on Friday another exception to
that policy -- doughnut balls covered in crumbled Cap'n Crunch cereal. The
company said it would continue to exempt co-branded products, like Doritos Locos
Tacos, from its push to change ingredients. The latest release, a dessert known
as Cap'n Crunch Delights, deep-fried balls of sweet dough filled with icing and
covered in cereal, will be available July 2.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Exception To Taco Bell Shift On Artificial Ingredients

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 86 words


Taco Bell, which last week said it would remove artificial colors and flavors
from its menu by the end of this year, announced on Friday another exception to
that policy -- doughnut balls covered in crumbled Cap'n Crunch cereal. The
company said it would continue to exempt co-branded products, like Doritos Locos
Tacos, from its push to change ingredients. The latest release, a dessert known
as Cap'n Crunch Delights, deep-fried balls of sweet dough filled with icing and
covered in cereal, will be available July 2.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/exception-to-taco-bell-shift-on-artif
icial-ingredients.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); SYNTHETIC DYES & PIGMENTS (88%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

De Blasio, on Radio, Starts Conversation With His Constituents

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 730 words


Mayor Bill de Blasio sat cross-legged at a small table in his office, scribbling
notes like a debate competitor. He pantomimed a drinking motion, and an aide
returned with tea. He nodded vigorously at speakers who could not see him,
flattering their inquiries with care.

''Well, first of all, I want to thank Danny for the question.''

''I think Norma and I are on the same page.''

''Selina's question is right on the money.''

For the first time since taking office, Mr. de Blasio set aside time on Friday
to take questions publicly from the city that elected him.

Though aides have long said New York's mayor is no stranger to strangers --
there are subway rides and Mets games, they say, mornings at the gym and
evenings at a restaurant -- Mr. de Blasio has been tweaked in recent months for
not interacting with constituents more often in public forums.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took questions frequently, if often brusquely, on a
weekly radio show. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani once berated a caller who protested
the city's ban on ferrets, lamenting the man's ''sickness'' and urging a mental
health intervention.

So it was that Mr. de Blasio, seated in his City Hall sanctum, participated in
''The Brian Lehrer Show'' on WNYC. With three staff members in tow to take his
cues or steer his replies, the mayor, a Democrat, cradled a phone receiver in
his left hand and occasionally played with the cord while he spoke.

He was quizzed on police head count, library funding and squabbles in Albany,
among other subjects, and he moved to defend his administration's crime-fighting
record amid an increase in shootings and homicides so far this year.

''I don't think our public discourse is that healthy on some of these issues,''
he said in response to a question from Mr. Lehrer, adding, ''It doesn't surprise
me that there would be sensationalist headlines.''

Referring to a recent article in The Daily News about subway crime, Mr. de
Blasio noted that the average New Yorker ''has a one in a million chance of
being a victim of crime,'' producing ridership and police statistics to make his
case.

The mayor has dismissed any suggestion that a less aggressive approach to
stop-and-frisk policing -- a position central to his election in 2013 -- is
making the city less safe.

The mayor's first call came from Danny in Rockaway Park, Queens, who asked Mr.
de Blasio to hire 1,000 additional police officers, as the City Council has
requested.

Mr. de Blasio argued that resources had already been freed up on his watch
because officers were making fewer recorded stops and conducting fewer arrests
for low-level marijuana possession. He also cited technology improvements.

Listing several areas of concern -- the school system, the Rikers Island jail
complex, homelessness -- Mr. de Blasio suggested that adding to the ranks of
police officers might not be a top priority.

''When you have a force that's effective in the way the N.Y.P.D. is now and
getting better, I think that's a reason to stick with what we're doing,'' he
said.

Next up were Norma from Queens (''Norma! That's me!'' she said eagerly after
being patched in) to discuss affordable housing, and Selina in Manhattan with a
question about privacy concerns in a higher-tech age.

''Well, Selina is certainly asking a timely question,'' the mayor said, noting
recent news about hacking of federal databases. He expressed enthusiasm, though,
for a pilot program to place body cameras on police officers.

A final caller, Lauren from Queens, made a pitch for additional money for
libraries, another source of debate in budget discussions with the Council.

At one point, after the mayor said that ''real potential change is in our
grasp,'' Mr. Lehrer quipped that the mayor sounded as if he ''wouldn't mind''
being president, recalling a recent item in The New York Post suggesting he
might explore a bid.

''What I would urge all listeners to understand is, do not believe everything
you read in The New York Post,'' the mayor said. ''That could not have been more
inaccurate.''

Mr. de Blasio said he looked forward to running for re-election in 2017. But
mayors have a responsibility to discuss national issues, he suggested, gesturing
toward the desk at his left, once used by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia.

''The people of this city need solutions,'' Mr. de Blasio said before signing
off, ''and answers.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/de-blasio-for-first-time-answers-cons
tituents-queries-on-radio.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bill de Blasio in his City Hall office on Friday taking
questions on a radio call-in show, a first for him since being elected.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); RESTAURANTS
(73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); HOMICIDE (62%); MEDIA BIAS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (56%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tariq Aziz, 79, Aide to Saddam Hussein, Dies While Serving Prison Term in Iraq

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1155 words


Tariq Aziz, the Iraqi foreign minister and deputy prime minister who for decades
was the most public face of Saddam Hussein's government on the world stage, died
on Friday in Nasiriya, Iraq, where he had been imprisoned. He was 79.

Adel Aldikhaly, the deputy governor of Nasiriya, said Mr. Aziz had had a heart
attack after ''a long-term incurable disease'' and was transferred from prison
to a hospital, where he was declared dead.

Mr. Aziz was a committed Arab Nationalist and Baath Party stalwart whose
closeness to Mr. Hussein long predated the strongman's rise to power. It was
said that he was so devoted to Mr. Hussein that he would salute when speaking
with him on the telephone.

To American and British viewers of television news, he was the familiar and
defiant face of a government at war with the West, first in 1991, then during
the American-led bombardment and invasion of 2003 -- a figure instantly
recognizable by his oversize eyeglasses and love of cigars.

Perhaps more than anyone else, Mr. Aziz, in his fluent English, was able to
articulate Mr. Hussein's often contorted rationales for policies and positions
that often eluded Westerners.

He accurately foresaw some of the havoc the 2003 invasion would wreak in the
region. Less than two months before the bombing started, while visiting Pope
John Paul II, he urged European countries not to join the march toward war,
saying, ''It will be interpreted by the Arab and Muslim world as a crusade
against the Arabs and against Islam.''

The American claim that Iraq harbored unconventional weapons was, he said, an
''invented scenario'' and a ''bad American movie.''

In the American ''deck of cards'' of wanted officials from Saddam Hussein's
government, Mr. Aziz was designated the eight of spades and ranked relatively
low on the list -- No. 43 of the 55 officials -- because he was not believed to
have substantive information on the location of weapons or on the whereabouts of
Mr. Hussein in the weeks after he fled Baghdad.

Mr. Aziz was sentenced to  death in 2010 for ''the persecution of Islamic
parties,'' including that of the prime minister at the time, Nuri Kamal
al-Maliki, the Dawa Party. But it was never clear what Mr. Aziz had done
personally to merit the charge, although he had clearly been a fervent supporter
of a despotic and ruthless government.

In interviews in his own defense, Mr. Aziz said that no one had ever accused him
specifically. And his defense lawyers asserted that he had been responsible only
for Iraq's diplomatic and political relations -- that he had had no ties to the
executions and purges carried out by Mr. Hussein's government.

Even some who became opponents of Mr. Hussein's government defended Mr. Aziz.
Hassan al-Alawi, who was a senior Baath Party member when Mr. Hussein took power
but who later fled into exile and then returned after the United States
invasion, described the death sentence against Mr. Aziz as payback -- a
''retaliatory'' gesture for his role as foreign minister in gathering
international support for Iraq during the Iran-Iraq war.

''Mr. Aziz is innocent, and the death sentence was unfair,'' Mr. Alawi said.

He said he believed that the authorities had not carried out the sentence
knowing that Mr. Aziz was sick and likely to die in jail.

In the early days of the Hussein government, Mr. Aziz had relatively good
relations with the United States, serving as a buffer between his government and
the Reagan administration as it sought to navigate the twists and turns in the
Iraqi-American relationship. American relations with Iraq were far closer after
the Iranian revolution in 1979 than they were by 1990, after President George
Bush had entered the White House.

Before the first American-led invasion of Iraq in 1991, Mr. Aziz tried to
justify Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, saying that it resulted from a
failure by Kuwait to reduce oil production and that it appealed to Arab
nationalist sentiment.

Kuwait's increased production was bringing down oil prices, he said, costing
Iraq billions of dollars every year. The Iraqis, he said, viewed that as part of
a conspiracy to damage their country.

It was ''a deliberate conspiracy against Iraq, by Kuwait, organized, devised by
the United States,'' Mr. Aziz said in an interview for a ''Frontline'' oral
history series on PBS.

He believed that the interests of the United States were driven by its desire to
control Iraqi oil and support Israel, and he promulgated that view throughout
the 2003 invasion.

During the American invasion, even as Iraqi troops were crumbling in the south
and bombs were falling on Baghdad, Mr. Aziz put on a show of invincibility,
assuring the few international news organizations that were still in Baghdad
that Iraqi troops were standing firm.

Like his boss, Mr. Aziz was above all an Arab nationalist, who fervently
believed his path and that of Mr. Hussein would bring Iraq to power in the
region. In an interview in prison in 2010 he told The Guardian that he would not
speak of his regrets until he was released.

''I am proud of my life because my best intention was to serve Iraq,'' he said.

But he expressed regret about being in prison. If he could change one thing, he
said, he would have been ''martyred'' rather than have surrendered. Although he
allowed that he did get something enormously important to him: the protection of
his family.

''The war was here, and Baghdad had been occupied,'' he said. ''I am loyal to my
family, and I made a major decision: I told the Americans that if they took my
family to Amman, they could take me to prison. My family left on an American
plane, and I went to prison on a Thursday.''

His son helped to arrange his surrender to the Americans on April 24, 2003.

Mr. Aziz was born in northern Iraq, near the city of Mosul, on April 28, 1936,
to a Chaldean Christian family. (He was later the sole Christian to serve as a
senior cabinet member under Mr. Hussein.) His name in Syriac, which is still
used among Chaldean Christians, was Mikhail Yuhanna (Michael John). Information
on his survivors was not immediately available.

He joined the Baath Party after studying English at Baghdad University, changing
his name so that it would sound more Arabic. He became the editor of two
newspapers, including Al Thawra, the official Baath Party paper.

Rising through the party ranks, Mr. Aziz eventually became a member of the
Revolutionary Command Council, deputy prime minister and foreign minister. In a
government known for distrust and betrayals as well as sudden falls from grace,
Mr. Aziz was a survivor, who won and held Mr. Hussein's trust for longer than
almost any other close aide.

In his 2010 interview with The Guardian, he indicated that he had remained a
believer in the idea that Iraq needed a dictator.

''There is nothing here anymore -- nothing,'' he said. ''For 30 years Saddam
built Iraq, and now it is destroyed.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/middleeast/tariq-aziz-imprisoned-deputy-
to-saddam-hussein-dies-at-79.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tariq Aziz, left, in 1992 at the United Nations as deputy prime
minister of Iraq, talking with Chinmaya Rajaninath Gharekhan, the Indian
delegate, at a meeting of the Security Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN
CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Aziz, above in 2002, in Baghdad. Below, in 2004 in a courtroom that was once
the palace of Saddam Hussein. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARIM SAHIB/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES
 KAREN BALLARD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING
(89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%);
PRISONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SENTENCING
(77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LITIGATION (76%);
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); BOMBINGS (72%);
HEART DISEASE (71%); RELIGION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); WAR & CONFLICT
(69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); LAWYERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gagosian to Open Third London Gallery

BYLINE: By SCOTT REYBURN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 417 words


Gagosian Gallery is starting a third space in London. A 18,000-square-foot
gallery at 20 Grosvenor Hill, in the heart of Mayfair, it will open with an
exhibition by the American abstract painter Cy Twombly on Oct. 8, just before
the Frieze London art fair.

The new gallery will expand Gagosian's global network to 15 exhibition spaces in
eight cities across seven countries. The dealer, based in New York, will
continue to operate its branch at Britannia Street, near  King's Cross Station,
as well as its existing ''shop window'' showroom on Davies Street, also in
Mayfair.

''The endgame of Gagosian is bigger and better,'' Thea Westreich Wagner, a
founder of the New York art advisory firm Twaas, said in a telephone interview.
''It's a way of attracting artists. And the better artists you represent, the
more sales you make. It could be anyone. It could be an estate, or it could be a
young artist who's getting a lot of attention. It's a broad position to take.''

Gagosian has been mounting exhibitions of Cy Twombly's work since 1994. The
coming show, made up of   paintings, sculptures and works on paper lent by the
Cy Twombly Foundation and  other collections, will include hitherto unseen
''Bacchus'' paintings. These monumental canvases, filled with exuberant  red
looping ''handwriting,'' date from the  mid-2000s and were in the artist's
studio when he died in Rome in 2011. A separate retrospective survey,
''Paradise,'' now on display at the Ca' Pesaro gallery in Venice, is the latest
in a succession of recent museum exhibitions devoted to Mr. Twombly. With
abstract paintings attracting buyers, the financial value of his work has  risen
sharply, culminating in the $69.6  million paid for a 1970 ''blackboard''
painting at Christie's in New York in November.

''The market for Twombly is now at a  different level,'' Ms. Westreich Wagner
said. ''Larry has helped make this happen.''

Gagosian has a 20-year lease on 20 Grosvenor Hill, to the north of Berkeley
Square, behind the new European headquarters of the Phillips auction house. With
its concentration of hedge funds,  luxury hotels, designer stores, auction
houses and rich residents, the square mile around Berkeley Square has become an
obligatory investment for America's top contemporary art dealers.  David
Zwirner, Pace, Michael Werner, Skarstedt and Dominique Lévy have all opened
substantial galleries in the area since 2011.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/05/gagosian-expands-with-third-london-
gallery/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%);
PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS
(77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (95%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (92%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Starry Lineup for the Seattle Art Fair

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 283 words


First-time art fairs often struggle for recognition, for an audience and for
participation by the kinds of galleries that might actually draw collectors and
a crowd. But the new Seattle Art Fair, to take place at the end of July, is not
your average first-time fair.

Co-produced by Paul G. Allen, the collector, Microsoft co-founder and Seattle
arts booster, the contemporary art fair has lined up some of the bigger
galleries, including David Zwirner and Pace.

The fair, to be held July 30 through Aug. 2, at the CenturyLink Field Event
Center, a convention center beneath the Seattle Seahawks football stadium, will
also feature site-specific public art across the city.

''For a first-time fair, it's an incredibly interesting show,'' said Max Fishko,
director of Art Market Productions, which is organizing it with Mr. Allen's
company Vulcan. ''You have got some of the biggest names in the art world,
period, plus some excellent regional and local dealers.''

Fairs have become a popular venue for selling high-end art in recent years,
alongside more traditional venues like galleries and auction houses, although
some dealers complain that there are too many art fair destinations now.

Mr. Fishko said to get the fair off to a good start, it had offered more
affordable rates to galleries, about a half to a third of rates of other fairs.

''We have got a long-term vision for growing this fair,'' he said. ''We want to
make it accessible for all types of gallery.''

Some of the other big-name galleries he said would be attending include
bitforms, Allan Stone Projects, James Cohan and Kaikai Kiki.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/04/inaugural-seattle-art-fair-announce
s-lineup-of-galleries/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); AUCTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); CENTURYLINK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE
COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Says Russia Failed to Correct Violation of Landmark 1987 Arms Control Deal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 795 words


WASHINGTON --  The State Department reported on Friday that Russia had failed to
correct a violation of a landmark arms control accord between Washington and
Moscow that prohibits intermediate-range ground-launched missiles.

At issue is the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty, known as the
I.N.F. Treaty, which the Obama administration says the Russians breached by
testing a cruise missile. But American officials have made no discernible
headway in persuading the Russians to acknowledge the compliance problem, let
alone resolve it.

In December, the Pentagon told Congress that it had developed a range of
military options to pressure Russia to remedy the violation or neutralize any
advantages it might gain if the diplomatic efforts fail. But no Pentagon
countermeasures have been announced.

The American allegation was outlined in the State Department's annual report on
compliance with arms control agreements. It comes as the Obama administration
has sought to identify new areas for potential cooperation with Russia,
including the crisis in Syria, even as it has continued to object to Moscow's
military intervention in Ukraine.

The State Department did nothing to draw attention to the report. An
unclassified version of it was posted on the agency's website late on Friday
afternoon with no advance notice, and no officials were made available to
discuss it. (A classified version of the report was provided to Congress earlier
this week.)

Representative Mac Thornberry, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee, said that the Obama administration had not been
forceful enough in pressing Moscow to comply with the agreement.

''Russia's development of intermediate-range nuclear platforms is designed to
hold our interests at risk and enable Putin's expansionist policies,'' Mr.
Thornberry said in a statement, referring to President Vladimir V. Putin. ''It
is not a situation we should accommodate for two years running. The chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff has proposed meaningful military options to deal with
Russia's I.N.F. violations. The president should order their implementation
without delay.''

American officials say that Russia began carrying out flight tests of the
missile as early as 2008, and Rose Gottemoeller, the State Department's senior
arms control official, first raised the possibility of a violation with Russian
officials two years ago.

Despite the allegation of a violation, the State Department report asserted that
it was in the interest of the United States not to withdraw from the agreement,
which it said ''contributes to the security of our allies and to regional
stability in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region.'' The accord bans American
and Russian ground-launched ballistic and cruise missiles that are able to fly
300 to 3,400 miles.

It is unclear what steps the Obama administration might take next. Ms.
Gottemoeller told Congress in December that the development of ground-launched
cruise missiles had proceeded far enough that Russia had ''the capability to
deploy it.''

Brian P. McKeon, a senior Pentagon official, told Congress that any military
steps that the United States might take in response to a violation would seek to
avoid an escalating spiral of Russian and American actions. But Mr. McKeon added
that if a diplomatic solution was not found, ''This violation will not go
unanswered.''

Those concerns are not the only ones about Russian compliance with arms control
accords. The State Department report asserted that Russia may have violated
troop notification requirements under the Vienna Document, an agreement between
the member states of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

Russian forces who were massed near Ukraine last year, the State Department
report said, ''exceeded personnel and/or equipment levels intended to trigger
notification requirements.'' But when Russia was asked for additional
information, ''It failed to provide responsive replies.''

The report also faulted Russia's adherence to the Open Skies Treaty, which seeks
to reduce the risk of war by providing for unarmed observation flights.

In 2014, the report noted, Russia imposed new restrictions on such flights over
Kaliningrad, a heavily militarized Russian enclave near the Baltic Sea.

''Russia continues to fail to meet treaty obligations to allow effective
observation of its entire territory,'' the report said.

Russia has leveled its own charges against the United States, including that the
Aegis missile defense system that is being deployed in Europe is able to launch
intermediate-range missiles.

The State Department report said that this system did not have any ''offensive
capability'' and was allowed by the treaty.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/us-says-russia-fails-to-correct-v
iolation-of-landmark-1987-arms-control-deal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY
OPERATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); DEFENSE &
MILITARY POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (79%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); SYRIAN CRISIS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); MAC THORNBERRY (55%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); UKRAINE (79%); SYRIA
(79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Recession, Politics and Policy Stretch Arizona School Budgets

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and MOTOKO RICH; Fernanda Santos reported from
Phoenix, and Motoko Rich from New York.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1412 words


PHOENIX -- In the rural Saddle Mountain Unified School District 50 miles west of
Phoenix, three new libraries have been locked since last year. In a neighboring
county, an elementary school closed last month because there was no money to
keep it open, even after the district agreed to shift to a four-day week.

More Arizona educators are also taking on double duty: In the Miami Unified
School District east of here, the superintendent is also a grant writer and the
principal of the elementary school is also in charge of keeping the toilets
running, as the district's director of maintenance.

''We've asked our teachers to double up -- everybody is doubling up,'' said
Sherry Dorathy, the superintendent of the district, which is facing a 4 percent
cut in next year's budget. ''And we haven't given our teachers a raise in seven
years.''

The needs of the nation's schools have grown since the recession began: There
are now 458,000 more students enrolled in public schools than in the fall of
2007. But while total state revenues have mostly rebounded to pre-recession
levels, state education funding per pupil is still down 3.6 percent across the
country, according to an analysis by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
a nonpartisan Washington think tank.

At least 30 states spent less per student this school year than in the year
before the economic downturn began, and 14 states, including Arizona, have cut
per-pupil funding by more than 10 percent over that period.

The drop is not simply a reflection of state economies still struggling to
recover. Experts say politics and policy have also played a role.

Of the seven states with the deepest cuts in education from kindergarten to 12th
grade, six -- Arizona, Idaho, Kansas, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Wisconsin --
also cut income tax rates, leading to a series of vigorous protests and public
disputes between lawmakers and educators that are still playing out.

Arizona in particular has been crippled by several years of targeted cuts at the
state level and local voters' repeated refusals to raise property taxes to
offset these shortfalls.

In March, Arizona's new Republican governor, Doug Ducey, provided a slight
reprieve. His $9.1 billion budget for the 2016 fiscal year included a 2 percent
increase in overall spending for the Department of Education -- $81 million.

But the department is still set to receive about 15 percent less than it did in
2007, before the housing market crashed, according to the Joint Legislative
Budget Committee.

Like many other Republican governors, Mr. Ducey has shown interest in allowing
school funding to follow students, whether they go to district or charter
schools. And in May, Mr. Ducey tasked a team of educators and chief executives
with finding ways to update the state's school finance formula, which he
described as ''too rigid for 21st-century education expectations.''

On Thursday, he acknowledged that giving the schools more money is an urgent
necessity, given the tough straits many of them are in. He proposed asking
voters to grant schools a greater share of the dividends earned from investments
made on proceeds from the sale and lease of state lands. If the ballot measure
passes, schools would get about $1.8 billion over five years. The account
currently has $5.1 billion, Mr. Ducey said.

''As you know, I believe funding is just one part of the equation to improving
our schools,'' Mr. Ducey said at a news conference. ''But if we can take
uncertainty over funding off the table, then we will have made significant
progress.''

Until then, many Arizona schools are still contending with challenging times
ahead.

Despite the small increase for the Department of Education, next year's budget
also includes even larger reductions to specific programs, including a $113
million cut to a pot of money set aside for building maintenance and supplies.

In Peoria, a suburb northwest of Phoenix, Curtis J. Smith, the principal at
Peoria Elementary, said he had about $42,000 to pay for toilet paper and
printing paper; athletic equipment and arts materials; and light bulbs, small
repairs and cleaning materials for the school year that ended May 22. It amounts
to only $68 for each of his 620 students over the school year.

Next year, Mr. Smith will have roughly $32,000, or about $52 per student.

''When you have a budget like that and a campus with nine buildings and seven
sets of bathrooms, your primary focus becomes the health and safety of the
students,'' Mr. Smith said. ''When that's taken care of, you think of how you
can take care of everything else.''

School administrators have had to be creative. At the Maricopa Unified School
District, where the last property tax override passed 10 years ago, the
superintendent, Steve Chestnut, negotiated a two-year, $1.3 million donation
from the Ak-Chin Indian Community, a neighboring American Indian tribe, that
paid for five middle-school math tutors, five reading coaches for four
elementary schools, and a few other programs for struggling students.

Mr. Chestnut has also used some of the money to write small bonus checks to
teachers who stay in the district more than a year, an incentive to reduce a
high turnover rate that has plagued school districts all across the state.

But other districts are not as fortunate. Apache Junction Unified, which had an
override request denied last fall by local voters, shut Superstition Mountain
Elementary last month, the third school it has closed in five years.

Fearing an increase in class sizes in a district where some classrooms already
have close to 40 students, Mindy Kerkes entered her twin 6-year-old girls, first
graders at the school, in the lottery for a charter school nearby.

''I hate to go, but I've got to think about what's best for my kids,'' Ms.
Kerkes said.

To balance its books, year after year, Apache Junction has also trimmed 170
positions since 2010, froze teachers salaries and delayed replacing its buses,
which are seven years old and have a 10-year life span, said Dana Hawman, the
district's public relations coordinator. Still, it was not enough. Forced to cut
$745,000 from its budget for 2015-16, the district plans to clean out its
rainy-day fund.

Apache Junction, a Phoenix suburb of 37,000 people with income levels below the
state average, is also going to operate on a four-day week when the new school
year starts in August, a system already in place in 41 of the 230 districts in
the state. The shorter week is, in part, a cost-cutting measure -- conservative
estimates put the savings for Apache Junction at $150,000 a year because of
lower bills for electricity and other utilities. But the district is also using
it as an enticement for teachers who may be looking to leave.

''We pay our teachers 10 percent less than surrounding districts, and we can't
pay more, but what we're hoping to offer is more time for them to spend with
their families, a better quality of life,'' Ms. Hawman said.

Experts say the struggle to hire and retain teachers may be the most obvious and
lasting impact from the recession, and budget cuts and tax cuts that followed.

During the downturn, thousands of teachers in several states lost their jobs,
and many of those positions have remained vacant. In Oklahoma, where the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities reported a drop of nearly 24 percent in state
funding from pre-recession levels, teachers' salaries have lagged behind those
in neighboring states. As a result, the state still had 1,000 unfilled teaching
positions in May.

Hiring and retaining teachers has become such a big problem in Arizona that its
Department of Education convened a task force to analyze the situation and
suggest solutions. Its initial report, released in January, painted a dire
picture: Three in five of the responding districts had open teaching positions
at the start of the school year, and half of district and charter schools had
teachers resign midway through the year.

John-David Bowman, who teaches Advanced Placement history and a class called
Theory of Knowledge in the International Baccalaureate program at Westwood High
School in Mesa, has not had a raise since he was hired, in 2008. He has two
bachelor's degrees and a master's degree, and was voted Arizona's Teacher of the
Year for 2015.

The honor allowed him to shake hands with President Obama at the White House.
Still, Mr. Bowman said, ''I could retire in 20 years, under $50,000.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/arizona-school-budgets-stretched-by-recessi
on-politics-and-policy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL
TEACHERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC
SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); POLITICS (86%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (79%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXECUTIVES
(75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); WRITERS (73%); REAL
ESTATE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); GOVERNORS (71%);
HOUSING MARKET (69%); INCOME TAX (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); CHARTER SCHOOLS
(50%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

PERSON: DOUG DUCEY (79%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Phone Data Labyrinth Hinders Investigation of Amtrak Derailment

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 877 words


WASHINGTON --  When Christopher A. Hart, the chairman of the National
Transportation Safety Board, appeared before a congressional panel this week to
discuss the investigation into last month's deadly Amtrak derailment in
Philadelphia, lawmakers wanted to know one thing: Was the train's engineer using
his phone at the time of the accident?

''Could you just tell us again in plain English why we don't know if this
operator was on the phone three weeks after the accident?'' said Representative
Sean Patrick Maloney, Democrat of New York and a member of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, echoing questions raised by other
members of the panel.

It seemed like a straightforward question, but it was one the federal regulator
had trouble answering.

The engineer, Brandon Bostian, has given regulators the password to the phone
and the agency has access to its data from his carrier, Mr. Hart said. But the
investigation has been slowed because of the way the phone carrier stores that
data. For example, the voice calls on Mr. Bostian's phone were in one time zone,
while the texts were in another, he said.

''And we found discrepancies within the carrier's own time system where it
didn't even agree with itself,'' he said. ''So we have a lot to work out that is
far more complicated than we anticipated.''

Cellphone records are often used as evidence in crash investigations, tracing
which cell tower was used to make or receive a call or text, and determining
when a phone was in use. But experts say that despite the perception that
getting the information is simply a matter of looking through call logs, it is a
much more involved process. In the past, the complexities have caused the
transportation safety board to wrongfully conclude that a cellphone was in use
at the time of an accident.

''Cellphone technology and how networks work is complicated so you can't just go
in and grab some records and say what happened,'' said Michael Cherry, a former
Bell Labs and NASA consultant in Virginia, who has testified in court cases
involving the use of cellphone records by law enforcement.

At the heart of the issue is the way cellphone data and calls are routed across
a carrier's network. To keep cell towers in one area from being overloaded by
calls, data and text, cellphones do not always use the tower that is closest to
the caller. Instead calls are routed by a computerized switching center -- a hub
for cell sites that are usually grouped geographically -- to the tower that best
helps the phone network balance the traffic.

For instance, if a call is placed in Washington, it may be handled by a
switching center in Atlanta and the cellphone record will show the time zone of
the call as being the same as the cell tower at that location.

But the very next call may come at a time when the Atlanta switch is crowded, so
that call could be handled by a switch in Southern California and be stamped as
Pacific time. The process works the same for text and other phone data, experts
say.

The safety board said it was working with Mr. Bostian's carrier to try to
unscramble the time zones.

''It's one thing to see if a text message was sent or a phone call was made,''
said Peter C. Knudson, a spokesman for the safety board. ''And it's another to
determine if any data was being used by an app on the phone.''

Mr. Knudson said there was still another process to go through to see whether a
phone was manipulated by the user or if the data use was just part of the normal
data exchange from the phone to the cellular provider.

Mr. Bostian has told investigators that the phone was in his bag. Although the
records appear to indicate that calls and text messages were sent and received
on the day of the accident, investigators have not yet determined if the phone
was used while he was operating the train.

Investigators say they have started the process of correlating the time stamps
in Mr. Bostian's cellphone records with multiple data sources, including the
train's event recorder and its outward facing video, along with recorded radio
communications and surveillance video.

This is not the first time the safety board has had problems with using
cellphone data.

In 2009, investigators from the agency admitted that they were mistaken when
they claimed that a Coast Guard crew member had sent text messages just before
his boat collided with another vessel and killed an 8-year-old boy before a
holiday boat parade in San Diego Bay.

In its initial report, the safety board said the Coast Guard crewman had sent
and received as many as six text messages in the minutes before the collision on
Dec. 20, 2009.

But the agency later revised its report because records from Sprint listed the
cellphone calls in Pacific Standard Time but the time zone for the text messages
was unclear -- it was either Central or Eastern time. The agency has never been
able to accurately determine when the messages were sent.

Despite the issues, officials said they would eventually be able to determine if
the phone was in use before the accident in Philadelphia.

''Getting definitive answers to these questions is a highly detailed and
technical process and we've got to make sure that we get it right,'' Mr. Knudson
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/inquiry-into-amtrak-derailment-is-slowed-by
-a-maze-of-cellphone-data.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Amtrak train was traveling more than twice the speed limit
when it derailed last month in Philadelphia. At left, Christopher A. Hart,
chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK
SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS
(89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%);
TESTIMONY (78%); TRAINS (78%); TELEPHONE SERVICES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); BELL LABORATORIES
(52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL
OPERATING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%)

PERSON: SEAN P MALONEY (79%); CAROLYN MALONEY (59%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The French Open: From Court to Catwalk

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg.

LENGTH: 413 words


It must be Paris. Playing in the French capital, which in a couple of weeks will
host the fall men's wear and the couture shows, seems to have had a trickle-down
effect on the French Open. As the tournament draws to a close this weekend, amid
all the surprises thus far -- upsets of Eugenie Bouchard, Maria Sharapova,
Rafael Nadal -- the most surprising thing of all has been the clothes.

Over the last two weeks, Roland Garros has not just been an assortment of
courts. It's been a courtwalk.

Even in a period where what athletes wear to perform seems to be getting ever
more eye-catching and inventive, the looks have been standouts.

Consider, for example, Ana Ivanovic's black dress from Adidas's Y-3 collection
(designed by Yohji Yamamoto), along with the brand's Hawaiian-floral-and-black
sneakers, the treads climbing over the top of the shoe. It was the tennis
version of the little black dress meets ''The Road Warrior.''

Consider the pinks and fuchsias of Lucie Safarova and Ms. Bouchard -- not to
mention Mr. Nadal's tone-on-tone Nike blues, which the Twitterati labeled
alternatively Smurflike and Cookie Monsterish, but seemed to me rather an
attempt, perhaps unsuccessful but familiar to us fashion types, to reference the
Côte d'Azur.

And consider the style setters also known as the Williams sisters, who eschewed
the usual color blocking, tank 'n' skirt combinations, even in more adventurous
colors, in favor of print: leopard (Serena) and florals (Venus).

Color blocking proved a major trend, as modeled by Roger Federer (tangerine Nike
shorts with a purple shirt), Samantha Stosur (leaf green and neon yellow), and
Tomas Berdych (orange and periwinkle).

Even the men took some style risks, most notably Stanislas Wawrinka, with his
pink plaid Yonex shorts: geek chic on center court.

As far as I am concerned, the ultimate winner in the fashion stakes was Ms.
Sharapova, even though she was beaten in the fourth round. She showed up on the
red clay in a classic French marinière -- a long-sleeved white top with navy
stripes -- paired with a blue pleated skirt. Think Nike meets Gaultier, and
you'll get the idea. With the outfit's combination of French history,
prêt-à-porter and functionality, it set a new standard in sportswear chic.

We'll have to wait awhile to see its effects, however. Ironically, just as the
fashion flock descends on Paris, the tennis set will move to Wimbledon, with all
the antiquated sartorial restrictions that it demands.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/fashion/tennis-players-show-a-lot-of-fashion-s
tyle-at-the-french-open.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%);
HAUTE COUTURE (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); READY TO
WEAR (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (72%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (72%); VENUS WILLIAMS (57%); ANA IVANOVIC (57%); ROGER
FEDERER (57%); SERENA WILLIAMS (57%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (57%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospitals Seek State Marijuana Licenses

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 531 words


New York's new medical marijuana program has drawn the interest of several major
hospitals, which have formed alliances with aspiring growers to try to make the
drug accessible to their patients.

Friday was the deadline for companies to apply to become one of up to five
licensed medical marijuana producers and distributors in the state. The State
Health Department said on Friday that it was not yet able to release the number
or names of the companies that had applied.

But one hospital group, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, with a
heavy presence in and east of New York City, announced that it had applied for a
license in partnership with Silverpeak Apothecary, a medical marijuana company
based in Colorado, where marijuana has been legalized for medical and
recreational use. A new company, Silverpeak NY, was created for the application.

Michael Dowling, chief executive of the North Shore-L.I.J. system, said in a
statement that it had formed the partnership because it ''recognizes the
importance of our patients having access to every legal option to manage the
symptoms of their illness, if there is clinical evidence to support marijuana's
use for the condition.''

Hospitals seeking a foothold in medical marijuana are generally academic medical
centers that could use access to the drug to research its impact on diseases
like Alzheimer's, epilepsy and cancer. Licensure could also ensure that their
patients would have access to the drug, since insurance companies do not cover
medical marijuana.

GNYHA Ventures, the business arm of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a
hospital trade group, is also part of an application, according to a spokeswoman
for the group. The association did not release further details on Friday.

Two other major academic medical centers, the University of Rochester Medical
Center and Mount Sinai Health System in Manhattan, said they had been in talks
with one or more companies that had applied for a license and would work with
them if they were chosen by the state. But the medical centers said they were
not applying themselves for medical marijuana licenses.

Peter Robinson, chief operating officer of the University of Rochester Medical
Center, said that the medical center had entered into talks, not contracts, with
any companies it supported, but that the center was ''positively encouraged'' it
would have ''relationships going forward if they get one of the licenses.'' He
said Rochester Medical Center would not have an on-site dispensary, because of
difficulties with having for-profit activity inside of a nonprofit medical
center.

The Health Department expects to choose up to five producers within the next
month or so, officials said. Those five producers would each be able to run up
to four medical marijuana dispensaries in various parts of the state.

Applicants have to show that they have rights to the real estate necessary to
produce and distribute the marijuana. The drug is supposed to become available
to patients in January.

It will be available for only 10 conditions specified in the law, and it will
take the form of drops, vapor or capsules and cannot be smoked or put into
edibles.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/hospitals-back-providers-applying-for
-new-york-state-marijuana-licenses.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A hospital in the North Shore-L.I.J. system, which applied for a
state medical marijuana license with a Colorado provider. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHRISTOPHER GREGORY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARIJUANA (93%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (93%); MARIJUANA REGULATION & POLICY
(90%); MARIJUANA INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%);
CANNABIS (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); HEALTH
CARE (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); CANCER (77%); DRUG
LIBERALIZATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EPILEPSY (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
(72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: C R BARD INC (85%)

TICKER: BCR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (85%);
NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3842
ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (85%); SIC3841 SURGICAL
& MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (85%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Heralded Book on Crime Disputed

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words


Since her book ''On the Run: Fugitive Life in an American City'' was published
last year, Alice Goffman has achieved a measure of fame that is rarely visited
on a young sociologist.

''On the Run'' won attention because of its timely subject matter -- the lives
of low-income black men and their interactions with the police -- and vivid
storytelling, based on six years of immersive fieldwork. It was the subject of
dozens of articles and often-glowing reviews in publications including The New
Yorker and The New York Times. An impassioned TED talk Ms. Goffman delivered in
March has been viewed more than 800,000 times.

But all that enthusiasm has curdled somewhat, as critics, in published reviews
and anonymous online critiques, have debated not just her facts, interpretations
and methods, but the fraught politics of privileged white outsiders' studying
minority communities.

Now, Steven Lubet, a law professor at Northwestern University, has added a jolt
to the already charged conversation with a blunt question: In her book, did Ms.
Goffman not only describe street crime but also admit to having committed a
felony herself?

Mr. Lubet's charge, made in an article in the online book review The New Rambler
and reposted in condensed form by The New Republic, concerns an anecdote that
appears at the end of a long appendix in which Ms. Goffman describes how she
spent six years observing and sometimes living among a group of young men in a
Philadelphia neighborhood she calls Sixth Street.

In that anecdote, Ms. Goffman describes driving the car when a young man named
Mike went looking for the man who had recently killed their close friend Chuck.
In Ms. Goffman's account, Mike, with a gun tucked into his pants, gets out of
the car to approach someone. The man turns out not to be the killer, and no
shots are fired, but Ms. Goffman describes being deeply shaken by the
recognition of what she calls ''my desire for vengeance.''

No matter that nothing happened, Mr. Lubet writes. According to legal experts he
consulted, Ms. Goffman's actions, as described in the book, ''constituted
conspiracy to commit murder under Pennsylvania law.''

David Rudovsky, a lawyer representing Ms. Goffman, said on Friday that he was
unaware of any legal investigation of the matter, and Ms. Goffman's publishers,
the University of Chicago Press and Picador, say they stand behind her and her
book. Ms. Goffman, 33, declined to be interviewed about Mr. Lubet's claims. But
on Tuesday, she posted a statement on her faculty web page at the University of
Wisconsin, where she is an assistant professor, elaborating on what she called
the ''summary account'' of the incident given in her book.

When she got into the car, ''I had good reason to believe that this night would
not end in violence or injury,'' Ms. Goffman said in the statement. She added,
''I went because I knew these drives were about expressing anger and about
grieving, not about doing actual violence.''

Mr. Lubet said he was not convinced. In a follow-up article posted by The New
Republic, he pointed to what he called ''serious discrepancies'' between her two
accounts, including her descriptions of her mental state.

Ms. Goffman's statement suggests that ''the story in the book wasn't true,'' Mr.
Lubet said in an interview, adding, ''One has to wonder what else she
embellished.''

Mr. Lubet, a former legal services lawyer and juvenile and criminal defense
lawyer now better known for books about historical trials, said he had ''no
agenda.'' But some of Ms. Goffman's defenders question his tactics.

Jack Katz, an ethnographer at the University of California, Los Angeles, and
co-editor of the University of Chicago Press series in which ''On the Run''
appeared, said that Mr. Lubet's review -- which ran under the headline ''Did
This Acclaimed Sociologist Drive the Getaway Car in a Murder Plot?'' in The New
Republic -- was ''sensationalist'' and itself ethically questionable.

''It's a misuse of professorial authority to go after someone as a prosecutor on
a fragment of evidence and push them to provide more evidence to defend
themselves,'' Mr. Katz said.

Ms. Goffman, he added, deserved credit, not censure, for her frankness in the
book.

''Yes, there's a real ethical question here, and Alice raised it herself in the
book,'' he said. ''Countless researchers have done research with gangs and drug
networks and have simply held themselves back from reporting how close they were
personally to various situations. Because of her honesty to the research
community, she's being hounded.''

Several other sociologists said that Ms. Goffman's account had disturbed them,
even if they did not endorse Mr. Lubet's approach. Philip Cohen, a professor at
the University of Maryland who has written extensively about ''On the Run'' on
his blog, said he was personally bothered less by any potential criminal
liability in Ms. Goffman's behavior than by his belief ''that human beings just
shouldn't act like that.'' ''Regardless of which version of the story you
believe, it was not good behavior,'' he said.

If the facts of Ms. Goffman's intentions during the car ride remain in dispute,
so do some broader claims in ''On the Run.''

For example, citing interviews with unnamed police officers, she writes that
officers visiting hospitals regularly run the names of patients and visitors
through criminal databases, arresting those with outstanding warrants -- a
practice, Ms. Goffman argues, that deters many men from seeking medical care or
attending the births of their children.

In his review, Mr. Lubet notes that an earlier reviewer, the Yale law professor
James Forman, writing in The Atlantic, had queried public defenders and civil
rights lawyers in Philadelphia and elsewhere and found no one who had heard of a
man's being arrested in a maternity ward after such a database check, as
described in the book.

To Mr. Lubet, this undermines the credibility of ''On the Run.'' But some
sociologists counter that ethnography is concerned not just with facts but with
people's perceptions of those facts, which powerfully shape their behavior and
experience.

''Whether police really run the names matters,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''But what
Goffman is really arguing is that the justice system, including the beliefs
these men have about it, contaminates their relationship to hospitals and other
institutions.''

But some sociologists question whether ''On the Run'' gives a representative
account of low-income African-American men in general. In a forthcoming review
in the American Journal of Sociology, Victor Rios, an ethnographer at the
University of California, Santa Barbara, and the author of ''Punished: Policing
the Lives of Black and Latino Boys,'' argues that her focus on ''outrageous
criminal exploits'' gives a distorted picture.

''She starts out saying she's writing a book about how black communities are
policed,'' Mr. Rios said in an interview. ''But then what we mostly get are
stories of kids who are doing really horrible things.''

Mr. Cohen said that Ms. Goffman's book, whatever its faults, remained ''timely
and important.'' He questioned what he called efforts to not just criticize her
work but to ''discredit her as a person and scholar.''

''It should be possible to say,'' he said, '' 'Here's a promising young scholar
who did a really impressive project. Her book is flawed. Let's learn from the
mistakes and move on.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/books/alice-goffmans-heralded-book-on-crime-di
sputed.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The sociologist Alice Goffman, author of ''On the Run: Fugitive
Life in an American City.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CITY LIFE
(78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); MEN (76%);
MURDER (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CONSPIRACY (72%); FELONIES (72%); MINORITY
GROUPS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Fierce to Ethereal, in a Spirit of Invention

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 578 words


On the title page of the score of ''The Aristos,'' John Zorn's 2014 piano trio
of ''ten metaphysical ambiguities,'' the composer quotes T. S. Eliot: ''We shall
not cease from exploration/And the end of all our exploring/Will be to arrive
where we started/And know the place for the first time.''

Let's hope this old downtown maverick's exploring doesn't end anytime soon. As
the distinction between uptown and downtown music has become outdated, Mr.
Zorn's work has moved into the city's most prominent institutions. Combine a
program entitled ''John Zorn's Sacred Visions'' at the Cloisters museum last
Saturday with a Miller Theater Pop-Up Concert on Wednesday, and you had a
mini-Zornathon.

The eclectically spiritual program in the Cloisters' 12th-century Fuentidueña
Chapel better reflected the invention still being forged from Mr. Zorn's
cornucopia of interests and influences. In brief remarks, the composer said he
first visited the Cloisters in 1959, making it as much a part of his New York as
the Village Vanguard has been.

Music and masonry proved an evocative blend. ''The Holy Visions'' (2012), a
radiant mystery play that reflects obliquely on the 12th-century composer and
mystic Hildegard von Bingen, best suited the space. Sung brilliantly by Jane
Sheldon, Eliza Bagg, Sarah Brailey, Rachel Calloway and Kirsten Sollek, Mr.
Zorn's original Latin text and his propulsive, occasionally abstruse music
related to each other only enigmatically.

More striking still was ''Pandora's Box'' (2013), an eruption of magniloquent
German fragments and furious energy. The miraculously clear soprano Tony Arnold
and the indefatigable JACK Quartet made me glad it was set loose. Mr. Zorn's
lyrics are pretentious here, but his music, despite its fearsome aggression, is
almost welcoming: rapt at times, tumultuous at others, dealing in whispers and
outbursts, leaps and shrieks.

The JACK's premiere of a new quartet was less persuasive, though not in
execution. ''The Remedy of Fortune'' (2015) takes its inspiration from a poem by
the 14th-century composer Guillaume de Machaut. Its six tableaus depict the
''changing fortunes of romantic love.'' According to the loquacious subtitle,
those include ''pain, desire, devotion, hope, beauty, longing, ecstasy,
intoxication, frustration, anger, despair.'' The music had a cosmic,
all-consuming quality, but its language felt less than inventive.

Mr. Zorn's idiom of juxtaposed dissonance and ethereality threatened to become
too familiar by the end of Wednesday's program, on a Miller stage that regularly
presents work by a newer avant-garde. A bit of what Mr. Zorn called ''instant
composition'' snapped the proceedings into focus. Each of the four works was
intended to stand alone, but by walking onstage halfway through the concert and
swapping the order of the last two pieces, he turned the first three works into
a coherent whole.

So the caustic vitality of ''The Aristos,'' titled after a philosophical
treatise by John Fowles, became a first movement; ''Ghosts'' (2015), a new piece
loosely inspired by the slow movement of Beethoven's ''Ghost'' Trio, turned into
a creepy interlude; and ''Hexentarot'' (2013), a set of ''simple canons for the
witches' Sabbath'' that is devilishly difficult, spun itself into a ferocious
finale. Another rumination on romance, ''Amour Fou'' (1999), stood alone. The
playing of Vicky Chow (piano), Jennifer Choi (violin) and Michael Nicolas
(cello) was beyond reproach.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/music/review-john-zorns-spirit-of-restles
s-invention-flows-forth.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Zorn's Sacred Visions: The JACK Quartet in Mr. Zorn's ''The
Remedy of Fortune'' at the Cloisters. Another concert of his works was presented
this week at the Miller Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AN RONG XU FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); METAPHYSICS (78%); KEYBOARD
INSTRUMENTS (78%); THEATER (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Soccer; U.S. Edges Netherlands

BYLINE: By BRIAN SCIARETTA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 944 words


For the United States national team, the past year has been marred by a sudden
sting of defensive collapses. In Friday night's exhibition in Amsterdam, the
team turned the tables for a change. With three goals in the final 20 minutes,
including one in the 88th minute and a 90th-minute winner, the Americans erased
a two-goal deficit and stunned the Netherlands, 4-3, in a friendly in Amsterdam.

Playing without the regulars Clint Dempsey, Jozy Altidore and Alejandro Bedoya,
the United States saw its offense come from an unusual group of players: Gyasi
Zardes, Danny Williams, and Bobby Wood scored their first international goals,
and defender John Brooks added just his second.

With several veterans missing, some of the youngest players on Coach Jurgen
Klinsmann's team -- Brooks, DeAndre Yedlin and forward Jordan Morris -- took
advantage of the opportunity to play and made a case for bigger roles in the
American team, which plays another friendly at Germany next week.

The victory was the first for the Americans in five games against the
Netherlands, a World Cup semifinalist last summer in Brazil.

The ratings, from 1 (diabolical) to 10 (world class):

Starting Lineup

Brad Guzan: Even though the Netherlands scored three times, Guzan kept the
Dutch's goal total from being much higher. After a difficult season at Aston
Villa and the potential return of Tim Howard to the national team's starting
role on the horizon, Guzan got a confidence boost on Friday. Rating: 6.5

Brek Shea: The gradual conversion of Shea into a left back has been up and down.
The Netherlands was a difficult test for Shea, who was exposed defensively on
multiple occasions. His best moment came in the 22nd minute when he snuck behind
the Dutch defense and forced a low save from Jasper Cillessen. Rating: 4.5

John Brooks: A game filled with peaks and valleys. In the 26th minute, Brooks
got caught out of position and conceded a great chance to Klaas-Jan Huntelaar,
which he narrowly missed. Brooks was partially responsible for being beaten in
the air on the first two Dutch goals, but in the 70th minute he made a nice
attacking run after forcing a turnover in midfield and scored off a pass from
DeAndre Yedlin. Rating: 5.0

Ventura Alvarado: Given his second start for the national team, Alvarado had an
uneven 45 minutes before being replaced at halftime. He was caught ball-watching
on Holland's opening goal and his communication with Brooks was lacking. Rating:
4.0

Timothy Chandler: Impressive moving forward from his right back position, but
defensively he still allowed too much space for Holland to attack. The Dutch
attackers had a field day going up Chandler's side of the field. Rating: 4.5

Alfredo Morales: Little impact offensively or defensively. A difficult outing on
the heels of a terrific season at Ingolstadt, where Morales helped the Bavarian
club win promotion to the Bundesliga. Rating: 4.5

Kyle Beckerman: A steady performance from the consistent Beckerman, who is never
afraid to do the dirty work to help his teams. Made a nice challenge and
clearing header in the 19th minute and a goal-line clearance in the 47th.
Rating: 5.5

Michael Bradley: A complete performance from the Toronto F.C. midfielder, who
controlled the pace of the game. At times Bradley kept the United States alive
when it looked as if the Dutch were going to run away with the game. Hit the
post with a shot in the 20th minute, then had an outstanding pass during the
build-up to Wood's winning goal. Cemented his status as the team's most
important player. Rating: 8.5 and Man of the Match.

Gyasi Zardes: Zardes got off to a slow start but gradually found his way into
the game. Forced a nice save from Cillessen in the 16th minute, but defensively
he was exposed on Holland's opening goal when he failed to close down Memphis
Depay before his cross. Rating: 6.0

Aron Johannsson: A start in Amsterdam was quite a stage for Johannsson, who
plays in the Dutch Eredivisie with AZ Alkmaar. Made some nice runs -- thought
too many were not spotted by his teammates -- and used his off-the-ball movement
to open the game. Still, needs to be more involved. Rating: 5.0

Fabian Johnson: After helping to guide Borussia Monchengladbach to a spot in the
Champions League next season, Johnson started as a wide-attacking midfielder and
delivered a first-rate assist on Zardes's goal. Rating: 7.0

Substitutes

Michael Orozco: Replaced Alvarado to start the second half, then promptly
allowed Huntelaar to get in front of him on the second goal. Rating: 4.5

Mix Diskerud: The Norwegian-born Diskerud was an upgrade over Morales, whom he
replaced in the 56th minute. Known for his offensive skill set, Diskerud worked
just as hard defensively. Rating: 6.0

DeAndre Yedlin: Replaced Shea in the 56th minue and offered pace that was
difficult for the Dutch to handle. Consistently involved. Rating: 7.0

Danny Williams: Replaced Beckerman and scored -- with the help of a lucky
deflection -- to tie the game in the 88th minute. Rating: 7.0.

Bobby Wood: Wood is coming off a difficult club season in which he was benched,
injured and transferred after a fallout with his coach at 1860 Munich. Found a
way to get into great position to score the winning goal. Rating: 6.5

Jordan Morris: The first collegiate player on the national team in decades
continues to prove that he belongs. Replaced Zardes in the 80th minute and was
nearly impossible for Holland to handle defensively. Dangerous from the moment
he entered the game, and rewarded with an assist on the winning goal. Rating:
7.0

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/soccer/player-ratings-netherlands-3-vs-
united-states-4.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Netherlands' Jordy Clasie, left, and Mix Diskerud of the
U.S. battling for the ball. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK POST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); FIFA WORLD
CUP (71%); COACHES & TRAINERS (69%)

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 325 words


NEW YORK

An article on Thursday about a judge's ordering the Dalton School in Manhattan
to rehire David Drune, a drama teacher, misidentified the target of a passage in
a letter written by Mr. Brune that led to his firing. The line, ''Apologize for
not being honest, forthright, upstanding, moral, considerate, much less
intelligent or wise,'' referred to school administrators, not just to Ellen
Stein, the head of the school. The article also misstated the judge's surname.
He is Arthur J. Amchan, not Achman.

An article on Thursday about the Frick Collection's decision to abandon a
proposed renovation plan that would have eliminated a gated garden referred
incompletely to the production of evidence that under the plan the Frick was
going back on a promise to make the garden permanent. While the coalition United
to Save the Frick produced such evidence last fall, Charles A. Birnbaum,
president of the Cultural Landscape Foundation, earlier called attention to that
commitment.

BUSINESS DAY

An article on Friday about Greece's deferral of several payments to the
International Monetary Fund until the end of June misstated the decade during
which Zambia took advantage of the practice of bundling I.M.F. loan payments
into a single sum during a calendar month. It was in the 1980s, not the 1970s.

SPORTS

A report in the Sports Briefing column on Wednesday about Commissioner Gary
Bettman's comments on the state of the N.H.L. used an outdated name, in some
editions, for the team Bettman said was in no danger of moving. It is the
Arizona Coyotes, not the Phoenix Coyotes. (The team changed its name in June
2014.)

WEEKEND

Because of an editing error, an art review on Friday about ''The Cybernetic
Fold,'' an exhibition by Harry Dodge at the Wallspace gallery, in Chelsea,
misidentified the profession of Adam Frank, one of the authors of a 1995 essay
that introduced the eponymous term. He is a literary critic, not an
astrophysicist.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (86%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION
(78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%);
COMPANY NAME CHANGES (74%); WRITERS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); SPORTS
(70%); LITERATURE (62%); LITERARY CRITICISM (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Laugher Turns Serious, but the Yanks Escape

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 557 words


It was a harmless infield pop-up in the languorous conclusion of a blowout game.

Trailing by 8-1 in the ninth inning, the Los Angeles Angels pulled their two
biggest sluggers, Mike Trout and Albert Pujols. The Yankees brought in Esmil
Rogers. It was mop-up duty.

And then the fly ball from Grant Green crashed to earth between first baseman
Chase Headley and second baseman Jose Pirela, eliciting groans from the crowd
that would only grow louder as more and more Angels base runners came aboard.

A run scored, then another. The day had begun with the Yankees talking about
preserving their pitchers' arms. Now they were forced to use Dellin Betances.

''It got a little dicey there,'' Manager Joe Girardi said, understating the
matter.

The Angels loaded the bases with the tying run on second base with one out, but
shortstop Didi Gregorius dived to his right to make a stop and a forceout at
second, most likely a game-saving play. Betances rallied to strike out Carlos
Perez to end the game, an 8-7 win at Yankee Stadium.

''If he didn't make that play,'' Betances said of Gregorius, ''I feel like I'd
still be throwing pitches out there.''

As it was, Betances threw 33 pitches on what was supposed to be an off night.
The Yankees built an 8-1 lead thanks to two home runs from Stephen Drew and four
hits from Alex Rodriguez, who passed Barry Bonds for second on the career R.B.I.
list with 1,997.

Six hours earlier, the Yankees announced that Michael Pineda would be skipping
his scheduled start on Sunday. It will be 11 days between starts for Pineda, the
pitcher who has performed best for the Yankees so far this season.

Resting starters is a consideration in clubhouses throughout the major leagues,
but nowhere is it as evident as in New York. Recently, the Mets designed -- then
evidently abandoned -- plans for a six-man rotation to relieve the strain on
their young pitchers' arms.

Now the Yankees are tinkering with a like-minded scheme that they hope can keep
the 26-year-old Pineda fresh until the fall. They are taking advantage of a
scheduling quirk -- three off-days in eight days -- to give Pineda a breather.
And they plan to keep doing so, thanks to a glut of arms already filling the
rotation.

Pineda, who has thrown 701/3 innings, is on pace for well over 200 this season.
He has not thrown more than 170 innings since 2011.

Girardi and General Manager Brian Cashman insisted Pineda was healthy. Rather,
Girardi said it was an opportunity for Pineda to get additional rest,
understanding the need to be cautious with a pitcher who missed the 2012 and
2013 seasons after shoulder surgery, and much of 2014 with a different shoulder
injury.

''In a perfect world, you don't want to do it,'' Girardi said. ''But you have to
measure what he's been through physically and how many innings he already has.''

Asked if the Yankees might consider a six-man rotation when Ivan Nova returns
from Tommy John surgery, Cashman said that decision would be up to Girardi and
the pitching coach Larry Rothschild.

The Yankees declined to announce any innings limit for Pineda, but both Girardi
and Cashman indicated that his pace was untenable.

''It's a long season,'' Cashman said. ''We don't want to make it any longer by
forgetting that you want to protect people and take care of people and not run
them into the ground.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/baseball/yankees-survive-a-six-run-rall
y-by-the-angels.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yankees' Stephen Drew after hitting a two-run homer Friday
that scored Garrett Jones, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK FRANKLIN II/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (75%);
ATHLETES (72%); RUNNING (58%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Every Lash of a Whip Adds to Urgency for Its Critics

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words


Present it so that the horse understands.

Strike it in rhythm with the horse's stride, but only on the shoulders or the
hindquarters. Resist its use if the horse is out of the race, or has reached its
maximum placing, or is not responding. Excessive or brutal use is prohibited.

So states Section 4035.9 of the New York State Gaming Commission's rules of
racing, which addresses the riding crop -- the term preferred by a horse racing
industry forever grappling with the perception of a standard piece of equipment
better known as the whip.

With the chance that American Pharoah might claim the first Triple Crown since
1978 by winning the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, millions who do not normally
follow horse racing may once again see jockeys whipping horses to go faster in
pursuit of glory and purse. It is an image that can be heart-pounding and
disturbing.

Concerned by what they say is largely a misperception, racing officials have
toughened the rules, emphasized education and redesigned the whip. But it
remains an essential tool of behavior modification, they say, given how jockeys
ride: crouched out of the saddle, hovering over the half-ton animal in
galloping, aerodynamic rhythm.

Richard Migliore, a former jockey once known for forcefully using his whip and
now a prominent advocate for minimizing its use, put it this way: ''The crop can
be effective without being abusive.''

Still, questions about the whip have figured into the thoroughbred American
Pharoah's pursuit of the Triple Crown. His jockey, Victor Espinoza, was fined
$300 by California racing officials in April for breaking the skin of Stellar
Wind in the Santa Anita Oaks, a race she won by more than five lengths. And in
last month's Kentucky Derby win, he struck American Pharoah more than 30 times,
although he did not rely on his crop in a muddy win at the Preakness Stakes two
weeks later.

How horses feel about the whip has gone largely unrecorded. But in 1854, an
English writer named John Mills channeled a particularly articulate horse named
Sheet Anchor, in a book called ''The Life of a Racehorse.''

''Like the hare, the impulse of our nature is to flee from that which terrifies
us,'' Sheet Anchor muses at one point. ''If our physical powers of attack and
defense be great, yet still we are denied the necessary courage to render them
effective, otherwise it would frequently go hard indeed with those who exercise
little moderation in applying the whip and spur to the exhausted but willing
horse.''

More than a century later, a former Australian jockey named Walter Hoysted
crusaded against whipping racehorses, especially those doing their best.
Frustrated by his failed letter-writing campaign in the mid-1960s, he put down
his pen in favor of a loaded shotgun, went to a racetrack in Melbourne, and
threatened to use the gun if jockeys used their whips.

According to ''Horse-Racing's Strangest Races,'' by Andrew Ward, his lawyer
later said in his client's defense: ''Mr. Hoysted is perhaps a humanist 10 years
ahead of his time.''

But in the United States, at least, heavy reliance on the whip continued.
Migliore, who began riding in 1980, recalled that jockeys were admired for their
hard use of the whip, or ''stick'' -- and he was no different. By midcareer, he
said, he had become so focused on winning that ''I lost my connection to the
animal.''

''I was riding the horse and going to the whip,'' he said. ''Sometimes I didn't
get the desired response, but I didn't let up. Instead of relying on my
instincts that I was not getting the best from my horse, I was basically abusing
my horse.''

Migliore does not look back on that part of his career with pride. But he
changed.

So did Dr. Ted Hill, a longtime veterinarian and New York Racing Association
steward who has enforced the rules for nearly 20 years. It seemed that every
August, some friend or relative visiting him during the season at Saratoga
Springs would ask the same question about the whip: Doesn't that hurt?

''Having to explain, to justify,'' Hill said. ''It's certainly changed my
thinking a little bit.''

Also changing the collective thinking was the heartbreaking Kentucky Derby of
2008, when Eight Belles was euthanized after fracturing her front ankles.
Although the whip did not play a direct role in her demise, its use figured in
the reforms that followed.

The whip was redesigned to be more humane: shorter (no more than 30 inches),
thicker (at least three-eighths of an inch in diameter), and with
shock-absorbent padding (that, in the case of Stellar Wind, apparently managed
to break the skin). Now it is more a tool of encouragement, officials say, with
a flap that, instead of stinging the horse, makes a popping sound to keep the
animal's attention.

Efforts have also concentrated on reducing how often a rider can strike the
horse. Beginning in July, for example, jockeys racing in California will be
prohibited from whipping the horse more than three times in succession without
giving it a chance to respond.

Bo Derek, the actress, championed the changes while serving on the California
Horse Racing Board. ''When you speak to the older, more experienced riders, what
they've learned is to not use the whip nearly as much,'' she said. ''A lot of
this is about directing the younger riders because they get very excited.''

In New York, the state issues a fine or penalty for excessive use of the whip.
But since 2010, racing stewards have also enforced a house rule of no more than
five strikes in succession, with a pause of two or three strides to see if the
horse responds.

When a rider violates the rule, one of the tan wall phones in the jockeys'
locker room will ring, Dr. Hill said, and the call will go out: ''Movies for
Jockey A tomorrow'' -- meaning a violation was caught on film, and the jockey
will be given a $500 fine that will go to a track-related charity.

For his part, Migliore said he would prefer a rule even more restrictive than
California's: one strike of the whip, then wait a few strides to see if the
horse responds.

The issue is emotional for Migliore, 51, who grew up with horses; he worked at
an amusement park's pony-ride concession and then at a Long Island horse farm
before getting a job at the Belmont stables that would determine his career.
Now, when he's not providing racing analysis or helping to educate apprentice
jockeys, he is at his upstate farm, caring for an old pony, two retired show
horses and a retired thoroughbred.

Migliore said that if a racehorse does not respond to a succession of strikes,
there is no benefit to hitting it again. Trying to explain, he began to channel
the animal that has been at the center of his life.

''You hit me once with a crop, I lunge forward,'' he said. ''You continue, now
I'm confused. Now I feel like I'm getting punished for it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/jockeys-keep-whipping-adding-urgency-fo
r-some-to-a-horse-racing-debate.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Riding crops like the one used by an exercise rider at Belmont
Park, above, have been the center of much debate for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
 Victor Espinoza used his whip aboard American Pharoah, left, in the Kentucky
Derby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARRY JONES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); GAMBLING
(71%); WRITERS (61%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

When It's a Crime to Withdraw Money From Your Bank

BYLINE: By JOSH BARRO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WATCHFUL STATE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 719 words


Dennis Hastert has not been indicted on a charge of sexual abuse, nor has he
been indicted on a charge of paying money he was not legally allowed to pay. The
indictment of Mr. Hastert, a former House speaker, released last week, lays out
two counts: taking money out of the bank the wrong way, and then lying to the
F.B.I. about what he did with the money.

Does that make sense? Conor Friedersdorf of The Atlantic, for example, is
worried that the indictment constitutes government overreach, punishing Mr.
Hastert for concealing payments whose disclosure he may have thought would be
damaging to his reputation, but which were not illegal.

Federal prosecutors allege Mr. Hastert was paying hush money in exchange for
wrongdoing that happened long ago. But Mr. Hastert is charged with structuring:
making repeated four-figure cash withdrawals from his bank in order to avoid the
generation of cash transaction reports, which banks are required to send the
government about every transaction over $10,000. These reports have been
required since 1970, with the intention of helping the federal government
identify organized criminals and tax evaders.

To be clear: It's not illegal simply to take $8,000 out of the bank repeatedly.

''The criminal provisions there do have strong mens rea (criminal intent)
requirements: The government has the burden to prove that the defendant knew
about the reporting requirement and intended to evade it,'' said Jim Copland,
who directs the Center for Legal Policy at the Manhattan Institute, a
right-of-center think tank. ''So this is quite unlike many of the regulatory
crimes that can ensnare the unsophisticated.''

''Whether a former House Speaker who presided over the Patriot Act's enactment
can show absence of mens rea here, of course, may be doubtful,'' he added.

Prosecutions for structuring without any charge of an underlying offense with
the money are not unusual, said Peter Djinis, a lawyer focusing on laws against
money laundering, who until 2002 was executive assistant director for regulatory
policy at the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the arm of the Treasury
Department that enforces these rules.

''In many cases, the most attractive route to take when you can't prove the
underlying crime is to go with the activity that's in front of you,'' Mr. Djinis
said.

Of course, that's exactly the sort of prosecutorial approach Mr. Friedersdorf is
worried about, since it assumes the existence of an underlying crime. As he
notes, a person who engages in structuring because of ''a simple aversion to
being monitored,'' despite having no intention of using the money for an illegal
purpose, is committing a crime.

And over time, the size of the transaction you can make without the government
watching has fallen in real terms. The reporting threshold has not been raised
since the Bank Secrecy Act was passed in 1970, and $10,000 today is equivalent
to just $1,640 in 1970 dollars. Actions by Congress have also tightened the
rules around moving cash: Congress banned structuring in 1986, started requiring
banks to report smaller-but-still-suspicious transactions in 1992, and added
further reporting requirements in the Patriot Act, under Mr. Hastert's watch.

With the reporting threshold having fallen so much in real terms, about 15
million cash transaction reports are filed annually for transactions over
$10,000, plus about 1.6 million reports of otherwise suspicious activity, often
for cash transactions below $10,000.

Still, privacy concerns need to be balanced with the entirely valid purpose of
anti-money-laundering laws, that is, disrupting the activities of illegal
businesses and tax evaders. Even in this case, there is a tax angle: Large cash
transactions that go unnoticed by the government might go unreported to the
Internal Revenue Service.

Paul Caron, a tax law professor at Pepperdine University, noted that the person
who was paid money by Mr. Hastert may have owed income tax on the payments,
whether they constituted a settlement, extortion or something else. Yes, even
proceeds from extortion are taxable income; there was a Supreme Court case about
the matter in 1952.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/upshot/when-its-a-crime-to-withdraw-money-from
-your-bank.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. Dennis Hastert in 2007, the year he left Congress. His
repeated cash withdrawals drew the attention of federal investigators.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); FRAUD &
FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE
AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%);
PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); US PATRIOT ACT (70%); FINANCIAL
CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: 'The Twentieth-Century Way' Explores a Moment in Gay History

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 463 words


Some underemployed actors answer phones. Some babysit or bar-tend or teach
English as a second language. And some entrap and arrest gay men on charges of
''social vagrancy.''

Tom Jacobson's often absorbing ''The Twentieth-Century Way,'' directed by
Michael Michetti at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, takes a Pirandellian
approach to a forgotten bit of history. In 1914, the police department of Long
Beach, Calif., hired two actors as ''vice specialists.'' Lurking in public
restrooms and bathhouses, they enticed likely suspects into exposing their
genitals, then arrested them. A hefty fine and jail time soon followed. At least
one of the 31 men that they went after committed suicide. The police chief
credited the pair with ridding the city of a ''dangerous class which threatened
the morals of the youth of the community.''

Mr. Jacobson's play, which arrives from Pasadena's Theater @ Boston Court, does
not begin in a station house or changing room. Instead it opens with two actors,
Brown (Will Bradley) and Warren (Robert Mammana) waiting to audition for a part
in a movie. To pass the time and to test their actorly prowess, Brown proposes
that they improvise scenes based on the Long Beach vice raids.

Soon, they're taking on a dizzying array of characters -- cops, journalists,
lawyers, ''vagrants'' -- then pausing to play themselves. Neither Mr. Jacobson
nor Mr. Michetti makes clear whether we're still in the audition room, or in the
same decade, or whether Brown and Warren have adopted a lucrative new career,
pocketing $15 for each arrest.

These meta-theatrical tangles and the self-conscious musing about the blurred
boundaries between art and life are the least interesting parts of this
frequently involving play. Mr. Jacobson has a habit of stating his themes too
baldly and the ending, which asks the actors to use their own names and nude
bodies in a move toward greater authenticity, is a blunder.

Better than this writerly game-playing are the opportunities the script affords
the fine actors to switch from one role to the next in far less time than it
takes to swap out a cravat or add a boutonniere. The dialogue in these scenes is
crisper and fleeter. The performances are precise, if exaggerated. And sometimes
even moving.

Mr. Jacobson deserves praise for exposing an unhappy episode in the history of
gay and privacy rights. The work of the historical Brown and Warren encouraged
the passage of California's comprehensive anti-sodomy law in 1915, which would
stay on the books for 61 years. ''The Twentieth-Century Way'' is an absurdist
drama, but that is a small tragedy.

''The Twentieth-Century Way'' continues through July 19 at Rattlestick
Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, West Village; 866-811-4111,
rattlestick.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/theater/review-the-twentieth-century-way-explo
res-a-moment-in-gay-history.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY
(90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); WRITERS
(89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); FILM (78%);
HOMELESSNESS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); SEX OFFENSES
(73%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); SUICIDE (69%);
CRIMINAL FINES (69%); THEATER (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Rules 2nd Version of Teachers' Exam Is Also Racially Biased

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 738 words


A federal judge on Friday found that an exam for New York teaching candidates
was racially discriminatory because it did not measure skills necessary to do
the job, the latest step in a court battle over teacher qualifications that has
spanned nearly 20 years.

The exam, the second incarnation of the Liberal Arts and Sciences Test, called
the LAST-2, was administered from 2004 through 2012 and was designed to test an
applicant's knowledge of liberal arts and science.

But the test was found to fail minority teaching candidates at a higher rate
than white candidates. According to Friday's decision, written by Judge Kimba M.
Wood of Federal District Court in Manhattan, the pass rate for African-American
and Latino candidates was between 54 percent and 75 percent of the pass rate for
white candidates. Once it was established that minority applicants were failing
at a disproportionately high rate, the burden shifted to education officials to
prove that the skills being tested were necessary to do the job; otherwise, the
test would be ruled discriminatory.

In creating the test, the company, National Evaluation Systems, sent surveys to
educators around New York State to determine if the test's ''content
objectives'' were relevant and important to teaching. The samples for both
surveys were small, however, Judge Wood said.

The judge found that National Evaluation Systems, now called Evaluation Systems,
part of Pearson Education, went about the process backward.

''Instead of beginning with ascertaining the job tasks of New York teachers, the
two LAST examinations began with the premise that all New York teachers should
be required to demonstrate an understanding of the liberal arts,'' Judge Wood
wrote.

Joshua Sohn, a partner at the firm Mishcon de Reya, who represents the
prospective teachers in the case, echoed the that sentiment.

''They started with the conclusion, without any support, that this is what you
actually needed to know to be an effective teacher,'' Mr. Sohn said.

With this ruling, the LAST-2 meets the same fate of the LAST-1, an earlier
version of the test, given from 1993 to 2004, that was also found to be
discriminatory.

It was not immediately clear how many people would be affected by the decision
or how much this might cost New York City.

So far, about 3,900 people have filed claim forms over the first version of the
exam. Mr. Sohn said the compensation is still being litigated. Some of those
people worked as substitutes and may now be eligible for full-time positions,
while others had already been promoted because they met other hiring
requirements.

Mr. Sohn said thousands of people presumably took the second exam version while
it was in use, and under Title VII, the federal prohibition on employment
discrimination, minority candidates who failed might be entitled to back pay.
This ruling applies only to the city, but could have ramifications for the rest
of the state, where the test was also used.

Nicholas Paolucci, a spokesman for the New York City Law Department, said Friday
that Judge Wood's decision ''was expected and we will proceed accordingly.'' A
spokesman for the New York State Education Department, which establishes
certification criteria for teachers, declined to comment.

Neither version of the exams is still in use in New York. Instead the state
administers a new test called the Academic Literacy Skills Test, or the ALST,
along with a slate of other assessments. The fate of the ALST, however, was
recently called into question as well. This spring, Judge Wood began questioning
whether that test, too, was racially discriminatory. A hearing is scheduled on
the issue for later this month.

The examination of the ALST comes at a time when many states are introducing
more rigorous certification tests, an attempt to raise the bar of entry to the
teaching profession and, supporters say, to ensure that all teachers are
qualified and able to do their jobs well.

But the tests' impact on minorities has also been a concern because of a dearth
of minority teachers.

Last month the state Board of Regents agreed to postpone for a year the
requirement that candidates pass the ALST.

According to the city's Department of Education, while 25 percent of the city's
public school students are black and 41 percent are Hispanic, 60 percent of its
teachers are white. Fifteen percent of the teachers are Hispanic and 18 percent
are black.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/judge-rules-second-version-of-new-yor
k-teachers-exam-is-also-racially-biased.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
MINORITY GROUPS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%);
TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); TEACHING
& TEACHERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT
DISCRIMINATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); EDUCATION
DEPARTMENTS (72%); BACK PAY (63%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%)

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (66%); MISHCON DE REYA (53%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (66%); PSO (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK
PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF
LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

...and Robbing

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


Kwadwo Asamoah, who will miss the final with a knee injury, was on the field in
July 2010 when Suárez, playing for Uruguay against Asamoah's team, Ghana, in a
World Cup quarterfinal, thrust both hands in the air to punch away a certain
goal on the goal line deep in extra time. The play -- for which Suárez received
a red card -- made him a hero in Uruguay and a villain nearly everywhere else on
earth. Had Ghana converted the ensuing penalty, it would have been the first
African team to reach a World Cup semifinal, and Suárez's act might have been a
footnote in history. But Asamoah Gyan missed it, Suárez celebrated gleefully on
the sideline, and Uruguay won on penalties.

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suárez, above left, blocking a shot in a 2010 World Cup game
against Ghana, and below, playing with Barcelona in a recent match. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ALBERT GEA/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); KNEE DISORDERS &
INJURIES (73%)

COUNTRY: URUGUAY (94%); GHANA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Public Enemy No. 9

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 76 words


Luis Suárez is one of the more polarizing figures in soccer, as revered for his
goal-scoring ability as he is reviled for his inability to play by the rules of
the game (and -- in several cases -- of society). When Suárez, the Uruguayan
striker and lightning rod, runs out onto the field for Barcelona in Saturday's
Champions League final against Juventus, there will be no shortage of players on
the other side with scores to settle with him. By ANDREW DAS



URL:

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BY SAM MANCHESTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Biting...

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 147 words


The list of players with grievances against Suárez is long, but Giorgio
Chiellini is surely near the top. The two players were linked forever at last
summer's World Cup in Brazil when Suárez, playing for Uruguay in a group stage
game against Italy, made a beeline for Chiellini in the center of the penalty
area and, colliding with him from behind, bit him on the shoulder. A furious
Chiellini showed the bite to the indifferent Mexican referee. Suárez denied the
accusation -- a plea that fell flat, as it was actually the third time he had
bitten an opponent in a game. Suárez later confessed, and Chiellini, who
initially called Suárez a ''sneak,'' let him off the hook via Twitter message.
Last week, Chiellini sounded eager to leave the incident in the past. ''I'll hug
him happily,'' he said of Suárez. ''There's no problem at all.'' Better not pull
him in too close, Giorgio.

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giorgio Chiellini, left, of Italy, and Luis Suárez of Uruguay
after Suárez bit Chiellini during a World Cup game in Brazil last year.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO LAVANDEIRA JR./EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (86%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beating...

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 151 words


Chiellini was not the only Italian to head home from the 2014 World Cup mumbling
about Suárez. Six Juventus players started for Italy in that game, and five --
Chiellini, Gianluigi Buffon, Andrea Barzagli, Leonardo Bonucci and Andrea Pirlo
-- were pitching a shutout when Suárez sank his teeth into Chiellini's shoulder.
The one who was not on the field was Claudio Marchisio, who had been red-carded
for a high challenge in the second half. Italy grumbled about the unfairness of
Marchisio's red, and about having to play a man down for the final half-hour in
the Brazilian heat. (Coach Cesare Prandelli later said the referee had
''ruined'' the game.) But play short-handed they did, and two minutes after
Suárez escaped punishment for his bite, Uruguay scored on a corner kick to win,
1-0. With Chiellini out with a calf injury, look for Barzagli and Bonucci to
tangle with Suárez in the middle on Saturday.

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Italy's Claudio Marchisio, center, being shown a red card in the
game against Uruguay. Luis Suárez later scored the winning goal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HASSAN AMMAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(88%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (93%); URUGUAY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Racially Abusing...

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 165 words


Suárez disputed -- and continues to dispute -- the findings of a Premier League
panel that suspended him in 2011 over a racial abuse episode. Patrice Evra
claimed in a television interview after his team, Manchester United, played
Suárez's Liverpool that Suárez had called him a racist name ''10 times.'' Suárez
claimed, implausibly to many, that the term was actually one of endearment, but
the Premier League rejected that explanation. When Suárez did return to the
field, he snubbed Evra in a handshake line in their first encounter, which only
stirred up the issue all over again. They have kept their distance since: Evra
left United for Juventus, and Suárez moved to Spain. Evra sounds as if he would
rather leave the past behind. ''The most important thing is, I play the final,''
he told reporters after Juventus advanced. ''I am proud to be what I am. I am
proud about my color, and I will shake his hand. It is no problem. But I will
make sure he feels my presence on the field.''

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Suárez, then with Liverpool, and Manchester United's Patrice
Evra having words in 2011. Evra said Suárez had used a racist name. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY LINDSEY PARNABY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (58%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%)

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (91%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wave of Strikes Frays Nerves in Germany

BYLINE: By MELISSA EDDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1269 words


HAMBURG, Germany --  At 8:05 a.m. at a day care center in northern Hamburg,
Alexandra Kölling's 4-year-old son clung to her leg, crying. A breakfast of
bread, butter, cheese, ham and milk waited, but no teachers came to coax Mika
gently away from his mother and over to his place at the low table.

On that day, Ms. Kölling was the caregiver at the Wernigeroder Wegcenter. A
full-time software developer, she was taking her turn with several other parents
to try to restore a semblance of the normalcy that has eluded her family and
countless others across the country since May 8, when thousands of preschool
teachers and assistants walked off the job.

''I've had it up to here,'' said Ms. Kölling, 37, impatience rising in her voice
as she balanced her 15-month-old on her hip while trying to comfort her older
son. ''I haven't been able to work properly a single day.''

The strike by child care workers is the latest in a series of work actions that
is putting Germany on track to have the most days lost to labor action in nearly
a decade.

By economists' calculations, 350,000 work days have been lost in 2015 -- a
record that would seem more likely in France than in Germany. The number of days
missed because of walkouts is already more than twice the number for all of
2014, according to the Cologne Institute for Economic Research.

Besides fraying nerves and disrupting lives, the strikes have focused attention
on wage disparities and raised questions about priorities in a generally robust
economy. Union leaders and others say wages of service and public workers have
not kept pace in Germany -- especially in contrast with the manufacturing
sector, which has been its economic engine.

Announcing the child care strike last month, Frank Bsirske, head of the Verdi
service workers union that represents many of the teachers, cited a provider who
had spent 29 years working with kindergartners and learned that her nephew's
starting salary in a chemical laboratory was on par with her own: about 2,800
euros, or $3,200, a month.

''It cannot be the case that the learned interaction with machines is worth more
than learned interaction with young children,'' Mr. Bsirske said.

Preschool teachers in the United States also complain of low pay. But in
Germany, they are required to have at least three years of training and
increasingly a college degree.

By contrast, a full-time warehouse employee in the German metal industry, whose
wages are negotiated by the powerful IG Metall union, enters the work force at a
base monthly salary of ?2,252 without any qualifying training. Verdi is looking
for about a 10 percent wage increase for its members in public social services.

''The dispute in the child care sector is very much about: What is the public,
the municipalities who run these crèches, prepared to pay for the work, which is
held in very high public esteem?'' said Heiner Dribbusch, a senior researcher
and specialist in industrial relations at the Institute of Economic and Social
Research of the Hans Böckler Foundation.

Economists are quick to point out that Germany still has some of the lowest
strike numbers among industrialized countries, far lower than the leaders,
Denmark and France, according to figures gathered by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. On average, the German work force lost
only four work days per 1,000 people annually from 2005 to 2014, while Danes
lost 135 days and the French 124 days in the same period, the Cologne Institute
for Economic Research found.

But that may be because only about 20 percent of workers in Germany are members
of labor unions, and most of those people are in the largest union
confederation, the DGB, which mainly represents the better organized and more
highly paid manufacturing workers. (France's union membership is lower, but it
has a strong history of government protections for workers.)

Germany's economy has expanded in recent years, supported by consistently high
levels of employment. This year, the Economy Ministry raised its forecast for
growth in 2015 to 1.5 percent from 1.3 percent.

The IG Metall union secured a 3.4 percent pay increase for its workers this
year, and the country's first minimum wage, ?8.50, took effect in January. But
wage growth in the service sector has not kept up.

Last month, members of the union of locomotive engineers, known by its German
initials G.D.L., walked off the job for 138 hours -- the longest rail stoppage
in Germany's history and the ninth rail strike in 10 months -- as they sought a
5 percent wage increase. Talks between union representatives and the main German
rail operator, Deutsche Bahn, began again last week and are expected to last
until June 17.

Pilots for Lufthansa and its subsidiaries have held 12 rounds of strikes since
April 2014 that came to an abrupt halt after the crash of a Germanwings flight
over southern France in late March. The two sides agreed in mid-May to return to
negotiations, and the pilots said they would keep flying until at least the end
of July.

Postal workers are preparing to walk off their jobs indefinitely starting on
Monday, in an effort to seek more pay and job security, while employees at
Amazon's main distribution center started a 48-hour strike early Friday,
pressing the Internet giant to enter into a wage agreement.

In the case of the child care workers, the dispute follows five years in which
Germany increased its emphasis on early childhood education, investing ?12
billion to expand public facilities with a goal to create a guaranteed place for
every child younger than 3. The program was part of an effort to better
integrate immigrant children and to help women remain in the work force after
starting families.

At the same time, caregivers were given more educational responsibilities, such
as assessing children's verbal skills and school readiness, which required extra
hours of training. Verdi, which has two million members, argues that the
government failed to adjust wages to reflect the heightened expectations.

The V.K.A. employers' association, which represents the municipalities that hire
the child care workers, has rejected a general wage increase but offered to
raise pay for some teachers based on their qualifications and responsibilities.

Economists play down the impact this year's wave of labor disputes has had on
the country, rejecting parallels to the labor unrest in the United States and
Britain during the 1980s.

''The right to strike is in the German Constitution,'' Mr. Dribbusch, the Hans
Böckler Foundation researcher, said. ''The weapon of the strike is a legitimate
weapon, although it is very rarely used.''

But a day after the engineers agreed to return to their locomotives, Parliament
passed a law that curbed the powers of smaller unions such as theirs by limiting
wage negotiations to labor groups with the largest membership. Although the
legislation is not expected to come into force until July, several unions have
threatened to challenge it in the country's constitutional court.

For the parents struggling without day care, the end may be in sight. On
Thursday, negotiators on both sides agreed to enter arbitration starting on
Sunday. Teachers are expected to return to their jobs by Monday.

In the Hamburg kindergarten where parents were organizing care, Yvonne Kappes,
39, said that she had a part-time job and a supportive boss, but that arranging
care for her 6-year-old daughter had increasingly kept her awake at night.

''On a factual level, I fully support the strike. But emotionally. ...'' Ms.
Kappes said, trailing off.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/german-child-care-workers-strike-
brings-debate-on-priorities.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexandra Kölling is one of several parents coordinating child
care at a center in Hamburg while preschool workers are on strike.
 Ms. Kölling, a software developer with two young children, says she has been
unable to work effectively since the strike began. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON
WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD
EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILDREN (77%); SERVICE WORKERS (77%); PRIMARY
SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%);
FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); MANUFACTURING
OUTPUT (62%)

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (94%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Champions League Final Is Just Latest Moment in Spotlight for Olympiastadion

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 851 words


A legendary track performance in front of Hitler. A record-breaking baseball
game. The most famous head-butt in sports. Guns N' Roses and the N.F.L. Europe.

When the Champions League final comes to the Olympiastadion in Berlin for the
first time on Saturday, it will join a long list of famous and infamous events
held in the venerable stadium.

Designed by Werner March, whose father, Otto, was the architect of an earlier
stadium at the same site, the 120,000-capacity Olympiastadion was finished in
1936 as part of the Nazis' sweeping propaganda-through-architecture plan.

Hitler was on hand to open the 1936 Olympics there, and the titanic ceremony,
captured in Leni Riefenstahl's lauded and reviled documentary ''Olympia,''
featured the first torch relay. The crowd repeatedly gave the Nazi salute, and
it was often returned by the athletes, even those from countries like France
that would soon be at war with Germany.

The stadium was the site of several events during the 1936 Games, including the
soccer final, won by Italy, and the team handball final, played then as an
11-man outdoor event.

But it is most remembered for the exploits of Jesse Owens, who embarrassed
Hitler by winning the 100 meters, 200, long jump and 4x100 relay at the expense
of the German team.

''German nationalism and the prejudice that seems to go with it revealed
themselves somewhat disagreeably,'' Arthur J. Daley reported in The New York
Times after Owens's 100-meter win, noting that Hitler did not congratulate any
of the black American winners that day but did find time for German hammer
throwers.

Despite German theories of racial superiority, Owens, the grandson of slaves,
said he was mobbed by friendly fans seeking autographs. A street near the
stadium is now known as Jesse-Owens-Allee.

Oddly enough, two teams of amateur American baseball players participated in an
exhibition game in the stadium during the Games. About 100,000 people turned up
to see it, The New York Times reported, making it at that time the largest crowd
to watch a baseball game anywhere. The Times also reported that the game was
''warmly, but not too intelligently received.'' Given the low stakes and
obscurity of the players, it added a cheeky headline: ''One Team Wins, 6-5.''

Olympiastadion escaped World War II mostly untouched. As Germany became West
Germany and Berlin became West Berlin, the stadium underwent what its website
now calls ''a discreet denazification.'' As an example, Hitler's special box,
the Führerloge, ''was reduced by one meter in length to take away its historic
effect.''

The World Cup has come twice to the Olympiastadion. In 1974, it hosted three
preliminary games, all involving Chile.

It played a more prominent role in 2006, hosting six games. Kaka scored in a 1-0
Brazil win over Croatia in the first of four preliminary round games there.
Germany delighted the home crowd with a quarterfinal win there over Argentina in
a penalty-kick shootout.

The stadium also was the site of the final between France and Italy. Zinedine
Zidane and Marco Materazzi of Italy scored quickly to make the game 1-1, but
those goals have almost been forgotten given the notorious incident between the
two men in extra time. Infuriated by Materazzi's taunts, Zidane charged and
head-butted him in the chest, resulting in a red card in the final game of his
international career. Italy won the game on penalties a few minutes later.

American football was once a regular visitor to the stadium. The N.F.L. held a
preseason game there every year from 1990 to 1994. The Berlin Thunder of N.F.L.
Europe made the stadium its home from 2003 to 2007. In 2004, the team went 9-1
and won the World Bowl behind the Jamaican-born former L.S.U. quarterback Rohan
Davey, who also won two Super Bowl rings as a backup to Tom Brady with the New
England Patriots.

After a renovation from 2000 to 2004 that reduced seating capacity to 74,000,
the stadium hosted its most memorable track meet since the days of Owens, the
2009 world championships. The star was Usain Bolt, who scorched two world
records with a 9.58 in the 100 and a 19.19 in the 200 -- both still stand today.

In addition to the big-ticket events, the stadium has been the home of the
Bundesliga team Hertha Berlin since 1963, and the German Cup final since 1985.
Perhaps the most memorable final came in 2012, when Robert Lewandowski scored a
hat trick and Borussia Dortmund walloped Bayern Munich, 5-2, completing the
first league-Cup double in its history.

Outside the world of sports, the stadium is the go-to site in Berlin for the
kind of rock acts that can pack in 50,000-plus fans. The Rolling Stones, U2,
Guns N' Roses, Michael Jackson and Bruce Springsteen have all rocked the house,
as have acts less familiar to Americans. Later this month, the German pop star
Helene Fischer and the drummer Udo Lindenberg will perform there.

But the first event after the Champions League leaves town is on June 25, when
AC/DC plays the Olympiastadion.

Luis Suárez, Lionel Messi, Neymar, Carlos Tevez, Paul Pogba ... and Angus Young
have a lot to live up to.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/soccer/champions-league-final-is-just-l
atest-moment-in-spotlight-for-olympiastadion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); FIFA
WORLD CUP (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); OLYMPICS (78%);
SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SOCCER (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%);
RACE & RACISM (69%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Hockey; Two Rangers Have Surgery

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words


Rangers defensemen Marc Staal and Dan Girardi have had ankle surgery, and the
team said they should be ready for training camp. Both defensemen played
throughout the playoffs, which ended for the Rangers with a Game 7 loss last
week to Tampa Bay in the Eastern Conference finals. The Rangers did not announce
that either was injured while the team was playing.

â-  The Islanders and Nassau County announced a partnership to upgrade Cantiague
Park in Hicksville, N.Y., and make it the team's practice home. The Islanders
will invest $5.1 million to improve the public ice rink, incorporating new
locker rooms and a pro shop. It was unclear when the new rink would be
available. ALLAN KREDA

â-  Don Sweeney, the Boston Bruins' rookie general manager, said Coach Claude
Julien would stay for a ninth season. The decision ended nearly two months of
uncertainty over Julien's future after the Bruins' front-office shake-up this
spring. Julien has a 351-192-79 record with Boston.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/hockey/two-rangers-have-surgery.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (90%);
SPORTS INSTRUCTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); ICE
HOCKEY (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); BOSTON BRUINS
(82%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Posey's Homer Lifts Giants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 28 words


Buster Posey hit the go-ahead home run in the seventh inning, helping the San
Francisco Giants end a five-game skid with a 5-4 victory over the Phillies in
Philadelphia.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/baseball/buster-poseys-homer-lifts-gian
ts.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (93%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (83%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Griner Seeking Annulment

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASKETBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


Brittney Griner filed papers seeking to annul her 28-day marriage to Glory
Johnson. ''In the week prior to the wedding, I attempted to postpone the wedding
several times until I completed counseling, but I still went through with it,''
Griner said in a statement to ESPN. ''I now realize that was a mistake.''

Griner and Johnson, both W.N.B.A. stars, married on May 9, three weeks after
both were arrested in Arizona on domestic violence charges. Johnson announced
Thursday that she was pregnant.

â-  Arn Tellem, one of the most powerful agents in sports, agreed to become the
vice chairman of Palace Sports and Entertainment, the company that owns the
Detroit Pistons. Tellem will be responsible for business strategy, public
affairs, and planning and development. SCOTT CACCIOLA

â-  St. John's guard Rysheed Jordan has left school to pursue professional
opportunities. The 6-foot-4 Jordan averaged 14.1 points in 31 games last season.
(AP)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/basketball/brittney-griner-seeking-annu
lment.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SPORTS (90%); COMPANY
STRATEGY (86%); APPOINTMENTS (86%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES
(69%); ARRESTS (69%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (68%)

COMPANY: PALACE SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); DETROIT PISTONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (56%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-BP Executive Found Not Guilty of Lying to Investigators During 2010 Gulf Oil
Spill

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 350 words


NEW ORLEANS --  A federal jury on Friday found David Rainey, a former BP
executive, not guilty of making false statements to investigators in connection
with the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.

Prosecutors said that Mr. Rainey manipulated calculations in the early days of
the spill to match a far-too-low government estimate of the amount of oil that
was spewing into the gulf. However, defense lawyers said Mr. Rainey's figures
were made honestly and that he had no reason to lie.

The jury agreed, and so did the judge.

''I agree with the verdict,'' said United States District Judge Kurt Engelhardt.

Eleven rig workers died in the Deepwater Horizon explosion, which resulted in
the nation's worst offshore oil spill. A federal judge overseeing civil
litigation in the case ruled this year that roughly 3.19 million barrels spilled
before the damaged well was capped -- a rate of more than 36,000 barrels a day.
The government's initial estimate was about 5,000 barrels a day.

Mr. Rainey also faced a charge of obstructing a congressional investigation but
Judge Engelhardt dismissed that charge this week, in part because members of
Congress could not be subpoenaed to testify.

Mr. Rainey was one of a handful of people charged criminally in connection with
the disaster.

Kurt Mix, a former BP engineer, was convicted on one of two criminal counts in
2013 after prosecutors said he deleted text messages about the oil flow after
the explosion. His conviction was overturned because a jury forewoman tainted
the deadlocked deliberations by mentioning she had heard something outside the
trial that affirmed her view of Mr. Mix's guilt. Prosecutors have asked an
appellate court to reinstate the conviction rather than have them try Mr. Mix
again.

Trial is pending for the BP well site leaders, Robert Kaluza and Donald Vidrine,
who have pleaded not guilty to manslaughter charges stemming from the 11 deaths.

Anthony Badalamenti, a former manager for Halliburton, BP's cement contractor on
the rig, was sentenced to one year of probation for destroying evidence in the
aftermath of the spill.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/ex-bp-executive-found-not-guilty-of-l
ying-to-investigators-during-2010-gulf-oil-spill.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (92%); SUBPOENAS (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL
SPILL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%);
JUDGES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SENTENCING (78%); EVIDENCE
(78%); OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(78%); PROBATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%);
MANSLAUGHTER (71%); TESTIMONY (66%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%);
NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL
GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%)

STATE: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Scientists Seek Cause of a Spacecraft's Silence

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 798 words


Since it launched last month, LightSail, a little, privately financed spacecraft
meant to demonstrate the potentially revolutionary technology of using sunlight
for propulsion, has been alive, dead and revived.

Now it is dead again. Or at least sleeping.

Jason Davis, the digital editor for the Planetary Society, a nonprofit
advocating space exploration that is orchestrating the effort, reported on
Thursday that the spacecraft team had not heard from LightSail since the day
before.

Good morning from PDT. LightSail had a good night's sleep, and slept in. We
haven't heard from it since yesterday at 4:40 pm EDT. -- Jason Davis
(@jasonrdavis) June 4, 2015

Engineers are troubleshooting what they suspect is a battery glitch that
occurred after the spacecraft popped out its solar panels on Wednesday.

Still, David Spencer, director of the Center for Space Systems at the Georgia
Institute of Technology and manager of this mission, thinks they will hear from
LightSail again.

''I have a high level of confidence,'' he said. ''I think we will recover the
spacecraft. You know, it's nail-biting time. Flying spacecraft is hard. Nothing
has been easy on this mission in particular, but we've shown we're able to work
through difficult problems.''

Just a week ago, the project seemed a multimillion-dollar flop after the
spacecraft's computer crashed.

LightSail, and nine other tiny satellites known as CubeSats, hitched a ride to
space on May 20 on a rocket carrying a classified Air Force space plane to
orbit.

After the CubeSats were cast off, LightSail operated as expected, sending back
data for two days.

Then it went quiet.

A software flaw had caused a file of telemetry data to grow without bound. When
that part of its memory filled up, the computer crashed, with no one around to
press the restart button.

LightSail's systems had been tested on the ground, but not quite long enough to
turn up the computer bug, which occurred after about 40 hours.

Fortunately, the problem arose in space, where high-energy particles like
protons from the sun and cosmic rays from distant supernovas whiz around all the
time. Usually they are a nuisance to space missions, garbling computer data and
calculations.

But in this case, engineers expected that a high-energy particle would jolt
LightSail's memory, causing it to restart.

After eight days, that is what happened, and a radio chirp was detected at the
ground station at California State Polytechnic University.

''Jubilation was my response,'' said Barbara Plante, the lead software engineer
and the president of Boreal Space, a contractor involved with the project. ''We
were all monitoring the pass when the data came in. It was quite a relief. That
just felt like the mission was going to go forward.''

To prevent the problem from recurring, the team is restarting LightSail's
computer about once a day. The team also decided to accelerate deployment of the
solar sail -- four large triangular pieces of Mylar stretched out between four
13-foot booms.

The first step was flipping up the solar panels. As expected, the rotation of
the spacecraft slowed, and temperature of the panels, exposed to the vacuum of
space, dropped. ''We believe the panels successfully deployed,'' Professor
Spencer said.

Because of the battery problem, the team deferred taking a picture of the
extended solar panels. As with the earlier computer trouble, the engineering
team, which includes students at Georgia Tech and Cal Poly, will work through
what went wrong, try to coax the spacecraft back to life and wait.

If contact is re-established, the team is likely to deploy the sail as soon as
possible.

That in turn would bring the mission to a quick end, and the spacecraft would
fall out of the sky within days. LightSail's elliptical orbit is just 217 miles
above the surface at the low point, and the atmospheric drag will be greater
than the momentum of photons bouncing off the sail. But by then the team would
have pronounced the mission a success. This flight was meant to work through
hardware and software issues before a second LightSail is launched next year to
an orbit high enough to demonstrate sailing using sunlight rather than fuel.

So far, the troubles that this LightSail has encountered can be readily
corrected on the second LightSail before launching.

William Sanford Nye, the chief executive of the Planetary Society, who is better
known as Bill Nye the Science Guy, said he thought the engineers would figure
out how to get the sail deployed.

''Very confident now,'' Mr. Nye said before immediately switching his answer.

''No, I'm not,'' he said. ''I'm 50-50. I think they'll solve the problem, but I
would not bet a million dollars on it.''

But, he added, ''That's exactly why we flew this first mission.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/science/space/lightsail-solar-sail-bill-nye-gl
itch.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%);
ENGINEERING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY
(78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (74%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (74%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AIR FORCES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANETARY SOCIETY (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Oxford Man of Letters, and Sheep

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words


MATTERDALE, England --  James Rebanks picked up a newborn lamb by the scruff of
its neck and set it on its feet. It stood, shaking and weak. ''We're going to
lose that one,'' he said. He got back onto the quad bike that he uses to patrol
his farm, 300 acres of hilly land near this parish in the Lake District, where
his family has farmed for about 600 years. ''Sometimes it happens,'' he said
stoically.

Birth, death and everything in between are Mr. Rebanks's daily bread as a sheep
farmer in this beautiful but inhospitable terrain in the northwestern part of
the country. But he is no isolated, anachronistic figure striding into the
hills, shepherd's crook in hand. (Although he certainly has one.) He has a
degree from Oxford, a Twitter account with almost 65,000 followers, a
best-selling book and a part-time job as an adviser to Unesco.

''There is a James who can put a suit on and talk to people,'' Mr. Rebanks,
known on Twitter as the Herdwick Shepherd, said one evening last month at his
modest home, a repurposed barn that he shares with his wife of 13 years, Helen,
and their three children. ''And there is the James at home, obsessing about
sheep. It's only very recently that I've come to terms with the fact that both
of these people are me.''

Mr. Rebanks's book, ''The Shepherd's Life'' (Flatiron Books), was a surprise hit
on the British best-seller lists after its publication in April. (It was
released last month in the United States.) It describes the passage of the
seasons and the physical realities of farming: herding, shearing, feeding,
castrating, deworming, doctoring, mending, mucking, chopping. But it is also a
memoir about his family and his upbringing, a love letter to the land, to his
forebears and to a way of life that is centuries old.

''It's not a romantic retreat to a blurred, vague, green, imagined nature,'' the
writer Helen MacDonald said in an email. ''Working with livestock is real and
unsparing and beautiful and hard. It's a book full of mud and blood and
groundedness and community.''

In prose that adroitly mixes the prosaic and the poetic, Mr. Rebanks, 40, evokes
a world essentially unknown to the 16 million tourists who visit the Lake
District each year. A stocky, strong-bodied man, he is part of a tiny community
-- perhaps 300 families -- that he describes in ''The Shepherd's Life'' as ''the
forgotten people who live in our midst, whose lives are often deeply traditional
and rooted in the distant past.'' Mr. Rebanks is an ambassador and advocate for
a way of life that is far from a broader culture of instant gratification and
consumption.

''There are amazingly few books written by farmers, people who really work in
the landscape,'' he said. ''We live in arguably the most literary landscape in
the world. For 200 years, it has been defined in words by Arthur Ransome,
Beatrix Potter, Wordsworth, Coleridge. So you have an outsider's version and
insiders not bothering to explain to people, this is what we have to say.''

Mr. Rebanks grew up on the farm that his grandfather bought in the 1960s, in the
Eden Valley region that his family had farmed on for centuries. When Mr. Rebanks
was 6, the farm acquired a flock of Herdwick mountain sheep, thought to have
come with the Vikings to England, and which return to the same areas of upland
pasture each summer and survive there through the brutal, snowy winter. Today,
the great-granddaughters of that flock are part of his own.

''Everyone is conditioned to think of sheep as commodities,'' Mr. Rebanks said,
''but here they're also cultural objects. To an amateur eye they all look the
same, just as 50 Picassos might look to a novice eye. To us, they are objects of
beauty.'' (Out at 6 a.m. the next day at the height of lambing season, he could
recognize not only each sheep in his flock but also which newborn lamb belonged
to which mother.)

At school, however, that encyclopedic knowledge of the natural world was no
advantage. To want to work with sheep ''was to be more or less an idiot,'' Mr.
Rebanks writes in the book. He left at 16 but became a voracious reader after
chancing upon ''A Shepherd's Life: Impressions of the South Wiltshire Downs,'' a
1910 book by the English naturalist W. H. Hudson. At 21, Mr. Rebanks began
evening classes to obtain A-Levels, the qualification that is a precondition for
university entrance in Britain. His tutor, impressed by his intelligence,
suggested that he apply to Oxford, where he went on to get an undergraduate
degree in modern history and a master's in modern American history while
continuing to work on the farm on weekends and between terms.

The Oxford degree led to the part-time consulting work that subsidizes Mr.
Rebanks's farm. He advises Unesco on how to manage growing tourism in developing
economies.

''You can make a modest living on this farm, but you couldn't build this
house,'' he said, adding that the average income of a hill farm in the Lake
District is around $13,000 a year. ''Farming is a subsistence activity,'' he
said. ''Farmers have often worked on the roads, done casual labor to make ends
meet. I'm a sort of 21st-century version of that.''

Life changed for Mr. Rebanks after he began to post on Twitter scenic
photographs and brief reports about the daily life of the farm in 2012. To his
surprise, he soon acquired thousands of followers. Among them was The Atlantic,
which commissioned an article about the odd intersection of Twitter and his
traditional way of life. After the article was published in late 2013, a
literary agent telephoned and asked if he had ever thought about writing a book.
Mr. Rebanks told him that he had already written one.

In fact, he has been writing since he was in his early 20s: poems that became
the basis for some of ''The Shepherd's Life'' and short stories that he showed
only to his wife.

''But life got in the way,'' he said. ''I had to juggle two or three jobs to
keep the farm going; we had kids. I got really depressed, and Helen said, 'Don't
worry, it will all happen by the time you are 40.' ''

It has happened. ''The Shepherd's Life'' has been greeted with laudatory
reviews, and Mr. Rebanks said he was thinking about two or three more books he
would like to write. But farming, he said, comes first.

''The truth is that small, old-fashioned farms are under grave economic
threat,'' he said. ''We are facing mass-market realities. And millions of people
simply see this as a picture-postcard landscape. I'm putting my hand up and
saying, this is the history of this place, this is what we do, this is how we've
lived here for 5,000 years and will continue to do so if we can.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/books/james-rebanks-man-of-sheep-man-of-letter
s.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Rebanks, far right, says he ''can put a suit on and talk
to people'' and, later, obsess over his flock. (C1)
 James Rebanks has built a Twitter following of almost 65,000 with pictures like
this one. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES REBANKS) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS
(77%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (76%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); WRITERS (73%); BESTSELLERS (73%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION
(55%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bringing in the Righty. and the Lefty.

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 534 words


Nearly 20 years ago Greg Harris, a journeyman reliever, finally fulfilled his
dream to pitch with each hand in a major league game. In the ninth inning of a
loss to the Cincinnati Reds on Sept. 28, 1995, Harris, then with the Montreal
Expos, came into the game as a right-hander and retired Reggie Sanders on his
first pitch. He switched to his left arm to walk Hal Morris and retire Eddie
Taubensee, then was back to his right to induce a groundout from Bret Boone.

Harris's ability to exploit matchup advantages might have seemed revolutionary,
but the experiment did not last long. He pitched in just one other game, using
only his right hand, then retired having thrown 1,466 innings as a right-hander
and one as the modern era's first switch-pitcher. (Harris was also a
switch-hitter.)

With Friday's call-up of Pat Venditte by the Oakland Athletics, baseball has its
second switch-pitcher.

In his eighth professional season, Venditte turns 30 this month and stretches
the definition of the word prospect, but he has proved effective in the minor
leagues, compiling a 2.37 E.R.A. for his career and striking out an impressive
10 batters per nine innings pitched. His numbers should be taken with a grain of
salt; he has often been far older than his competition -- including this season,
when he was 3.1 years older than the average pitcher in the Pacific Coast
League. But as a long reliever who can adapt to whichever side a batter hits
from, he may provide some versatility in the Oakland bullpen.

Venditte got off to a good start Friday, switch-pitching two scoreless innings
against Boston.

Given the various strategies tried over the years in hopes of gaining an
advantage, the scarcity of switch-pitching is somewhat surprising, making a case
that mastering pitching with each hand is truly a rare skill, and rendering
Venditte's effectiveness from both sides even more remarkable. This season, in
192/3 innings as a right-hander, he held opponents to a .208 batting average. In
131/3 innings as a left-hander, he was even better, holding them to .095. Last
season, in 26 appearances for the Yankees' Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre
affiliate, Venditte allowed a .250 batting average with each arm.

For an MLB.com article in 2000, Jerome Holtzman, the longtime Chicago sports
columnist and former official Major League Baseball historian, found several
instances of switch-pitching, with the most recent one before Harris coming in
1893. But other pitchers, including Tug McGraw with the Mets, reportedly lobbied
to try it in a regular-season game.

In his first appearance, Venditte was able to give a brief demonstration of Rule
5.07(f), which requires a switch-pitcher to declare which arm he will use before
a batter steps to the plate. The rule was meant to avoid a standoff with the
pitcher and the hitter refusing to pick sides. With the switch-hitting Blake
Swihart approaching the plate as a right-handed batter, Venditte indicated he
would pitch with his right hand, and Swihart went back to the dugout for his
lefty-hitting helmet.

Having joined Harris in the record book as a modern switch-pitcher, Venditte now
gets a chance to prove that the strategy can be sustainable.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/baseball/bringing-in-the-righty-and-the
-lefty.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pat Venditte, called up Friday by Oakland, became the second
modern major leaguer to pitch with each hand in a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN
MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS
& RECREATION (89%); HISTORY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (84%); MONTREAL EXPOS (58%); OAKLAND A'S (56%)

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); SCRANTON, PA, USA
(51%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); OHIO, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Describing More C.I.A. Torture

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 597 words


Anyone who had the time to read the summary of the 6,700-page report by Senate
investigators on the federal government's program of torturing detainees
captured after the Sept. 11 attacks knew, or at least suspected, that there was
more to the sickening story.

This week, a Reuters report added to those suspicions with newly declassified
statements from Majid Khan, a high-value prisoner who had been affiliated with
Al Qaeda, was captured in 2003 and has been held at Guantánamo Bay since 2006.

Over more than seven years of conversations at Guantánamo with his lawyers from
the Center for Constitutional Rights, Mr. Khan described even more torture and
abuse than is contained in the Senate report. Although the details of his
account, as documented in notes by his lawyers, could not be independently
confirmed, they corroborate many of the findings of the report.

Soon after his capture, Mr. Khan said, interrogators waterboarded him twice, a
contention that contradicts the Central Intelligence Agency's claim that it had
already named all detainees who were subjected to that practice. (The C.I.A. has
denied that Mr. Khan was waterboarded.) As he was moved among a series of
C.I.A.-operated ''black sites'' over the following months, Mr. Khan told his
lawyers, the torture continued. He was beaten repeatedly. He was hung naked from
a wooden beam for three days, shackled and starved. He was taken down once
during that time to be submerged in an ice bath. Interrogators pushed his head
under the water until he thought he would drown. He received what he called
''violent enemas,'' and was anally assaulted in a process the interrogators
called ''rectal feeding.''

''I wished they had killed me,'' Mr. Khan said.

Mr. Khan confessed to delivering $50,000 to Qaeda operatives who used it to
carry out a truck bombing in Indonesia, and to plotting with Khalid Shaikh
Mohammed, the mastermind of Sept. 11, on various planned attacks. In 2012, Mr.
Khan pleaded guilty to conspiracy, spying, murder and material support of
terrorism in a deal that required him to testify against Mr. Mohammed. He faces
a sentence of up to 19 years, which is set to be imposed by the military
commission at Guantánamo Bay in February.

But his culpability does not justify the depraved treatment he and other
detainees suffered at the hands of the United States, in violation of both
federal law and the international Convention Against Torture.

If the fully unredacted story of that treatment ever has a hope of coming out,
it won't be through the American government, which continues to hide key details
of torture and abuse from the public. Rather, it will be through men like Mr.
Khan and Mohamedou Ould Slahi, another Guantánamo detainee, who was recently
allowed to publish a diary recounting his experiences at the camp.

An even fuller accounting of what went on at black sites and Guantánamo could
come from transferring cases like Mr. Khan's out of the wholly inadequate
military commission system and into the federal courts, which have shown they
can successfully prosecute terrorism cases and abide by the Constitution at the
same time. Consider the trial of Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, another Guantánamo
detainee who was charged in the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East
Africa. A federal judge threw out key evidence against Mr. Ghailani because it
was derived from torture, but the jury still convicted him, and the judge
sentenced him to life in prison.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/a-detainee-describes-more-cia-torture.
html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GOLDEN COSMOS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); TORTURE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS
(88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%);
CONSPIRACY (77%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%);
INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); STARVATION (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%);
SENTENCING (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES (67%); MURDER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); AL-QAEDA (57%); CENTER FOR
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crime and Confusion in a Safer City

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 676 words


The New York City tabloids, TV news and other elements of the city's
early-warning system for the apocalypse have noted a steady rise in shootings
and homicides. To some this smells like the beginning of the end of many years
of falling crime, and with it, presumably, the mayor's credibility as a leader
who can keep the city safe.

Any prolonged increase in violence is worrying, and shootings have been climbing
for two years.

But Mr. de Blasio has a ready response, which he repeated on Friday. It's that
serious crime overall is still down -- way down -- from historic highs. That the
shooting problem is largely confined to a few precincts in Brooklyn and the
Bronx, where gangs and drugs hold sway. (Police Commissioner William Bratton
said it's ''career criminals, killing and shooting other career criminals.'')
And that he and Mr. Bratton have got this, through programs, with names like
Summer All Out and Operation Impact, that will focus attention and officers on
crime-plagued neighborhoods.

Mr. Bratton's remark about career criminals is meant to reassure everyone else.
And the comforting statistics Mr. de Blasio cites have the virtue of being
accurate. But they don't mean much if you live in a problem precinct.

Here's what is also unsettling: the continued disagreement between the mayor and
Mr. Bratton over police staffing. Mr. Bratton has sided with the City Council,
which has consistently urged the hiring of 1,000 new officers. The mayor has
just as consistently said that the money is needed elsewhere, and that Mr.
Bratton has all the officers he needs.

Mr. de Blasio argues that the steep reduction in stop-and-frisk and marijuana
arrests has led to a manpower dividend: Cops who aren't hassling young black and
Latino men have a lot more time for smarter, better crime-fighting.

But if the mayor is right, why isn't his own police commissioner buying it?
Maybe some political game is being played here, some budget-related dance or
some message being sent to the police unions. The result for those of us in the
cheap seats is confusion. Do we need more cops, or not? Does the mayor trust his
police commissioner as his No. 1 public-safety expert, or not? If he does trust
him, why doesn't he give him more officers? If he doesn't trust him, that is a
much bigger problem.

Adding 1,000 officers to a force of 34,500 probably won't lead to drastic
results. But the split on so basic a subject suggests a level of discord in the
administration that is not reassuring. It also emboldens the critics who say Mr.
de Blasio is ineptly leading the city back to the ugly 1990s.

The worriers have leveled many such unfair, if not overheated, attacks on the
mayor, the worst being that city has been placed in grave danger by the sharp
drop in stop-and-frisk arrests since their peak under Mayor Michael Bloomberg
and Police Commissioner Ray Kelly. This is hard to support, since overall crime
keeps falling.

Then there is the idea that cops are demoralized and unwilling to do their jobs
aggressively because of the citywide reaction to police brutality, ignited by
the video of a cop choking the life out of Eric Garner. By this account, no
officer wants to be the next Daniel Pantaleo, the Staten Island hothead who
brought Mr. Garner down, and who -- with the help of an inert district attorney,
Daniel Donovan -- brought upon the city paroxysms of revulsion and grief.

This, too, is a dubious claim, a slander against the department's
professionalism, belied by the overall crime rate.

The mayor's more fervid critics need to get a grip. But the mayor should, too.
It is of barely passing interest whether he appears to be dominating Mr.
Bratton, or the other way around. What matters is a unified strategy to ensure
that all law-abiding citizens are treated with respect, while keeping the city
safe, consolidating and perpetuating its success in lowering crime, and quieting
the gunfire where it persists.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/crime-and-confusion-in-a-safer-new-yor
k-city.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS
(89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%);
CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME
(77%); MARIJUANA (74%); CANNABIS (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Famed Call at the Track, Punctuated With ! and ®

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 704 words


Whether he is calling an ordinary horse race or a Triple Crown event, Larry
Collmus is never tempted to say, near the end, ''And down the stretch they
come!'' Collmus, who will announce Saturday's Belmont Stakes on NBC, said:
''When I hear it from another announcer, I say: 'That's awful. You can't say
that. It's Dave Johnson's line.' ''

Collmus's version, which he says with verve as the horses turn for home, is,
''And they're into the stretch.'' He added, ''It hasn't taken off like his.''

A few years ago, Johnson received a trademark for his famous line, which he used
during his Triple Crown race calls for ABC and many other races.

''It's my signature, and I kind of resent anybody using it without some sort of
acknowledgment,'' Johnson said Thursday. ''Unfortunately, a couple of announcers
use it indiscriminately.''

Johnson has never sued to force anyone to stop using the phrase. Rather, he
filed for the trademark protection to use the words on T-shirts sold to raise
money to benefit disabled jockeys. And ''Down the Stretch'' is the name of the
SiriusXM radio show he hosts with Bill Finley.

Johnson said he started using the expression in the 1960s, when he called the
races at Fairmount Park Race Track in Collinsville, Ill. ''I used it, but I
never put the rumble in it,'' he said. ''It was plain.''

But when he moved west to call the races at Santa Anita Park in California, he
found that the track had an ancient sound system with reverb.

''Whatever I called, I'd get back a second later,'' he said. ''Can you imagine?
So here's this 1930s sound equipment with a crowd of 80,000; the only way to be
heard was to underline the phrase.''

So Johnson starting putting a lot more vocal oomph into the words -- in
particular, he emphasized ''down'' -- and growled his way through it.

The phrase soon became popular and was identified with him. Local newscasts used
his stretch calls, and fans repeated it to him.

''I was in Atlanta in a shopping mall with my sister,'' he said, ''and a guy
looked at us and said, 'Down the steps he comes.' ''

By the 1997 Belmont Stakes, a Triple Crown race would have been incomplete
without the phrase. Back then, Johnson said: ''And down the stretch they come!
Three of them in a line. Silver Charm at the rail. Touch Gold on the outside.
Touch Gold ahead in front. Fifty yards to go. Touch Gold. Touch Gold wins it by
half a length, denying Silver Charm, who finished second, his Triple Crown.''

Still, it was not until Johnson's active race-calling career ended that he filed
for the trademark; he received it three years ago. He said he had been inspired
by the example of Michael Buffer, the well-coiffed HBO Sports boxing ring
announcer, who long ago received a trademark for his phrase, ''Let's get ready
to rumble.'' Those five words have built a lively business of merchandise and
appearances. Buffer's website even invites people ''to earn Rumble Rewards by
reporting violations'' of his trademark.

Johnson and Buffer are not the only sports personalities who have trademarks --
or tried for them -- on signature phrases.

Four trademarks on ''Holy cow!'' exist for the former Chicago Cubs announcer
Harry Caray -- actually, for the company Harry Caray Ltd.

Marv Albert sought one in the 1990s for ''Yes, and it counts!'' but it was
canceled, according to the United States Patent and Trademark Office's website.

Dick Vitale has a trademark for ''Awesome baby'' but abandoned a filing for
''diaper dandy.''

The Yankees announcer John Sterling sought but never received protection for his
home run call, ''It is high ... it is far ... it is gone!''

But John McEnroe has one for ''You cannot be serious,'' and Darrell Waltrip has
another for ''Boogity! Boogity! Boogity!''

Last year, Bill Raftery filed for trademarks for two elements of his extensive
glossary: ''Onions'' and ''With a kiss.'' Gus Johnson, Raftery's partner on Fox
Sports 1 college basketball games, already has his trademark on the catchphrase
''Rise and fire.''

Dave Johnson's trademark is not in danger of being violated by Collmus during
Saturday's Belmont Stakes. But Johnson will be watching from his lucky couch at
home in Manhattan as the horses head into the stretch.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/and-down-the-stretch-they-come-all-righ
ts-reserved.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HORSES (78%);
TRADEMARKS (74%); TRADEMARK LAW (69%); RETAILERS (65%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tapping Your Inner Wolf

BYLINE: By CARL SAFINA.

Carl Safina is the founder of the Safina Center on nature at Stony Brook
University and the author of the forthcoming book ''Beyond Words: What Animals
Think and Feel.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 797 words


MEN often face pressure to measure up as alpha males, to ''wolf up'' as it were.
Alpha male connotes the man who at every moment demonstrates that he's in total
control in the home, and who away from home can become snarling and aggressive.

This alpha male stereotype comes from a misunderstanding of the real thing. In
fact, the male wolf is an exemplary male role model. By observing wolves in
free-living packs in Yellowstone National Park, I've seen that the leadership of
the ranking male is not forced, not domineering and not aggressive to those on
his team.

''The main characteristic of an alpha male wolf,'' the veteran wolf researcher
Rick McIntyre told me as we were watching gray wolves, ''is a quiet confidence,
quiet self-assurance. You know what you need to do; you know what's best for
your pack. You lead by example. You're very comfortable with that. You have a
calming effect.''

The point is, alpha males are not aggressive. They don't need to be. ''Think of
an emotionally secure man, or a great champion. Whatever he needed to prove is
already proven,'' he said.

There is an evolutionary logic to it.

''Imagine two wolf packs, or two human tribes,'' Mr. McIntyre said. ''Which is
more likely to survive and reproduce? The one whose members are more
cooperative, more sharing, less violent with one another; or the group whose
members are beating each other up and competing with one another?''

Thus, an alpha male may be a major player in a successful hunt but then, after
the takedown of the prey, may step away and sleep until his pack has eaten and
is full.

Mr. McIntyre has spent 20 years watching and studying wolves in Yellowstone for
the National Park Service. He rises early, uses radio telemetry to pinpoint the
location of a pack with a radio-collared member, then heads out with his
spotting scope to observe them, keeping careful notes of their activities.

In all that time, he has rarely seen an alpha male act aggressively toward the
pack's other members. They are his family -- his mate, offspring (both
biological and adopted) and maybe a sibling.

This does not mean that alpha males are not tough when they need to be. One
famous wolf in Yellowstone whose radio collar number, 21, became his name, was
considered a ''super wolf'' by the people who closely observed the arc of his
life. He was fierce in defense of family and apparently never lost a fight with
a rival pack. Yet within his own pack, one of his favorite things was to wrestle
with little pups.

''And what he really loved to do was to pretend to lose. He just got a huge kick
out of it,'' Mr. McIntyre said.

One year, a pup was a bit sickly. The other pups seemed to be afraid of him and
wouldn't play with him. Once, after delivering food for the small pups, 21 stood
looking around for something. Soon he started wagging his tail. He'd been
looking for the sickly little pup, and he just went over to hang out with him
for a while.

Of all Mr. McIntyre's stories about the super wolf, that's his favorite.
Strength impresses us. But kindness is what we remember best.

If you watch wolves, it's hard to escape the conclusion that perhaps no two
species are more alike behaviorally than wolves and humans. Living as we do in
families, we can easily recognize the social structures and status quests in
wolf packs. No wonder Native Americans recognized in wolves a sibling spirit.

The similarities between male wolves and male humans can be quite striking.
Males of very few other species help procure food year-round for the entire
family, assist in raising their young to full maturity and defend their packs
year-round against others of their species who threaten their safety. Male
wolves appear to stick more with that program than their human counterparts do.

Biologists used to consider the alpha male the undisputed boss. But now they
recognize two hierarchies at work in wolf packs -- one for the males, the other
for the females.

Doug Smith, the biologist who is the project leader for the Yellowstone Gray
Wolf Restoration Project, said the females ''do most of the decision making''
for the pack, including where to travel, when to rest and when to hunt. The
matriarch's personality can set the tone for the whole pack, Dr. Smith said.

Or, as Mr. McIntyre put it: ''It's the alpha female who really runs the show.''

Clearly, our alpha male stereotype could use a corrective makeover. Men can
learn a thing or two from real wolves: less snarl, more quiet confidence,
leading by example, faithful devotion in the care and defense of families,
respect for females and a sharing of responsibilities. That's really what
wolfing up should mean.â[#x2dc]

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/tapping-your-inner-wolf.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NIV BAVARSKY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (79%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); MAMMALS
(58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Romanian President Calls for Premier to Resign Amid Graft Inquiry

BYLINE: By KIT GILLET

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 475 words


BUCHAREST, Romania -- Romania's president called for the resignation of the
country's prime minister, Victor Ponta, after the country's anticorruption
agency opened criminal investigations into whether he was involved in forgery,
money-laundering and other crimes when he was still a practicing lawyer.

''In my view, a prime minister facing criminal charges is an impossible
situation for Romania,'' the president, Klaus Iohannis, said at a news
conference on Friday. ''On the other hand, the worst thing that can happen to
Romania is a political crisis. Considering all these, I ask for Prime Minister
Victor Ponta's resignation.''

But Mr. Ponta, who has been prime minister since 2012, posted a message on
Facebook, saying he would not step down. ''I respect President Iohannis' public
stand,'' the message said, ''but I was appointed by the Romanian Parliament and
only the Parliament can dismiss me.''

Mr. Ponta was called into the offices of the National Anticorruption Directorate
on Friday to answer questions related to events that took place before he became
a government minister.

He has been named as a suspect in 17 counts of forgery, as well as
money-laundering, conflict of interest and tax evasion. Prosecutors say that Mr.
Ponta falsified documents to cover payments of about 40,000 euros, or $45,000,
for work that was never done.

According to investigators, Mr. Ponta colluded with Dan Sova, a Romanian
politician and former transport minister, who was also a lawyer at the time. Mr.
Sova is under investigation for complicity in the abuse of office.

On June 2, Parliament voted 72 to 66 to deny a request by the anticorruption
office for Mr. Sova's detention.

''Now it is much clearer why the party and Ponta invested so much effort in
protecting Mr. Sova,'' said Adrian Moraru, deputy director of the Institute for
Public Policy in Bucharest. ''They knew the case could lead much higher.''

Romania has been on a drive to clean up its politics in recent years. In 2014,
1,138 people were convicted of corruption, including politicians, judges and
prosecutors.

Laura Stefan, an anticorruption expert and a former director in the Romanian
Ministry of Justice, said she did not think Mr. Ponta, a former presidential
candidate, would have been called in if the anticorruption office was not
planning to indict him.

Nevertheless, she said, ''I don't think this will necessarily end Ponta's
political career as it would in other European countries. In Romania, you don't
die politically from something like this. Even being convicted is not a
political death. We have lots of convicted politicians.''

Mr. Ponta was already under attack politically, with the opposition National
Liberal Party announcing that it planned to file a no-confidence vote against
the prime minister on Friday, the day he was named as a criminal suspect.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/romanian-president-calls-for-prem
ier-to-resign-amid-graft-inquiry.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); COUNTERFEITING
(90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%);
POLITICS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%);
INDICTMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); FRAUD &
FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); LAWYERS (74%); JUDGES (72%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (94%)

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Living Green in Retirement, for Efficiency and Love of Nature

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE GUSTKE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RETIRING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1357 words


A DIE-HARD community gardener and composter, David Conrad, 77, wanted to age in
a retirement community that complemented his love of all things green. So seven
years ago, he and his wife, Sally, moved to earth-friendly Wake Robin in
Shelburne, Vt.

Now Mr. Conrad spends his days managing the Wake Robin recycling campaign, along
with working in the community garden and walking the community's four miles of
wooded trails. Other residents make maple syrup or tend beehives that produce
honey, which is bottled and sold.

''I wanted to live in a place that's healthy,'' says Mr. Conrad, who is a
retired college professor. ''So sustainability is very important. We like to
think that we're leading the way.''

Green do-gooders like Mr. Conrad are indeed forging a new path for retirees.
Though eco-conscious retirement communities are still rare in the United States
(exact figures are scant), they are expected to grow in number as baby boomers
age and seek healthier, greener alternatives.

''Moving forward, in the next 20 years, these green communities will become the
standard,'' said Andrew Carle, director of the senior housing administration
program at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.

Lots of green communities are in the development stage, said Jamie Hopkins,
associate professor of taxation at the American College of Financial Services.
But for now, there's more need than supply, especially as baby boomers age. Some
places even have five-year waiting lists, he said.

These lush facilities offer lots of unseen benefits. Carbon footprints are
reduced with energy- and water-saving initiatives, including geothermal heating
and low-flow toilets. And older people can enjoy environmentally friendly
buildings that typically offer airy spaces with more natural light and indoor
furnishings that use far less toxic materials. These communities can also reap
subsidies and incentives that might provide more motivation to make the
upgrades, experts say.

The biggest challenge, though, is wading through the gray policy areas of green
standards.

So Mr. Hopkins recommends making sure there's enough evidence to back up actual
claims. ''Eco-friendly doesn't mean a lot,'' he said. ''And some places just use
buzz words.'' For example, some so-called eco-friendly communities may have golf
courses, which use lots of water.

Two types of official green standards can serve as guideposts, though.

The first, said Mr. Hopkins, is Energy Star ratings on appliances, which is a
government label that designates energy efficiency.

Second is a community's LEED certification, Mr. Hopkins said. It's a widely
recognized program put together by the U.S. Green Building Council to create
healthier, more energy-efficient buildings. There are four levels: certified,
silver, gold and platinum, the highest rating. The higher the level, the greener
the building. Most green retirement communities are silver certified, said Mr.
Hopkins.

However, any LEED certification is worth having. Getting this label requires
lots of adjustments, and energy efficiency is only one of them. Others include
choosing drought-resistant plants, using recycled materials and installing large
windows that let in more natural light.

LEED certification is a holistic view that includes lifestyle, said Scot Horst,
chief product officer at the Green Building Council in Washington. ''And it all
impacts how people feel in the space. There's also a greater connection to the
outdoors.'' For example, he says, air quality is important because mold might
affect people with respiratory problems.

Over 150 countries, including China, also have LEED-certified buildings. ''We're
seeing countries like Holland and Germany doing a better job with
certification,'' added Mr. Hopkins. ''So more people are moving overseas.''

For now, green retirement communities are largely upscale and in the Northeast
and Northwest.

Take Atria Woodbriar Place, a gold LEED-certified senior campus in Falmouth,
Mass., on Cape Cod. Appliances are Energy Star rated and solar panels generate
some of the community's electricity. Recycled materials were also used in its
construction.

Roberta Hendricks, an 81-year-old resident, says she likes Atria Woodbriar
because it has resource efficiency that's more difficult to create in an
existing home, such as low-flow toilets and water-saving devices. ''What better
life could you have?'' she asked. ''Energy is saved in every way.'' She added
that there wasn't a similar community in the area. ''Also my kids were pleased
about the community being green,'' she said.

In the Northwest, Timber Ridge, at the foot of Cougar Mountain in Issaquah,
Wash., has silver LEED certification. Besides being energy-efficient, Timber
Ridge has landscaping with lots of plants that need little water.

Jean Bolliger, an 85-year-old retired community college administrator, also
likes Timber Ridge's large windows, good air quality and cleaner energy. Ms.
Bolliger, an avid recycler, says that her peers are very slow to become aware of
green communities. ''But it's important to ask about them,'' she said.

Not all green communities are stamped with the LEED label, though.

Wake Robin, where Mr. Conrad lives, predates LEED certification -- as do many
retirement communities. But Wake Robin has added geothermal wells and other
energy-efficient upgrades over the years.

''Currently, 20 percent of Wake Robin's electricity comes from a solar farm,''
said Nancy Chiquoine, director of resident services at Wake Robin. Meat and
produce are bought from local farms, she adds. Nontoxic chemicals are used in
household cleaning, and the grounds are aflutter with Ladybugs, which are
preferred to pesticides.

Some Wake Robin residents with green agendas also pitch in. Mary Hoffman, 88, is
chairwoman of the greens committee. She works with the staff to find more ways
to conserve energy and encourage recycling. The committee also teaches residents
how to recycle and save energy.

''For some people, being green is a new concept,'' said Ms. Hoffman, a lifelong
environmentalist and hiker. ''But we're in a beautiful spot, and I want to
protect it.''

In Portland, Ore., Rose Villa has turned itself into a sustainable community. It
has a garden, where residents grow raspberries and grapes. The dining room gets
some of its organic produce from local farms, along with having a large kitchen
garden that grows herbs and squash. There's also a vigorous composting and
recycling program.

But the community is not LEED-certified because making the changes that the
certification requires can cost tens of thousands of dollars, said Vassar Byrd,
chief of Rose Villa. Still, she says, there are many LEED-like features, such as
low-emission materials and so-called naturescaping that forgoes ornamental
plants that require lots of water. Beehives and a vineyard where residents can
grow grapes to make wine are also planned.

''There are so many ways to focus on green,'' she said. ''You have to decide
what's important to you.''

Faith-based communities are also adding eco-friendly amenities. Kirkland Village
in Bethlehem, Pa., one of dozens of Presbyterian Senior Living communities on
the East Coast, is undergoing an expansion that includes geothermal wells,
energy-efficient appliances and even sustainable woods like bamboo.

''We're slow to catch up,'' said Rodney Fenstermacher, director of construction
for Presbyterian Senior Living. ''It takes a while to build momentum.'' Still,
he adds, more educated consumers are asking for green additions and using them
as comparisons.

To ferret out the green from the gray, Mr. Fenstermacher recommends asking lots
of questions, such as about a community's sustainability plans. ''You can also
develop your own green criteria,'' he added. ''But ask them to prove it.''

For Mr. Conrad, who hikes, swims and snowshoes, being green is a necessity. ''I
want to leave the world a little better,'' he said.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/demand-and-expectations-grow-for-gree
n-retirement-communities.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Hoffman, left above, and David Conrad in Ms. Hoffman's
garden at Wake Robin, a retirement community in Shelburne, Vt. Wake Robin, below
left, is a leader in environmentally friendly and sustainable living. The
community has added geothermal wells and other energy-efficient upgrades over
the years. Some of its residents tap sugar maples for syrup and tend to
beehives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB HANNAH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM
(89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES
(89%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%);
ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (73%); GOLF (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (65%); BANKING &
FINANCE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%)

STATE: EARTH (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fan in Boston Badly Hurt by Bat

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 138 words


BOSTON --  A woman was taken to the hospital after a broken bat hit her in the
head Friday night at Fenway Park, and the police said she had sustained injuries
that threatened her life.

The fan was carried out of the ballpark on a stretcher after the top of the
second inning during a game between the Oakland Athletics and the Boston Red
Sox. She was hit when Oakland's Brett Lawrie broke his bat on a groundout to
second base for the second out of the inning.

After the third out, the game was delayed while the fan was tended to in the
stands between home plate and the third-base dugout.

Though dozens of baseball fans are struck by foul balls each season, there has
been only one fatality, according to baseball researchers -- a 14-year-old boy
killed by a line-drive foul off the bat of Manny Mota at Dodger Stadium in 1970.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/baseball/life-in-jeopardy-as-broken-bat
-hits-boston-fan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); SPORTS FANS (87%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 34 words


He can't be rushed when he's making champions like American Pharoah.

KAITLIN CHRISTOPHERSON,

of WinStar Farm, on Pioneerof the Nile, the sire of this year's Kentucky Derby
and Preakness Stakes winner. [B9]




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COMPANY: GVC NETWORKS LLC (57%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Video of Prison Riot Publicizes a Crisis as National Elections Near in Mexico

BYLINE: By PAULINA VILLEGAS and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 965 words


MEXICO CITY --  With little interference from guards, the inmates rampage.

Video images capture dozens of prisoners racing over fences, pummeling one
another, breaking windows and furniture and wheeling bodies stacked on a cart.

Guards are there, but do little more than watch as inmates force open gates and
stroll through corridors en masse. Later, the guards can be seen dragging the
wounded, and several apparently dead prisoners, into a room.

After the riot, at a prison in San Luis Potosí State in central Mexico two years
ago, the authorities said 13 people had been killed and 65 wounded.

Now the video footage, recorded by security cameras at the time of the riot, is
providing a vivid illustration of what actually happened inside the prison,
raising tough questions about the response to such outbreaks in the country's
chronically overcrowded and violent prisons.

Jailbreaks, massacres and deadly rioting, sometimes in collusion with corrupt
guards, are common in Mexico.

In 2012, at least 44 inmates were killed in a riot among members of rival drug
gangs at a prison in northeastern Mexico in what is believed to be the highest
death toll in recent years. An investigation showed that guards allowed
prisoners belonging to one gang, the Zetas, to surge into a cell block dominated
by their rivals, the Gulf Cartel.

At the San Luis Potosí prison, known as La Pila, a similar dynamic was believed
to be behind the riot, with one gang complaining that members of another were
extorting and harassing them. The authorities said the combatants were members
of the Zetas and the Gulf Cartel, whose battle for dominance has sown widespread
violence in several pockets of the country.

The two hours of footage shows inmates, some of them masked, passing through a
security checkpoint unchallenged by guards.

The inmates fought with blades fashioned from glass and sticks. Bright flashes
resembling gunshots can be seen, though the authorities later said no such
weapons were used in the attack.

Ivan Juárez Ojeda, a spokesman for the state secretary of public security, said
in an interview that the authorities have fully acknowledged and regretted the
episode and have taken steps to improve safety and control crime at the prison.

In the aftermath of the riot, he said, three guards and nine prisoners were
prosecuted on charges related to the violence. The director of the prison was
fired.

The authorities did not challenge the authenticity of the footage, which was
provided by an opponent of the government.

Midterm elections in Mexico are on Sunday, and the governing Institutional
Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, seeking to hold onto the governor's
office in five of nine states in play, including San Luis Potosí.

It is also striving to hold onto or expand a narrow majority in the lower house
of the national Congress, as well as defending a slew of municipal posts.

In a statement, Concepción Tovar Monreal, head of state security in San Luis
Potosí, said the government ''truly regrets the publication of these videos''
and suggested that their leak was intended to influence the election.

''They revive a moment of crisis suffered by the people of San Luis Potosí
State, with electoral purposes, with no consideration for the pain of the
victim's families,'' she said.

Still, the problems shown in the footage are hardly unique to San Luis Potosí.

They can be found in many state and federal prisons in Mexico, and across Latin
America, as the authorities struggle to weaken powerful gangs and contain them
in cramped prisons built before the surge in drug violence of recent years.

In Mexico, there are 242,754 inmates in prisons that were built to hold a
maximum of 195,278, according to government statistics.

''Mexican prisons are places that tend to produce more criminality, not only
because of the overcrowding present in many of them, and corruption, but also
because inmates of varying degrees of dangerousness are placed together,'' said
Leslie Solis, a researcher at Mexico Evalúa, a public policy research group that
has been studying the issue.

The group said that prison guards were often abusive to prisoners or corrupted
by them. The nation's spiraling prison population has led to a system of
warehousing more than one of rehabilitation.

''The Mexican penitentiary system is in crisis,'' the group said in a 2013
report, which was followed by equally damning assessments in subsequent years.
''And yet the issue is not being addressed, much less solved.''

The country's National Commission on Human Rights, which has said 65 percent of
prisons are controlled by organized crime, has ranked San Luis Potosí prisons
near the bottom in safety, overcrowding and prevention of violence.

Many prisons simply turn into centers for crime, with drug deals, extortion
rackets and other offenses coordinated behind bars and taking place both inside
and outside the walls.

''Some prisons have turned into valuable assets for these criminal groups,''
said Eduardo Guerrero, a security analyst who specializes in organized crime.
''These facilities can serve as a source for revenue through constant extortion
and a lucrative drug-dealing business inside prison.''

The video footage suggests that the authorities had the foresight to install
cameras to document irregularities. But prevention is another matter.

''Prisons are overpopulated, unhygienic, and fail to provide basic security for
most inmates,'' Human Rights Watch said in a report on Mexico last year.

Mexico has built at least two new, privately run prisons in recent years and has
arranged training of some guards by the United States. But analysts said riots
with multiple injuries or deaths still occur regularly, though they are not
always reported to the news media.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/americas/video-of-mexican-prison-riot-hi
ghlights-a-crisis-as-elections-near.html

GRAPHIC: MAP: The riot at the La Pila prison left 13 dead and 65 injured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (93%); PRISONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); CARTELS
(88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); GANGS (78%);
SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(71%); GOVERNORS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICS
(63%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%)

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Turnoffs: Mares Who Rush

BYLINE: By MELISSA HOPPERT

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words


VERSAILLES, Ky. --  One by one, the stallions marched into the brick-and-stone
breeding shed for a date that, if successful, would cost the mare's owners
anywhere from $5,000 to $100,000. Most of the stallions -- including Bellamy
Road, whose nickname around the barn is Bam Bam -- knew exactly why they were
there and consummated the relationship within minutes.

But one stallion at the bucolic WinStar Farm was having none of that. He has to
be in the mood and tends to be picky, especially when it comes to the opposite
sex. The problem is that this stallion is no ordinary horse; Pioneerof the Nile
is the sire of this year's Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner.

''He can't be rushed when he's making champions like American Pharoah,'' said
Kaitlin Christopherson, the marketing coordinator at WinStar, which occupies
2,400 acres of Kentucky's Bluegrass region. ''He has to take his time.''

Because of his quirks, Pioneerof the Nile is the last stallion taken into the
breeding shed, often directly from his three-acre paddock, and he and his date
are able to have privacy, except for four handlers wearing gloves, helmets and
flak jackets who coax him along with soothing sounds and phrases like ''Come on,
buddy.''

The mares take a while to get ready. They are bathed, bandages are placed on
their tails to keep them out of the way, a leather shield is placed over their
necks to protect them from scrapes and biting, and bootees that resemble boxing
gloves are placed on their hind hooves in case they kick. A teaser horse named
Spots gets things started by warming them up. The stallion merely needs to show
up and become aroused.

During a recent mating session, Pioneerof the Nile was a perfect gentleman while
nuzzling and licking his date. He required nearly 20 minutes of foreplay, which
included a whiff of pheromones from a thawed cup of mare urine, and four mounts
to finish the job.

Afterward, Pioneerof the Nile was in no rush to leave.

''He's a little bit of a prima donna,'' said Larry McGinnis, WinStar's stallion
manager, who is also known as the farm's resident horse psychologist. ''Part of
this job is learning how to get along with these guys. They develop strong
personalities over years of breeding and being a good racehorse, but one thing
in common that I see with all these guys is that most of them are pretty
smart.''

WinStar has 20 stallions, a who's who of the racing world that includes three
horses who were raced by American Pharoah's owner, Ahmed Zayat. Before the
Derby, the Zayat family came to see its horses and dined in the opulent lobby of
the stallion barn, which was built in 2013 and houses photographs and trophies
of the stallions inside, notably Super Saver, the homebred winner of the 2010
Derby. The farm's star logo is omnipresent.

''We just have a real good relationship with Mr. Zayat, so when he gets stallion
prospects, we get a seat at the table,'' said Elliott Walden, who since 2010 has
been the president and chief executive of WinStar, which owns 25 percent of
Pioneerof the Nile. ''Typically once you get one and you do a good job, then it
creates more business, and that's sort of what's happened.''

Stud fees, which are due when a foal stands and nurses, are determined ahead of
each breeding season, which runs from mid-February to June. Pioneerof the Nile,
who has sired Derby, Preakness and Belmont contenders, currently commands
$60,000 per foal. Because of American Pharoah's Derby and Preakness victories,
his fee is expected to jump next season to about $100,000, which would tie him
with Distorted Humor as the priciest sire on the farm.

Walden said he was unsure how much the fee would jump if American Pharoah were
to win the Belmont Stakes on Saturday and become the first Triple Crown winner
since 1978.

''That's certainly something to think about,'' he said while watching the farm's
2-year-olds train. ''It's neat to think about the possibility of having the only
living sire of a Triple Crown winner. So we're definitely tied in and interested
to see what happens.''

That did not stop WinStar from planning to enter in the Belmont the 10th-place
Derby finisher Carpe Diem, who is co-owned with Stonestreet Stables. (He was
later withdrawn from consideration.) Walden, who trained Victory Gallop and
denied Bob Baffert and Real Quiet a Triple Crown sweep in 1998, said he had been
rooting for Carpe Diem in the Derby. But when the horses turned for home and he
was not a factor, Walden jumped on the American Pharoah bandwagon.

''It happens with some regularity that we're running against ourselves,'' Walden
said. ''The way that Kenny Troutt, who owns WinStar, looks at it is, he's not
comfortable until he can have 12 entries out of 12 entries.''

Pioneerof the Nile likes to do things his way, which includes standing facing
the breeding shed while his counterparts face forward for prospective breeders.
Because he does not like to be hot, he is the only horse in the barn who has a
fan in his stall, a corner suite with sweeping views of the farm. He prefers
peppermints to carrots, which are American Pharoah's snack of choice. Like
American Pharoah, Pioneerof the Nile has a gentle nature.

''He's a really good horse to be around,'' said McGinnis, who lives on the farm
near the stallion barn. ''Not too many stallions you can go up and pet them
without them trying to bite you. And he just lets you rub all over his face and
do whatever you want.''

Other similarities between father and son are on display when American Pharoah
steps on the racetrack. Baffert trained both horses, and although Pioneerof the
Nile, who finished second in the 2009 Derby, had a longer body, they moved the
same way.

''Pioneerof the Nile had a big, long stride,'' Baffert said. ''And he had that
same springing motion as American Pharoah, whose acceleration is pretty
remarkable. He can get to a spot really quick.''

Baffert said he thought American Pharoah's success could be traced to the top of
his pedigree, which includes Pioneerof the Nile's sire, Empire Maker, who won
the Belmont in 2003, and his dam, Star of Goshen. (American Pharoah will go to
Coolmore's Ashford Stud when his racing career ends.)

''Every time I work him, I go back and look at the pedigree, and I go, What is
going on here?'' Baffert said jokingly. ''I think it comes from Pioneerof the
Nile, and it comes from his mother, Star of Goshen. She was a freaky filly,
really, really fast.''

As American Pharoah's Triple Crown quest draws to a close, so does Pioneerof the
Nile's breeding season. He breeds up to three times a day, at 8:30 a.m., 2:30
p.m. and 6:30 p.m. Like the other stallions, he spends the night in his own lush
paddock, under the supervision of security guards. There are also security
cameras throughout the grounds. In the morning, he eats breakfast and is
groomed, and then the breeding routine begins anew.

On Saturday, when American Pharoah tries to secure a place in the history books,
Pioneerof the Nile and his handlers will be hard at work trying to produce
future champions. The handlers do not allow themselves to think about the
possibility of a Triple Crown sweep, but they know it would change things.

''I don't usually get nervous about values of horses, but I'd be a little
nervous with him,'' McGinnis said of caring for the sire of a Triple Crown
winner. ''But at the end of the day, he's a horse, and that's the way you have
to treat him.''

BELMONT STAKES 6:50 p.m. Saturday TV: NBC




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/turn-ons-peppermints-cool-breezes-turn-
offs-mares-who-move-too-fast.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LARRY MCGINNIS, stallion manager at WinStar Farm, about
Pioneerof the Nile, below (D1)
A stablehand led a thoroughbred to pasture after breeding at WinStar Farm in
Versailles, Ky., which has 20 stallions -- a who's who of the racing world.
 Super Saver, the 2010 Kentucky Derby winner, above, is among the stallions at
WinStar. Left, the farm's assistant stallion manager, Andres Caballero, outside
the breeding shed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (90%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (74%); BOXING (73%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (65%)

COMPANY: GVC NETWORKS LLC (57%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

OPEC Keeps Quotas Intact, Focusing on Market Share

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1522 words


VIENNA -- The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to keep
the oil pumping, with no change in its production quotas, at the group's meeting
here on Friday.

Even though oil prices are about 40 percent lower than a year ago, OPEC decided
to keep its output target at 30 million barrels a day in an effort to maintain
market share and respond to robust production in the United States.

The Qatari minister of energy and industry, Mohammed bin Saleh al-Sada, who
presided over the meeting, told reporters after the gathering that the decision
had been unanimous and that the 12-country group was confident that ''both
demand and supply were of a healthy nature.''

Both Mr. Sada and OPEC's secretary general, Abdalla el-Badri, seemed to indicate
that there was little the group could do to control prices. The two officials
insisted that the group's members were adhering to the daily maximum output of
30 million barrels a day, but because individual countries have lacked quotas
since 2012, the target is almost impossible to enforce.

Moreover, Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf countries say they are prepared to
produce whatever their customers want. ''This Saudi oil market strategy puts a
huge question mark over the entire relevancy of OPEC,'' Seth Kleinman, an
analyst at Citigroup, said in an interview.

The meeting was the first since Saudi Arabia urged the OPEC cartel late last
year to give up a decades-long policy of trying to manage prices through
adjusting supplies of oil. For the Saudis, there are signs that the strategy of
focusing on market share, regardless of the impact on prices, may be working.

While still low compared with recent years, prices have risen nearly $20 a
barrel from their January low of $45 a barrel. On Friday, immediately after the
OPEC decision to keep its production target, the price of Brent crude, the
international benchmark, rose slightly to $62.50 a barrel, then fell slightly in
afternoon trading.

The Saudis have also been able to increase production by 700,000 barrels a day
in recent months, and their Persian Gulf allies, Kuwait and the United Arab
Emirates, have also increased output. In addition, low prices have prompted oil
companies to postpone tens of billions of dollars worth of projects, production
growth in the United States is flattening, and demand for oil, perhaps
stimulated by lower prices, is strong, the Saudis say.

''Don't look at prices,'' Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said in a brief
conversation with reporters on Thursday. ''Look at the balance,'' he said of the
market. ''Look at what is happening to supplies. They are declining.''

OPEC delegates and analysts say that the Saudis also see little point in trying
to intervene in a market that is trying to find a balance after the influx of
large quantities of oil extracted from shale rock in the United States. At least
for now, OPEC's main relevance is as a group of countries that produce about 30
percent of the world's oil and that control an even greater portion of reserves,
rather than as an arbiter of prices, oil executives say.

Analysts say the shale boom is likely to be one of a series of market-changing
events in the history of the oil industry, much like the surge in new supplies
from Alaska and the North Sea in Europe in the 1980s or the discovery of oil in
East Texas in the 1930s.

''The oil industry and market are trying to find a new equilibrium after the
disruption caused by the arrival of new supplies from shale oil in the United
States,'' said Bhushan Bahree, an oil analyst at the market research firm IHS
who is observing the OPEC meeting.

This could lead to a prolonged period of prices below $100 a barrel, which is
good news for consumers and bad news for OPEC countries, particularly Venezuela.
''$70 is the new $100,'' said Roger Diwan, another IHS analyst -- although
prices are struggling to reach even $70 a barrel.

Both Mr. Sada of Qatar and Mr. Badri of OPEC waived off complaints from Iran and
other countries that prices in the $60-a-barrel range were inadequate.

''We have rich and poor countries, no doubt about it,'' Mr. Badri said. ''For
the last four or five years we have been enjoying a very good income; but the
reality is that we cannot have this $100 anymore.''

This emerging order is unfamiliar and could produce volatile prices. And it will
put pressure on oil-producing countries, perhaps even those in OPEC, to offer
better terms.Ryan Lance, chairman and chief executive of the American oil major
ConocoPhillips, noted that Britain had already slashed taxes in an effort to
preserve the viability of production in the North Sea, a move expected to be
followed elsewhere.

Certainly, American shale production is likely to have a cooling effect on
prices for some time. While lower prices have led to a drop in shale oil
drilling in the United States, the American industry is already adjusting and is
poised to bounce back, industry executives said.

''If prices stabilize and start to recover a bit, you will see the rigs come
back to work,'' Mr. Lance said in an interview at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna,
where he spoke at a seminar hosted by OPEC.

Referring to shale oil activities, Mr. Lance told the audience of senior OPEC
and industry officials, including Mr. Naimi, ''Unconventional production is here
to stay.''

Mr. Lance, whose company has a large position in shale, said the American
industry was already cutting costs and restoring profit margins to what they had
been when prices were at $100 per barrel. A well that cost $10 million two years
ago costs $7 million today, he said.

Those changed economics mean that the American industry can now produce the same
amount of oil with a much smaller investment, Mr. Diwan said. This could lead
American production growth, which has flattened recently, to resume its climb as
early as the end of this year, he said.

American shale oil is far from being the only factor that could curb prices. If
an agreement is reached with Iran on its nuclear program, international
sanctions on that country could come to an end, and Tehran could soon be
producing and exporting a great deal more oil.

After an initial verification period, Iran could probably put 500,000 to 700,000
barrels of oil a day onto the market ''in fairly short order,'' said David Fyfe,
head of research at the Gunvor Group, a commodities trading company based in
Geneva. ''As we all know, half a million barrels per day is all it takes to turn
the market. So it will be interesting to see whether Saudi Arabia eventually
adjusts its output in light of new supplies.''

Iranian delegates say that once sanctions end, they expect to more than double
exports to about 2.3 million barrels a day in a matter of months.

The Saudis are also warily watching increased production from Iraq, which has
passed Iran to become the second-largest producer in OPEC.

As they weigh these uncertainties abroad, Mr. Naimi and his colleagues also face
major unknowns at home. King Salman, who succeeded his brother King Abdullah in
January, has proved far more dynamic in the role than analysts had expected, and
he has been paying close attention to the oil industry. The king placed his
29-year-old son, Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who also serves as
defense minister, in charge of the energy industry, and has signaled that a
shake-up in the industry is likely.

The details are unclear, but the intention appears to be to empower younger
officials and modernize.

Mr. Naimi, who turns 80 this year, has already lost the chairmanship of Saudi
Aramco, the national oil company, and it is unclear how long he will remain oil
minister or who might succeed him. Another of the king's sons, Prince Abdel Aziz
bin Salman, a long-serving oil official, has become deputy minister and is seen
as increasingly influential.

Mr. Naimi has simultaneously run the country's oil business and largely set
production policy, roles that could be shared in the future by two or more
officials. But those in charge are unlikely to abandon Saudi Arabia's recent
policy of supplying its clients with the oil they need regardless of OPEC
quotas, analysts say, and of producing enough of the fuel to feed Saudi Arabia's
growing network of refineries and petrochemical plants.

Those goals imply a high level of production, and meeting them means that Saudi
Arabia and its Persian Gulf allies now have the smallest amount of spare
capacity, or extra oil that they could produce in emergencies, in about a
decade. Having such a thin buffer leaves the market vulnerable to price spikes
in the case of major production outages, although having full inventories helps
offset that risk.

The industry has entered a new and untested world, although it is one that oil
executives say they are prepared to manage.

''If you can't live with uncertainty in this business, you need to go out and
find another profession,'' Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon Mobil's chairman and chief
executive, told the OPEC seminar on Wednesday.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/international/opec-oil-prices.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali al-Naimi, Saudi oil minister, with journalists in Vienna.
''Don't look at prices,'' he counseled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEINZ-PETER
BADER/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); MARKET SHARE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%);
CARTELS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%);
OUTPUT & DEMAND (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY
DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL
PRICES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY
(76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT
BUILDINGS (52%)

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (89%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%)

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); AUSTRIA
(89%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE
(59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ballet, Where the Past Is Always Present

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words


George Balanchine once said: ''Put 16 women on the stage, and it's everybody --
it's the world. Put 16 men on, and it's always nobody.'' His 1972 Stravinsky
''Symphony in Three Movements'' begins with 16 women, and his 1934 Tchaikovsky
''Serenade'' with 17 women. When we watch those ballets, we can still believe
him. (''Symphony in Three'' was danced early in the New York City Ballet season
that ends this weekend. It and ''Serenade'' return to repertory next May.)

But Justin Peck's ''Rodeo: Four Dance Episodes'' -- new this February, back in
repertory this May and set to return in October -- begins with 15 men. And, with
all due respect, Mr. B., it's just not nobody -- it's really not. What's more,
as if to counterbalance ''Serenade,'' these men are all we see for the ballet's
first episode. They come and go; as in the start of ''Serenade,'' it's as if we
were watching a kaleidoscope.

Just as Balanchine plays all kinds of number games with his women (we see four
quartets, three rows of five, and more), so does Mr. Peck with his men. And, as
in ''Serenade,'' there are fleeting incidents in which we get to know individual
dancers.

''Serenade'' is famous as the first ballet Balanchine made in America; it's
often hailed as the first in which Balanchine evoked the huge sweep of American
space. Now ''Rodeo,'' created less than three years into Mr. Peck's career as a
choreographer, is performed to a score by that essentially American composer,
Aaron Copland, whose music often conjures American space.

The second movement of Mr. Peck's ballet is a male quintet -- just as the third
movement of ''Serenade'' starts with a female quintet. And as the men, sometimes
clustering together, take arabesques of different heights, it's easy to feel a
hint of the famous fantail arabesque of Balanchine's ''Apollo.'' (Mr. Peck
wouldn't be the first to attempt this: an all-male version of the triple fantail
occurred in the central movement of Richard Alston's 1981 ''Apollo Distraught,''
a marvelous work that was admired in New York in 1982.)

The quintet, which is where Mr. Peck best catches the spaciousness of Copland's
music, also contains images of mutual supportiveness (men partnering and lifting
men). This kind of thing brought out the homophobe in Balanchine, who showed
distaste for comparable features in the ballets of Jerome Robbins. This second
''Rodeo'' dance episode, with the men's separate voices working together like a
quintet in music, goes beyond anything similar in Robbins, and it has virtually
no precedent in Mr. Peck's own work.

I don't mean that ''Rodeo'' matches ''Apollo'' or ''Serenade,'' or that it
implies any criticism of Balanchine's idiom by Mr. Peck. But it does suggest
that in Mr. Peck, as in Alexei Ratmansky, the world now has two choreographers
who aren't infantilized by the ethical force of Balanchine's decrees.

Lincoln Kirstein, who, with Balanchine, was City Ballet's co-founder, loved to
refer to T. S. Eliot's essay ''Tradition and the Individual Talent,'' with its
lines: ''No poet, no artist of any art, has his complete meaning alone. His
significance, his appreciation is the appreciation of his relation to the dead
poets and artists.'' And then: ''The necessity that he shall conform, that he
shall cohere, is not one-sided; what happens when a new work of art is created
is something that happens simultaneously to all the works of art which preceded
it.''

This applies to City Ballet's Balanchine repertory as we watch ''Rodeo''; you
can feel it in the warmth of the audience's applause. Balanchine is not
diminished; it was exciting last week to see Mr. Peck and Troy Schumacher,
another of the company's young choreographers, in Balanchine's two-act ''A
Midsummer Night's Dream'' (a ballet in which he absorbed, revised and reacted
against Shakespeare).

Mr. Peck, tall and authoritatively self-effacing, is admirable as Titania's
anonymous cavalier. Mr. Schumacher -- musical, twinkling and summoning up the
elements with wordless calls -- is the best of the company's current Pucks. New
Peck and Schumacher ballets have their premieres on Sept. 30. Along with the
revival of ''Rodeo,'' the 2015-16 season will bring three other Peck ballets and
another premiere.

Last month, however, the most striking comparison was between Mr. Peck's
''Rodeo,'' at City Ballet, and Agnes de Mille's 1942 original ballet of
Copland's complete score, as danced by American Ballet Theater at the
Metropolitan Opera House. Remarkably, the ballets were danced the same week (May
11 through 16). It's good to see the de Mille again, and yet Mr. Peck makes far
more of its music. Balletgoers spend most of their time admiring superior works
of past centuries; that was a week in which you could feel proud to be sharing
the same moment as a new creation.

Yet there are still too many times -- despite City Ballet's overall improvement
in recent years -- when its Balanchine repertory is diminished by the company's
artistic management. It was marvelous to have Balanchine's Ravel pas de deux
''Sonatine'' (1975) briefly back in repertory, but it was bizarre to hear that
its original dancers Violette Verdy and Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux had played no part
in its revival. They had visited New York in February to record an extended
coaching session (with City Ballet's Ashley Laracey and Chase Finlay) for the
Balanchine Foundation, and Ms. Verdy was back in town, receiving an honor, the
week of its revival.

Tiler Peck (not related to Mr. Peck), whose subtle musicality is always at its
finest in roles created for Ms. Verdy, nonetheless did well; when she makes
something of her own from a part, it usually seems as if Balanchine would have
encouraged her. The second-cast Ashley Bouder, however, just used the role for
one of her coarsely roguish acts.

''La Valse,'' whose heroine is forever associated with its creator, Tanaquil Le
Clercq, was again performed in May. Nobody wants its current interpreters,
Sterling Hyltin and Sara Mearns (glorious in other roles), to deliver clone
performances, but neither they nor those mounting the ballet show any interest
in Le Clercq's nuances.

A complete silent film of the original cast is in the Dance Division of the New
York Public Library (with multiple takes from successive performances). No more
riveting record of Le Clercq exists. At the dramatically crucial moment of
plunging one hand and arm into Death's black glove, then the other into the
other, she first looks fixedly into the glove, then throws back her head, as if
in glory. You see nothing like that onstage at City Ballet today. Who on its
staff even consults the Balanchine Foundation's library of master class coaching
sessions? Why this indifference to the historical record?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/dance/a-lesson-for-new-york-city-ballet-t
he-past-is-always-present.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taylor Stanley, center, in New York City Ballet's premiere of
Justin Peck's ''Rodeo.'' (C1)
 Joaquín De Luz and Tiler Peck of New York City Ballet in Balanchine's
''Sonatine'' (1975) at the David H. Koch Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA
MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); MUSIC (89%); DANCE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%);
DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLASSICAL
MUSIC (77%); DANCERS (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Traversing Time and Space, Without a Destination

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 462 words


Just as pi stretches on indefinitely, so might Yoshiko Chuma's ''Ï[#x20ac]=3.14
... Nothing, or Everything.'' At the outset of this multimedia work, which
opened on Thursday at La MaMa, the performer Nick Vaughan explains that the
dance has been in rehearsal ''for 10 days, or three years, or continuously since
1976,'' the year that Ms. Chuma, a veteran choreographer and activist, arrived
in New York from her native Japan. ''It is a work perpetually in progress.''

Indeed, the turbulent ''Nothing, or Everything'' -- subtitled ''With Dry Tech
Endless Peripheral Border - Fukushima - Kabul - Amman - Ramallah - Berlin'' --
shares much with Ms. Chuma's ''Love Story, Palestine.'' Presented three years
ago in the same space, at the same festival (La MaMa Moves!), ''Love Story''
addressed many of the same themes: borders, translation, displacement, home.
It's eerie, so many months later, again to hear the phrase ''I feel that we
limit ourselves, and it's not necessary,'' spoken by the dancer Miriam Parker.
These issues don't go away.

Ms. Chuma doesn't limit herself in her mixing of media -- careening movement,
layered projections, improvised music, multilingual text -- or in her making of
messes. She erases boundaries between onstage and backstage, between center and
margins, with the more than a dozen members of her company, the School of Hard
Knocks (dancers, narrators, musicians, technicians), always in view. And she
tears down more literal walls: a white curtain, peeled away, reveals another and
another, until the whole theater is exposed.

One of the first and most engrossing moments in this cascade of events is a
phone call to the daguerreotype artist Takashi Arai, who photographed residents
of Fukushima, Japan, after the 2011 nuclear disaster there. Holding an iPhone to
a microphone, Jake Margolin reaches Mr. Arai in Japan to discuss Mr. Arai's
work, which has inspired Ms. Chuma. But escalating music, like static on the
line, drowns out their exchange.

That kind of disrupted momentum recurs: within sentences, as when Saori Tsukada
and Ryuji Yamagachi, seated at one of many tables, rhythmically interrupt each
other, or dance phrases, as when Megumi Eda begins a languidly precise solo that
trails off.

Though ''Nothing, or Everything'' sometimes lags or spins out of control, it
gets at something deep and unsettling about the arbitrariness of borders: Where
do they begin and end? Who decides, and how? As Ms. Tsukada says in one fleeting
fragment of a rapid-fire monologue: ''I would call that a border. Would you call
that a border?''

''Ï[#x20ac]=3.14 ... Nothing, or Everything'' continues through Sunday at La
MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village; 212-475-7710, lamama.org. The La
MaMa Moves! festival continues through June 21.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/dance/review-yoshiko-chuma-in-a-journey-a
cross-borders.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The School of Hard Knocks: Miriam Parker in ''q=3.14 . . .
Nothing, or Everything,'' at La MaMa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULA LOBO FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(89%); DANCE (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); FESTIVALS
(77%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%)

STATE: TOHOKU, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Save the Receipts for Home Improvements

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER.

Twitter: @ronlieber

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words


A tax time bomb is ticking for an increasing number of people who have been
lucky enough to see big gains in the values of their homes.

This is especially true in and around cities like New York, Los Angeles, San
Francisco, Boston and San Diego, where home prices have increased smartly over
the last decade or two. There, single homeowners with gains of over $250,000 and
married people who have notched at least $500,000 could end up paying federal
tax of as much as 23.8 percent on real estate gains over those amounts when they
sell. Additional state taxes loom for some of them as well.

If you are in this situation or think you may be just when you need those gains
to live on in your old age, there is a small pile of paperwork you need to start
filing away now and keep until you sell the home. That paperwork is for all the
improvements you have made to your home. The cost of those improvements counts
against the gain. Even a single remodeling can offset the gains by well into the
six figures.

Just how many people might this tax affect? I asked the number crunchers at the
real estate website Zillow to take a look. Currently, they believe that 3.8
percent of the homes around the country are already in the tax zone for single
people and that 1.2 percent have reached the threshold for married couples. The
number of people affected is much higher, however, in expensive cities. In San
Francisco, for instance, a quarter of all homes have a gain of over $250,000,
thus having a tax impact on any single owners. More than one-third of the homes
in San Jose, Calif., do, too.

For married people, the numbers become more frightening when you assume a 3.5
percent annual increase in home prices and look ahead 10 years. By then, 15.9
percent of the homes in the New York City area could be in for a tax bill if
they're owned by married people, along with 19.6 percent of the homes in Los
Angeles.

Those numbers could be higher if real estate prices rise more quickly. They
could also be lower, given that Zillow, in its projections, assumed that the
homeowners were not moving to other houses or making improvements in that
period. Their tax bills might also be higher if, like many people, they failed
to realize that they should be keeping their receipts and closely tracking this
potential tax.

Now that you are no longer among the uninformed, however, where should you start
with the record-keeping extravaganza, in case you find yourself among those with
outsize gains on your home?

The bible for all of this is Internal Revenue Service Publication 523: Selling
Your Home. On page 12, you will find the I.R.S.-approved list of things that you
can, in effect, subtract from your gain before you determine whether it's below
or above the $250,000/$500,000 limit. Homeowners usually pay no capital gains
taxes on any amount below those numbers. Also, you generally have to have been
living in the home for at least two of the previous five years before the sale
to receive the waiver on the taxes if you are below those thresholds.

On that list in Publication 523, you will find improvements and additions of all
sorts, including decks and patios; landscaping, including sprinkler systems;
pools; a new roof or siding; insulation; and kitchen remodeling. Some smaller
and perhaps surprising things are there, too: installation of utility services,
which could include any fiber charges from Verizon for FiOS or money you paid to
the person who hard-wired your Apple TV to your cable modem. Each additional
electrical outlet should count, too. Also, you can add in many legal, title and
recording fees (plus transfer and certain other taxes) from your closing.

Repairs don't count, and this gets tricky. Most people have to paint, so that's
generally a repair. Refinishing wood floors is maintenance, too, though
installing new ones is an improvement that ought to count in your total.

Built your house from the ground up? Your list includes the cost of the land,
all materials and any money you paid to contractors and their laborers plus
architect fees. If you swung a hammer yourself, tough luck: Your hard work
counts for nothing in the eyes of the eyes of the I.R.S. Ditto your friends who
pushed up walls in exchange for pizza and beer.

If you live in a condominium or cooperative building or a community with
homeowners' association fees, some of your monthly charges and many of your
special assessments may also count. Ask the managing agent about this, and
require the building or community's accountant to offer this per capita figure
each year in a format that allows you to file it away and keep it.

The catch here is that you need receipts for every one of these things. Nobody
tells you this at the closing table. Or if they do, you don't hear it because
you're freaking out about the cost of your home or too excited to go check out
tile samples after signing 100 closing documents. Sober-minded individuals tend
not to consider the possibility of a big gain at some later date, either. After
all, you're not supposed to think of a home as an investment, even if the I.R.S.
does in this particular context.

But you do need to keep the paperwork, long after you have discarded your older
tax returns. The website costbasis.com even reminds us all that certain thermal
receipts will fade away over time. It's best to photocopy them or take digital
photos and put them away somewhere in the cloud.

Because we are talking about taxes here, there will be exceptions, carveouts and
exceptions to the carveouts issued in I.R.S. private letter rulings and whatnot.
If you fall into any of the following categories, it's probably best to consult
a tax professional: widows or widowers, members of the military, newly remarried
couples who already have homes, people who have moved for job transfers, nursing
home residents who have kept the homes they used to live in, people who sold a
home before 1997 and rolled their capital gain over into the home they live in
now and people who rebuilt after a fire, flood or other similar event.

Ditto if you inherited the home or got it as a gift and also if you rented it
out at any point or used it for business. People who received the first-time
home buyer's credit in 2008 should also dig deeper.

A few other quirks that can help or hurt. If you have a capital loss in your
past, you can use it to offset the gain you may receive from your home. Jean-Luc
Bourdon, a certified public accountant with a personal finance specialization at
BrightPath Wealth Planning in Santa Barbara, Calif., told me about a client who
panicked in 2008 and sold investments at a large loss. Later, when he sold his
home for a large gain, he was able to offset the gain with the losses he took in
the stock market.

Eva Rosenberg, an enrolled agent who maintains the taxmama.com site, warns of a
common problem she sees in states like New York and California, where prices
have risen a fair bit. People borrow against their homes, spending the money and
draining the equity. Then, when they sell and receive, say, $50,000 after
repaying their mortgage and home equity loans, they think that's their capital
gain. But it isn't, and sometimes their tax bill is actually much higher than
that $50,000.

So could the rules change, or might lawmakers at least index the $250,000 and
$500,000 figures to inflation? It could happen, most likely in a Republican
administration. But it's the sort of thing that only benefits the truly lucky.

I was tempted to use the word rich in the previous sentence, but Mr. Bourdon
told me not to. ''It isn't true anymore,'' he said. ''If you've owned nearly any
home here in Santa Barbara long enough, you could have a taxable gain on your
home.''

If nothing else changes, his assessment will be increasingly accurate in many
other areas of the country as well.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/your-money/house-value-jumping-save-your-home-
improvement-receipts.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1)
 CHART: Housing Gains, With a Possible Cost: Capital gains from the sale of a
home are currently tax-free up to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for
couples in most instances. But some homeowners may already have gains that
exceed the tax-free threshold, and many more will have passed it in 10 years,
assuming annual growth in prices of 3.5 percent and no further improvements to
the property. (Source: Zillow) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); HOME
PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW
(89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARRIAGE
(89%); PRICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); TAX
AUTHORITIES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA,
USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

68 Migrants Are Found Locked Inside Trucks at British Port

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 468 words


LONDON -- Sixty-eight migrants, including two pregnant women and 15 children,
have been found locked inside four trucks at a port in southeast England, the
authorities said on Friday.

The Home Office said that four Polish truck drivers had been arrested after the
discovery, a reminder of the extreme measures that migrants will take to find
refuge in Europe.

The East of England Ambulance Service said several of the migrants, who had been
crammed into and locked inside trucks discovered Thursday night at Harwich
International Port in Essex, were suffering from chest and abdominal pain and
were feeling faint.

Seven people, including two women, were taken to the hospital, while the
remainder were turned over to the border authorities. The Home Office said the
migrants -- 35 Afghans, 22 Chinese, 10 Vietnamese and one Russian -- were
discovered by Border Force officers after they searched several vehicles.

Paul Davey, a spokesman for the Harwich port, said the migrants were found on
trucks that had arrived on the Stena Hollandica, a large freight and passenger
ship that can carry up to 1,200 people. The ship departed from the Hook of
Holland at 2:15 p.m. on Thursday and arrived in Harwich at 7:45 p.m.

Europe is grappling with spiraling numbers of migrants, who often reach European
shores by crossing the Mediterranean in crowded, unseaworthy vessels. The issue
was called into sharp relief in April when a ship carrying mostly African
migrants capsized off the coast of Libya, killing as many as 900 people.

The crisis has polarized Europe, with some countries, including Britain, calling
for more aggressive action to root out smugglers.

Other countries, led by Italy, which bear the brunt of migrants crossing the
Mediterranean, want member states across the European Union to share the burden
of dealing with the wave of migrants.

They are backing a quota system proposed by the European Commission, the
European Union's executive branch, that calls for countries to host migrants
according to their population and employment levels.

Britain, France and others vehemently oppose the quota proposal, which comes at
a time when national budgets are stretched and support has grown for far-right
parties that have made the fight against illegal immigration one of their top
priorities.

In August last year, 35 immigrants were found in a container in Essex at the
Tilbury docks, including a 40-year-old man from Afghanistan who had died.

That came six months after two Albanian migrants, who were both in their 20s and
had sought refuge in Britain before being deported, died in the North Sea after
jumping off the ferry that was taking them back to the Hook of Holland. An
inquest into their deaths concluded that one was sliced to death by the ferry's
propellers and the other drowned.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/migrants-trucks-locked-harwich-es
sex-port-england.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL
TRADE (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT
CRISIS (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); HARBORS &
PORTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ARRESTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS
(70%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); DEPORTATION (60%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES
(56%); BUDGETS (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

STATE: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%);
ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LIBYA (79%); AFGHANISTAN
(71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mets' Murphy on D.L.; Plawecki Is Ailing

BYLINE: By TIM ROHAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; DIAMONDBACKS 7, METS 2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 670 words


PHOENIX --  When the Mets' clubhouse opened Friday, Daniel Murphy's jersey and
pants hung in his locker, as if he would be playing that night. Perhaps it was
the product of wishful thinking. But when a player's health is involved, not
much has gone right for the Mets this season, and this was nothing more than a
tease.

The Mets somehow started the day in first place in the National League East.
Before their game against the Diamondbacks, though, they dealt with a day's
worth of bad news. Murphy, an infielder, was placed on the 15-day disabled list
with a strained quadriceps. Kevin Plawecki, a catcher, was examined for a virus.
And Manager Terry Collins hinted that he would abandon the strategy of using a
six-man rotation less than a week after adopting it. Such a move would force a
starter to the bullpen.

''Oh, I'm feeling great,'' Collins said. ''I've had a real nice day.''

And this was hours before the Mets lost, 7-2.

Collins now has 11 key contributors on the disabled list or suspended, and only
when the names are read in succession, perhaps, does the reality of the Mets'
current state truly sink in: Murphy, David Wright, Travis d'Arnaud, Zack
Wheeler, Bobby Parnell, Vic Black, Jerry Blevins, Jenrry Mejia, Josh Edgin,
Rafael Montero and Dilson Herrera.

In the last week, Lucas Duda and Michael Cuddyer have also missed games because
of minor injuries.

Murphy had been one of the few players keeping the offense afloat. After
starting the season slowly, he batted .330 in May. The Mets (30-26) did not have
a timeline for his return.

''The news could have been worse,'' Murphy said. Collins, though, noted that
''David's hamstring wasn't very serious, either.''

Plawecki's status was day to day.

All these injuries reminded Collins of a similar situation he experienced when
he was a minor league manager. Between games of a doubleheader, he said, he once
had to activate himself and his pitching coach. Collins was asked if he played.
''Unfortunately, yes,'' he replied.

If the Mets did not seem disjointed enough, Collins also suggested that he would
return to a more traditional rotation before the new six-man rotation had
completed two turns.

Collins did not make his reasoning completely clear. He has met many times with
Dan Warthen, the pitching coach, designing the six-man rotation as a way to
limit Matt Harvey's innings. But it has become a frequent topic of conversation
over the last week, and Collins appeared exasperated about that.

Collins joked that his wife had started asking about it, that he would go to a
two-man rotation, that he was sick of meeting with Warthen. The humor seemed to
comfort him. Turning serious, Collins indicated that one of his starters would
shift to the bullpen.

''I'm just tired of answering the questions,'' Collins said.

Asked directly if Jon Niese was pitching for his job Friday, Collins said no.
But Niese had posted a 9.00 E.R.A. over his last four starts, and he and Dillon
Gee seemed to be on the fringes of a rotation that was slowly being loaded with
young, quality arms.

For a while, Niese (3-6) pitched as if it were an audition. He breezed through
the first five innings on 62 pitches, striking out six batters, taking a firm
grip on a 2-1 lead. At one point, he dived to field a bunt and made a
spectacular throw to first.

By coincidence, Steven Matz, the next prospect poised to join the Mets'
rotation, a left-hander like Niese, was also pitching Friday, but for Class AAA
Las Vegas. Matz threw six solid innings, allowing only one run, striking out
five and lowering his E.R.A. to 1.94.

Once Niese reached the sixth inning, he looked tired. He allowed three
consecutive hits -- to A. J. Pollock, Paul Goldschmidt and Yasmany Tomas -- and
two runs. Once Niese had surrendered the lead, he adjusted his jersey, pursed
his lips, and retook the mound. He finished the inning, but Collins removed him
from the game after that.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/baseball/mets-add-daniel-murphy-to-disa
bled-list.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fanciful Flights and Lamentations

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 417 words


The unimaginatively named Mannes Beethoven Institute has in recent years reached
far beyond Beethoven, pairing his works with those by contemporary composers.
Stephen Hartke and Peter Lieberson were recently featured; for this year's
lineup, music by the New Jersey-based composer George Walker is in the
spotlight.

In 1996, Mr. Walker, now 92, became the first black composer to win a Pulitzer
Prize, for ''Lilacs,'' a short piece for soprano and orchestra based on a poem
by Walt Whitman.

Mr. Walker trained as a pianist at the Curtis Institute with Rudolf Serkin, and
his compositional mentors included Rosario Scalero and Nadia Boulanger. His
large catalog features several concertos, numerous chamber pieces and five piano
sonatas; he has received commissions from the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Boston
Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic.

Despite those accolades, his works are infrequently performed, and the program
on Wednesday at Mannes offered a welcome chance to hear two pieces of
contrasting character. Indeed, it seemed unlikely that the same composer had
written the spiky Violin Sonata No. 2 (1979) and the luxuriant ''Lyric for
Strings.'' The violinist Miranda Cuckson was the fiery soloist in the violin
sonata, deftly paired with the pianist Thomas Sauer, the director of the Mannes
Beethoven Institute.

The sonata, divided into three movements, opens with fanciful flights in both
instruments, pointillist figurations in the piano underlying the soaring violin
melodies played with brio by Ms. Cuckson. The metrically complex second movement
is followed by a finale incorporating a fragment from the spiritual ''Let Us
Break Bread Together.''

Ms. Cuckson was joined by the violinist Serena Canin, the violist Misha Amory
and the cellist Michael Kannen in ''Lyric for Strings,'' the slow movement of
Mr. Walker's String Quartet No. 1, composed in 1946 after the death of his
grandmother. The Barber-like lament, lyrical and lush, was elegantly rendered.

As for Beethoven, the program opened with a sometimes shaky performance of the
String Trio in C minor (Op. 9, No. 3), performed by Ms. Canin, Mr. Amory and Mr.
Kannen. Mr. Kannen joined the violinist Mark Steinberg and the pianist Ignat
Solzhenitsyn for Beethoven's Piano Trio in C minor, which concluded the program
in a rendition notable for Mr. Solzhenitsyn's elegant touch and beautiful
singing lines.

The Mannes Beethoven Institute concludes on Saturday; newschool.edu/mannes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/music/review-pairing-beethoven-with-georg
e-walker-at-mannes-college.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (56%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters Over Thomas, and a Victory for the Liberty

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; LIBERTY 82, DREAM 73; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words


Once thought to be in a state of permanent exile from Madison Square Garden,
Isiah Thomas returned Friday night in his new capacity as president of the
W.N.B.A.'s Liberty.

The Liberty celebrated the start of their season by rolling past the Atlanta
Dream, 82-73. But the occasion was also marked by a group of about 20 protesters
who assembled before the game and then sat in Section 109, wearing T-shirts that
read, ''I Am Anucha Browne.''

Thomas, just weeks into his tenure with the team, has brought his share of
turbulence with him. In 2007, a federal jury in Manhattan found that Thomas had
sexually discriminated against Browne, a female executive, during his tenure
with the Knicks, whose ownership also runs the Liberty.

Nevin Caple, 35, helped organize the protest through her role as executive
director of Br{ache the Silence, a group that she said was working to end sexism
and homophobia in women's sports. Caple said she was demanding that Thomas
publicly apologize to Browne.

''He is not qualified to lead a community he has victimized,'' Caple said of
Thomas before the game. ''And he poses a threat to all women in the W.N.B.A.''

Thomas, who answered questions for about 10 minutes before the game, declined to
comment on the protesters or the lawsuit. Instead, he referred repeatedly to a
winding statement that Madison Square Garden had released earlier in the day in
response to criticisms levied by the Women's Sports Foundation over Thomas's
role with the Liberty.

Thomas, the statement said, had never admitted guilt or wrongdoing in the case
involving Browne and ''did not pay anything'' after Browne ''voluntarily
dismissed her complaint.''

Browne won an $11.5 million judgment against Madison Square Garden after she
accused Thomas of harassment.

''I'm not here to talk about the past,'' Thomas said. ''The statement speaks for
itself.''

Thomas's petition for partial ownership of the Liberty was still being vetted by
a committee of owners from the W.N.B.A.'s Board of Governors.

James L. Dolan, the chairman of Madison Square Garden, sat courtside for the
game. Coach Bill Laimbeer said recently that Dolan did not attend any of the
team's games last season.

The Liberty, whose preseason was overshadowed by the hiring of Thomas, were able
to focus on the game. Behind Tina Charles and Swin Cash, the Liberty ran out to
a 13-point lead at halftime and thwarted every rally the Dream could muster.
Charles finished with 17 points, and Cash had 15. Boyd and Tanisha Wright each
added 14 points.

Angel McCoughtry had a game-high 27 points for the Dream.

The win was a solid start for the Liberty, who have not qualified for the
playoffs the last two seasons.

Cash said the team dealt with a lot of change during the preseason -- change
purely from a basketball standpoint, with several new players added.

''We were working hard in practices, and I was just so happy that we came out
and showed who we were,'' Cash said. ''That was the one thing we wanted to do,
is show the league and everyone what kind of team we're going to be.

''And I thought we did that tonight.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/basketball/isiah-thomas-era-opens-with-
liberty-defeating-atlanta.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Isiah Thomas, right, the new president of the New York Liberty,
at the team's season opener Friday at Madison Square Garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (90%); BASKETBALL
(90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WOMEN (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%);
SPORTS (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); JURY TRIALS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); PETITIONS (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); LITIGATION
(69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LIBERTY (90%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%)

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Celebrating Fresh Starts With Smarts

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 366 words


Cabaret may be a sideline for that human whirlwind Linda Lavin, but you can be
sure that she takes a nightclub performance as seriously as any Broadway role.
Her latest show, ''Starting Over,'' which opened on Thursday at 54 Below, is a
fully developed concept in which Ms. Lavin, 77, tells her story mostly in song.
As the title suggests, this is not a conventional summing up with a beginning, a
middle and an end, but a repeated cycle of new beginnings, the latest of which
is her seemingly blissful 10-year marriage to Steve Bakunas, the drummer in her
band.

Ms. Lavin's scratchy voice is hardly a candidate for the Metropolitan Opera. Yet
its deficiencies are made up for by her musical smarts, sense of humor and
upbeat philosophy of living in the moment. Every now and then on Thursday, she
broke into a Louis Armstrong growl. Her witty nickname for her occasional vocal
improvisations was ''Jewish scat.''

Her musical director, the pianist and singer Billy Stritch, whose creamy voice
has steadily strengthened over the years, is an ideal performing companion. Just
when the show was settling into a comfortable groove, Ms. Lavin brought out her
special guest, the wonderful jazz violinist Aaron Weinstein, whose playing, like
Mr. Stritch's singing, has grown leaner, stronger and more confident. I pictured
the three of them skipping together down a yellow brick road.

The first among several starting-over points was a hybrid of two dark songs
about cheating and treachery -- the Peggy Lee standard ''Why Don't You Do
Right?'' and Steely Dan's sour, cryptic ''Black Cow'' -- followed by Mr.
Stritch's sorrowful rendition of ''A Cottage for Sale.'' From that point, the
mood became increasingly optimistic. A medley of songs associated with Bobby
Short led to a series of affirmations that included a tender rendition of ''I'm
Glad There Is You,'' directed at Mr. Bakunas.

Even in the happiest moments, Ms. Lavin resisted sentimentality or melodrama,
trusting that the material and her intelligent, matter-of-fact interpretations
would convey a hard-won joyfulness.

Linda Lavin's runs through Saturday at 54 Below, 254 West 54th Street,
Manhattan; 646-476-3551, 54below.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/music/review-linda-lavin-scratching-out-f
resh-starts-at-54-below.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); NIGHTCLUBS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC
(89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); OPERA (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

South Korea Reports Nine New Cases in MERS Virus Outbreak

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 941 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- Nine new cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome were
discovered in South Korea on Saturday, five of them stemming from transmissions
at one of the country's largest and best hospitals, as officials struggled to
contain the virus that has so far infected 50 people, killing four.

The announcement of five new cases at Samsung Medical Center in southern Seoul
meant that a substantial new source of infection had been identified in the
capital, a city of 10 million. A large, modern hospital owned by the Samsung
conglomerate, the center is staffed by some of South Korea's best-trained
medical personnel.

The five infected people had all been treated in the hospital's emergency room,
where a patient with the disease, known as MERS, was treated on May 27, the
Health Ministry said in a statement on Saturday. The patient had earlier
infected two other people in the emergency room, a doctor and a visitor.

South Korea's outbreak of MERS, a disease first detected in Saudi Arabia in
2012, is the largest to date outside the Middle East, where the vast majority of
the more than 440 deaths attributed to it have occurred. Of the 50 cases in
South Korea, 33, including the first laboratory-confirmed case, were found among
the patients, visitors and medical staff of a hospital south of Seoul.

On Friday, the government identified that hospital as St. Mary's in the city of
Pyeongtaek, saying that it was trying to find everyone who had been there during
a two-week period in May.

''Finding them and placing them under monitoring is a key to containing the
spread'' of the outbreak, Moon Hyung-pyo, the health minister, said at a news
conference.

The decision to identify St. Mary's, a 250-bed hospital that opened in February,
was a reversal for the government, which had been criticized for withholding the
names of the six hospitals where MERS cases have been traced.

The government asked that anyone who had been at St. Mary's from May 15 to 29,
including patients, employees and visitors, come forward, and it set up a
hotline for them to call.

The mortality rate for known MERS cases is more than 30 percent, though it is
possible that low-grade cases have gone undetected, a factor that would reduce
the mortality rate.

Current medical knowledge suggests that it takes a considerable amount of close
contact for one person to transmit the virus to another, said Dr. Gregory C.
Gray, a professor of global health and infectious disease at the Global Health
Institute and the School of Medicine at Duke University.

Still, fear of the virus has escalated in South Korea after it was revealed that
there had been transmissions beyond the initial hospital. More than 1,160
kindergartens and schools were temporarily closed, most of them in Gyeonggi
Province, which includes Pyeongtaek.

''Many experts will argue that the South Korean government is overreacting with
the aggressive school closures,'' Dr. Gray said.

Testing of a virus sample collected from a South Korean patient showed that it
was not a mutation from the strain seen in the Middle East, a senior Health
Ministry official, Kwon Jun-wook, said Saturday at a news briefing. One effect
of a mutation could be to make the virus more contagious.

The first or so-called index patient in the South Korean outbreak, a 68-year-old
man who had been traveling in the Middle East, was hospitalized at St. Mary's
from May 15 to 17. The hospital was closed on May 29.

The authorities have acknowledged that initial quarantine efforts at St. Mary's
were insufficient. After the 68-year-old was confirmed as having the MERS virus
on May 20, health officials initially tried to quarantine only those patients
who had shared his hospital room, as well as visitors and medical staff members
who had been in contact with them.

But on May 28, a patient who had been in another room on the same floor tested
positive for MERS, leading officials to expand their quarantine efforts to
everyone who had been on that floor. By then, two patients from that floor had
moved to different hospitals, where they have infected at least 13 people,
according to the government.

One of the two, a 35-year-old man, rode a bus to Seoul, where he checked into
Samsung Medical Center on May 27. The authorities have not formally identified
the hospital, but officials have privately confirmed widespread news reports
that it was the Samsung facility.

The man infected a doctor and a visitor there before he was found to have MERS
on May 30, officials said. The doctor, who is now under quarantine, told South
Korean news outlets that no one had told him about a possible MERS case at his
hospital until he developed symptoms and asked to be quarantined on Sunday.

As of Friday, more than 1,820 people suspected of having been in contact with
any of the confirmed cases were being monitored in state-run facilities or were
under quarantine at home.

Mr. Moon, the health minister, criticized Seoul's mayor on Friday for disclosing
that the doctor infected at Samsung Medical Center had attended a gathering of
more than 1,500 people in southern Seoul the day before going into quarantine.
The mayor, Park Won-soon, made that announcement on Thursday, criticizing the
central government for not having publicized that information earlier.

Mr. Moon said the Health Ministry had wanted to alert the people who had
attended the gathering quietly, and he accused Mr. Park, a member of the
opposition party, of helping to create a panic.

''It is deeply regrettable that the unilateral announcement from Seoul City has
created an unnecessary misunderstanding and fear,'' Mr. Moon said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/south-korea-mers-virus-st-marys-hos
pital.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERS (93%); VIRUSES (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS
(90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
(89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (87%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE
(78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (62%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thanks for Watching, Mr. Hoover

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 423 words


The klezmer bandleader Eve Sicular is hardly a fan of J. Edgar Hoover, the
F.B.I.'s first director, whose Cold War hunt for Communists put her grandmother
in his sights. But he did keep meticulous records, and she can't help being
grateful for that.

''In a twisted archival way, Hoover did me a favor, making a scrapbook about
Grandma,'' Ms. Sicular says in her clever show ''J. Edgar Klezmer: Songs From My
Grandmother's F.B.I. Files'' -- and could we pause for a moment, please, to
savor that stellar title?

Featuring musicians from Ms. Sicular's band, Isle of Klezbos, ''J. Edgar
Klezmer'' is a kind of scrapbook, too. By turns playful and serious, it's a
musical piece of documentary theater assembled from old newspaper clippings,
family photos, government documents and scavenged recollections about Adele
Sicular, a New York physician who died in 1976, when her granddaughter was 14.

To the midcentury F.B.I., there was a whiff of subversion to this Russian-born
Jewish doctor's involvement with the Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side,
a group whose name reliably cracked up the audience at Thursday night's
performance at Here Arts Center. Investigators interviewed neighbors and
colleagues about Dr. Sicular's loyalty to the United States.

A lively score -- klezmer, jazz, boogie-woogie -- is woven through the 60-minute
show's text, and when redacted documents are read aloud, blasts of musical notes
replace the missing names. Smartly written and well structured, ''J. Edgar
Klezmer'' draws clear parallels between the surveillance of Hoover's America and
our own, and it neatly avoids hagiography, thanks to a startling revelation by
Ms. Sicular's father, a character briefly in the show, that helps broaden the
scope.

But the production, directed by Gwenyth Reitz, flattens the script. When Ms.
Sicular is at her drum kit, playing with Shoko Nagai (piano) and Debra Kreisberg
(clarinet and saxophone), she is in her element. But she is not an actor, and
her discomfort at speaking her many lines is evident. The same is true of
Melissa Fogarty, a lovely vocalist who is called on to act in multiple parts as
well as to sing.

Yelena Shmulenson is the one actor in the cast, and she's terrific. Her supple
performance in a variety of roles suggests what this show could be, if actors
were doing all the acting.

''J. Edgar Klezmer: Songs From My Grandmother's F.B.I. Files'' continues through
Sunday at Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street,
South Village; 212-352-3101, here.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/theater/review-j-edgar-klezmer-songs-from-my-g
randmothers-fbi-files-tells-all-at-here-arts-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. Edgar Klezmer: Songs From My Grandmother's F.B.I. Files: Eve
Sicular, left, and Melissa Fogarty performing a scene at Here Arts Center.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GWENYTH REITZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); GRANDPARENTS (90%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
(89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%);
COLD WAR (78%); THEATER (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%);
JAZZ & BLUES (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%);
GRANDCHILDREN (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

54 Contenders Run on Ideas, Not Engines

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1137 words


PORT TOWNSEND, Wash. --  Scott Veirs and Thomas Nielsen have a little wooden
plank mounted on their boat, just in front of the seat where they plan to take
turns, for days on end, pedaling a bike-chain-driven propeller shaft all the way
to Alaska.

''If in doubt,'' the sign reads, ''try some optimism.''

That could be the motto for the entire field of competitors in what is billed as
the first race of its kind -- human powered to Alaska -- which set off Thursday
morning from this city on the shores of Puget Sound, heading north across open
water. The 54 entrants in the Race to Alaska-- solo efforts and teams, novices
and old-salt veterans -- were fueled by a mix of determination, ingenuity and
upward of 6,000 calories a day, but no motors.

Race organizers, in putting up a $10,000 prize for the first vessel to cross the
finish line in Ketchikan, Alaska, 750 miles away, said they wanted to see what
human imagination and muscle could do, with a little screwball humor thrown in.
So the rules were simple: no support teams, no burning of gas -- and, to the
second-place finisher, a nice set of steak knives. After that, any and all
options for getting from Point A to Point B could be on the table.

The route is long and treacherous: from here in Port Townsend, two hours
northwest of Seattle, the competitors headed for the often rough and windy
Strait of Juan de Fuca that separates the city from Vancouver Island, British
Columbia. From there, they will follow the narrow, twisting path of the Inside
Passage farther north into Alaska, where the water can be calm or ferocious and
is often studded with obstacles like kelp or logs.

The destination, Ketchikan, is a popular tourist town where, according to the
race organizers' website, ''they measure rainfall in feet, tourists by cruise
ships loads, and parties by how many people dance.'' Those who make it to the
finish line are promised ''a hot meal, a cold beer, a dry bed, and some well
earned accolades.''

''Part of what's intriguing about this race to people is that it's a riddle,''
said Jake Beattie, the executive director of the Northwest Maritime Center, a
nonprofit group here that came up with idea of the race and organized it. ''The
rules match no other form that's out there,'' he added. ''We want to demonstrate
human capability.''

To adhere to the race's rules and to increase speed, kayaks were augmented with
sails, or, like Mr. Nielsen and Mr. Veirs's Polynesian-inspired sailboat, with
an added pedal and propeller.

Dinghies arrived with oarlocks, paddles and sails, like the 16-foot open-hull
boat that Heather Drugge and her partner, Dan Campbell, set off in, racing
alongside big sailing catamarans that had been outfitted with extra rowing
stations. Roger Mann, a helicopter mechanic from South Carolina, set forth in
his solo pedal-sail trimaran with water-purifying equipment, solar-powered
lights and tubes of zinc oxide cream for the blisters he expected. A Canadian
team calling itself the Soggy Beavers set out in a six-man outrigger canoe with
a Canadian flag fluttering from a hockey stick at the aft.

Because this race has never been done, no one knows for sure what kind of vessel
might win, or how long it might take. Estimates range from perhaps a week to
much longer, depending on conditions. Thirteen boats dropped out within the
first 24 hours.

The siren song of the unknown marks every endurance or adventure race, and in
the predawn darkness here Thursday before the 5 a.m. start (delayed to 5:30 by
weather), that hopped-up starting-line mix of hope, anxiety and anticipation was
everywhere. Racers in cold-water survival suits and headlamps pushed boats
through town on trailers, or paced on the dock, glancing at their watches and
rechecking their kits of equipment. Some competitors launched early and went
through their paces out in the harbor, testing sails or paddles.

''No sleep,'' said Kelly Von Bargen, 32, summing up her prerace jitters as she
looked out at the water near her open-decked boat stacked with equipment and
supplies. ''I'm nervous as hell,'' she added.

Even for experienced paddlers, the unknowns of this race ran particularly deep,
organizers and competitors said, because there is no history to consult, no
previous victor who could stand up in a briefing room and say, ''here's what we
did'' or avoided doing.

Would boat design be the defining element? Physical strength? Experience with
Pacific Northwest currents and winds? Or just blind luck? Even the distances to
be traveled, given the vicissitudes of wind and current, were approximates. The
map, for example, says that Victoria, British Columbia -- the first qualifying
leg of the race, and the planned stopping point for 23 of the entrants -- is
only 45 miles away. But human-powered vessels, competitors said, can rarely go
in such straight lines: One solo kayaker, blown off course Thursday, needed 25
hours to make it across the strait and into Victoria.

Water and food were also variables for every team. Mr. Nielsen, 53, and Mr.
Veirs, 45, said they planned to carry only three days of water to conserve
weight on their boat, and rely on condensation from their sail to augment that
allotment. Even on misty days without rain, they said, a periodically tipped
sail can provide a lot of water.

''Nobody knows what's going to happen; that's the great circus of it,'' said
Stephen Marcoe, 56, from Reno, Nev., who is the captain of the biggest boat in
the race, a 38-foot sailing catamaran with a five-person crew.

Alan Hartmann, 47, a commercial fisherman from Bristol Bay, Alaska, said he
believed the fast-sailing boats would surge out front early -- as indeed
happened Thursday when the first sailors made it to Victoria in a little more
than four hours -- but then perhaps struggle in the northern reaches of the
Inside Passage if they have to propel themselves, and their greater weight,
using other means.

''Tortoise and the hare,'' Mr. Hartmann said, summing up his plans. With his
17-foot sailing kayak, Mr. Hartmann said he expected to make slow and steady
progress, going ashore to avoid fighting the tide when it was against him and
pushing forward 20 to 25 miles every day. Unfortunately for him, he must wear an
eye patch the whole time -- he seriously injured his right eye while chopping
wood recently, requiring stitches -- but so be it. ''I feel like I'm making
history, being in a race like this. I had to be here,'' he said.

In a race where some of the competitors said they had already spent many times
the $10,000 first prize -- for boats, equipment, refitting and transportation --
winning will probably be more about bragging rights than anything else.
Finishing at all, many of the competitors said, will be a victory.

''If I win, I'm buying everybody steak knives,'' Mr. Hartmann said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/a-race-to-alaska-no-motors-but-no-limits-on
-imagination.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Race to Alaska, which organizers say is the first
human-powered race to the state, had spectators and entrants, with their high-
and low-tech craft, up early Thursday in Port Townsend, Wash. The 750-mile race
will end in Ketchikan. (A10)
 A competitor preparing for the first stage of the Race to Alaska, covering 45
miles to Victoria, British Columbia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A13)  MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (89%); CRUISES (79%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (79%);
SAILING (78%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Job Growth Eases Fear of Slowing Economy

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words


You could almost hear the sighs of relief.

Worries about the American economy's momentum were blunted on Friday by the
government's announcement that e mployers added a hefty 280,000 jobs in May,
well above the monthly average logged over the last year.

The official unemployment rate ticked up slightly to 5.5 percent as more
Americans jumped back into the labor pool and began the job hunt. Hourly wages,
which have grown fitfully, rose 0.3 percent last month, possibly helping to lure
back some discouraged workers who had been staying on the sidelines.

The new data is likely to buttress the argument that the economy's modest
contraction in the first quarter and other pasty-faced reports were a blip,
partly a casualty of the harsh winter, rather than evidence of a more
fundamental slowdown.

The return of stronger job growth is also likely to bolster the resolve of
Federal Reserve officials who hope to start raising interest rates from their
near-zero level later this year.

''This is the best combination of numbers we have seen in many months,'' said
Tara M. Sinclair, an associate professor of economics at George Washington
University and an economist at Indeed.com. She was unconcerned about the bump up
in the jobless rate because ''wages are ticking up and attracting people back
into the labor force; we are still seeing strong employment growth.''

Still, as the recovery reaches its sixth anniversary, there are signs that the
gains have not been spread evenly.

A broader measure of unemployment, which includes part-time workers who want
full-time jobs and those too discouraged to even search, remained at 10.8
percent, a figure that has not dropped as much over the past year as economists
had hoped. Although nearly two-thirds of Americans surveyed said they were
either ''doing O.K.'' or ''living comfortably,'' the rest reported they were
''just getting by'' or struggling, according to the Federal Reserve's recently
released annual survey on families' financial well-being.

Americans' mixed economic fortunes have been sounded as a theme by the growing
ranks of candidates entering the 2016 presidential race. Rick Perry, a
Republican and a former Texas governor who announced this week, talked about
''unleashing economic growth and reviving the American dream.'' Rick Santorum, a
Republican former senator from Pennsylvania, pledged to restore the ''hollowed
out'' middle class during his announcement a week earlier.

Education and skills have become even more highly prized by employers, experts
said. ''It's a tale of two economies, the economy of the unskilled, and the
economy of the semiskilled and the skilled,'' said Robert A. Funk, chairman and
chief executive of Express Employment Professionals, a staffing agency based in
Oklahoma City that operates nationally.

There is pent-up demand for those with skills, like machinists, engineers and
information and technology workers, he said, but those without that edge are
continuing to have a tough time.

''We're out here on Main Street, not Wall Street,'' said Mr. Funk, former
chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. ''We get a feel of medium
and small companies and their attitudes. They are reticent to hire because they
are not sure which way the economy is going to go.''

Investors were jittery, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note reached an
eight-month high of 2.43 percent after the report was published. It closed at
2.41 percent.

The Fed's assessment in the coming months will carry the most weight, as it
considers whether to raise its benchmark rate.

On Friday, William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
said, ''I continue to expect that monetary policy normalization is likely to
begin later this year.''

That declaration was more optimistic than some of the concerns recently voiced
by Fed officials after a string of lackluster economic reports.

This week, James B. Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed, said that he
expected the economy to improve enough to justify a rate increase this year, but
the frail first quarter made everyone doubly cautious.

''We should be and are appropriately talking about how to normalize monetary
policy,'' Mr. Bullard said. ''On the other hand, you've got near-term concerns
-- the first-quarter negative G.D.P. number and maybe some consumption numbers,
including retail sales -- that look weaker than we had anticipated.''

''I think that will all be transient,'' he added.

On Thursday, the International Monetary Fund asked the Fed to hold off raising
rates until the first half of 2016 because of disappointing growth and a lack of
inflation.

Strong job gains and wage increases through the summer would go a long way
toward easing such anxieties.

Some employers were showing their optimism by hiring. Dave Maxheimer, director
of human resources at Hagie Manufacturing in Iowa, which builds high-tech farm
equipment, said his firm was expanding its 450-person work force by 5 percent,
and was most in need of highly skilled technicians to make service calls.

''Now crops are in the ground and everything is starting to go in the right
direction,'' he said. ''We're sold out into August and building everything to
order.''

Thomas E. Perez, the labor secretary, called Friday's data ''undeniably the best
report of 2015.'' He said that the jobs gains in May were distributed across
several sectors including health care, education and leisure and hospitality.

''People don't go on vacation unless they have some disposable income,'' Mr.
Perez said. He also noted that more workers were quitting voluntarily ''because
they have confidence they can get a better job.''

That sentiment was echoed on the ground. Tom Gimbel, chief executive of LaSalle
Network, a Chicago staffing firm, said: ''We've seen permanent hiring kick in in
the second quarter. People are now not afraid to make a move. They'll leave
their existing companies for a new job.''

For Mr. Gimbel, the most convincing sign of an upswing in the labor market was
missing, however. Employers are still reluctant to convert their temporary hires
into permanent workers. ''When that's happened, the economy is killing,'' he
said, ''but we're not seeing that yet.''

That ''good, but'' description applied to other elements of the jobs report. The
proportion of the working-age population that is employed -- which some
economists consider a bellwether of how the economy is performing -- rose to
59.4 percent. It is the highest point since the recovery began six years ago,
though still significantly below its prerecession levels.

Similarly, the labor participation rate inched up to 62.9 percent in May. But it
continues to be mired in a historically low range, with millions of workers
staying out of the work force.

Consumers appear to remain on guard, choosing to bank their savings from low
gasoline prices, for example, rather than spend the money. And daily financial
challenges manifest themselves in small ways and large.

Nearly half of respondents in the Fed survey, for example, said they lacked the
resources to cover an unexpected emergency that cost $400. Nearly one-third said
they had skipped some form of medical care last year because they could not
afford it.

Productivity growth, too, has been disappointing, economists say, dragging down
overall growth and hampering further wage increases.

Job growth without any gains in productivity ''is fine for a month, but it's not
a lifestyle,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum,
a center-right public policy institute, and a former Congressional Budget Office
director. ''That is where we get increases in our standard of living.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/economy/jobs-report-hiring-unemployme
nt-may.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: CHANGE IN JOBS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B1)
 The Labor Picture in May (Source: Bureau of Labor Statisics) (B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%);
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (84%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2012 (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH
(78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES
(77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT
(72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT
(71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
(55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Editorial Cartoon

BYLINE: By PATRICK CHAPPATTE.

Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The International New York
Times. View more of his work, visit his Web site or follow him on Twitter.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 26 words


Soccer's youngsters already know a thing or two.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/patrick-chappatte-fifas-rules-of-the-g
ame.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Profits of Heroin Trade Drive Economic Boom in Myanmar

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Wai Moe contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1891 words


YANGON, Myanmar --  Visitors flying into this buzzing tropical metropolis step
into a modern glass-and-steel airport that symbolizes both Myanmar's aspirations
to rejoin the wider world after years of isolation and the country's troubled
past.

The company that built the terminal, Asia World, was started by one of the
country's premier drug kingpins, a warlord whose militia peddled heroin
extracted from the opium fields of the mountainous hinterlands. It is nearly
impossible to visit Myanmar today and not encounter the company's other
projects: roads, hydroelectric dams, the country's biggest ports and one of its
most luxurious hotels, the Sule Shangri-La in downtown Yangon.

There is no evidence to suggest the company has any current ties to drug
trafficking, but as Myanmar strives to modernize after decades of dictatorial
rule, Asia World's role in that effort provides a prominent example of how the
drug trade is inextricably intertwined with the country's new economy and lies
at the root of many of its efforts to rebuild.

''The seed capital of the Burmese economy is heroin,'' said Ronald Findlay, an
economist at Columbia University who was born in colonial Burma, which the
military government renamed Myanmar in 1989. ''If that's an exaggeration, it's
not a huge one.''

According to interviews with real estate brokers, economists, and current and
former law enforcement agents, illicit drug profits have been a major source of
investment in rebuilding the country, and companies linked to the drug trade are
building new roads and bridges and reshaping the skyline of the biggest city,
Yangon.

Until recently, Yangon was a low-rise city frozen in time, where dangerously
potholed sidewalks bordered decrepit colonial buildings. Today cranes swing in
nearly every corner of the city and billboards promote the opulence of
soon-to-be high-rise condominiums.

While the new infrastructure may be welcome, the drug economy threatens the
country's transition to democracy, one of the Obama administration's signal
foreign policy accomplishments. The drug trade, analysts say, reinforces
corruption, bolsters the power of the military and threatens to return Myanmar
to a pariah state instead of the democratic ally the administration hopes for.

Since Myanmar began opening up to the world four years ago, heroin trafficking
has surged. The United Nations estimates that opium poppy cultivation has nearly
tripled over the last six years. Myanmar has become the world's second-largest
producer of heroin, as well as the region's leading supplier of methamphetamine.

Sean Turnell, an Australian scholar and one of the leading experts on the
country's economy, estimates that Myanmar's drug tycoons have annual revenues of
around $2 billion.

Yet in a country where many business deals and real estate transactions are
still done in cash and less than 15 percent of adults have a bank account, it is
nearly impossible to trace where all that money goes.

''There is no document trail,'' Mr. Turnell said. Following the drug money, he
said, ''is like nailing jelly to a wall.''

Its impact, however, is clear.

Real estate agents and economists say the drug trade has helped fuel the
vertiginous rise in property prices in Myanmar's major cities.

''Almost everyone involved in this business is laundering money,'' said U Sai
Khung Noung, the managing director of a real estate company in Yangon that bears
his name.

He calculates that average prices for apartments in Yangon rose 600 percent over
the past decade to an average of $250 per square foot, higher than the average
price for a new condominium in much wealthier Bangkok.

Illegal drugs are not the only source of black-market cash. During military
rule, which ended in 2011, illegal trade in teak, jade and precious gems also
created huge off-the-books fortunes. Starting in 2007, when the government
slashed real estate taxes to 15 percent from a prohibitive 50 percent,
traffickers seized the opportunity to convert their cash to real estate.

U Khin Maung Aye, a real estate agent in Yangon, said a home buyer brought him a
down payment, the equivalent of $200,000, in cash stuffed into rice sacks, not
uncommon for home purchases.

''It took two men to pick up each bag,'' Mr. Khin Maung Aye said. ''I couldn't
carry it myself.''

The buyer was later arrested on drug trafficking charges and sentenced to 20
years in prison, the police said.

But such arrests are relatively rare in a country with weak law enforcement and
where vast swaths of the country are under the control of ethnic militias, not
the central government.

The government says it is trying to crack down on the drug trade and money
laundering, but officials say law enforcement is hampered by the legacy of a
dictatorship under which the educational system was destroyed, millions of
Myanmar's most talented citizens fled the country, and the economy and banking
system were rendered dysfunctional.

U Ye Htut, the head of Myanmar's Ministry of Information, said the government
had introduced regulations and checks to trace dirty money.

''There is positive movement on this issue,'' he said in an interview. ''There
is more transparency for anti-money-laundering issues here and more
accountability. It can now be debated publicly.''

But a government adviser, U Tin Maung Than, a director of the Myanmar
Development Resource Institute, a research organization, says the government
does not have the wherewithal to distinguish good from bad money.

''There is no effective mechanism or capacity to crack down on money laundering
and corruption,'' he said.

Because most of the economy is informal -- unregulated and all cash -- Mr. Tin
Maung Than said, ''if we cracked down on informal-sector businesses and black
money, we would not have enough space in prisons in Myanmar.''

''Almost every business here is in the informal sector,'' he said.

Although regulations exist on paper to trace ill-gotten money, real estate
agents say the government's unofficial policy appears to be don't ask, don't
tell.

''If you pay the tax, they don't ask you where the money comes from,'' said Mr.
Sai Khung Noung, the real estate director. ''If the government doesn't check
this, how am I supposed to know where the money comes from?''

For Asia World, one of the country's pre-eminent builders of infrastructure, the
heroin money trail is no secret.

Founded by Lo Hsing Han, a drug lord once described by the United States as the
''kingpin of the heroin traffic in Southeast Asia,'' Asia World led the way in
converting heroin proceeds into legitimate businesses.

Mr. Lo, who died in 2013, hailed from an ethnic Chinese group, the Kokang, who
occupy an impoverished region in northern Myanmar that for years had only two
main businesses: tea and opium.

His drug business was tolerated because the ruling military junta found him
useful in negotiating with ethnic rebels. A 2007 United States diplomatic cable
made public by WikiLeaks said that Mr. Lo had been given a heroin ''concession''
by the government in exchange for helping to arrange cease-fire agreements with
rebels.

Mr. Lo and his son, Steven Law, were two of the military's most important
business partners and were awarded contracts to build roads, provincial seaports
and other large infrastructure projects.

In response to questions hand-delivered to Asia World's Yangon headquarters, an
inconspicuous seven-story building a few blocks from the Irrawaddy River, an
assistant to Mr. Law said Friday that he had received the letter and ''he
replied he does not want to spend time answering it.''

John M. Whalen, the former head of the Myanmar office of the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration, says the rise of Asia World was followed by the
appearance of other companies with unexplained wealth, many of them with
connections to the impoverished areas along the borders with Thailand and China,
where the drug trade flourishes.

''We started seeing a lot of these companies cropping up out of nowhere with a
lot of money to invest,'' he said. ''There was no indication of the source of
their funds. We still see that with all of the construction that's going on
today.''

Among those companies is the Shwe Taung Group, which built and operates one of
the biggest and most modern shopping malls in Yangon, Junction Square. The
company's website boasts of its building housing developments, office towers,
condominiums, hospitals, school and university buildings, television and radio
production complexes, ''and a lot more.''

The company's chairman, Aik Htun, was cited by the United States Treasury
Department as ''having connections with the narcotics trade.'' He was also a
founder, director and co-owner of the now-defunct Asia Wealth Bank, which was
the target of Treasury Department sanctions in 2003 because it posed ''an
unacceptable risk of money laundering and other financial crimes'' and was
''linked to narcotics traffickers.''

After the United States imposed sanctions on Asia Wealth Bank and the Burmese
authorities withdrew its license, Mr. Aik Htun changed the name of his corporate
holdings, which were part of the same group as Asia Wealth Bank, to the Shwe
Taung Group.

Mr. Aik Htun also did not answer questions hand-delivered to his secretary at
the company's headquarters.

One of the largest real estate developers in the country, Jewellery Luck, was
tied to a large heroin seizure six years ago.

The police found 37 packs of heroin concealed in a shipment of timber that the
company was sending to a customer in Taiwan. Photos from the police
investigation file documented how the heroin packs, each the size of a hardcover
book, were carefully hidden in cavities carved out of the wooden planks.

The police arrested five people and seized an additional 220 pounds of heroin,
with a street value of millions of dollars, stashed in a house in Yangon.

A company executive, U Tin Tun Oo, whose father heads the company, said the
heroin had been planted by the customers, who removed the wood for inspection
before shipping and inserted the heroin before returning it.

No company employees were charged, Mr. Tin Tun Oo said, and he denied that the
company had profited from heroin trafficking.

''No such money comes from drugs,'' he said in an interview. ''Not a cent.''

Mr. Whalen, the former D.E.A. agent, said company officials probably would have
been charged had the seizure taken place in the United States.

''It was clear that the company was deeply involved,'' he said. ''As with most
cases in Myanmar, the big guys didn't get charged.''

Jewellery Luck is building two large condominium projects in Yangon, including
one advertised as the tallest condominium in the country, a 33-story complex
overlooking the golden spire of the city's premier landmark, Shwedagon Pagoda.
Sales are cash only.

Jewellery Luck owns half of the recently completed Kempinski Hotel in Naypyidaw,
the capital, where President Obama stayed during a summit meeting in November.
He was the first guest to occupy the hotel's largest suite, a luxurious villa
with four bedrooms and its own private dining room, swimming pool and gym.

At Jewellery Luck's headquarters in Yangon, a framed photograph sits on a
conference room table showing Mr. Tin Tun Oo and other company executives with
Mr. Obama, smiling.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/profits-from-illicit-drug-trade-at-
root-of-myanmars-boom.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A terminal in Yangon built by Asia World, whose founder has
been called the ''kingpin of the heroin traffic in Southeast Asia.'' (A1)
Real estate brokers, law enforcement agents and economists say companies with
ties to the drug trade have helped reshape the skyline of Yangon.
 Left, the site of what is billed as the tallest condo in Myanmar. Right, one of
Yangon's largest malls. The builders of both have been linked to drug cases.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MILITARY RULE (78%);
INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ROAD &
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); OPIUM (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (75%); POSTWAR
RECONSTRUCTION (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS
(69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (64%); DAMS &
RESERVOIRS (55%); HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); HIGHWAYS &
STREETS (50%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (63%)

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (97%)

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Audio Experience With Lots to Look At

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words


Depending on your point of view, Holly Herndon's work might seem incomplete,
only partway toward the heart of a lot of interesting things. Or it might seem
complete in its semidetached, casually obsessive relationship with all of them.

For starters, Ms. Herndon's project isn't only music. It's also conceptual art,
surrealist text and video. She has a new album, ''Platform,'' on 4AD, but it
feels unfinished without the visuals and interaction of her live performance, as
she demonstrated on Thursday night at the Wick in Brooklyn. Ms. Herndon stood at
the front of the stage, and her collaborators Mat Dryhurst and Brian Rogers sat
at the back; all three peered deeply into their laptops, projecting text and
images onto the large screen behind them. The only thing spoken came from Ms.
Herndon, during a quiet stretch. She asked the crowd if the music was loud
enough, and she yelled the question away from a microphone, as if she couldn't
use the one in front of her.

Ms. Herndon is both a detached aggregator and a sparky communicator. She's in
the doctoral program at Stanford's Center for Computer Research in Music and
Acoustics; she's also navigating a nonacademic musical world in which she can,
in the right light, with her black clothes and long red braid and blue eyes,
transmit the charisma of a semistar, even a hero. There's a contradiction there,
and it suits her.

If you had listened with your eyes shut at the Wick, you'd have heard something
respectfully descended from techno but not quite following its rules. There were
flickering and subdivided beats running through gradual swells of sound, over
which Ms. Herndon sang words and tones through filters and samplers that made
her voice disembodied and multiplicitous, sliced-up and floating. The
performance didn't rely on the material from the album; it was more or less a
D.J. set, flowing and expanding and receding, designed at least partly for the
body.

Some of those beats were relatively heavy, and the bass got good and loud; it
made up for the underfed sound of ''Platform.'' As music alone, even through
good speakers, Ms. Herndon's art doesn't seem to have arrived at its own strong
identity. It might be beside the point to look for a center in it; her project
describes a decentered world. But if you give up looking for the center you may
also be giving up catharsis, and what people used to call pleasure.

Anyway, nobody was listening with eyes shut. There was too much to watch and
read. Before the performance began, one of her colleagues projected a message to
the crowd. ''If anyone has any question and/or confessions please feel free to
text them to us,'' it suggested, and gave a number. Many exchanges followed,
typed out in real time:

''If you could access N.S.A. data, who would you stalk?''

''A: What do you mean, 'if'?''

''Sometimes I don't know if I'm a boy or a girl.''

''A: Why choose?''

''What should I say to the girls next to me?''

''A: Respect their space.''

This softball practice could have gone on all night. Luckily there was more to
watch: an interactive video work by Akihiko Taniguchi that seemed like a game
without a goal, zooming through a sequence of areas populated by flat,
two-dimensional human figures and commercial images of food, suspended and
slowly turning in 360-degree animation.

And, better than the rest: images of work spaces, cluttered or neat, indoors and
outdoors, always with an open laptop at the center. They first appeared as
stills, taking up the whole screen, and then the perspective changed so that the
desks or rooms became floating tableaus in the universe, office-scapes as space
junk. That was the emotional peak in an evening very short on emotion: the
laptop signifying intense connection, its unmoored surroundings signifying
intense aloneness.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/music/review-holly-herndon-with-laptops-a
t-the-wick.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Holly Herndon, using computers to produce sounds and filter her
voice for a concert at the Wick in Brooklyn. The result was akin to techno, but
with different rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE FARA SILVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); RECORD RELEASES (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS
(69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Says Her Brother Was Victim of Hastert

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN and DAVE PHILIPPS; Julie Bosman reported from Yorkville,
and Dave Philipps from New York. Kim Barker contributed reporting from New York,
and David Crisp from Billings, Mont. Jack Begg contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1081 words


YORKVILLE, Ill. --  As an enthusiastic young teacher and wrestling coach at the
high school here, former House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert reliably had one
student at his side, former classmates say. Stephen Reinboldt, a smart, slender,
likable student who rose to become class president, was the wrestling team's
equipment manager. For four years, he arrived at practice early and stayed late,
traveled with Mr. Hastert to overnight tournaments, even when only one wrestler
was competing, and went for long rides in the coach's sports car, sometimes
driving it.

On Friday, Mr. Reinboldt's younger sister, Jolene Burdge, said her brother, who
died in 1995, was also sexually abused by Mr. Hastert, but hid the fact for
years because he thought no one would believe him.

''Mr. Hastert had plenty of opportunities to be alone with Steve because he was
there before the meets,'' Ms. Burdge said on ABC's ''Good Morning America.''
''He was there after everything because he did the laundry, the uniforms.''

The allegation comes a week after Mr. Hastert, who served for eight years as
House speaker, was indicted on charges of making cash withdrawals, totaling $1.7
million, to evade detection by the authorities and lying to investigators.

Two people briefed on the F.B.I. investigation told The New York Times that Mr.
Hastert was using the money to pay a former student hundreds of thousands of
dollars to hide the fact that Mr. Hastert sexually abused him decades ago.

The former student is identified in the indictment only as ''Individual A.'' Ms.
Burdge's comments marked the first time that a possible victim of Mr. Hastert
has been publicly identified. ABC reported that Ms. Burdge said she did not ask
Mr. Hastert for money and did not know the identity of Individual A.

At Ms. Burdge's home in Montana on Friday, a man who answered the door said she
was not available. But the man, who did not identify himself, said her
statements were accurately reported by ABC.

Mr. Hastert is scheduled to appear in court next week in Chicago. His lawyer did
not return calls on Friday.

In the interview on ABC, Ms. Burdge called Mr. Hastert, who taught and coached
at Yorkville high school from 1966 until 1981, a father figure to her brother.
She said she learned of the years of abuse when her brother revealed to her that
he was gay eight years after he left high school.

''I asked him, 'When was your first same-sex experience?' '' she said. ''He
looked at me and said, 'It was with Dennis Hastert.' I was stunned.''

She continued, ''And he just turned around and kind of looked at me and said,
'Who is ever going to believe me?' ''

Ms. Burdge said she believed the abuse ended when her brother moved away after
his high school graduation in 1971. Mr. Reinboldt died of AIDS at age 42.

She also said she confronted Mr. Hastert when he unexpectedly came to her
brother's funeral, telling him, ''I want you to know that your secret didn't die
here with my brother.''

Ms. Burdge said she tried for years to get news organizations, including ABC
News, and advocacy groups to pursue the story. She began in 2006 after it was
revealed that Mr. Hastert had covered up claims that Representative Mark Foley,
a Florida Republican, had sent sexually explicit emails to congressional pages.

She said she had given up on exposing Mr. Hastert. Then, two weeks ago, just
before Mr. Hastert was indicted, she was contacted by the F.B.I.

''That's when I just kind of lost it and said, 'Oh my God, I can't believe -- I
never thought I was going to get this phone call,' '' she said.

In interviews, former students say Mr. Hastert was popular, partly because his
classes often consisted of little more than watching movies, and because his
teams kept winning. He also seemed to have a new Porsche almost every year, each
a different color, and would let certain boys drive it -- not just around the
parking lot, but on long rides.

''Some guys got to drive the Porsche and some didn't,'' said Jeff Nix, who was a
student at the time. ''We always wondered what you had to do to get to drive the
Porche. Steve got to drive the Porsche.''

Yearbooks show that Mr. Reinboldt was a class officer every year, a member of
the French and Letterman's Clubs, and was student council president in his
senior year.

''He was a smart kid. Kind of shy, but the best manager we ever had,'' said Mr.
Nix, who helped manage the wrestling team with Mr. Reinboldt. ''He always had
everything ready.''

Bob Dhuse, 63, who was a star wrestler during the period when Mr. Reinboldt was
the manager, said he never saw any sort of abuse or hint of inappropriate
behavior involving the coach.

In an interview before Mr. Reinboldt's sister came forward, Mr. Dhuse recalled
going to the state tournament in Bloomington, Ill., with Mr. Reinboldt and Mr.
Hastert in 1970, when Mr. Dhuse was co-captain. Mr. Hastert drove the two
students in his blue Porsche. He had his own hotel room, Mr. Dhuse said, while
the two teenagers shared a room.

''He was a single guy at the time, and that's what he drove,'' said Mr. Dhuse,
now a corn and soybean farmer in the Yorkville area, said of the coach's flashy
car.

Another member of the team around that time, Gary Matlock, said he went on a Boy
Scout trip with Mr. Reinboldt led by Mr. Hastert to the Bahamas. He said Mr.
Reinboldt wanted to be part of the wrestling team but did not quite have the
athletic ability, ''so he became a jack of all trades who assisted the coach.''

''I saw nothing except a shining example and mentor,'' he said of Mr. Hastert.

Like many who went to Yorkville High School, Mr. Matlock remained in the small
farming town. Over the decades, he said, there had been no rumors about Mr.
Hastert.

''This town used to be so small,'' he said. ''Forget 24 hours -- you knew all
the gossip in 24 minutes.''

But since the news of Mr. Hastert's indictment a week ago, he said, none of Mr.
Matlock's high school friends have called to mull over the allegations. ''It's
just been a big hush,'' he said. ''The community is in shock.''

But some residents who were still absorbing the news of Mr. Hastert's indictment
said they were even more disturbed by Friday's revelations.

''I just wonder how many more of them are going to come out of the woodwork,''
said John Toschak, an electrician, adding that many Yorkville residents seemed
to still support Mr. Hastert.

''They love him here. You can't find anybody who would say anything bad about
Denny.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/sister-says-her-brother-was-a-victim-of-ex-
speaker-hastert.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Reinboldt in 1971. (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRESTLING (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%);
SEX OFFENSES (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (88%); INDICTMENTS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS
(87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); MEN (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS
(68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); LAWYERS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Women Take the Wheel

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words


Early in the new season of ''Halt and Catch Fire,'' AMC's drama about daddy
issues, 1980s home décor and the beginnings of the computer industry, the action
takes place mostly in a beat-up Dallas house furnished with water guns and pizza
crusts. It's the headquarters of Mutiny, a nascent company offering early
versions of online gaming and chat rooms, whose corporate structure consists of
two more or less mature women trying to wrangle a herd of childish young men --
Prodigy crossed with ''Animal House.''

Season 2, which began last Sunday, has been praised for its shift in focus
toward the two female leads -- Cameron (Mackenzie Davis), the femme-Nikita-like
maverick programmer, and Donna (Kerry Bishé), the young mother and hardware
whiz. In a genuinely unusual move, the show's producers appear to have flipped
the dynamic among their central characters, after a first season that focused on
two men: the engineer Gordon (Scoot McNairy), Donna's husband, and the salesman
Joe (Lee Pace), who used to share his bed occasionally with Cameron.

It might be best, however, to take a wait-and-see attitude. Across the season's
first four episodes, Joe and Gordon gradually work their way back into the
center of the story, as Joe recruits Gordon into another ambitious, clandestine
scheme, this time involving renting time and computing capacity on unused
mainframes.

And if you look more closely, the changes in the narrative aren't necessarily as
female friendly as they might seem. Cameron and Donna may be enacting their own
version of Joe and Gordon's quest from Season 1 -- when the two men, with the
women's crucial help, developed a sleek new clone of an IBM personal computer --
but they're doing it as squabbling den mothers, not as raging visionaries. Joe
and Gordon were going to change the world by making the power of computers
personal and portable; they were building machines. Cameron and Donna are doing
it the soft way, designing games and, in Donna's case, building communities.
(Did anyone actually say that in 1985?) In future episodes, their arcs will
develop in family- and child-oriented ways that may be perfectly realistic but
won't win any points for breaking down gender stereotypes.

(One positive note: So far, there hasn't been a recurrence of last season's
motif of Cameron's needing to hop into bed with the nearest available man
whenever she faced code-writer's block.)

What's more interesting, in terms of how the writers and producers tackle the
show's particular dramatic challenges, is how the work being done inside that
Dallas house is presented. ''Halt and Catch Fire'' never gets into the tech too
deeply -- when the characters discuss the specifics of what they're building,
they tend to talk faster, as if they're hoping we won't be able to make out what
they're saying. But one thing you can count on is that the biggest issues in
personal computing in the mid-1980s -- desktop publishing, say, or semiconductor
design or the introduction of Windows -- will rarely come up as more than
asides.

The issues that do get prominence -- start-up culture, networked gaming,
first-person shooters, chat rooms as a precursor of social media -- have
something in common: They weren't at the top of many minds in 1985, but they all
resonate with the Internet culture that was still a decade away and that can't,
with any credibility, be worked into the story.

The birth of personal computing seems like an easy subject for drama, but
throughout the run of ''Halt and Catch Fire'' it's felt as if the show's
creators and writers have been shying away from the real history they've taken
on. And maybe they're right to do so -- the Internet has so completely
supplanted our consciousness of the previous stage of technology that the PC era
seems to have taken place in some strange time warp, more ancient than ''Wolf
Hall.''

The answer, then, is to play down the science -- which might have been the
answer in any case -- and play up the ''Mad Men''-style period soap opera.
''Halt and Catch Fire'' has mostly been a domestic drama about absent 1960s and
'70s fathers and their broken children who find solace sitting up all night
during the '80s solving technological puzzles. The good news about Season 2 is
that it's loosened up a little, letting more humor into the mix, and that it's
kept around one of those father figures: John Bosworth, the good-old-boy mentor
to Cameron and Joe, who, as played by Toby Huss, makes the show feel 50 percent
more real every time he's on screen. Whether the women or the men are running
things, it's Boz who might keep you watching.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/television/halt-and-catch-fire-on-amc-swi
tches-gears-in-its-new-season.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kerry Bishé as a hardware whiz in ''Halt and Catch Fire.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DUCREE/AMC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS
(78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (76%); CHAT
ROOMS (72%); WRITERS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Was Warned of System Open to Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E.
Sanger and Julie Hirschfeld Davis reported from Washington, and Nicole Perlroth
from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words


WASHINGTON --  The inspector general at the Office of Personnel Management,
which keeps the records and security clearance information for millions of
current and retired federal employees, issued a report in November that
essentially described the agency's computer security system as a Chinese
hacker's dream.

But by the time the report was published, Chinese hackers had already cleaned
out tens of thousands of files on sensitive security clearances, and were
preparing for a much broader attack that ultimately obtained detailed personal
information on at least four million current and former government employees.
Even today, the agency is struggling to patch numerous vulnerabilities.

A number of administration officials on Friday painted a picture of a government
office struggling to catch up, with the Chinese ahead of them at every step.

The agency did not possess an inventory of all the computer servers and devices
with access to its networks, and did not require anyone gaining access to
information from the outside to use the kind of basic authentication techniques
that most Americans use for online banking. It did not regularly scan for
vulnerabilities in the system, and found that 11 of the 47 computer systems that
were supposed to be certified as safe for use last year were not ''operating
with a valid authorization.''

The problems were so severe for two systems that hosted the databases used by
the Federal Investigative Service, which is responsible for the background
investigations for officials and contractors who are issued security clearances,
that the inspector general argued for temporarily shutting them down because the
security flaws ''could potentially have national security implications.''

Hackers in China apparently figured that out months before the report was
published. Last summer a breach was detected that appeared aimed directly at the
security clearance records -- information that could help a determined hacker
gain access to email or other accounts belonging to those entrusted with the
nation's secrets.

While upgrades were underway, a much broader attack occurred, apparently
starting in December. Before it was detected, personal information on at least
four million people was apparently downloaded by a patient, well-equipped
adversary -- and the number is likely to grow.

As one senior former government official who once handled cyberissues for the
administration, who would not speak on the record because it could endanger the
person's role on key advisory committees, said on Friday, ''The mystery here is
not how they got cleaned out by the Chinese. The mystery is what took the
Chinese so long.''

Researchers and government officials have determined that the Chinese group that
attacked the office was probably the same one that seized millions of records
held by the health care firms Anthem and Primera. Based on the forensics,
experts believe the attackers were not part of the People's Liberation Army,
whose Third Department oversees much of the military's cyberintelligence
gathering. Rather they believe the group is privately contracted, though the
exact affiliation with the Chinese government is not known.

For the Obama administration, which came to office holding East Room events on
cybersecurity and pressing Congress, for years, to pass legislation that would
allow the private sector to share information with the government, what has
happened at the Office of Personnel Management can only be described as a case
study in bureaucratic lethargy and poor security practices.

In the most egregious case cited by the inspector general, outsiders entering
the system were not subjected to ''multifactor authentication'' -- the systems
that, for example, require a code that is sent to a cellphone to be entered
before giving access to a user. Asked about that in an interview, Donna Seymour,
the chief information officer at the Office of Personnel Management, said that
installing such gear in the government's ''antiquated environment'' was
difficult and very time consuming, and that her agency had to perform ''triage''
to determine how to close the worst vulnerabilities.

The agency now plans to install two-step authentication across its network, Ms.
Seymour said. A longtime data security official, she also defended the decision
to ignore the inspector general's advice to shut down two systems that contain
the security clearance information. Ms. Seymour said that the investigators were
using an outdated assessment of the security measures -- and that the agency was
in the process of getting tighter controls when the intrusion happened. Another
senior official said that with the agency under pressure to clear a huge backlog
of security clearances, halting the process was ''a nonstarter'' with Congress.

During the installation of new security scanning software, officials said, they
found evidence of the broad downloading of millions of files.

But administration officials said a lack of management focus on the problems
contributed to the slow response -- combined with a lack of focus on protecting
systems that are not part of the national security infrastructure but that
contain large amounts of data. And a number of administration officials in
interviews on Friday painted a picture of Chinese adversaries who appear to be
building huge databases of information on American citizens, useful for
intelligence gathering and other purposes.

''They didn't go to sell the data, which is what criminal groups usually do,''
said James Lewis, an expert at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies. ''It's biographic databases that really give an intelligence benefit --
and that get into an opponent's skin.'' Such databases indicate where a
government official was posted, and security clearance information would list
their foreign contacts -- useful if there was an effort to track down Chinese
citizens in contact with Americans.

The chronology of attacks against American targets matches China's stated
economic and strategic objectives, members of Congress were told in briefings
held by the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies. ''I'm angry and
frustrated that we are at a place where this kind of attack can be successful,''
said Rep. Jim Langevin, a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on both a subcommittee
on cyberissues and the Armed Services Committee. The attackers, he said, ''could
have been inside the systems for weeks or months.'' In fact, investigators
believe they were there for at least three months, before being detected in
April.

Government officials in the United States have been tracking several such
privately contracted Chinese groups since 2008 and believe they operate at the
behest of the state. One, based out of Guangzhou in southern China, has been
tied to thousands of attacks on victims in the United States, Britain, Canada,
Europe, Russia and Africa that develop missile, satellite, space and nuclear
propulsion technology.

At the White House, officials were struggling to explain on Friday how the
breach could have happened after warnings from the inspector general and others.
Michael Daniel, the White House's top cyberofficial, declined to speak on the
record about the attack, and Lisa Monaco, who has been handling cyberissues as
one of Mr. Obama's top national security officials, declined to be interviewed.

''The threat that we face is ever-evolving,'' said Josh Earnest, the White House
press secretary. ''We understand that there is this persistent risk out there.
We take this very seriously.''

Mr. Earnest said Mr. Obama's efforts to push legislation would bolster the
nation's data.

''We need the United States Congress to come out of the Dark Ages and actually
join us here in the 21st century to make sure that we have the kinds of defenses
that are necessary to protect a modern computer system,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/chinese-hackers-may-be-behind-anthem-premer
a-attacks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers outside the Office of Personnel Management. Its computer
system was hit by attackers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES LAWLER DUGGAN/REUTERS) (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL SERVICES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%);
INFORMATION SECURITY VULNERABILITIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES
(78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COMPUTING &
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (73%);
ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); NETWORK
SERVERS (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); FORENSICS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION
(60%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Breaking the Mold in Russia's Art World

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words


MOSCOW -- Members of the relatively small modern art clan in Moscow still
vividly recall the opening party for the Garage Center for Contemporary Culture
seven years ago. Amy Winehouse stumbled around onstage, the caterer was imported
from London, and the worlds of global art, fashion and fabulous Russian wealth
converged here as never before.

In the years since, the center has morphed into a cutting-edge fixture of the
art scene, rechristening itself as a museum along the way. As the Garage Museum
of Contemporary Art labors to open its permanent home on Wednesday -- a derelict
restaurant from the Soviet era retrofitted in a design by Rem Koolhaas -- the
organizers were undecided about whether to host a party beyond a spectacular
ribbon-cutting ceremony. ''The emphasis is on the art,'' said Daria Kotova, the
spokeswoman for the Garage.

That may be. But the Garage, viewed as the most substantial private museum
created in Russia since the 1917 Communist revolution, carved out a place for
itself here not through art alone but through a groundbreaking approach to
operating as a Russian museum.

The Russian businesswoman and collector Dasha Zhukova opened the Garage in 2008
with the backing of her husband, the oil billionaire Roman A. Abramovich. She
brought Modern and contemporary art to Russia that people here would not have
seen otherwise, including works by Mark Rothko, Christian Marclay and Marina
Abramovic.

Russia has an astounding trove of museums, but many take a cavalier attitude
toward the public. Aging guards often treat visitors as if they were suspects,
education programs are rare, and cafeterias are an afterthought at best.

The Garage attracted a young, hip audience by making itself a destination. It
created education programs, especially for children; a popular restaurant; a
bookstore selling unusual books published by the museum itself; and a public
library dedicated solely to art. Its guards, renamed mediators, were coached to
smile and to explain the artworks.

''From the start, this institution was not only showing blue-chip, important,
expensive art from around the globe,'' said Valentin Diaconov, an art critic for
the newspaper Kommersant. ''They also tried to be as anti-museum-institution as
you can be in Russia. You get the weirdness and the coffee.''

Yet some resent that the Garage is often presented as an oasis in an art desert,
calling its appeal a matter of public relations.

''It is not the stores and restaurants which determine the quality of the
museum,'' Marina Loshak, the new director of the state-run Pushkin Museum of
Fine Arts, in Moscow, said in an interview. ''We would like to get a share of
their young visitors, and they dream about having our experienced, educated
visitors.''

Ms. Loshak is supervising a seven-year $425 million effort to add 11 buildings
to the Pushkin. It still lacks a cafe for the moment. While praising Garage, she
bridled at the idea that it was setting the standard for all Russian museums.
The Pushkin attracted just under two million visitors last year, versus 300,000
at the Garage, the Garage's director, Anton Belov, acknowledged.

Valery Orlov, a contemporary artist who works with handmade paper and
photography and toiled underground in Soviet times, is among those for whom the
Garage has always been more scene than substance.

''This is more a social idea than an artistic idea,'' he said. ''The problem is
that about 10 to 15 years ago, a lot of girlfriends of rich men began to pay
attention to contemporary art. It is something of a tradition that if you are a
rich banker, then your girlfriend opens a gallery.''

Mr. Orlov, whose work has been showcased by the Pushkin and elsewhere, added,
''It seems like they don't really have a feel for what they are doing.''

In Russia, contemporary art is a tough sell: the state condemned experimental
art forms for decades. So the long-term question is whether the Garage can
attract a wider audience.

The museum's new home sits in Gorky Park, reclaimed in recent years by
middle-class Muscovites from the wastrels and cheap carnival rides it had been
known for. The $27 million renovated building, which measures nearly 65,000
square feet, is a makeover of the once-beloved and then abandoned 1,200-seat
restaurant known as Vremena Goda (''Seasons of the Year''). ''It's grand in its
proportions and very modest in its materials,'' Ms. Zhukova said in a Skype
interview from France. ''I think the beautiful symmetry is really striking
there.''

Preserving the two-story oblong structure, built in the 196os, proved arduous.
Even the opening is coming down to the last minute. More than 400 workers are
laboring around the clock to finish before some 1,500 guests arrive, and museum
officials declined to allow including around 300 international art-world
luminaries.

Mr. Koolhaas and his firm, OMA, sought to maintain what he termed the ''Soviet
generosity'' of the interior proportions, said Kate Fowle, the Garage's chief
curator, to honor an often overlooked architectural style. The exterior walls
are being replaced with a translucent polycarbonate shell to entice park
visitors. Two monumental paintings commissioned from the Russian artist Erik
Bulatov that include the phrase ''Come to Garage!'' will be visible from
outside.

Instead of a permanent collection, the Garage will be built around archives
acquired by the museum, mainly from the 1950s onward. They will be used to
construct a framework or ''family tree'' of Russian contemporary art. It is a
daunting task because so many underground artworks from the Soviet era simply
disappeared.

In the years since it was founded, the Garage has shifted from being an outpost
of the globalized art world to a place whose own curators can organize shows
through research conducted in-house. The opening of its permanent home is meant
to cement that transition.

The Garage should be both a window on important art from abroad and a place to
show how Russian contemporary art connects to the rest of the world, Ms. Fowle
said. ''It is kind of a two-way thing, rather than it being a platform for what
is happening elsewhere,'' she said.

Ms. Zhukova and Mr. Abramovich collect contemporary art from other countries
that the Garage may one day house, but for the moment their art collection will
not be melded with the museum's holdings, she said.

The two are footing about two-thirds of the museum's $13 million to $15 million
annual budget. The remainder will come from sponsors and museum revenue.

Mr. Belov, the director, and others said that it was important to diversify the
financing. ''If you want to be a good institution that people believe in, it
cannot be only a one-family project,'' he said. ''This is not stable because the
political situation always changes.''

The opening is built around eight exhibits, with a big emphasis on the museum's
large archival collection as well as a few renowned international artists. A
Louise Bourgeois retrospective is scheduled to open in September.

Four presentations are rooted in ''field research'' from the archives, like one
tracing how Arab and African filmmakers were influenced by studying in the
Soviet Union. The photography will include images from the archive of George
Kiesewalter, a Russian artist who documented Moscow's underground art movement
of the 1970s and '80s, that have never been exhibited. There will be
installations by Yayoi Kusama of Japan and Katharina Grosse of Germany.

Cardboard columns support a pavilion that was designed by the Japanese architect
Shigeru Ban and has housed the Garage since 2012. The museum will exhibit Ms.
Grosse's work there until September, and the pavilion will then be demolished.

A team of 12 curators from the Museum of Modern Art in New York is expected at
Wednesday's opening along with a phalanx of museum directors, collectors,
designers and others. Given tensions with the West over Russia's invasion of
Ukraine, which has led to the cancellation of some museum exchanges, the
anticipated turnout is considered striking.

Among the awaited guests are Thomas P. Campbell, the director of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art; Eli Broad, the entrepreneur and art collector; the
artist Jeff Koons; and the movie producer Harvey Weinstein. Others expected
include Sheikha Mayassa al-Thani, Qatar's museum and culture impresario;
François Pinault, the French businessman and collector who controls Christie's;
and the designer Miuccia Prada and Patrizio Bertelli, Prada's chief executive,
who run their own art foundation.

By opening a permanent home for the Garage, Ms. Zhukova said, she hopes to
''connect the history of Russian contemporary art internally, and then to
broaden it, to connect it to the broader international context of contemporary
art.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/design/russias-expanded-garage-aims-to-be
-a-global-art-player.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anton Belov, director of the Garage Museum of Contemporary Art,
in its new home in Moscow, designed by Rem Koolhaas in a makeover of a 1960s
restaurant. (C1)
Dasha Zhukova, who founded the Garage with the backing of Roman A. Abramovich.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A rendering of the new $27 million home of the Garage Museum of Contemporary
Art in Gorky Park. The institution says it aims to construct a ''family tree''
of Russian contemporary art. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF OMA) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CATERING SERVICES (78%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CHILDREN (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%);
BOOKSTORES (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LIBRARIES (62%); RETAILERS (62%); PUBLIC
LIBRARIES (62%)

PERSON: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (56%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Frenchman in Vegetative State Can Be Taken Off Life Support, Court Rules

BYLINE: By AURELIEN BREEDEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 365 words


PARIS -- A 38-year-old Frenchman who is in a vegetative state after being
paralyzed in a car accident seven years ago can legally be taken off life
support, the European Court of Human Rights ruled on Friday.

The case of Vincent Lambert, who is hospitalized in Reims, has torn his family
apart and been at the center of debates on end-of-life decisions in France.

The court, based in Strasbourg, upheld a previous ruling by the Conseil d'État,
France's top administrative court, saying that ending Mr. Lambert's artificial
nutrition and hydration did not violate Article 2 of the European Convention on
Human Rights, which deals with the right to life.

The court noted that Mr. Lambert's condition was characterized last year as
vegetative and that testimony submitted to the Conseil d'État ''was sufficiently
precise to establish what Vincent Lambert's wishes had been.''

Mr. Lambert's wife, Rachel, had maintained that her husband did not want to be
kept alive in a vegetative state. ''There is no relief, no joy to express,'' Ms.
Lambert told reporters in Strasbourg after the ruling. ''We would like his will
to be done.''

But Mr. Lambert's parents, who do not believe that their son is in an
end-of-life situation, expressed outrage. ''This is a scandal,'' Mr. Lambert's
mother, Viviane, told reporters on the steps of the courthouse. ''We are here to
take care of our son, and we will continue to do so.''

Euthanasia is illegal in France, but a 2005 law permits doctors to stop
treatment under certain circumstances after consulting with families. The French
Parliament is considering a bill that would not legalize euthanasia, but would
give terminally ill patients the right to request heavy sedation until the onset
of death.

In its ruling, the court also said that French legislation on end-of-life
procedures was sufficiently clear and that in the absence of consensus among
Council of Europe member states on the matter, ''states must be afforded a
margin of appreciation.''

The European Court of Human Rights was set up by the Council of Europe, an
international organization with 47 member states that defends human rights in
Europe and is separate from the European Union.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/frenchman-in-vegetative-state-can
-be-taken-off-life-support-court-rules.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); DEATH & DYING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
(90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (90%); ASSISTED
SUICIDE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION
INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING WILLS (78%); PARALYSIS
(78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); FAMILY (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); FRENCH
PARLIAMENT (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS
(54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (84%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (89%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ruth Feldman, a Quiz Kid Who Later Distilled the Experience in a Book, Dies at
80

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1094 words


The question was reasonably obscure -- What was the last opera in Wagner's
''Ring'' cycle? -- but Ruthie Duskin knew the answer.

'' 'The Dusk of the Gods,' '' she intoned into the microphone.

A fellow panelist leapt to correct her.

''It's Gott-dam ... Gott-dam,'' he stammered, as the producers of the live radio
broadcast winced.

''He means the German name, Götterdämmerung,'' Ruthie interrupted. ''But in
English, it's what I said.'' She was 7 years old.

Ruth Duskin Feldman, who died on May 18 at 80, was a regular panelist, and
perhaps the best known of the comparatively few girls, on ''The Quiz Kids,'' the
torrentially popular show of the 1940s. Broadcast nationwide from Chicago on
NBC, it tested its young combatants weekly with rigorous questions in math,
science, literature and much else. (''What would I be carrying home,'' one
question ran, ''if I brought an antimacassar, a dinghy, a sarong and an
apteryx?'')

Ruthie joined the show at 7 in 1941, about a year and a half into its run. She
remained for nine years, appearing in 146 episodes on radio and 11 on television
after ''The Quiz Kids'' moved there in 1949.

In adult life a freelance writer, editor and lecturer focusing on child
development, Mrs. Feldman was one of the Quiz Kids who emerged relatively
unscathed from the immense celebrity and rigorous intellectual pressure the show
engendered.

Not all of them did, and in middle age -- partly in tribute to them, partly to
answer her own lingering questions about the show's effect on its young stars,
-- she sought them out. The result was a book that combined memoir, historical
narrative and longitudinal study: ''Whatever Happened to the Quiz Kids? Perils
and Profits of Growing Up Gifted'' (1982).

The young panelists of ''The Quiz Kids'' quickly supplanted the Dionne
quintuplets as small objects of international fascination -- doted on by adults,
snubbed by their peers and swooned over by advertisers. Their pictures were
published in newspapers and magazines; they were buttonholed by strangers,
autograph books at the ready; they appeared in Hollywood shorts, received
mountains of fan mail and made coast-to-coast whistle stops to sell war bonds.

With her apple cheeks, blond sausage curls and almost preternatural command of
literature -- and later chemistry -- Ruthie became an audience favorite.

''Ruthie is a Chicago fifth grader,'' The New York Times reported rapturously in
1944, ''who can tell you the plot of any Shakespearean play, opera libretto or
Bible story, and who once mildly humiliated five University of Chicago
professors in a spelldown by naming the 12 sons of Jacob.''

She wrote her first book, ''Chemi, the Magician,'' at 13, while still a
panelist. (Published by Dodd, Mead & Company, it is a children's adventure story
centering on chemistry.) She sang a duet with Bing Crosby, sat on Chico Marx's
lap and saw her likeness grace a welter of merchandise. (''Imagine playing with
a paper doll of yourself?'' Mrs. Feldman wrote. ''I did.'') Jack Benny once
spent actual money to buy her a gold ring.

Ruth Sondra Duskin was born in Chicago on June 13, 1934. Her father, Boris, was
a high school chemistry teacher; her mother, the former Rita Schayer, was a poet
and homemaker. The household was awash in books, music, culture and science, and
in 1941 Mrs. Duskin wrote to ''The Quiz Kids,'' proposing Ruthie for the panel.

When she was accepted, her parents, not wanting to cultivate a pocket prima
donna, did not tell her that ''The Quiz Kids'' went out over the radio. Until a
classmate spoke of having heard the broadcast, Ruthie thought the show was a
playlet, enacted only for its studio audience.

After leaving ''The Quiz Kids'' at 16, its mandatory retirement age, she entered
Northwestern University, from which she earned a bachelor's degree in political
science in 1954. She had wed her college sweetheart, Gilbert Feldman, the year
before and soon settled into marriage, motherhood and, eventually, writing for a
suburban Chicago newspaper chain.

But as the years went by, Mrs. Feldman was nettled by a vague discontent.

''I felt I should be making more of a name for myself on a national stage,'' she
told The Boston Globe in 2005. ''And I think that expectation went back to all
the acclaim I got as a child.''

She realized that she would have to come to terms with her life as a Quiz Kid.

''It's not cool being labeled a brain, especially for girls,'' Mrs. Feldman told
The Times in 1982. ''I tried to compartmentalize my life into Quiz Kid and not.
Perhaps that's why I married at 19 and took my husband's name, the anonymity.
Was I taking refuge? Perhaps. I remember as I was growing up, changing the
subject when the Quiz Kids were brought up. Often, when I was asked, I turned
off completely.''

She tracked down as many fellow panelists as she could. One, Gerard Darrow, the
ornithological prodigy who knew at once that an apteryx is a flightless bird of
New Zealand, had met a forlorn end: After eking out a living, battling
alcoholism and ending up on welfare, he died of kidney failure in 1980, at 47.

But as Mrs. Feldman found, most Quiz Kids, though ambivalent about the show, had
turned out remarkably well. They included a network television producer, a
diplomat, college professors, several actors, a Nobel laureate (James D. Watson,
who with Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins mapped the molecular structure of
DNA) and a Jesuit priest.

As she spoke with many of them and interviewed others by questionnaire, Mrs.
Feldman realized, she wrote, that she too was among those whom the experience
had ultimately bolstered.

Her other publications include the textbooks ''Human Development,'' with Diane
E. Papalia and Sally Wendkos Olds; ''A Child's World: Infancy Through
Adolescence,'' with the same co-authors; and a revised edition of ''Whatever
Happened to the Quiz Kids?,'' published in 2013. Mrs. Feldman edited the journal
Humanistic Judaism for more than 30 years.

She lived in Highland Park, Ill. Besides her husband, her survivors include a
younger sister, Bunny Shuch, an occasional Quiz Kid; a son, Steven; two
daughters, Laurie Feldman and Heidi Feldman; and eight grandchildren. Heidi
Feldman confirmed her mother's death, which occurred in Ontario, Calif., while
she was visiting family. The cause, apparently, was heart failure.

''If I had the opportunity to relive my childhood, would I choose to be a Quiz
Kid?,'' Mrs. Feldman asks in her book. ''It's a moot question. What I know is
this: I am who I am, and the past is history -- my history.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/ruth-feldman-a-quiz-kid-who-later-distill
ed-the-experience-in-a-book-dies-at-80.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); OPERA (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%);
RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); CHILDREN (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL
LITERATURE (72%); RELIGION (72%); WRITERS (72%); ADULTS (69%); FREELANCE
EMPLOYMENT (64%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Triple Crown Possibility Keeps Registers Ringing

BYLINE: By NOAH REMNICK; Colleen Wright contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 789 words


The spectators who crowd into Belmont Park for the final leg of the Triple Crown
like to dress for the occasion. They don pastel sun dresses and straw fedoras.

At the Talk of the Town delicatessen, just across the Hempstead Turnpike in
Elmont, N.Y., the garb is far less resplendent. The line for lunch, which in
recent days has snaked across the counter and into the aisles, presents an array
of decidedly muted tones: the navy blue uniforms of local police officers; the
green vests of ticket takers; the sullied khaki pants of the racetrack's
groundskeepers.

These people will be working rather than partying at the racetrack on Saturday,
when the prospect of American Pharoah becoming a Triple Crown winner will draw
even larger crowds than usual. In fact, they have been here for weeks, preparing
the park for the race and, during their stay, helping the surrounding economy.

David Matos, the owner of the deli, knows ''about 95 to 98 percent'' of his
year-round customers by name, order of choice and how they take their coffee.
The regulars have to make room for the visitors in the weeks leading up to the
Belmont Stakes, as the neighborhood swells with the extra workers who come to
prepare the track, stock supplies and pamper the equine and human stars of the
annual race. Mr. Matos has to triple his usual staff of four people to deal with
the onslaught. His wife, Diana, and his children, Alixandria, 16, and Sebastian,
14, get pressed into service, too, which, he said, is a good thing, because
otherwise he might not see them for days on end.

''Of course there are people with money at the track, but these guys are here
seven days a week,'' Mr. Matos said, as he prepared a salad for Tony, a regular
customer who works at the park. ''All the guys who work the gate, they order
sandwiches, the guys in the paddock order trays of food, maintenance guys, all
of them. January through March the economy is tough, but not now.'' During this
fruitful period, he said, that means a 50 percent uptick in business.

Like Mr. Matos, Abby Solanke knows her regulars and how they like things done,
in her case, their hair. Since 2000, Ms. Solanke has owned Abby's Beauty Salon
on Hempstead Turnpike, the community's main commercial strip, and her own
cascade of curls is an advertisement for her work. The weeks leading up to the
race also provides her with steady customers. The women who work at the track,
the ticket takers and the concessionaires, the maintenance workers and
administrative assistants, settle into the salon seats to get their hair
braided, blown and cut.

But unlike Mr. Matos, on race day, Ms. Solanke can pretty much close her shop.
The streets in the neighborhood are choked by cars with out-of-state plates, and
locals tend to hole up in their homes waiting for the last stragglers to board
the Long Island Rail Road. ''Race day is chaos, but it's good for us in the long
run because we get business from all of the extra workers,'' Ms. Solanke said.

Ahmed Albarati is not a gambling man. He said he has never gone up to the
windows at the track and put money down on a trifecta or a horse with long odds,
hoping for a lucky payday. But Mr. Albarati is placing a big bet on Belmont and
its surrounding neighborhood. Just recently he took out a lease where the Smart
Stop deli had shut its doors for lack of business, down the block from where
Victoria's Diner and the Marco Polo Grill closed. He plans to open a convenience
store any week now. Were it not for Belmont, he said, ''I wouldn't have tried
opening up around here.''

Belmont Racetrack is officially located in Nassau County, but it is just over
the line from Queens, and the area reflects the disparate financial fortunes of
the two areas. The neighborhood is both relatively financially comfortable and
struggling: The 2012 census shows that Elmont had a median household income of
$85,672, with 6.9 percent of the population living at or below the poverty
level. But on the other side of the Cross Island Parkway, in Queens Village,
which is in New York City, the median household income was $68,890 and the
poverty level twice as high.

The Belmont Stakes is nicknamed the Test of the Champion, for it is there that
contenders who have won both the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness become either
legends or footnotes. ''It's all amplified when there's a Triple Crown threat,''
Mr. Matos said.

For the owners of local businesses, Belmont presents a different sort of test --
they need to keep up with the heightened pace around the Belmont Stakes, but
more important, they need to keep solvent the rest of the year.

''We wish 90,000 people came every day of the year,'' said Muzzio Tallini,
president of the Elmont Chamber of Commerce.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/a-triple-crown-possibility-keeps-regi
sters-ringing-around-belmont-park.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Matos, owner of the Talk of the Town deli in Elmont, N.Y.,
said he had to triple his staff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%);
POLICE FORCES (75%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pulses Are Zooming, and Opinions Are Flying

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON HORSE RACING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 725 words


Conspiracy theorists, soothsayers and experts of all stripes feel truly at home
in few places. The racetrack is one of these premier locales. The times when
this assemblage of dreamers balances anxiety and gloom, hope and despair with
the fervor of true believers are rarer still. The eve of a Triple Crown bid is
such a time.

It was a wonderful day at the racetrack Friday as theories and opinions about
the prospect of American Pharoah's winning the 147th running of the Belmont
Stakes and sweeping thoroughbred racing's holy grail were lobbed and volleyed
with the enthusiasm of junior tennis players on the opening day of the United
States Open.

They started in the morning on the backside, drifted onto the rail by early
afternoon, and worked their way up to the third-floor clubhouse bar and finally
to the press box.

''He's the best horse of his generation'' was smacked back with ''He can't get
the distance,'' which led to ''Pharoah will win by daylight'' and, finally, ''He
won't hit the board.''

People agreed on only two things: One, it has been far too long to have not
minted another Triple Crown champion; and two, some of the arguments will be
validated by 7 p.m. or so on Saturday after American Pharoah runs a mile and a
half and either passes or fails the Test of the Champion, as the Belmont is
known.

Those who believe American Pharoah will succeed lean on the fact that he was the
2-year-old champion last year, meaning he was stamped as the best of his
generation, as were six of the last seven Triple Crown champions, including the
last one, Affirmed in 1978. They are confident in the men who train and ride
American Pharoah.

Bob Baffert is a Hall of Fame trainer who has been in this situation on three
previous occasions, and his rider Victor Espinoza has been twice before, just
last year in fact. The feeling is that they have learned a great deal from those
experiences, from the best way to condition a horse for the grueling three-race,
five-week schedule to when exactly in the race to move him on this distinct
mile-and-a-half oval with its sweeping turns and sandy surface.

Then there's the fact that American Pharoah has looked as good in person here as
he does on paper. He is a ripped, muscled bay colt with an efficient stride that
floats him around the racetrack like an old soul. His connections and backers
contend that American Pharoah has actually kept his weight, maybe even gained a
few pounds, which indicates that the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness did not
take much out of him.

In short, he is the one to end the drought.

The doubters of American Pharoah argue that in what most agree is a deep crop of
3-year-olds, it is too early to proclaim him the best. He went all-out to win
the Derby by a length, benefited from a sudden drenching of Pimlico Race Course
to give him his preferred running surface in the Preakness, and lacks the
pedigree to go this long distance.

They concede that Baffert and Espinoza are seasoned but wonder how much either
has learned. For the fourth time, Baffert trained his Triple Crown contender at
Churchill Downs in Kentucky rather than getting him acclimated here. The last
three Triple Crown winners, Affirmed, Seattle Slew and Secretariat, were New
York-based horses. And why wouldn't Espinoza come here a couple of weeks early,
pick up some mounts and increase his knowledge of the local track?

Finally, a couple of other fresh and accomplished horses are here, namely the
Florida Derby winner Materiality and the Wood Memorial champion Frosted.

They overcame terrible trips to finish strong in Kentucky -- Materiality sixth,
Frosted fourth. They are based here and are impressive-looking specimens. Both
have classic distance pedigrees that scream that they will still be running that
last quarter of a mile.

So, who is going to win?

If I knew, these words would not be appearing on your phone or tablet or
computer screen, or rustling on the paper between your hands. (Life would
instead be about private jets and islands and -- let's stop there.)

It is a horse race, pure and simple. Some horse and rider are going to get
lucky; another couple are going to taste misfortune. Some of us will be right;
most of us will be wrong.

No matter what happens, with a little luck, we all will be back here on a Friday
a year from now, doing it all over again.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/pulses-are-zooming-and-opinions-are-fly
ing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Pharoah, bathing after a workout Friday, has impressed
observers this week at Belmont Park. No horse has won the Triple Crown since
1978. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: The Belmont
Draw: Post positions for Saturday's 147th running of the Belmont Stakes.
 A Money Horse: Those who are connected to the 3-year-old racing sensation
American Pharoah hit the equivalent of a lottery ticket as he aims to become the
12th Triple Crown champion and the first since Affirmed in 1978 in facing seven
rivals in the $1.5 million Belmont Stakes on Saturday. The rich could get much
richer if American Pharoah, who has banked $3,730,300 for Zayat Stables, owned
by Ahmed Zayat and managed by his son, Justin, can earn the winner's share of
$800,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%);
HORSES (89%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); ATHLETES (75%); TENNIS (75%); SPORTS (75%);
RUNNING (58%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minnesota Archdiocese Charged With Mishandling Complaints Against Priest

BYLINE: By MITCH SMITH; Laurie Goodstein contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 852 words


CHICAGO --  Prosecutors in Minnesota filed criminal charges on Friday against
the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis, accusing church
leaders of mishandling repeated complaints of sexual misconduct against a priest
and failing to follow through on pledges to protect children and root out
pedophile clergymen.

The charges and accompanying civil petition, announced by the Ramsey County
prosecutor, John J. Choi, stem from accusations by three male victims who say
that from 2008 to 2010, when they were under age, a local priest, Curtis
Wehmeyer, gave them alcohol and drugs before sexually assaulting them.

The criminal case amounts to a sweeping condemnation of the archdiocese and how
its leaders have handled the abuse allegations -- even after reforms were put in
place by church leaders to increase accountability -- and the charges are among
the most severe actions taken by American authorities against a Catholic
diocese.

''Today, we are alleging a disturbing institutional and systemic pattern of
behavior committed by the highest levels of leadership of the Archdiocese of St.
Paul and Minneapolis over the course of decades,'' Mr. Choi said in a statement.

Mr. Wehmeyer, 50, who was dismissed as a priest in March, was sentenced to five
years in a Minnesota prison in 2013 for criminal sexual conduct and possession
of child pornography. He also has been charged with sex crimes in Wisconsin.

The six criminal charges filed Friday, misdemeanors with a maximum fine of
$3,000 each, accused the archdiocese of failing to protect children. Mr. Choi
also filed a civil petition against the archdiocese that he said was intended to
provide legal remedies to prevent similar inaction from happening again.

The 44-page criminal complaint states that concerns about Mr. Wehmeyer date to
the 1990s, when he was in seminary and supervisors suggested that his past
sexual promiscuity and alcohol abuse made him a poor candidate for the
priesthood.

Fellow clergy members and parishioners voiced repeated concerns about Mr.
Wehmeyer after his ordination in 2001, prosecutors said. The archdiocese allowed
Mr. Wehmeyer to continue as a priest, and even placed him in charge of his own
parish, despite learning about his attempts to pick up young men at bookstores
and his encounters with law enforcement at known ''cruising'' spots where men
were known to meet other men for anonymous sexual encounters.

The charging documents also say that archdiocese officials knew that Mr.
Wehmeyer used a boys' bathroom at a parish elementary school instead of the
staff restroom; tried to give an elementary-age boy a tour of the rectory in
violation of policy; and took camping trips with boys where some of the sexual
abuse was said to have occurred.

The archdiocese placed Mr. Wehmeyer in a monitoring program for priests facing
complaints of abuse or other problems, but prosecutors said in court documents
that the supervision and follow-through was ''lax or nonexistent.''

''The archdiocese's failures have caused great suffering by the victims and
their family and betrayed our entire community,'' Mr. Choi said in his
statement.

Civil cases against the archdiocese and priests have poured in since 2013, when
the Minnesota State Legislature passed the Child Victims Act, which opened a
three-year window for filing lawsuits involving claims of sexual abuse that were
beyond the criminal statute of limitations.

Many people have made such claims since that law's passage, bringing new
attention to decades-old cases, and creating public records of accusations
against some priests.

David Clohessy, director of the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests,
said he was pleased by the indictment, ''but the credit goes to Minnesota
lawmakers, not this prosecutor.''

An auxiliary bishop for the diocese, Andrew Cozzens, said in a statement Friday,
''We deeply regret the abuse that was suffered by the victims of Curtis Wehmeyer
and are grieved for all victims of sexual abuse.''

He added that the archdiocese would continue to cooperate with prosecutors. ''We
all share the same goal: to provide safe environments for all children in our
churches and in our communities,'' Bishop Cozzens said.

Criminal prosecution of an entire Catholic archdiocese is rare, but not entirely
unprecedented, in American courts.

An Ohio judge in 2003 convicted the Archdiocese of Cincinnati of failing to
report sexually abusive priests in the 1970s and '80s. The judge fined the
archdiocese $10,000, the maximum allowed, after the archbishop entered a
no-contest plea.

But the Minnesota allegations are especially stark because the sexual abuse is
said to have occurred relatively recently, long after sexual misconduct by
priests had been widely reported and after Catholic institutions implemented
programs aimed at preventing further abuse.

''Naming the archdiocese as a corporation implicates the wrongdoing and the
failure to protect children by all of the top officials, past and present,''
Jeff Anderson, a lawyer in Minnesota who has represented clergy sex-abuse
victims, said in a statement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/catholic-archdiocese-in-minnesota-charged-o
ver-sex-abuse-by-priest.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); SEXUAL
ASSAULT (91%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PETITIONS
(89%); SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SEMINARIES
(78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (77%);
ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (72%); MEN (71%);
CAMPING (50%)

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (88%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Korean and Gay, Now a 'Double Alien' in the South

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- WHEN the North Korean defector Jang Yeong-jin arrived in
South Korea in 1997, officials debriefed him for five months but still hesitated
to release him. They had one crucial question unanswered: Why did Mr. Jang
decide to risk crossing the heavily armed border between the two Koreas?

''I was too embarrassed to confess that I came here because I felt no sexual
attraction to my wife,'' Mr. Jang said. ''I couldn't explain what it was that
bothered me so much, made my life so miserable in North Korea, because I didn't
know until after I arrived here that I was a gay, or even what homosexuality
was.''

Mr. Jang, 55, is the only known openly gay defector from North Korea living in
the South. His sexual orientation was briefly exposed in 2004, when he lost all
his savings to a swindler and contacted gay rights activists for help. He had
since avoided publicity in South Korea, where homosexuality largely remains
taboo.

Then in late April, Mr. Jang published an autobiographical novel, ''A Mark of
Red Honor.'' In the book and during a recent interview, he described his
experiences as a gay man growing up in the totalitarian North, where the
government maintains that homosexuality does not exist because people there live
with a ''sound mentality and good morals.''

His struggle continued even in the capitalist South, where he said he felt like
a ''double alien'': a North Korean refugee who was also gay.

''In North Korea, no ordinary people conceptually understand what homosexuality
is,'' said Joo Sung-ha, who attended the elite Kim Il-sung University in
Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, in the 1990s and now works as a reporter
for the mass-circulation South Korean daily Dong-A Ilbo. ''In my university,
only half the students may have heard of the word. Even then, it was always
treated as some strange, vague mental illness afflicting subhumans, only found
in the depraved West.''

While North Korea has no laws explicitly prohibiting same-sex relationships, it
is not shy about expressing its homophobia. Last year, for example, it said that
Michael D. Kirby, a former Australian judge who led a United Nations
investigation of human rights abuses in the country, was ''a disgusting old
lecher with a 40-odd-year-long career of homosexuality.''

Mr. Jang said he never heard of homosexuality while growing up in Chongjin on
the eastern coast of North Korea, even when he developed a crush on another boy
named Seon-cheol. They continued their friendship after moving to Pyongyang,
where they attended different colleges.

''When the subway was crowded, I sat on Seon-cheol's lap, and he would hug me
from behind,'' Mr. Jang said. ''People didn't care, thinking we were childhood
friends.''

THE two were separated in 1976, when they joined the military at age 17, where
close physical relationships became a matter of survival.

''In winter, when soldiers were given only two threadbare blankets each and
little heat, it was common for us to find a partner and sleep hugging each other
at night to keep warm,'' Mr. Jang said. ''We considered it part of what the
party called 'revolutionary comradeship.' ''

Other North Korean defectors have reported homosexual behavior in the North
Korean military, where soldiers serve mandatory 10-year tours with few chances
of meeting the opposite sex. When four former female soldiers and police
officers from the North held a news conference in Seoul in April to talk about
the sexual abuse they had witnessed, one of them cited the case of a lesbian
officer preying on new arrivals.

''There was a lot of sexual abuse, like groping at night,'' a former North
Korean military officer, Choe Jong-hun, told Chosun TV, a South Korean cable
channel, in August. ''But we later found ourselves having new recruits lying
beside us.''

In Mr. Jang's front-line unit, he said, officers and senior soldiers bribed him
with apples and food to lure him into their blankets. After performing nighttime
sentry duty in a snowstorm, he said, he would find comfort ''in the bosom'' of
his favorite platoon leader. From across the border, propaganda broadcasts from
South Korea enticed the cold lonesome Communist soldiers to defect, promising
''meat, monthly leaves and pretty women.''

Mr. Jang was discharged from the military in 1982 after contracting
tuberculosis. Back in Chongjin, he worked as a wireless communications official
at the port. In 1987, he wed a mathematics teacher in an arranged marriage.

''Most gay men in the North end up marrying whether they like it or not, because
that's the only way they know,'' Mr. Jang said. ''On the first night of my
marriage, I thought of Seon-cheol and could not lay a finger on my wife.''

After years of childless marriage, the couple heeded relatives' pleas and saw a
doctor to make sure there were no physical problems. There were none. Mr. Jang
filed for divorce but was denied one. His wife also appealed to him to stay,
fearful of losing her teaching job. He re-established ties with Seon-cheol, who
returned from the military, married a nurse and had two children.

The two friends occasionally visited each other, and their wives let them sleep
together, thinking it was a habit from their childhood. One such night, Mr. Jang
slipped out of the blanket he shared with his wife and crawled to Seon-cheol's.
But he said his friend did not respond and kept snoring.

''It was then that I realized that my life was a prison and I had no hope,'' he
said. ''I wanted to fly away like a wild goose. I also wanted to set my wife
free from loveless marriage.''

In the winter of 1996, he swam across an icy river into China. After looking in
vain for 13 months for a passage to South Korea, he slipped back into the North
and crawled cross the border into the South in 1997. He was one of only a
handful of defectors to make it across the mine-strewn frontier. His defection
made headlines.

IN South Korea, officials eventually released him after he spoke of his troubled
marriage. But Mr. Jang still did not fully understand his sexual orientation
until he read an article about gay rights in 1998. It showed pictures of a
same-sex couple kissing and two naked men in bed, and it reported that there
were gay bars in Seoul.

''It was as if lights go on in my world,'' he said.

But Mr. Jang's transition to life in South Korea has been rough. In 2004, a gay
man who promised to be his partner absconded with all his savings. Around this
time, he also learned that three brothers and a sister in the North had died
after the family was banished from their village after his defection.

A North Korean defector who had known Mr. Jang's family in the North said his
wife was also expelled from the village, but was later reinstated. The defector
spoke on the condition of anonymity because he still had family members in the
North.

Mr. Jang makes a living cleaning a building in downtown Seoul from 4 a.m. to 4
p.m. Not an easy life, he admits, but far preferable to his life in the North.

''There are many homosexuals in North Korea who live a miserable life without
even knowing why,'' he said. ''What a tragedy it is to live a life without
knowing who you are.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/north-korea-defector-jang-yeong-jin
-gay.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JANG YEONG-JIN (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN CHUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (76%); LGBT RIGHTS
(74%); REFUGEES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF (73%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%);
NORTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Escalating Demands at Work Hurt Employees and Companies

BYLINE: By TONY SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; LIFE@WORK; Pg.

LENGTH: 1005 words


Earlier this week, I had a call with the chief executive of a $5 billion company
who has traveled four to five days a week for many years. She sounded utterly
exhausted. ''When times get tough,'' she told me, ''the only way I've ever known
is to muscle through. I just can't do it anymore. I've hit bottom. The problem
is that I've been numb for so long, I'm honestly not sure if I can find my way
back to a sane life.''

Last week, I led a session in Europe for a senior team at a large multinational
company whose members were eager to find a solution to the sense of overload and
overwhelm that they and their employees were feeling. The session began at 7:30
a.m., at their request.

Two weeks ago, I spent a day shadowing a senior leader at a Fortune 150 company.
It began with a business review that he conducted with one of his subordinates
and two other colleagues. The meeting ran for four hours without a single break,
even to go the bathroom. It wasn't unusual; it is the way this leader works.

Several weeks ago, I was on a call with a leader I admire, who has made an
honest and admirable effort to make life better for thousands of employees in
his organization. His own boss, he told me, had come to him recently and
requested that he stop focusing so much on how his people were feeling and get
back to business.

I could go on. You get the idea. The demands of work for employees, at multiple
levels across multiple industries, have become untenable.

Several recent reports in The New York Times call attention to this, including
one about the effects of long hours on Wall Street. Another described a recent
study of the insidious effects of a 24/7 work culture on families, and
especially on women's career prospects.

''At the lower end of the employment ladder, nail salon employees not only work
long hours but also make low wages and put their health at risk, The Times
reported.

There is a simple word for this way of working. It's inhumane.

By comparison, white-collar employees working at higher salary jobs plainly have
it better. But that's grading on a curve. If you are paying employees a six- or
seven-figure income, but in return, you are asking them to put in 60, 70, 80 or
even 90 hours a week, what is the toll on their quality of life, and ultimately
on the quality of their work?

It isn't realistic to build sustainable high-performing companies by way of
unsustainable work practices. Meeting people's core needs, rather than simply
trying to squeeze more out of them, is what makes it possible for them to work
more effectively.

When people work an excessive number of hours, they devolve -- meaning they
degenerate inexorably from a higher state of capability and consciousness to a
more primitive, reactive one. Fatigue, as Vince Lombardi so accurately observed,
makes cowards of us all.

Fear is the primary driver of this crisis. Public companies live in morbid fear
of being outflanked by competitors, failing to meet their quarterly targets and
watching helplessly as their stocks are pummeled by impatient investors.

Leaders and managers live in fear of not delivering their numbers and losing
their jobs, so they look constantly for ways to cut expenses -- and head counts
-- which puts ever more pressure on their employees to do more with fewer
resources. It's a vicious, accelerating cycle that serves no one well.

None of this is new. What has changed is the intensity and relentlessness of the
pressure, supercharged by digital life and a global economy that extends the
once finite working day to all hours of day and night.

Employees, in turn, have their rhythms set by the very technology invented to
make their lives easier and free up time. Computers not only operate at high
speeds, continuously, for hours on end. They also run multiple programs at the
same time. We try gamely to keep up, but it's a Sisyphean challenge and we're
doomed to fall behind.

Human beings are not meant to work continuously. We're designed to pulse between
spending and renewing energy, and neither is sufficient by itself. In a culture
of overwork, we fear that any time off will be seen as evidence that we're
slacking -- and that we'll fall further behind in our work.

Slack, I learned this week by attending a Conscious Capitalism conference  in
New York, is actually a potential competitive advantage. Zeynep Ton, a professor
at M.I.T., shared her fascinating research into high-performing retailers. The
single most important factor, she concluded counterintuitively, was ''slack'' --
the degree to which companies put more rather than fewer employees on the floor
at any given time.

Employees operating with some slack, Ms. Ton explained, add value that those
pushed to the limit cannot. They feel better, have more time to spend with
customers, keep closer track of inventory, make fewer mistakes and feel more
highly engaged and committed at work.

Instead, too many fear-driven employers operate from a perspective that is
narrow, shallow and short term, failing to see that encouraging employees to
renew intermittently during the day helps them not only to rest and refuel, but
also to step back, reflect and reprioritize.

After years of studying great performers across a wide range of fields, the
researcher K. Anders Ericsson concluded that the optimal amount of time to
devote to highly focused work is no more than 4.5 hours a day. He also found
that any given period of work should be limited to no more than 90 minutes,
followed by a period of rest.

In short, we perform better when we're truly rested -- whether that means from a
sufficient night's sleep or by renewing throughout a day. Great athletes
consciously manage their work-rest ratios to ensure that they are at their best
when they are actually performing. It's called periodization. We must do the
same to perform at our best.

The culture of overwork is slowly killing us. What will it take for companies to
recognize that humanity -- simply caring about people -- is a huge competitive
advantage?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/dealbook/excessive-demands-at-work-cr
eate-a-humanitarian-crisis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Czech Reality TV Show Makes a Game of Life Under Nazi Rule

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1264 words


PRAGUE -- We have seen toddlers in tiaras, been left ''Naked and Afraid,'' and
met more real housewives than a postman.

But if you thought reality television had reached the boundaries of imagination
and good taste, a show that went on the air in the Czech Republic last week has
opened up a whole new frontier.

In ''Holiday in the Protectorate,'' an eight-part series from Czech public
television, three generations of a real-life family are sent ''back in time'' to
a remote mountain farm in 1939, when German invaders transformed the country
into the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.

There, they must not only survive the rigors of rustic life with outdated
appliances and outdoor plumbing, but navigate the moral and physical dangers of
life under Nazi rule.

German troops (played by actors) kick down their doors in the middle of the
night. Local villagers betray them to the Gestapo. Food is scarce. Conditions
are crude.

If they survive through eight episodes and two months of filming they stand to
win as much as $40,000, depending on how well they perform the weekly tasks
assigned to them, like learning to milk a cow.

While the concept has helped draw a substantial audience by Czech public
television standards -- about 500,000 viewers for the first episode -- it has,
not surprisingly, also stirred intense reactions about mixing such a dark period
in European history into an entertainment format more often associated with the
Kardashians.

''I expected some attention,'' said Zora Cejnkova, the series' director. ''After
all, that's why we do a program. But this has been rather extraordinary.''

The show has been denounced by historians and critics in the Czech Republic and
across the globe.

A typical reaction came from a columnist for The Times of Israel who wrote:
''Fortunately, for the family, they will not be treated like the 82,309 Jews who
lived in the protectorate'' and were deported to concentration and death camps.

This criticism is all wildly unjustified, the show's creators say, based on an
emotional reaction to the idea rather than a viewing of the actual result.

''This is a topic that is kind of controversial, a little bit,'' said Petr
Dvorak, the chief executive of the broadcaster, Czech Television. ''But even
such a serious subject can be perceived in a new way. We can educate people
about life in that period in a way they will actually want to watch.''

Even the title of the series has drawn criticism. The protectorate years were a
brutal and dehumanizing period. It was no holiday.

But that, Ms. Cejnkova said, is the point. It is meant ironically, to convey the
idea that the show will blend fish-out-of-water entertainment with the serious
atmosphere of the time.

''It catches attention and this is why we did it,'' she said.

While criticism of the program has muted somewhat since the episodes began to be
broadcast, many historians and others in the Czech Republic remain skeptical of
the whole idea.

''It has nothing to do with history or telling the stories of that time,'' said
Mikulas Kroupa, director of Post Bellum, a Prague-based nonprofit that records
the memories of those who lived through the war. ''It is just a game.''

Jan Boris Uhlir, a historian who was a paid adviser on the show, defends it.

''I strongly disagree with critics who say that any part of the show was
trivialized,'' he said. ''Of course, we did not go to extremes.''

Ms. Cejnkova said the problem may have been referring to the program as reality
television in the first place. It implies a more frivolous approach, she said. A
better term might be ''docu-reality'' or, as her husband suggested, ''situation
drama.''

True, she said, there are real people who perform tasks to win prizes. And the
show is certainly meant to be entertaining and often funny. But it is also
intended to educate Czech viewers about life during those harsh times.

''We want viewers to ask themselves, 'What would I do in that situation?' '' she
said.

The idea for the program began, Ms. Cejnkova said, when she was thinking about
her own grandmother's memories of Nazi occupation. ''Everything was watched,
monitored, supervised,'' she said.

At the same time, Mr. Dvorak had been thinking of introducing a format known as
''living history'' -- pioneered on British television, but since copied in other
countries -- in which people are transplanted into simulations of historical
periods. And the network was looking for a way to commemorate the 70th
anniversary of the end of World War II.

So ''Holiday in the Protectorate'' was born.

More than 600 families applied to be contestants on the show. They were not told
in exactly which time period the show would take place.

The series was shot over two months last summer at a remote farmstead in the
Beskydy Mountains of eastern Moravia. The first episode's audience of 500,000
viewers, while a large number for public television here, was about half of what
a hit show on commercial television might draw, said Alzbeta Plivova, a
spokeswoman for Czech Television.

Stanislav Kokoska, a historian and expert on the protectorate, said that the
producers might have been wise to choose a different time period.

''The problem is they chose a period that comes with very strong meaning,'' he
said. ''The memories of people who perished during this period are considered
sacred.''

And the idea that it showed how contemporary people would actually react to such
a situation was preposterous, he said.

''They know what the result of the war was,'' he said. ''They know they will not
be killed. So they can play a part and cast themselves as the hero.''

Indeed, there are moments in the show when the family talks back to the Gestapo
officers, something, the historians say, that would rarely have actually
happened. The real consequences of such insolence were immediate and severe.

''It's true, you can't recreate the fear for your life,'' Ms. Cejnkova said.
''And, of course, we didn't want to. It would have been beyond the edge of
ethics.''

The family is contractually forbidden from speaking to the news media until the
series has finished its run.

But Petr Klimes, a Czech stage and television actor who plays the Gestapo chief,
was happy to speak in support of the show.

''I was concerned that it be a good show, otherwise I would not have taken part
in it,'' he said. ''And I think I can verify, from the reactions of my own
children, that it really works. They are learning from it.''

He shouted to his children, Kristian, 10, and Rosalie, 12, to come into the
television room in their suburban house to see the show.

The family is used to their father playing villains -- his skeletal cheeks and
shaved head bring many such roles his way.

The family applauded when it began. When Mr. Klimes appeared in full Gestapo
regalia and began snarling at the TV family, they laughed and pointed at the
screen.

The one aspect of the production that he did find jarring was the presence of a
boy in the family who is the same age as his own son.

''I kept wondering how he was processing this,'' Mr. Klimes said. ''We broke
into the house at one point and ordered everyone out and the little boy did not
know how to behave. I had to take a few steps back and collect my breath.''

At the end of production, there was a wrap party. Mr. Klimes had not been
planning to go, but finally decided he must.

''I had to, because of the little boy,'' he said. ''I had to sort out my own
feelings about how my performance might have affected him. I had to show him
that I was not really that person.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/europe/czech-reality-tv-show-makes-a-gam
e-of-life-under-nazi-rule.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); REALITY TELEVISION
(90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); HISTORY (64%);
EXECUTIVES (63%); WRITERS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%); DEPORTATION (50%)

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (74%)

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

With First-Round Difficulties Forgotten, Blackhawks' Corey Crawford Rights
Himself for the Finals

BYLINE: By TOM SPOUSTA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 717 words


TAMPA, Fla. --  The mood was light around Corey Crawford's locker stall on
Friday. He laughed along with the banter and joked with Chicago television
reporters about their fresh Florida suntans.

Crawford still wore his white-and-red goalie pads and his skates, and when he
stood for interviews, he towered above the crowd while politely turning toward
each questioner -- even the one asking how Crawford had persevered through three
benchings and redeemed the Blackhawks' faith in him during their Stanley Cup
playoff run.

''That's so far gone,'' Crawford said evenly, ''it's not even relevant
anymore.''

He appears so focused now that it is hard to imagine that Crawford was on the
verge of becoming irrelevant, having been benched for three games in the opening
playoff series against Nashville. Doubters may still exist, but Crawford
continued his stellar play in Game 1 of the finals on Wednesday, turning aside
an onslaught by the Tampa Bay Lightning in the first period that should have
buried the lethargic Blackhawks.

''With our team, the game's never over,'' Crawford said. ''We've got enough
firepower with our guys to score goals, so every save is important.''

Instead, he bought enough time -- 55 minutes 29 seconds -- for Chicago to rally
and escape with a 2-1 victory, providing the Blackhawks with a surge of
confidence before Game 2 on Saturday night at Amalie Arena.

''He's answered a lot of questions,'' Coach Joel Quenneville said Friday. ''He
handled a tough situation in the first round. I have to commend him on how he's
been since then. I think the focus is totally in the right place.''

On Wednesday, Crawford faced 23 shots -- 18 of those in the first two periods.
The only goal he allowed came on a spectacular play by Alex Killorn, who swatted
the puck out of midair with his back to the net and sent it through a narrow
opening between Crawford and the post to his left.

''I wasn't in the position I thought maybe I could have been,'' Crawford said.
''It was early in the game. I was still trying to get a little timing. But that
was a great play by him.''

The Lightning proved they could break down Chicago's highly regarded defense and
create quality scoring chances against Crawford, often shooting high.

''I'm not thinking where they're shooting,'' Crawford said. ''Once you start
thinking as a goalie, you're in trouble.''

The bench is an odd place for a goalie who was named to the All-Star team and
tied for the fewest goals allowed in the N.H.L. in the regular season, but that
was where Crawford sat after stunning lapses against Nashville. Quenneville
yanked Crawford after he had allowed three goals on only 12 shots in Game 1, but
Quenneville gave him the start for Game 2. The Predators ripped Crawford for six
goals, and he was harshly criticized by Chicago fans hoping for a third Stanley
Cup in six years.

''I don't think it's in his blood to dwell on the past, no matter what it is,''
Patrick Kane said. ''Once he got the net back, he kind of took over, and it
seemed like he really wanted to take advantage of his time in the net.''

Crawford did not return until Game 6, when the backup Scott Darling was pulled
after allowing three goals on 12 shots. Trailing by 3-1, and with Nashville
looking to force Game 7, the Blackhawks rallied behind Crawford and won, 4-3.

Afterward, center Brad Richards could tell from Crawford's body language that
the Blackhawks had gotten the goalie who had led them to a championship in 2013
back in a good place mentally.

''He got to be part of winning a series again,'' Richards said. ''He felt like
he accomplished something, and that got him back. You could just see it, like:
'Oh, I'm back; I'm back helping the team. Now here we go.' ''

Richards added: ''I don't know what else you want from him. That's why I'm sure
he's O.K. with accomplishing things and catching the flak.''

Crawford sounded unfazed by it all, the compliments bouncing off him like so
many first-round slings and arrows. He has redeemed himself to the point that
another Stanley Cup is in sight and the past is gone and irrelevant.

''Winning before is nice, and you feel great when it happens, but at the same
time, when you get back here, they don't care if we won before,'' he said. ''It
really doesn't matter on the ice.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/sports/hockey/with-first-round-difficulties-fo
rgotten-blackhawks-corey-crawford-rights-himself-for-the-finals.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (94%); TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING (55%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fortuneteller Cost Him Fortune After Fortune

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CRIME SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words


Everyone knows that when a man loves a woman, he can't keep his mind on nothing
else. He'll spend his very last dime. Give up all his comfort, sleep out in the
rain.

But for a 32-year-old man from Brooklyn, those things actually happened, and
much, much more, during his long quest to be reunited with the woman he loved.
Nothing could stop him.

Not evil spirits haunting him from another realm.

Not the sins of his past lives.

Not going broke.

Not even death.

He had an ally in his quest, he said, a fortuneteller who fought the evil
spirits day and night from her storefront in Times Square, according to
accusations that led the police to arrest her last month. The police and the man
said the fortuneteller, Priscilla Kelly Delmaro, 26, had bled him dry over 20
months.

But even New Yorkers who have shaken their heads in disbelief at fortunetelling
scams in the past -- who could fall for that? -- may be surprised by the
outlandish creativity described in this case, the eye-popping payouts the man
made and the almost unfathomable gullibility that it took to get to that number.

Long past the point at which many people would have become suspicious -- the
endless need for special crystals, the time machine, the 80-mile bridge made of
gold, the reincarnation portal -- he kept paying, until he was living his own
grim version of the movie ''Ghost.''

The man, who lives in East Williamsburg but is not named in court documents,
told his story in a written statement prepared with Bob Nygaard, a private
investigator, and presented to detectives at the Midtown South precinct last
month.

In summer 2013, the man was melancholy. He had a good job in marketing, with an
office in New York, some support staff and a growing list of connections. But he
had met a woman in Arizona named Michelle. He was in love. She was not. ''The
girl didn't want to be with me, and the girl had categorically made that
clear,'' he wrote in the statement.

On Aug. 24, 2013, he walked across the Williamsburg Bridge and wound up in front
of 253 West 43rd Street. The neon sign in the window read ''Psychic.''

Ms. Delmaro greeted him and assured him that he and Michelle were ''twin
flames,'' but that negativity was keeping them apart. ''Spirits talk to me,''
she said, according to the man's statement, but there was a price. He paid her
$2,500 and, after a second visit, $9,000 more.

A month later, in September, Ms. Delmaro told him she needed diamonds to protect
his energy. He paid $40,064 for a ring from Tiffany's and gave it to Ms.
Delmaro, who promised he would use it as an engagement ring someday, the man
said.

Michelle lived in Los Angeles. Go to her, Ms. Delmaro said.

He went. He texted Michelle. I'm on a boat, she replied, but let's meet
tomorrow.

''I was ecstatic,'' he wrote. They met and talked and made plans for that night.
But she backed out.

''She felt I had been acting strange,'' he wrote.

Ms. Delmaro told him the trouble had come from a spirit that was stalking him.
She needed $28,000, then $28,000 more. Michelle had grown cold so suddenly, he
thought, that the spirit explanation sounded right, and so he paid.

A month later, Ms. Delmaro suggested they perform a fake funeral ritual to make
the spirit think the man was dead. Another $40,000.

When that didn't work, Ms. Delmaro said she needed a time machine to go back and
cleanse his past. When the man balked, she said a suitable watch would do the
job, and gave him a list of choices. He said he selected one of the cheaper
ones: a rose gold Rolex for $30,000.

In December, Ms. Delmaro said that they had to lure the spirit over a bridge of
gold in the other realm, so that it would become trapped. She said $80,000 would
buy an 80-mile bridge.

Sold.

Ms. Delmaro, it should be noted, promised to return most of the money when her
work was done. By year's end, the bill had reached more than $320,000.

The spirit was crossing the bridge, ''albeit very slowly,'' the man wrote. Then
Ms. Delmaro said they needed a second bridge, for Michelle's spirit, and it
needed to be 10 miles longer than the first one.

''I thought to myself, 'I have the money just sitting in the bank,' '' the man
wrote, paying out $90,000.

Then he made a devastating discovery. On Feb. 17, 2014, he pulled up Michelle's
Facebook page and read the most recent post.

Michelle was dead. She had been for nine days.

(Mr. Nygaard said she died of a possible drug overdose.)

The man, shattered, told Ms. Delmaro. She pivoted. I told you she had evil
spirits, she said. They killed her.

''Delmaro then told me she was going to reincarnate Michelle,'' the man wrote.
The new Michelle ''wouldn't be exactly'' like the old one, but her spirit would
be placed into the body of a 31-year-old woman.

One year and many payouts passed. By then, Ms. Delmaro said she was working so
many hours on his behalf that she had no time to tell fortunes and was behind in
the rent. He sent money -- even borrowing $28,000 from a colleague that he
guaranteed with his future earnings -- until he finally ran out.

I'm broke, he told Ms. Delmaro after selling his car and borrowing from friends
and relatives in addition to the colleague.

The new Michelle was in Los Angeles, she told him. Go find her.

He met a woman in California that Ms. Delmaro later said was the new Michelle.
But the woman was 24, not 31, and Michelle did not seem to be inside her.

He had lost his apartment. He had had enough and returned to New York. He sought
out Mr. Nygaard, and they went to the police in May. Bank statements were given
to detectives: He was out $713,975.

Ms. Delmaro and her companion, Bobby Evans, 27, were arrested on May 26 in a
restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. A steakhouse. They were charged with grand
larceny and remain in jail.

Their lawyer, Jeffrey Cylkowski, denied the man's allegations.

The man recalled his disappointment upon meeting the new Michelle. ''This caused
me to start thinking,'' he wrote, ''that Delmaro wasn't everything she was
purporting to be.''

Email: crimescene@nytimes.com Twitter: @mwilsonnyt




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/he-went-to-the-fortuneteller-now-his-
fortune-is-gone.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Times Square shop from which, the police say, Priscilla
Kelly Delmaro bilked a lovelorn Brooklyn man out of $713,975. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVE SANDERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARRESTS (74%);
BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 79 words


An article on Thursday about the Frick Collection's decision to abandon a
proposed renovation plan that would have eliminated a gated garden referred
incompletely to the production of evidence that under the plan the Frick was
going back on a promise to make the garden permanent. While the coalition United
to Save the Frick produced such evidence last fall, Charles A. Birnbaum,
president of the Cultural Landscape Foundation, earlier called attention to that
commitment.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


Because of an editing error, an art review on Friday about ''The Cybernetic
Fold,'' an exhibition by Harry Dodge at the Wallspace gallery, in Chelsea,
misidentified the profession of Adam Frank, one of the authors of a 1995 essay
that introduced the eponymous term. He is a literary critic, not an
astrophysicist.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (83%); WRITERS (83%);
LITERATURE (83%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


A report in the Sports Briefing column on Wednesday about Commissioner Gary
Bettman's comments on the state of the N.H.L. used an outdated name, in some
editions, for the team Bettman said was in no danger of moving. It is the
Arizona Coyotes, not the Phoenix Coyotes. (The team changed its name in June
2014.)



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX COYOTES (55%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


An article on Friday about Greece's deferral of several payments to the
International Monetary Fund until the end of June misstated the decade during
which Zambia took advantage of the practice of bundling I.M.F. loan payments
into a single sum during a calendar month. It was in the 1980s, not the 1970s.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


An article on Thursday about a judge's ordering the Dalton School in Manhattan
to rehire David Drune, a drama teacher, misidentified the target of a passage in
a letter written by Mr. Brune that led to his firing. The line, ''Apologize for
not being honest, forthright, upstanding, moral, considerate, much less
intelligent or wise,'' referred to school administrators, not just to Ellen
Stein, the head of the school. The article also misstated the judge's surname.
He is Arthur J. Amchan, not Achman.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%);
EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Families of Victims in Ship Sinking Accuse Officials of Trying to Muzzle Anger

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Austin Ramzy contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and
Edward Wong from Wuhan, China. Kiki Zhao, Huang Yufan, Patrick Zuo and Adam Wu
contributed research from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 972 words


BEIJING -- Grieving relatives of the hundreds of people who died in the Yangtze
River cruise ship disaster expressed growing frustration on Friday at the lack
of answers from officials over why the boat capsized during a storm and at the
government's attempts to muzzle their outrage.

Roughly 1,200 relatives of the missing have gathered in Jianli, the city closest
to where the Oriental Star capsized this week with 456 people aboard. During a
news conference on Friday, several distraught family members burst into the room
and demanded to speak to reporters before being ushered out by officials.

A number of victims' relatives have described being trailed by government
minders and instructed not to speak to journalists. And in a letter that family
members distributed to reporters and that was posted online Friday by Phoenix
News, based in Hong Kong, the relatives demanded that the bodies of victims be
returned to them so they could be buried at home, rather than be cremated as
rumored.

''We hope the bodies of our kin can be returned to us,'' said the letter, which
was later deleted online.

State news media reported that 97 bodies of the 442 still missing had been
recovered by Friday morning, when crews using cranes and machinery righted the
ship. By noon Saturday, Xinhua, the official news agency, said that the
confirmed death toll had risen to 396, although it did not say whether all the
bodies had been recovered. The report added that 46 people were still missing.

Chinese state television showed the Oriental Star's top three decks emerging
from the muddy river. A portion of its blue roof was crumpled, though it was
unclear whether the damage occurred when it capsized or during efforts to right
it.

Officials have not given foreign journalists access to any of the 14 people who
managed to escape when the ship overturned Monday night, but Xinhua released
interviews with several of the survivors, including the captain and chief
engineer.

In an account published by Xinhua on Friday, Wu Jianqiang, a 58-year-old
passenger described as an illiterate farmer from Tianjin, said that he and his
wife were in their cabin when rainwater began pouring through the windows.

He said an attendant began making the rounds, urging passengers to move their
beds away from the windows and toward the doors to protect them from water
damage. Moments later, he said, the ship began to tilt, and one of the beds
slid, pinning his wife against a wall.

''I could feel my feet slipping from beneath me, but the bed I was on stayed in
place,'' he said, according to the English version of the article. ''So I
stretched out my hands to my wife, but our fingers never met.''

''Then the rug struck me on my head, and I knew the ship must have capsized,''
he said.

With water surging into the cabin, Mr. Wu said, he made his way to the window,
opened it and was sucked out. ''It all happened within a minute,'' he said.

He said he crawled onto the overturned hull of the ship, joining four other
survivors. His wife was still missing Friday.

Mr. Wu's account contained a number of discrepancies with other reports on the
disaster. He said passengers that day had lingered at the final stop, a tourist
attraction along the banks of the river, until 6 p.m. -- other accounts said
they had returned to the ship seven hours earlier -- and the Chinese version of
his account described him clasping hands with his wife as the ship began to
keel.

Some relatives of the victims have questioned official accounts of the boat's
final moments.

In an email to a friend, one relative, Cui Yuchen, asked why the captain decided
to continue sailing through the storm and why furniture on the ship was not
bolted to the floor. Ms. Cui, who later confirmed the email's contents, also
questioned whether moving so many beds at once had contributed to the vessel's
instability.

''In such terrible weather, shouldn't the captain have given safety instructions
to everyone on board, especially when he knew there were lots of old people on
board?'' she wrote.

In an interview published by Xinhua late Thursday, the ship's captain, Zhang
Shunwen, 52, said he had tried to steer the ship through the violent storm but
lost control as he headed north with the prevailing winds. As the wheelhouse
filled with water, Mr. Zhang felt his way out and then made his way to the
upturned hull, Xinhua said.

In the report, Mr. Zhang did not address a number of questions, including why he
continued to sail when other ships had dropped anchor to ride out what
meteorologists have described as an unusually severe storm, including a rare
tornado.

Also unanswered was whether any passengers were instructed to don life jackets.

The report said that Mr. Zhang was in police custody but that he had not been
charged with any crime. It said that Mr. Zhang's wife, who also worked on the
ship, was among the missing. ''Until the incident, Zhang was regarded as an
effective captain, and his experience as a sailor was flawless with numerous
awards,'' Xinhua said, adding that he had 35 years of experience as a riverboat
captain.

The criticism by relatives has not appeared in the Chinese news media, which has
described the rescue efforts as heroic and reported how residents in Jianli have
tied yellow ribbons to their cars to signify their willingness to give rides to
the bereaved.

In an editorial on Friday, The Global Times, a newspaper owned by People's
Daily, the official Communist Party newspaper, chastised the foreign news media
for highlighting the complaints of victims' relatives.

''Some foreign media outlets are eager to take advantage of the relatives' agony
and rub salt into their wounds, creating confrontations between people at the
center of the event and those at the periphery,'' the newspaper said. ''This is
really unkind.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/yangtze-river-oriental-star-ship-ca
ptain-survivor-accounts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Police officers waited Friday to retrieve the bodies of victims
after crews were able to right a cruise ship that capsized in the Yangtze River
with 456 people aboard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUAN ZHENG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Rescue workers rested Friday next to empty stretchers. Victims' relatives
demanded that bodies not be cremated, as rumored. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHANNES
EISELE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); CRUISES (90%); MARINE VESSELS
(90%); JOURNALISM (89%); MISSING PERSONS (76%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); WRITERS
(75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); TIANJIN, CHINA (79%)

STATE: YANGTZE RIVER (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (90%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romania: President Calls on Prime Minister to Step Down Over Criminal
Investigation

BYLINE: By KIT GILLET

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | EUROPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words


Romania's president called Friday for the resignation of the country's prime
minister, Victor Ponta, after an anticorruption agency opened criminal
investigations into whether he was involved in forgery, money laundering and
other crimes when he was a practicing lawyer. ''In my view, a prime minister
facing criminal charges is an impossible situation for Romania,'' the president,
Klaus Iohannis, said at a news conference. But Mr. Ponta, who has been prime
minister since 2012, posted a message on Facebook, saying he would not step
down. Prosecutors say that Mr. Ponta falsified documents to cover payments of
about $45,000 for legal work he did not perform.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%);
INVESTIGATIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); COUNTERFEITING
(90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (83%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Korea: More Cases of MERS Are Reported

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | ASIA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 178 words


The South Korean government on Friday identified a hospital where it said most
of the country's known cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome had originated,
and it said it was trying to find everyone who had been there during a two-week
period in May. ''Finding them and placing them under monitoring is a key'' to
containing the spread of the outbreak of the illness, which is known as MERS and
has killed four people in South Korea, Moon Hyung-pyo, the health minister, said
at a news conference. He identified the hospital as St. Mary's in Pyeongtaek, a
city about 35 miles south of Seoul, the capital. The decision to identify St.
Mary's, a 250-bed hospital that opened in February, was a reversal for the
government, which had been criticized for withholding the names of the six
hospitals where cases have been traced. South Korea's outbreak of the illness,
known as MERS, a disease first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012, is the largest
to date outside the Middle East.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (88%);
HOSPITALS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%);
PRESS CONFERENCES (54%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); SAUDI ARABIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; Nepal: More Victims Reported in Helicopter Crash

BYLINE: By BHADRA SHARMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words


An American military helicopter that crashed last month in the mountains east of
Kathmandu, the capital, was carrying five more passengers than had previously
been reported, the Nepalese Army said Friday. Eight people -- six United States
Marines and two Nepalese soldiers -- were initially reported to have been killed
during a relief mission in the aftermath of a devastating earthquake in April.
But Nepal's Army said in a statement Friday that five additional passengers, all
Nepalese civilians, had also been on the flight and had been killed. It has not
been determined why the helicopter went down on May 12. The wreckage was found
on a ridge at an altitude of 11,200 feet, the army statement said, close to the
epicenter of a second major earthquake.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/asia/nepal-more-victims-reported-in-heli
copter-crash.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); HELICOPTERS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%);
MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); MOUNTAINS (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (87%); NATURAL
DISASTERS (87%); ARMED FORCES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (58%)

CITY: KATHMANDU, NEPAL (73%)

COUNTRY: NEPAL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain: Migrants Found Locked Inside Trucks

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | EUROPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 109 words


Sixty-eight migrants, including two pregnant women and 15 children, have been
found crammed inside four trucks at a port in southeast England, the authorities
said Friday. Four Polish truck drivers were arrested after the discovery, the
Home Office said. The discovery was a reminder of the extreme measures that
migrants endure to find refuge in Europe. The migrants were discovered by Border
Force officers Thursday night at Harwich International Port in Essex. The Home
Office said the migrants included 35 Afghans, 22 Chinese, 10 Vietnamese and a
Russian. They had been locked inside the trucks, which arrived in Harwich on a
ship from the Netherlands.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (76%); ENGLAND (71%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa; Republic of Congo: High School Students Protest After Exams Are Canceled
Over Leak of Questions

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words


Thousands of high school students pelted the police with stones and damaged
property in violent protests Friday over a decision by the government to cancel
final exams for graduating students after test questions were leaked online. The
protests took place in the cities of Brazzaville, Point Noire and Dolisie.
Questions were leaked and then shared on social media, education officials said.
More than 66,500 students will have to retake the tests at a time yet to be
determined.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/africa/republic-of-congo-high-school-stu
dents-protest-after-exams-are-canceled-over-leak-of-questions.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); HIGH
SCHOOLS (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); RIOTS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%);
EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (84%)

CITY: BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (90%)

COUNTRY: CONGO (92%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

France: Court Says Man in Vegetative State May Be Removed From Life Support

BYLINE: By AURELIEN BREEDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | EUROPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 173 words


The European Court of Human Rights ruled Friday that a Frenchman who is in a
vegetative state after being paralyzed in a car accident seven years ago can
legally be taken off life support. The case of Vincent Lambert, 38, who is
hospitalized in Reims, has been at the center of debates on end-of-life
decisions in France. The court upheld a previous ruling by the Conseil d'État,
France's top administrative court, which determined that ending Mr. Lambert's
artificial nutrition and hydration did not violate Article 2 of the European
Convention on Human Rights, which deals with the right to life. The court noted
that Mr. Lambert's condition was characterized last year as vegetative and that
testimony submitted to the Conseil d'État ''was sufficiently precise to
establish what Vincent Lambert's wishes had been.'' The case has torn apart his
family, with Mr. Lambert's wife, Rachel, asserting that her husband did not want
to be kept alive in a vegetative state and his parents insisting that he was not
in an end-of-life situation.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATH & DYING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
(90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIVING WILLS (78%);
HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PARALYSIS (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (91%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fed Says Consumer Borrowing Climbed In April

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING |; Pg.
2

LENGTH: 63 words


Consumer borrowing expanded by $20.5 billion in April, the Federal Reserve
reported on Friday, down slightly from a gain of $21.3 billion in March that was
the biggest increase in eight months. The strong gains pushed consumer credit to
a fresh record of $3.38 trillion. Borrowing in the category that includes credit
cards jumped by $8.6 billion, the largest rise in 12 months.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Consumer Borrowing Climbed In April

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 63 words


Consumer borrowing expanded by $20.5 billion in April, the Federal Reserve
reported on Friday, down slightly from a gain of $21.3 billion in March that was
the biggest increase in eight months. The strong gains pushed consumer credit to
a fresh record of $3.38 trillion. Borrowing in the category that includes credit
cards jumped by $8.6 billion, the largest rise in 12 months.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/business/consumer-borrowing-climbed-in-april.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Marathon Bomber's Friends Sentenced

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | NEW ENGLAND;
Pg. 12

LENGTH: 192 words


Two college friends of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was convicted of the Boston
Marathon bombing, were sentenced Friday to prison. Azamat Tazhayakov, 21, was
sentenced to 3 ½ years for impeding the investigation into the attack while the
authorities frantically searched for the bombers. He was convicted of conspiracy
and obstruction of justice for agreeing with another friend to remove Mr.
Tsarnaev's backpack from his dorm room at the University of
Massachusetts-Dartmouth. The backpack contained fireworks that had been emptied
of their explosive powder. Later Friday, Robel Phillipos received a three-year
sentence for lying to the F.B.I. about being in Mr. Tsarnaev's dorm room days
after the bombings. The judge said Mr. Phillipos was to blame for a
''substantial diversion'' of law enforcement resources. Michael S. Dukakis, the
1988 Democratic presidential nominee and a friend of Mr. Phillipos's family,
wrote a letter of support for him and testified during his trial. Another friend
of Mr. Tsarnaev's, Dias Kadyrbayev, was sentenced this week to six years in
prison for removing the backpack from the dorm room and tossing it into a trash
bin.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (95%); BOMBINGS (92%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (91%);
STUDENT HOUSING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); MARATHONS (78%); CORRECTIONS
(78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES
(72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS
(57%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: Court Again Invalidates Redistricting Plan

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 256 words


A federal court has again ruled that Virginia legislators packed too many black
voters into one congressional district in order to make adjacent districts safer
for Republican incumbents. The 2-to-1 ruling Friday by a panel of judges directs
the General Assembly to draw new boundaries by Sept.

1 to correct the flawed 2012 redistricting plan. The court first struck down the
plan in October, but the United States Supreme Court ordered reconsideration in
light of a ruling in an Alabama case. The judges in Virginia again ruled that
race was the predominant factor in redrawing the boundaries. The plan raised the
minority population in Virginia's only black-majority district, diluting
minority influence in surrounding districts. Representative Bobby Scott, a
Democrat, represents Virginia's Third District, which has had a black majority
since 1991. The plan approved by the Republican-controlled legislature increased
the district's black voting-age population to 56.3 percent from 53.1 percent.
The result was an oddly shaped district composed of ''a disparate chain of
communities, predominantly African-American, loosely connected by the James
River,'' Judge Allyson Duncan wrote. The plaintiffs claimed legislators could
have shifted a large number of black voters from Mr. Scott's district into a
neighboring Republican district without substantially diluting black voting
strength in the Third. During the mapmaking process, Republicans rejected an
alternative plan that would have created a second black-majority district.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/virginia-court-again-invalidates-redistrict
ing-plan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(90%); MINORITY GROUPS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(78%); APPROVALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT C SCOTT (58%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tennessee: Bus Driver Texted Before Fatal Crash

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 98 words


A school bus driver in Knoxville was texting at the time of a crash that killed
two young girls and an aspiring teacher last year, accident investigators said
Friday. The driver, James Davenport, had sent and received multiple text
messages before two buses collided in December, the Knoxville police said in a
statement. Mr. Davenport died this week as they were nearing the conclusion of
their investigation. Law enforcement officials said Mr. Davenport, 48,
apparently died of natural causes. But an autopsy was ordered for Mr. Davenport,
who had sustained serious injuries in the crash.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/tennessee-bus-driver-texted-during-fatal-cr
ash.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (91%);
MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); SCHOOL &
EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (88%); AUTOPSIES (88%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (88%);
DEATHS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (85%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (85%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (85%)

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (90%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bergdahl Seeks Removal of General in Desertion Case

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WASHINGTON; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 97 words


Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl has asked a military appellate court to disqualify the
general in charge of the desertion case against him. Eugene R. Fidell, Sergeant
Bergdahl's lawyer, said the general, Mark A. Milley, who has been nominated to
be the Army's chief of staff, should be removed because of his personal interest
in being confirmed by the Senate. Sergeant Bergdahl, who disappeared from his
post in Afghanistan in 2009 and was held by the Taliban for five years before
being released last year in a prisoner swap, filed the request on Friday in the
Army Court of Criminal Appeals.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/us/bergdahl-seeks-removal-of-general-in-desert
ion-case.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY COURTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAWYERS (88%); ARMIES
(88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); APPEALS (88%); TALIBAN (88%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Value of a Mindless Summer Job

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FINNEY BOYLAN.

Jennifer Finney Boylan is a professor of English at Barnard College and a
contributing opinion writer.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 901 words



THERE I was, at the height of the great Disco Summer, selling hot dogs in the
shadow of a six-story, elephant-shaped building on the shores of Margate, N.J.
Most nights, my shift started at midnight. It was June 1977, just after my
freshman year at Wesleyan, and I was hard at work at Lenny's Hot Dogs.

The big rush came just after 3 a.m., when the disco across the street, The Music
Box, unplugged its rotating mirror ball and its denizens spilled out in search
of hot dogs, frozen yogurt cones and Lenny's pepper hash. At that late hour the
lines stretched from Lenny's across the parking lot, past Lucy the Elephant, and
toward the rumbling Atlantic beyond.

Lucy the Elephant is now a National Historic Landmark, but Lenny's, sadly, has
been gone for decades. Still, plenty of freshmen will spend this summer selling
hot dogs, waiting tables, tending bar or supervising the archery range at clam
shacks, taverns and summer camps from Maine to California.

One question, of course, is what kind of work is best for college students?

For many, summer employment means taking whatever job can best reduce the burden
of debt, which was more than $30,000, on average, for members of the class of
2015.

Other students, both with and without the burden of debt, feel the pressure to
take on internships. The fields of politics, media and entertainment, to name
three, now virtually demand a period of unpaid work.

But there are times, I suspect, when a mind is a terrible thing not to waste.

One example of a mind well wasted is that of my friend Richard Russo. Richard,
who is now a novelist, worked on a construction crew, not as the guy who worked
the jackhammer, but as that guy's assistant. One day they had to break up a
concrete wall, and it was Richard's job to hold the business end of the
jackhammer steady -- and horizontal -- while the other guy operated it, leaving
Richard feeling, for the rest of the summer, as if his brains had actually
bounced around the inside of his skull. I had another friend, Billy Warden, who
dug graves one summer and learned, on the occasion of some not very deeply
buried 19th-century caskets collapsing just beneath the place where he was
standing, what it was like to be hip deep in dead guys.

I had a lot of so-called stupid jobs between high school and the time I turned
30. I sold hot dogs. I worked as an office temp. I was a messenger. I sold
T-shirts at Grateful Dead concerts. (They sold faster when I hawked them with a
British accent.) I cleared brush. I cleaned swimming pools.

And for years and years and years, I mowed lawns.

There was a lot to like about mowing lawns. For one, the smells: the sharp,
green scent of freshly cut grass, the fumes of gasoline, the whiff of exhaust.
Then there was the sound: the endless roar that made it impossible to hear
anything else, including the voice of the irate homeowner standing less than two
feet away, yelling that I'd run right over his tulips. It was dramatic, too:
Sometimes I'd plow through a field of fallen apples and applesauce would spew
out of the mower in a shocking arc of sweet-smelling goo. Other times, I'd run
straight over a rock, and the mower would stop with a tremendous clang, as if
the engine itself had just been executed, military-style, by firing squad.

The summer after I worked at Lenny's, I was a teller at Continental Bank in
Philadelphia. I thought it was clever to give my customers their money in $2
bills, or in Eisenhower dollar coins, or in some strange combination of Kennedy
half-dollars and $50 bills. My drawer, at the end of day, was always ''under''
or ''over,'' and all the other tellers had to stand around as I counted and
re-counted the float. One time, I accidentally left $10,000 by the coffee maker
in the lounge. I had no choice except to tell my boss the truth: I'd been on my
way to the safe with the cash when I remembered we were out of creamer.

These jobs made me aware of class privilege in a way that my hours in Econ 101
surely did not. I remember getting back to Wesleyan after my summer at the bank
and gushing to a teller, ''I was a teller this summer, too!'' only to realize,
as she glowered at me, that what had been a summer lark for me was, for her, the
continuing reality of her working life.

My own sons are engaged this summer with work that feels more relevant to their
college majors -- my older boy, the actor, is a production assistant on a
television show; my younger, the astronomer, has an internship at an observatory
in California, searching for planetoids and brown dwarfs.

These are very cool jobs, to be sure, and I am insufferably proud of my sons:
How could I not be? But I also wonder whether their summer jobs are as likely to
build their characters as their rÃ©sumÃ©s. I am hoping, for their sakes, that
these opportunities provide them with both.

One of those mornings after my shift at Lenny's ended, I walked home along the
beach as the constellations of summer -- the Scorpion, the Archer -- sank in the
skies behind the six-story elephant. Later, a flock of sea gulls took wing as I
approached, and circled around me as the sun burst over the ocean.

It was several miles back to the house, but I was in no hurry. I had faith that
I'd get there in time, if I just kept walking long enough.â[#x2dc]

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/jennifer-finney-boylan-the-value-of-a-
mindless-summer-job.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); DRINKING PLACES
(73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); FICTION LITERATURE (73%);
CONSTRUCTION (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); PARKING SPACES &
FACILITIES (54%); HISTORIC SITES (54%); ARCHERY (53%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Allies in U.S. Mount a Defense of Israel

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1056 words


South Carolina has become the first state to enact legislation aimed at
thwarting an international pro-Palestinian economic and disinvestment campaign
intended to penalize Israel. Illinois will soon become the second, and advocates
say plans are underway for similar laws in 18 more states.

In Washington, Congress could vote this month on trade legislation with language
that would encourage the blacklisting of foreign companies that support the
pro-Palestinian campaign, known as Boycott, Divest and Sanction, or B.D.S. The
trade legislation is notable in part because the scope of its blacklisting could
include companies that refuse to do business with Israeli settlements in the
occupied territories, even though they are widely considered illegal.

And in Las Vegas this weekend, Sheldon Adelson, the multibillionaire casino
owner who is one of the Israeli government's most important American supporters,
is convening a private meeting of pro-Israel donors to devise new strategies for
countering B.D.S., particularly on American college campuses, where it has
gained some support since the Gaza war last summer.

Alarmed over what they see as the growing influence of B.D.S., Israel's
advocates in the United States, mirroring the reaction among many in Israel, are
scrambling to respond. Some have embraced a call by the new Israeli justice
minister, Ayelet Shaked, to ''boycott the boycotters.''

The extent of B.D.S.'s popularity is hard to assess in the United States, where
support for Israel remains overwhelmingly strong -- something that boycott
organizers concede. Still, the campaign's effort to isolate Israel economically
-- even if it has yet to show any practical impact -- has struck a nerve among
many American Jews. They see the effort as a form of anti-Semitism, an
accusation that B.D.S. supporters call a false, cynical and divisive scare
tactic.

Willem Griffioen, executive director of the Israel Allies Foundations, an
advocacy group that contributed to the effort to pass the law in South Carolina,
described it as an important answer to the B.D.S. campaign.

''The timing and importance of this groundbreaking legislation cannot be
overstated,'' he said in a statement after Gov. Nikki R. Haley signed it on
Thursday.

Under that law, all public entities in the state are prohibited from doing
business with anyone who supports a boycott of any South Carolina trading
partner.

Boycott organizers describe their movement as a nonviolent strategy modeled on
the tenets of Gandhi and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., aimed at
pressuring Israel to end its occupation and control of territories seized in the
1967 war so that Palestinians can have their own state.

Supporters of the campaign describe the anti-B.D.S. trade legislation as a
barometer of their success so far in calling attention to what they see as
blatant injustices against Palestinians.

The hostility to the boycott movement expressed by Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu of Israel, in the eyes of its supporters, speaks volumes about his
anxiety over its potential.

''No matter what Netanyahu says by trying to divert discussion to attack this
group, that cannot cover the fact that his government is involved in illegal
activities in the occupied territories, especially in settlements,'' Riyad H.
Mansour, the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations, said Friday in a
telephone interview. ''It cannot be defended, including by legislators in the
United States of America.''

Boycott leaders call their effort analogous to the disinvestment campaign
against South Africa's apartheid system in the 1980s. As was the case back then,
successful organizing led by American college students to pass nonbinding
resolutions on divestment or product boycotts have increased.

Rahim Kurwa, a graduate student of sociology at the University of California,
Los Angeles, and a member of Students for Justice in Palestine, an advocacy
group, keeps a running tally of successful B.D.S. campus resolutions and
referendums that have received a majority vote. By his count there have been 13
successes so far this year, compared with seven in 2014 and four in 2013.

Mr. Kurwa said the increased presence of B.D.S. organizers on campuses was
particularly worrisome to advocates of Israel who have responded partly by
offering student leaders free trips to Israel to influence their opinion. These
trips typically emphasize the country's diversity and tolerance, countering the
Palestinian allegations of oppression.

''A lot of the response to the B.D.S. movement has been sort of an indirect
response,'' Mr. Kurwa said. ''There's sort of a lack of ideas that would compete
with the international pressure on Israel. Instead, they're trying to promote a
good image of Israel that says, 'There's no problem here; there's nothing to
fix.' ''

The anti-B.D.S. trade legislation efforts in states and in Congress, Mr. Kurwa
said, are part of a new strategy by Israel's advocates, but ''none of these
things gets back to a solution to end the occupation.''

The parallel drawn by the pro-Palestinian campaign to the anti-apartheid
struggle offends many Israelis and their supporters, who see Israel as a beacon
of democracy and morality surrounded by hostility, mayhem and malevolence. Many
also say the boycott effort is a duplicitous way of seeking to delegitimize
Israel.

''B.D.S. is the most extreme thing you can do,'' said Thane Rosenbaum, senior
fellow and director of the Forum on Law, Culture and Society at the New York
University School of Law. The language used by B.D.S. supporters to describe
Israel, he said, ''is ignorant and absurd, if not anti-Semitic.''

Mr. Rosenbaum, who will participate in a panel on anti-Semitism this weekend at
an annual conference in New York sponsored by The Jerusalem Post, said he
believed that the B.D.S. movement in the United States was limited to
''universities and some intellectual magazines,'' but that nonetheless, ''B.D.S.
is always the elephant in the room.''

Mr. Kurwa said the effort by many Israel supporters to equate B.D.S. with
anti-Semitism was ''really sad and unfortunate.''

''There are three choices: a Palestinian state, Palestinian citizenship, or more
occupation,'' he said. ''We're either going to have the status quo, or something
else. B.D.S. is really about picking.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/world/israels-allies-in-us-challenge-boycott.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sign in Bethlehem, in the West Bank, calls for a boycott of
products from Israeli settlements in the occupied territories. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
THOMAS COEX/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); INTERNATIONAL
TRADE LAW (90%); ANTISEMITISM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%);
MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (76%);
CASINOS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS
(68%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (58%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (55%); SHELDON G ADELSON (53%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED
(94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Defendants in Biker Case Await Verdict From Judge

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 513 words


The prosecution and defense summed up their cases on Friday in the trial of an
undercover New York police detective and another man accused of being among
several motorcyclists who beat up a driver during a raucous biker rally in
September 2013.

The defendants, Detective Wojciech Braszczok, 34, and Robert Sims, 36, an
electrician, have been charged with gang assault and other charges in connection
with the attack on Alexian Lien, who was dragged from his Range Rover and
pummeled while his wife and infant daughter were in the car.

Both men have waived their right to a jury, and Justice Maxwell Wiley of State
Supreme Court in Manhattan is deciding the case. He has said he will give his
verdict on Tuesday. Nine other bikers have pleaded guilty to assault in the
case.

The confrontation between Mr. Lien and the motorcyclists, who were all riding
together in a rally organized on the Internet, started on the West Side Highway
around 1:30 p.m. on Sept. 29, 2013. The swarm of bikers forced the car to stop
and surrounded it. Mr. Lien said he felt threatened, accelerated and ran over a
biker, crushing his spine.

More than a dozen bikers -- among them Detective Braszczok and Mr. Sims --
pursued the Range Rover to Wadsworth Avenue and 178th Street, where they broke
the windows, dragged him from the car and pummeled him. The episode was recorded
on a helmet camera and an iPad belonging to other bikers.

The videos and photographs show Detective Braszczok never laid a hand on Mr.
Lien, but he did break the back window of the car and kick the passenger side
twice before getting on his motorcycle and fleeing.

The detective testified that he never intended to hurt Mr. Lien and retreated
because he saw the assault and was in fear for his own life. He said he lashed
out at the window with his fist after it was broken by a projectile, which he
thought had been hurled from inside the car.

Mr. Sims can be seen on the videos trying to pull Mr. Lien's wife from the car,
then walking around the back of the vehicle and stomping on Mr. Lien.

In his closing argument, the lead prosecutor, Joshua Steinglass, said there was
no question about what the off-duty detective did that day, only his intent.

''He was not acting alone; he was acting with the pack,'' Mr. Steinglass said.
''He was acting out of pure rage, not police tactics as the defendant would have
you believe. And his actions helped fuel the frenzy that was taking over.''

But the detective's lawyer, John Arlia, said his client had no clue the other
bikers were going to assault Mr. Lien and did not see them as they dragged Mr.
Lien from the car. Nor did he know who was in the car when he heard a pop and
thought something had been thrown through the back window.

''He got spooked and scared,'' Mr. Arlia said. ''He had no idea what was going
on.''

Mr. Sims's lawyer, Omar Almanzar-Paramio, said it was true that Mr. Sims took
part in the assault, but he argued his client did not intend to hurt Mr. Lien,
only detain him. ''There is zero intent to cause serious physical injury,'' he
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/2-defendants-in-biker-case-await-verd
ict-from-judge.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%);
VERDICTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); GANGS
(56%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Philharmonic Names Openers for Concerts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 285 words


Some of the New York Philharmonic's free parks concerts later this month will
feature local warm-up acts -- and, for the gastronomically inclined, food
trucks.

The Philharmonic announced a series of ''Share the Stage'' programs this week
that will invite opening acts to several concerts as part of the 50th
anniversary of its parks concerts. The Brooklyn Interdenominational Choir will
perform at the Philharmonic's concert on June 19 at  Prospect Park in Brooklyn;
Steven Kroon, a jazz percussionist, will perform before the June 22 concert in
Cunningham Park in Queens; and BombaYo, a group of Afro-Puerto Rican drummers
led by Jose Ortiz (also known as Dr. Drum) will perform before a June 23 concert
in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. The opening acts will play at 6:30 p.m., the
Philharmonic at 8.

Bob Conroy and Norm Pederson with Bill Doerge, who are folk musicians and story
tellers, will play on June 24 at 7 p.m. before a free indoor concert featuring
musicians from the Philharmonic at Staten Island's Snug Harbor Cultural Center
and Botanical Garden. (The concert is free but requires tickets, which will be
available at brownpapertickets.com.)

This year's first parks concerts will be held June 17 on Central Park's Great
Lawn with Alan Gilbert, the Philharmonic's music director, conducting the
orchestra in an all-American program featuring the violinist Joshua Bell.

And for those planning to bring appetites for something other than music, the
food truck lineup is set to include Carpe Donut and Nuchas in Brooklyn and
Andy's Italian Ices, Big D's Grub Truck and Souvlaki in Queens, among others.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/05/new-york-philharmonic-names-opening
-acts-for-parks-concerts/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS
(90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (67%);
ANNIVERSARIES (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Ancient Elevator at Rome's Colosseum

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 267 words


ROME -- The archaeological ruins of the Colosseum in Rome may be majestic, but
they only give a vague sense of the marvel-inducing pageantry that ancient
visitors would have experienced attending a spectacle at the ancient arena
inaugurated in 80 A.D.

A bit of that showmanship was glimpsed on Friday when Italian officials
presented a model of a complex lift and trap-door system used in ancient times
to raise wild animals from their cages onto the arena floor. The model, which
visitors to the underground areas of the Colosseum can see, ''will help people
understand what the Colosseum was,'' Francesco Prosperetti, the government
official in charge of Rome's archaeological heritage, said at a news conference
on Friday.

Some 28 lifts were used in the arena. The model is based on descriptions in
ancient texts, as well as ''traces in the walls'' in the underground area of the
arena where the machines would have been situated, said Heinz Beste, of the
German Archaeological Institute in Rome, who worked on the design.

The lift raises a cage from the bottom of the amphitheater to the floor of the
arena 24 feet above, powered by eight men turning a wheel. As the cage rises, a
trap door in the floor of the arena dropped so that the animals could emerge. On
Friday, that honor went to a contemporary dance artist, who twisted and turned
in animal-like fashion.

The model was created for a documentary, ''Colosseum: Roman Death Trap,'' which
aired on PBS last February, and was donated by the producers.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/06/05/heres-how-ancient-romans-got-wild-a
nimals-onto-the-colosseum-floor/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORIO BORGIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANCIENT HISTORY
(78%); ANIMALS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (64%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (54%); DANCE (50%)

CITY: ROME, ITALY (91%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Long Island Sees a Crisis as It Floats to the Surface

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1333 words


RIVERHEAD, N.Y. -- The dead turtles, about 100 of them, started washing ashore
near here in late April. Then came the dead fish, in numbers no one had seen
before. By this week, tens of thousands of fish carcasses had bobbed to the
surface of the Peconic River, which runs along the southern border of this town,
and in adjoining Flanders Bay, washing ashore in putrid drifts.

The waters of the Peconic Estuary, on the East End of Long Island, were coughing
up their fauna.

There is little debate about what caused the die-offs. Scientists trace the fish
carnage to algal blooms fed by elevated levels of nitrogen, which can be
attributed in large part to the region's outdated septic tanks and cesspools.
Evidence suggests that a similar sequence killed the turtles in what scientists
said was a highly unusual die-off.

Nitrogen loading in the ground and surface waters of Suffolk County is a
longstanding problem that threatens the area's natural ecosystem and, by
extension, its economy.

''It really is a crisis,'' said Anna Throne-Holst, supervisor of the Town of
Southampton, on the southern flank of the Peconic Estuary. ''It needs all the
attention it can get.''

The pollution problem stems in part from the fact that the population of Suffolk
County, now about 1.5 million, grew sharply over the past several decades
despite the absence of proper infrastructure. About 74 percent of the county's
residents rely on septic tanks and cesspools rather than municipal treatment
plants. Most of those systems were built before 1972.

The nitrogen-rich sewage leaches into the aquifers, which connect to the
region's surface water, its rivers and bays and the Long Island Sound. Nitrogen
can also be traced to discharges from wastewater treatment plants and to
fertilizer used on lawns, golf courses and agricultural lands, including the
area's well-known vineyards.

The recent nitrogen-fed algal blooms endangered both the turtles and the fish,
though for different reasons.

Necropsies on the turtles -- diamondback terrapins -- showed the presence of
saxitoxin, a potent neurotoxin produced by an algal bloom commonly known as red
tide. The toxin, which collects in shellfish eaten by turtles, causes paralysis
and can lead to death.

Karen Testa, executive director of Turtle Rescue of the Hamptons, a nonprofit
organization based in Jamesport, N.Y., estimated that about 100 terrapins had
died from late April to mid-May, with most washing up along the shore of
Flanders Bay, just beyond the mouth of the Peconic.

''The unique thing was that it was turtles, and that there were no injuries to
the turtles,'' Ms. Testa said. ''They were in perfect physical condition. If it
was a trap, you'd see markings on their skin from trying to claw their way out.

''We still don't know for sure that it was the toxin, but we don't know what
else it can be,'' she said.

The fish die-off began a couple of weeks later.

Christopher Gobler, a professor at the School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences
at Stony Brook University, said the fish kill started on the morning of May 28.
The next morning, Mr. Gobler got a call from an acquaintance.

''You should probably get down here,'' the caller said.

Mr. Gobler rushed to the bank of the Peconic. Vast numbers of dead and dying
fish were bobbing in the water and stretching to the opposite bank, like a
silvery floating bridge. Carcasses were piled at the river's edge and clumped in
the marsh grass.

The fish were menhaden, or bunker, which are an important food source for many
birds and predatory fish and also harvested for bait and fertilizer.

Mr. Gobler's colleague showed him a video of fish throwing themselves up on the
boat ramp of the Riverhead Yacht Club in a desperate bid to get oxygen.

''I've seen small kills around here but I've never seen anything like this,''
Mr. Gobler said this week during a return visit to the club. The boat ramp was
still blanketed in menhaden. With each tidal cycle, new carcasses replaced old
ones.

Scientists said the menhaden had probably been chased up the river by larger
fish -- a periodic occurrence. Even if water conditions had been perfect, they
said, some of the fish could die under such circumstances, as too many panicky
fish can quickly diminish the oxygen supply in shallow water.

But as nitrogen levels in the water rise, fish must compete for oxygen not only
against one another but also against algal blooms, which absorb the water's
oxygen at night. The recent ''mahogany tide'' algal blooms in the estuary, Mr.
Gobler said, had been ''very, very intense.''

During the fish kill, monitors in the river showed oxygen levels dropping to --
or nearly to -- zero on several consecutive nights.

While fish die-offs happen every year, Mr. Gobler said, ''This one was much
worse and widespread and in much larger quantities.''

Conservationists and officials said the latest die-offs were a stark reflection
of the need for remedies to the nitrogen-loading problem.

''Such occurrences will become the norm if we don't reduce 30 to 50 percent of
the nitrogen going into the Peconic Estuary,'' said Kevin McDonald, conservation
finance and policy director for the Long Island chapter of the Nature
Conservancy.

Some scientists believe that more large-scale die-offs could happen in the
coming months, though not as large as the recent fish kill.

''If I was a betting man, I would bet we would see more of these in the
summer,'' said Carl LoBue, senior marine scientist for the Nature Conservancy
chapter.

There is broad consensus in Suffolk County about the urgent need to address the
problem

A water resources management plan the county released last month called nitrogen
''public water enemy #1'' and said that nitrate concentrations had increased
more than 80 percent from 1987 to 2013 in one of the aquifers beneath the county
and more than 40 percent in another. Nitrogen loading has helped to destroy
tidal wetlands and other coastal ecosystems, the plan said, and has damaged
commercial fisheries, including the once-robust bay scallop fishing industry in
the Peconic Estuary and the clamming trade in Great South Bay.

Officials and residents worry that the damage could extend to other sectors of
the economy, not least the real estate business.

''When we do polling, like 85 percent of the people, when you ask them what they
love about Long Island, say 'the beaches and the bays,' '' said Mr. LoBue, who
grew up on Long Island's South Shore and whose father was a commercial
fisherman. ''It's a big reason people have second homes out here. It's really
important to the economy and why people like to live here.''

Suffolk County has taken a number of steps to address the issue, including
starting a $383 million expansion of the sewer system to reduce the reliance on
septic tanks and cesspools, Justin Meyers, a spokesman for the county, said. In
addition, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced in October the creation of a center at
Stony Brook University to develop affordable, high-tech nitrogen-removal
technology for home wastewater systems.

Ms. Throne-Holst said she envisioned the center, which emerged from a proposal
by Stony Brook and Southampton, as ''the Silicon Valley of wastewater
technology.'' She said the state had provided financing for the initiative
through the 2015 budget.

The impact of nitrogen pollution has been most severe in the Great South Bay,
according to the county's water resources management plan. The bay once produced
more than half the clams eaten in the United States, but over the past
quarter-century, the harvest has fallen by 93 percent. Overharvesting was once a
problem, but the clam population has failed to recover because of recurring
algal blooms.

Mr. LoBue said the blooms that turn Great South Bay brown have become so common
that ''instead of people remarking that the water is brown, they get excited
when the water's not brown.''

He added: ''There's a generation younger than me for whom that's just the way it
is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/nyregion/long-island-sees-a-crisis-as-it-float
s-to-the-surface.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, dead fish, mostly menhaden, or bunker, floated in the
Peconic River in Riverhead, N.Y., this week, victims of the nitrogen runoff that
pollutes local waters and feeds algal blooms. Left, Rick Johnson, of Riverhead,
was surrounded by clumps of dead fish after spending a morning fishing in the
river. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE
(89%); WATER QUALITY (87%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%);
FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); RIVERS (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); WATER
POLLUTION (77%); FERTILIZERS (74%); ANIMALS (73%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS (72%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Short-Term Health Insurance Attracts Many Despite Drawbacks

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 814 words


TEMPORARY, bare-bones insurance plans that don't meet the requirements of the
Affordable Care Act are still attracting consumers, online insurance brokers
report. But health experts caution consumers to be wary of the plans.

Ehealth, a publicly traded online health insurance broker, said on Wednesday
that the number of applicants for the short-term plans on its website more than
doubled in 2014, to 140,000 people. (EHealth has struggled to compete in the
sale of comprehensive health plans since the Affordable Care Act made policies
with premium help available on government exchanges, according to an analysis
this week by Kaiser Health News.) Short-term plans are also known as ''gap''
plans because they were originally intended to fill gaps in coverage, as when
people were between jobs.

Whether an increase in short-term policies is a national trend is unclear. The
policies tend to be lightly regulated, and some insurers don't disclose sales of
specific types of plans, so data is scant. But other web brokers, like GoHealth,
also say they have seen increased interest in the plans.

Short-term policies, which offer primarily catastrophic coverage for major
injuries, are available outside the Affordable Care Act's open enrollment
period, but come with many caveats. The plans are available in one-month
increments of up to 11 or 12 months, although some plans have shorter maximum
coverage periods, like three to six months. They generally require medical
underwriting, meaning that applicants can be declined based on their health
history -- something that cannot be done with Affordable Care Act-compliant
plans, a crucial protection. (EHealth said 12 percent of its short-term
applications were declined in 2014, mainly for medical reasons.)

Plus, short-term plans are ''nonrenewable,'' which means that once they expire
you must reapply for new coverage, and submit to medical underwriting again,
said Karen Pollitz, a health policy expert at the Kaiser Family Foundation.

Once you make a significant claim under such a plan, insurers are unlikely to
offer you another one, Ms. Pollitz said. Or they may exclude benefits for care
related to your previous claim, before issuing you another policy. Some insurers
may also conduct ''post claim'' underwriting, which means that if you make a
claim, the insurer can review your past health history to see if the condition
predated your policy. If it finds that it did, your claim may be denied.

''It's tenuous protection at best,'' she said.

The plans generally carry lower premiums because benefits are limited. But plan
deductibles -- the amount you must pay out of pocket before the plan pays -- can
still be hefty. The average premium for individual short-term plans sold on
eHealth was $110 last year, while the average deductible was $3,589. ''The
premiums are low for a reason,'' Ms. Pollitz said.

So, why would someone buy such a plan? Nate Purpura, a spokesman for eHealth,
said some buyers were people who missed the open enrollment period for
Affordable Care Act plans but then decided they wanted some coverage. Yet they
lacked a qualifying event, like a job loss, that would allow them to buy on the
government exchanges after the enrollment period. Another group of purchasers
includes those who didn't qualify for the health law's premium subsidy, but also
don't qualify for coverage under Medicaid, he said. More than half of eHealth's
short-term applicants were 18 to 34 years old.

Here are some questions and answers about short-term health insurance:

â-  If I buy a short-term policy, will I avoid the Affordable Care Act's penalty
for not having coverage?

No. Short-term policies don't meet the law's requirement for ''minimum
essential'' coverage. So even if you enroll in a short-term plan, you'll
probably still have to pay a penalty. The penalty for a single person for not
having coverage in 2015 is $325 or 2 percent of income.

â-  What else should I know about short-term insurance policies?

They typically don't cover maternity care, and they may not cover prescription
drugs.

â-  When is the next open enrollment period for health insurance under the
Affordable Care Act?

The next open enrollment is scheduled to begin on Nov. 1 and end Jan. 31. There
are potential changes afoot before then, however. The Supreme Court is set to
rule this month on a challenge to the Affordable Care Act that could invalidate
health insurance subsidies for millions of people. The court's decision may roil
the government health insurance exchanges and the insurance market over all, so
it's something that those with exchange plans should monitor closely.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.

Email: yourmoneyadviser@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/your-money/short-term-health-insurance-attract
s-many-despite-drawbacks.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); ONLINE TRADING (90%);
INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); INSURANCE
COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY
(77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking a Chance on Friedrich Witt

BYLINE: By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 386 words


Here's a conversation starter: What's easier to bear? A boring performance of a
boring piece or a boring performance of a masterpiece? On Thursday at Alice
Tully Hall, the period-instrument American Classical Orchestra, under the
direction of Thomas Crawford, offered both in a lackluster season finale. The
program opened with a humdrum performance of Friedrich Witt's justifiably
overlooked Symphony in A and ended with a slack reading of Beethoven's
''Pastoral'' Symphony.

Sandwiched in between was Haydn's Cello Concerto No. 1 with the orchestra's lead
cellist, Myron Lutzke, as soloist. While this performance offered some
excitement, it was mostly of the will-he-make-it-or-won't-he kind. Mr. Lutzke,
looking nervous, grappled with intonation problems and struggled to project any
of the joy and virtuosic exuberance written into this popular gem. He rushed the
first movement's cadenza, and when he lunged for its final note the orchestra
was late in catching him. But the sweet singing sound and sustained lyrical
phrasing he produced in the Adagio offered hints of what he might be capable of
under more clement circumstances.

Witt, who was born in 1770, the same year as Beethoven, was a German composer of
considerable repute in his time. His Symphony in A consists of four movements
(following a pliant slow introduction) that trot by with depressing
predictability. There's a chirpy allegro, a rustic minuet and lots of sudden
contrasts of mood and dynamics, but in this performance the edges between them
weren't sharply drawn and the strings' diffident playing did little to deepen
the superficial charm of the Andante's melody.

In the Beethoven symphony, there were at least glimpses of the sonic riches this
ensemble has developed over the past 30 years. The idiosyncratic colors of
individual woodwinds vividly brought to life some of the birdcalls Beethoven
wrote into the first movement. And the Andante opened with a wonderfully mellow
blur of sounds. But there was far too much mellowness in Mr. Crawford's
conception of the piece. Aside from a reliably torrential thunderstorm passage,
the symphony oozed along without discernible shape or direction. There's a fine
line between placid and flaccid, and this Beethoven seemed to have ambled across
it. The Witt, at least, had novelty going for it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/arts/music/review-american-classical-orchestra
-takes-on-friedrich-witt.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); WIND
INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Snowden and U.S. Surveillance

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 578 words


To the Editor:

The appearance of an Op-Ed essay by Edward J. Snowden (''The World Says No to
Surveillance,'' June 5) offers an occasion to request that President Obama give
serious consideration to issuing him a full pardon.

Mr. Snowden has played the role of whistle-blower in the service of his country
on behalf of all of its citizens. He has cast a bright light on activities that
the United States would condemn vigorously if engaged in by any other nation,
and he has not sought personal gain of any kind in doing so. He is a true
patriot, and should be honored for his actions. Unfortunately, in the world we
find ourselves, that is not possible.

But there is something that can be done to address this situation. In 1974
President Gerald R. Ford issued a pardon pre-emptively to former President
Richard M. Nixon, forestalling any trial or conviction. The nation needed to
heal after Watergate. It was a courageous move on Ford's part, and it may have
played a role in his own ultimately unsuccessful bid for the presidency. He
chose statesmanship and decency over politics.

Americans are genuinely concerned about this issue. It is time to heal the
nation once again.

CONRAD P. RUTKOWSKI

East Rochester, N.Y.

To the Editor:

I intensely dislike the idea of a government agency's collecting telephone
records with near total autonomy. However, in today's world of monstrous
terrorists who behead their captives or fly commercial jetliners into
skyscrapers filled with innocent human beings, where do we draw the line between
what's an acceptable intrusion into our privacy in the name of living in a more
secure society and saying ''no'' when we feel that the government has gone too
far?

How much do we disclose about our government's antiterrorism programs without
putting those programs (and our lives) at risk? It's a very complex issue, and
one that does not have easy answers, to be sure.

WILLIAM ENNIS

New York

To the Editor:

Edward Snowden warns, ''As you read this online, the United States government
makes a note.'' That is a good thing. That kind of awareness allowed the
authorities to confront Usaamah Rahim before he enacted his alleged plan to
murder police officers in Boston.

It is also good to have checks and oversight over potential invasion of privacy.
Yet, it's ironic that there's an uproar over surveillance that merely looks for
suspicious patterns, while most people use social media to self-publish volumes
of much more sensitive information about their private lives, views and daily
activities.

Of all the potentially nefarious activities our government might engage in,
surveillance is low on the list of ones that might negatively affect me or
anyone I know. I'd much rather see a Snowden-style revelation about the
corruptive effect of money in politics and how it prevents anyone I might vote
for from truly representing my interests.

PAUL VINGER

New York

To the Editor:

The idea that we can live private lives is absurd. If you use a cellphone,
someone knows where you are (or have been) and records whom you called. If you
use a credit card, there is a permanent record of the date, time and location of
your purchase. And video cameras are everywhere, from bank lobbies to grocery
stores, gas stations and office buildings.

If you want privacy today, stop using your cellphone. Pay cash for your
purchases, ''unregister'' to vote and don't renew your driver's license.

ARTHUR LAYTON

Mattapoisett, Mass.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/edward-snowden-and-us-surveillance.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); PARDONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%);
WHISTLEBLOWERS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM
(50%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Defense of Prosecutors

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 298 words


To the Editor:

Mona Lynch's June 2 Op-Ed essay, ''Reining In Federal Prosecutors,'' alleging
that federal prosecutors are abusing the criminal justice system along with the
not-so-thinly veiled accusation that they are racist, is offensive to the
approximately 5,400 federal prosecutors who faithfully serve the people of the
United States.

Ms. Lynch claims that ''while research shows that illicit drug use and
distribution is generally proportionate to the racial makeup of the nation's
population, black people are overrepresented as drug defendants in federal
courts.'' (Emphasis added.) But the proportion of the population using illicit
drugs is irrelevant: The focus of virtually all federal drug prosecutorial
efforts is the trafficking of large quantities of dangerous drugs.

The underlying premise of Ms. Lynch's claim -- that federal prosecutors don't
zealously pursue non-African-American large-scale drug traffickers -- is
preposterous. The truth is that high-level drug trafficking is not committed by
any carefully sculpted group that mirrors the nation's demographics in terms of
age, gender or race. This is a phenomenon that prosecutors did not create and
cannot ignore under their responsibility to enforce the law.

The commentary also focuses on a crack cocaine trafficker who was caught,
refused to accept responsibility for his criminal conduct, was convicted by a
jury and was sentenced to imprisonment under the applicable law. Ms. Lynch gives
a defense-slanted view of the facts, and by refraining from identifying the
offender, she has deprived Times readers of the ability to review all of the
facts in the record of the public trial or sentencing proceeding.

STEVEN H. COOK

President, National Association of Assistant United States Attorneys

Woodbridge, Va.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/in-defense-of-prosecutions-of-drug-cas
es.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DRUG
TRAFFICKING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); SENTENCING (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); VERDICTS (78%);
AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MISCONDUCT (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); COCAINE (71%); ASSOCIATIONS
& ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gender Bias at Work

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 122 words


To the Editor:

Your May 25 front-page article about the experiences of female American soldiers
was fascinating and distressing (''Despite Gains, Women in War Battle to Fit
In''). Most of us can only try to imagine the hardships they endure.

One soldier, though, got me right there with her when she noted that male
soldiers tend to be presumed competent until they prove otherwise, while female
soldiers are often presumed to be incompetent until they prove themselves to be
capable.

That is exactly the set of attitudes I had to contend with during my career as a
lawyer. My women friends in other professional fields also face that
double-barreled bias. Alas, why would the military be any different?

MARY HEDLEY

Piedmont, Calif.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/gender-bias-at-work.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENDER EQUALITY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (88%); GENDER & SEX
DISCRIMINATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAWYERS (65%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices: Be More Open

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Justices' Calendars Full, and Hard to Check,'' by Adam Liptak (Sidebar
column, June 2):

Just as top-level officials in the other two branches -- including the president
himself -- give media and the public advance notice of their public events, the
justices of the Supreme Court should be more open about their frequent
out-of-court appearances.

Whether they like it or not -- and the evidence points to most of the nine
relishing the attention -- the justices are public figures whose speeches, panel
discussions and Q-and-A sessions are newsworthy, meaning they shouldn't be
hidden from the local and national media. Given how crucial the justices'
decisions have become to our democracy as the discord continues on either end of
Pennsylvania Avenue, it's more important than ever for the Supreme Court to make
its actions both in and out of the courtroom transparent.

Maybe one reason the justices don't want to publicize their events is that a
number of their appearances are in the service of raising funds for partisan
organizations -- a practice that is frowned upon in the Code of Conduct for
United States Judges.

But perhaps unsurprisingly given their penchant for making their own rules, the
justices are exempt from following that code.

GABE ROTH

Chicago

The writer is executive director of Fix the Court, a nonprofit that advocates a
more open and accountable Supreme Court.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/supreme-court-justices-be-more-open.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (73%);
WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EVENT MARKETING
(71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Water for Israel

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 148 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Aided by Sea, Israel Defeats Old Foe: Drought'' (front page, May 30):

Israel deserves kudos for expanding its water supply through desalinizing water
from the Mediterranean Sea, recycling wastewater for use on farms and getting
its citizens to reduce household consumption. However, your article did not
touch upon the involuntary contributions Palestinians have made to Israel's
water supply.

Israel has steadily taken control over water long used by Palestinians, by
diverting part of the Jordan River, tapping into the Sea of Galilee and drawing
from the aquifers beneath the West Bank. Water is consumed, too, by the 350,000
Israelis who have settled in the West Bank.

In this arid region, control of water is as important as control of land.

HELEN WINTERNITZ

Bethesda, Md.

The writer is the author of ''A Season of Stones: Living in a Palestinian
Village.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/water-for-israel.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); WRITERS
(88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSUMPTION (70%)

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MARYLAND, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MEDITERRANEAN
(88%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Shared Responsibility for Migrants

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 424 words


The European Commission's proposal last week of a system of quotas to distribute
migrants among the European Union's 28 member states is a welcome step toward a
permanent, more equitable process for dealing with the waves of migrants seeking
safety and opportunity in Europe.

E.U. regulations now stipulate that it is the responsibility of the country
where migrants arrive to accommodate them and process asylum requests. That has
left Italy and Greece overwhelmed by the recent tide of migration from Africa.

The commission's proposal would provide emergency relief to Italy and Greece by
relocating 40,000 Syrian and Eritrean asylum seekers (economic migrants would be
repatriated) who arrived there after April 15 to other European nations over the
next two years, while working on a permanent plan. That is very little to ask of
the countries that are not doing their share. Yet, several countries that are
run by right-wing governments, or are facing rising anti-immigrant sentiment,
are having none of even this modest proposal.

Hungary, Poland, Latvia and the Czech Republic have all protested any use of
mandated quotas. Voluntary quotas, as these countries know, are meaningless.
Britain and Ireland have the option under E.U. treaties of ''opting in'' --
hardly likely in the case of Britain, given the anti-immigration stance of Prime
Minister David Cameron's government and Mr. Cameron's pledge to hold a
referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union.

The new proposal has strong backing from Germany, which took in 203,000 asylum
seekers in 2014, the most of any European country. Germany's support is
appropriate, given its relatively robust economy. But even Germany has expressed
concern, together with France, that the plan should take into consideration how
many asylum seekers countries have already taken in. This is a reasonable
demand. Five of the E.U.'s 28 members -- Germany, France, Sweden, Italy and
Hungary -- now account for three-fourths of all asylum applications.

When the European Council meets on June 25 and 26, it must be sure it has
rounded up enough support to approve a credible version of the new proposal that
establishes binding rules for fairly sharing the influx of refugees. It will be
a challenge for the European Commission to get members to deal collectively with
the migration crisis. But countries that refuse to accept the idea of sharing
the burden that has been falling so heavily on Italy and Greece are only showing
their contempt for the very idea of the union of Europe.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/06/opinion/europes-shared-responsibility-for-migr
ants.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EUROPEAN
UNION (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION
INSTITUTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (78%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (78%); REFERENDUMS
(73%); APPROVALS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(69%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (69%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY
(94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); HUNGARY (92%); GREECE (90%); CZECH
REPUBLIC (79%); ERITREA (79%); IRELAND (79%); POLAND (79%); LATVIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Experimenting With Light and Movement to Transform a Landscape

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 446 words


''Ruptured Horizon'' isn't the first time Anna Sperber, a Brooklyn
choreographer, has shown a fascination for the light and architecture of a space
and then turned it into a frame for a non-narrative dance. How does movement
alter a room? How does it make a space expand and recede?

In her latest premiere, Ms. Sperber takes advantage of the sleek studio theater
at Gibney Dance: Agnes Varis Performing Arts Center. Part of the center's Making
Space series, which encourages midcareer artists to experiment, ''Ruptured
Horizon'' begins in natural light. Instead of windows, skylights show the
sunset's afterglow.

Four dancers, Michael Ingle, Rebecca Warner, Omagbitse Omagbemi and Alice
MacDonald, appear one by one on a stage obstructed by a column and a post. (A
mirror on the side helps to see behind them.) Ms. Omagbemi, penetrating and calm
in a gray-patterned jumpsuit, accents a gentle tendu with arms that chisel firm
shapes. Ms. MacDonald, pressing against the back wall, gradually peels away and
joins in with even sharper arms that reach out and up.

The sensual, curly haired Mr. Ingle is more explosive: he spins back and forth
across the stage like a wild corkscrew. And Ms. Warner, wearing the most
dramatic of Christian Joy's costumes -- a fuzzy silver romper with an open back
-- crosses her arms overhead rashly, shakes her head and then pauses, her strong
legs stretched far apart with her feet in demi-point.

It's a powerful introduction to this foursome that exudes a steely sense of
grandeur and mystery, but soon enough Ms. Sperber trades experimentation for
ornamentation. A SUNY Purchase graduate, she is a fixture in the downtown scene
and a co-founder of Class, an organization offering alternative training for
movement artists who think outside of the box. That sense of risk is not always
so apparent in her own work.

''Ruptured Horizon,'' set to Jessica Pavone's live viola and droning noises,
becomes overshadowed by its costume changes, including an array of neon print
ponchos and tunics, and, toward the end, black-and-white fringe. All the while,
repetitive movement phrases persist in Ms. Sperber's typically polished vein:
how can something so comely be so sluggish? The insular, obsessive world of
''Ruptured Horizon'' is pinpointed most successfully in Elliott Jenetopulos's
lighting, which sneaks up on you as it shifts the mood from cool to warm, but
this conversation between a landscape and its dancers gradually loses its point.

''Ruptured Horizon'' continues through June 13 at Gibney Dance: Agnes Varis
Performing Arts Center, 280 Broadway, enter at 53A Chambers Street, Lower
Manhattan; 646-837-6809, gibneydance.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/05/arts/dance/review-anna-sperber-plays-with-ligh
t-movement-and-architecture-in-ruptured-horizon.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ruptured Horizon: Michael Ingle, foreground, and Omagbitse
Omagbemi in this new work by Anna Sperber, part of the Making Spaces series, at
Gibney Dance: Agnes Varis Performing Arts Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN DOUGLAS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS
(89%); DANCERS (89%); DANCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER
(76%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials LIPMAN, ROBERTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 25 words


LIPMAN--Roberta. 21 years have passed and not a day goes by when we do not think
and speak of you. We love and miss you. Lipman & Carreiro Families 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials FRIEDLANDER, KURT A

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 30 words


FRIEDLANDER--Kurt A. Dear Daddy, I think about you every day and miss sharing
music with you especially Mahler and Sondheim. I am glad that Mommie is with you
now. Love, Poohsie 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WILLIAMS, DUDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 86 words


WILLIAMS--Dudley. Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater celebrates the life of
Dudley Williams and his extraordinary artistry that moved audiences during his
tenure from 1964-2005, the longest in the Company's history. Ailey's Thursday,
June 11th performance at Lincoln Center is dedicated in his honor, including a
special performance of the iconic "A Song for You," created for him by Alvin
Ailey. Robert Battle, Artistic Director; Masazumi Chaya, Associate Artistic
Director; Judith Jamison, Artistic Director Emerita 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (88%); DANCE COMPANIES (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WEITZ, MEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 810 words


WEITZ--Mel. It is with profound sadness that we announce the passing of Mel
Weitz, the legendary supermarket innovator, and our beloved father, grandfather
and husband. Melvin Weitz, who began delivering milk to his Brooklyn neighbors
as a six year old in order to help support his family during the Depression, and
was handling heavy boxes at the local grocery store by the age of ten and
eventually, as an adult, built a 17-unit high volume chain of supermarkets on
Long Island, died on June 4 at his home in Boca Raton, FL. He was 91. "His mind
was sharp and his spirit loving and generous until his very last breath," said
his daughter Lori Shabtai, who describes her father as "an officer, a gentleman,
and a visionary."

Born on December 20, 1923, Mel Weitz served in the United States Navy during
World War II and was a survivor of the USS Quincy, a heavy cruiser that sunk at
the Battle of Savo Island on August 9, 1942, having been attacked by a large
Japanese naval force, which left 370 American men dead. Mr. Weitz spent hours in
the water attempting to rescue his shipmates and was awarded the Purple Heart by
the U.S. Government. After leaving the military, Mel Weitz excelled in the
grocery business. Employed as a manager by the Big Apple Supermarket chain in
New York, he eventually became its president. In 1972, at the age of 48, he
decided to implement his own ideas as to how supermarkets should look and be
run. Mr. Weitz' markets were larger and better stocked then others from that
era. Each Melmarkets' Foodtown Supermarket was over 60,000 square feet when the
industry median stood at about 42,000. Considered a businessman of great vision
and a master merchandiser, Mr. Weitz built his company, Melmarkets. Inc. from a
single Foodtown store into a small empire across Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
According to an article in Forbes Magazine dated November 18 1992, "When it
comes to sheer profitability, Melmarkets has few peers. That high average
checkout number is the key." Mr. Weitz' customers were spending twice as much
per transaction as the national average. His credo was to pile high and sell
low. He understood his clientele, and was admired for the superior quality of
his produce and his commitment to customer service. And shoppers enjoyed the
theatricality of Mel Weitz' presentations, which included such features as
visiting rabbis offering matzoh making demonstrations and a loudspeaker inviting
Easter celebrants to a ham sale. Each spring, for six weeks, he opened an entire
65,000 square foot Kosher for Passover supermarket, a precursor to the trendy
pop-up stores of today. There were always tempting aromas from the on-site
bakeries and freshly roasted chickens in the deli-sections of his Foodtowns, and
usually, plenty of free samples. These were startling innovations when they
first appeared in Mr. Weitz' markets. Club discount cards and low-priced bulk
merchandise were also part of Mel Weitz' unique marketing strategies. Mr. Weitz
married three times, and is survived by his loving wife Ellen, his brother Phil
Weitz, 93 years old, and four children from his previous marriages: Bruce (and
Lil) Weitz, Pamela (and Alan) Gordon, Steven Weitz, and Lori Shabtai. Other
survivors include his stepdaughters, Lannie Lipson and Sage Augello, and their
husbands, Michael Furgiuele and Vincent Augello, and fourteen grandchildren from
all of his children and stepchildren: Justin Gordon, Brendon and Sumner Weitz,
Nicole Shabtai (and Doug Mand), Danielle and David Shabtai, Jonathan, Ashley,
and Brandon Weitz, Jared and Courtney Lipson, and Sage, Samantha and Julie
Augello. Mel Weitz told Forbes in 1992, "When you read my name in the
obituaries, that is when I will retire." He actually retired some years prior to
today, when The Stop & Shop Companies purchased Melmarkets. but his visionary
impact on the supermarket industry remains in effect. Funeral services will be
held graveside at South Florida National Cemetery, 6501 S. State Road 7, Lake
Worth, FL 33449 (561-649-6489) on Monday, June 8 at 9:30am. Mel Weitz' family
requests that any donations in Mr. Weitz' name be made to the charity of the
donor's choice as that would befit his unique and giving style. Mel Weitz'
remarkable legacy will be long remembered. His honesty, listening skills,
straight talk and great compassion made him an elder statesman for all who
crossed his path. The memory of this fine gentleman, a true creative force, will
be cherished by his devoted family, dear friends, and thousands of former
satisfied customers. As his daughter Lori Shabtai sadly pens this obituary, she
adds, "The world lost a very special angel on Thursday and he will be deeply
missed but remain with and in all those who were fortunate to know and love him.
Dad, I am honored to have been your daughter and I will miss you every day of my
life." 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); WORLD
WAR II (90%); NAVIES (90%); MEN (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); CLERGY &
RELIGIOUS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); RETAIL
BAKERIES (71%); US NAVY (68%); PASSOVER (63%); RELIGION (60%)

COMPANY: MELMARKETS INC (65%); FOODTOWN SUPER MARKET (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); US NAVY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROTHKOPF, BERTRAM LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 93 words


ROTHKOPF--Bertram Lee, passed on June 3, 2015. Bert was the father of Lisa
(Gendal-Buchalter), Richard Rothkopf and Mitchell Rothkopf (deceased) and
father-in-law to Perry Buchalter and Laurie Rothkopf Bert was married to Carol
Kristel who passed in 2003. Bert is also survived by his brother and
sister-in-law Gene and Rita Rothkopf and his grandchildren. Graveside services
will be held on Sunday, June 7, 2015 at Mount Carmel Cemetery, Queens at
10:30am. The family will sit Shiva at the home of Rita and Gene Rothkopf on
Sunday, June 7, 2015 from 3-10pm 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths NOYES, DAVID C.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 180 words


NOYES--David C.,Jr., died in his home May 29 in Greenport, NY at the age of 94.
Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth B. Noyes, whom he married October 19,
1943. He is survived by his sister Francis Elder, his daughter Susan Noyes
Bilkey, son Robert Noyes and grandchildren Mali and Mason Noyes. He was
predeceased by his son David C. Noyes lll. He was born April 29, 1921, the son
of David C. Noyes and Eva Mali Noyes. He attended Buckley school in New York
City, Groton '40 and Harvard '43, and served on the USS Bennington in WWII. He
worked for American Airlines, then Fairchild Hiller on the Boeing 747 engine and
finally Jacobsen Shipyard in Oyster Bay. Dave had a love of the water and a
passion for sailboat racing. Longtime helmsman and skipper of numerous boats, he
was a well respected and revered competitor on Long Island Sound from teenager
to senior citizen and member of the New York Yacht Club, Cruising Club of
America, Storm Trysail Club and Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club. Memorial services
will be held June 27 at 11am at St John's Church in Cold Spring Harbor. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (78%); MARINE VESSELS (73%);
GRANDCHILDREN (72%); BOAT RACING (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); WORLD WAR II
(72%); SAILING (67%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411
AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%);
SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths NATHEL, ALVIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 181 words


NATHEL--Alvin, of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Jericho, NY, passed away
on May 31, 2015. Born in Brooklyn, NY to the late Daniel and Fanny Nathel. He
was preceded in death by his sister, Norma, and his brother, Stanley. Alvin will
be dearly missed and fondly remembered as a good friend and mentor to many in
his lifelong career in the produce industry, as owner and President of Nathel &
Nathel, the family wholesale produce business started by his father, in 1922,
until his retirement in 1992. He is survived by his brother Gerald, and
sister-in- law, Harriet Nathel. He was the beloved husband of the late Marilyn
Nathel, nee Metz, and the late Barbara Nathel, nee Zippin. He was a devoted
father to Deborah Kazan (her husband, Paul), Sharon Mirles, Ira Nathel (his
wife, Claire), and Sheldon Nathel (his wife, Hiromi). He was a cherished
grandfather of 12 and great-grandfather of three. A funeral service was held on
Wednesday, June 3 at 12 noon, Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike,
Woodbury, NY 11797, followed by interment at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MARCUS, JANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 158 words


MARCUS--Jane. 1938-2015. Dearest and beloved wife of Michael, mother of Lisa
Marcus, Jason Marcus, and Ben Marcus; grandmother of Hannah Albrecht, Delia
Marcus, Cecily Albrecht, Solomon Marcus, and Max Marcus; and mother-in-law of
James Albrecht, Heidi Julavits, and Jessica Alan. Distinguished Professor
Emeritus at City College of CUNY and the CUNY Graduate Center. Prominent
feminist literary critic and scholar. Author of several books and numerous
articles and book reviews. Beloved advisor to generations of Ph.D. and Masters
students. Guggenheim Foundation fellow. A Memorial Service will be held on
Sunday, June 7, at 2:00pm at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St., New
York, NY. A prize in feminist studies in honor of Jane Marcus will be
established at the Graduate Center of the City of New York. Those wishing to
contribute may send donations to: Graduate Center Foundation, 365 Fifth Avenue,
Suite 8204, New York, NY 10016. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); LITERATURE (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%);
ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); FEMINISM
& WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); LITERARY CRITICISM (70%); WRITERS (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HOLNESS, VIELKA VICTORIA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 49 words


HOLNESS--Vielka Victoria, passed away June 4, 2015. She was 49 years old.
Visitation Monday from 2-4 and 6 -8pm at the George T Davis Funeral Home, 14
Lecount Place, New Rochelle, NY. A 10am Memorial Celebration will be at the
Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Drive, New York City on Tuesday. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GRAU, SYLVIA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 29 words


GRAU--Sylvia. We mourn the loss of Sylvia Grau, beloved wife, mother, mother-
in-law and grandmother. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Grau family. The
Zises Family 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials GILBERT, S. PARKER. THE MEMBERS AND STAFF OF THE BATHING
CORPORATION OF SOUTHAMPTON MOURN THE PASSING OF OUR FORMER PRESIDENT AND
DIRECTOR, S. PARKER GILBERT. HE WAS GREATLY VALUED, AND WILL BE LONG REMEMBERED,
FOR HIS SOUND JUDGMENT AND EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP. WE EXTEND OUR DEEPEST
SYMPATHIES TO HIS FAMILY. 1

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 51 words


GILBERT--S. Parker. The members and staff of The Bathing Corporation of
Southampton mourn the passing of our former President and Director, S. Parker
Gilbert. He was greatly valued, and will be long remembered, for his sound
judgment and effective leadership. We extend our deepest sympathies to his
family. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GERONEMUS, ALFRED

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 93 words


GERONEMUS--Alfred. The board and staff of the New York Stem Cell Foundation
extend their deepest condolences to our longtime friend and board chairman, Roy
G. Geronemus MD, on the loss of his father, Alfred Geronemus. We join with Roy;
his mother, Terry; his wife, Gail; their sons and daughters-in-law , Evan and
Ashley and Greg and Katherine (Pier) Geronemus , founding members of our Junior
Leadership Council; and grandson Jackson in mourning the loss of their beloved
husband, father and grandfather. Susan Solomon, CEO, New York Stem Cell
Foundation 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FEINBERG, MARGIE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 310 words


FEINBERG--Margie. Margie Feinberg, deputy press secretary for the New York City
Department of Education for 15 years, died on June 4, 2015 from breast cancer.
She was 59 years old.

She retired in 2014. She worked under five chancellors. During her tenure, she
helped reporters after 9/11 understand where schools provided long-term
counseling for student and staff throughout the city, and she also helped
reporters navigate the uncharted waters of the early stages of mayoral control.
She was dependable, available and dedicated to the city she loved. Her best
memories, she would tell friends, was her time as a reporter for the New York
Post from 1981-1990. She covered the transit beat and often remarked she covered
anything that moves- cars, buses, subway, ferries, commuter trains. She wrote an
exclusive story about the lack of engineers who maintain subway tracks that
could lead to derailments if not properly handled, and another exclusive about
gaps between subways and many platforms leading to missteps by riders. The
problem still plagues the subway system. She enjoyed traveling and went to
Europe often. She also went to Alaska but never got to see Sweden or Norway. She
loved animals, especially a very special cocker spaniel named Rusty with White
paws and neck- the epitome of regal- who was part of the family, the most
important part, for 16 years. Margie leaves behind two dear friends, Pat Wilks
Battle of Staten Island and Karen Minelli of Virginia. Her father, Jerry, whom
she admired for his dry sense of humor and extraordinary intelligence, died in
1989 on the N/R line at Grand Central just a day after Margie, as a reporter,
attended a press conference thee. Her mother, Alice, died in 2014 after a
long-term career as an occupational therapist. Service Monday, June 8th, 12
noon, at "The Riverside," 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EDUCATION
DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%);
COMMUTING (76%); BREAST CANCER (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MAYORS (71%);
DOGS (70%); FAMILY (70%); TRAINS (69%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (77%);
EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths EISENBERG, IRENE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 71 words


EISENBERG--Irene, 1910-2015, the wife of the late Alex Eisenberg of Sunnydale
Farms, passed away peacefully in her Fifth Avenue home on June 5th. She was 105
years old. She is survived by her children, Stanley, Joseph, Walter and Harriet,
nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. A graveside service will be
held on Sunday, June 7th, 1pm at Mount Carmel Cemetery, 83-45 Cypress Hills St.,
Glendale, NY. 718-366-5900 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 182 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BECK, JOHN CHILDRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 543 words


BECK--John Childress. Died peacefully at his home in Vero Beach, Florida on June
3, 2015. Son of the late Madeline Childress and T. Edmund Beck, Beck was born in
Mount Vernon, NY on March 10, 1932. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy before
graduating from the Wooster School in 1949. He earned a BA in History from his
beloved Princeton University in 1953. While at Princeton, Beck was part of a
nationally ranked crew team that narrowly missed capturing an Olympic berth for
the 1952 games. He captained the varsity crew team the following year.

Immediately following college, Beck served in the US Navy rising to the rank of
Lieutenant (J.G.). He went on to earn an MBA from Harvard Business School in
1958 before joining Beck, Mack & Oliver, an investment counseling firm founded
by his father and two of his father's Princeton colleagues. Beck became a
partner in 1962 and later, Senior Partner. During his time with Beck, Mack &
Oliver, based on his own investment prowess and extraordinarily personable
style, Beck oversaw the firm's growth to becoming a leader in investment
counseling. His advice and investment acumen were sought from individuals and
institutions alike. He served on many boards, including Russell Reynolds
Associates, the Chubb Corporation, Colonial Williamsburg, and most preciously to
him, Princeton University. As a trustee at Princeton, he chaired the
University's Investment Committee and during his tenure, created the Princeton
Investment Company (Princo) which continues to manage the University's
endowment. Beck prided himself as much on his personal touch as his facility
with numbers. Even at six foot five, he was approachable, his often intimidating
facade giving way to a warm, welcome, and very quick sense of humor. Still, he
relished competition and put his size and wily southpaw to good use in racquet
sports, in particular. Following in the footsteps of his mother, Beck became a
nationally ranked platform tennis player in the mid 70's, taking the National
Mixed Doubles title with his sister, Susan Beck Wasch, in 1972 and the National
Men's title with Herbert Fitzgibbon in 1974. He was also an avid if not often
successful fly fisherman and hunter. He reluctantly retired from Beck, Mack &
Oliver in 1997 but took comfort in handing the reins of the firm to his eldest
son, Robert Childress Beck of New York, NY. Beck maintained his primary
residence in Bedford, NY. He is survived by his wife of fourteen years, Marilyn
McClure Plumb Beck, and four other children from his first marriage to the
former Mary Boulton Fiske (Beck): William Fiske Beck of Chappaqua, NY, Susanne
Boulton Beck of Boston, MA, Christopher Mackay Beck of Mendham, NJ, and Edwin
Wells Beck of Darien, CT. He also leaves behind fourteen grandchildren, his
younger sister, Susan Wasch Beck, of Middletown, CT, and his older brother,
Thaddeus Edmund Beck Jr. of Vienna, VA. Services will be held on Thursday, June
25th at 11AM at Saint Matthew's Episcopal Church, 382 Cantitoe St, Bedford, NY.
In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Wooster School, 91 Miry Brook
Rd, Danbury, CT 06810, to support financial aid; or to the Michael J. Fox
Foundation, P.O. Box 5014, Hagerstown, MD 21741-5014, or on line at
michaeljfox.org. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%);
BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); MARRIAGE (63%)

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (67%); RUSSELL REYNOLDS ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%);
SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES
(55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA
(77%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
