
                               1 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brooklyn Comedy Show Nears the Last Laugh

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words


After nearly seven years of usually unpredictable, often hilarious and always
free nights of comedy, Big Terrific, one of the best weekly stand-up shows in
the city, is coming to an end.

When Max Silvestri, Jenny Slate and Gabe Liedman started presenting comedy
line-ups  in Williamsburg nearly seven years ago, there were few weekly stand-up
shows in Brooklyn.

''At the time, Eugene Mirman and Michael Showalter had a Sunday show at Union
Hall and that was it,''  Mr. Silvestri said. ''People were like: 'Brooklyn, why
would people go there?'''

Now there's a bustling comedy scene in the borough with regular shows at
Littlefield, Union Hall and Knitting Factory. Big Terrific, a Wednesday-night
institution in Williamsburg, earned its reputation thanks to warm hosts and
savvy curating, which mixed established stars  like Aziz Ansari and Sarah
Silverman with newcomers, including some with more unorthodox bents. (Reggie
Watts was on the first bill.)

Ms. Slate, who starred in ''Obvious Child'' as a comic in a show that was much
like an early version of Big Terrific, and Mr. Liedman, a stand-up who writes
for ''Inside Amy Schumer'' and ''Kroll Show,'' would co-host the show with Mr.
Silvestri before they moved to Los Angeles several years ago. Mr. Silvestri, who
has written for ''Billy on the Street'' and will host Bravo's new food show
''Recipe for Deception,'' says it became difficult to put on the same show with
his spending more of his time in Los Angeles.

There will be  more free shows at Cameo Gallery and then a final show  April 26
at Warsaw Bar and Lounge in Greenpoint.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/07/farewell-to-a-brooklyn-comedy-show/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD SHOTWELL/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: AMY SCHUMER (79%); AZIZ ANSARI (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Saturday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 749 words


8 P.M. (HBO) X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST (2014) This franchise's latest entry
finds Professor X (played as an older man by Patrick Stewart) and Magneto (Ian
McKellan) besieged by the Sentinels, human-designed robots who travel in
coffin-shaped airships and are able to neutralize the mutants' genetic
advantages. Enter Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) and Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page), who are
sent back to the 1970s, when the Paris peace talks are ending the Vietnam War,
to prevent the things from being invented. But first they'll have to rouse
Charles Xavier (James McAvoy), the future Professor X, from a drug-addled
stupor; spring Erik Lehnsherr (Michael Fassbender), the future Magneto, from
prison, where he's been languishing since being blamed for the Kennedy
assassination; and track down the angry bright-blue, shape-shifting Mystique
(Jennifer Lawrence), also known as Raven. ''The logic of the story -- a
time-travel pretzel that strains after the brain-teasing power of an old 'Star
Trek' episode -- requires too many variables'' -- and too much thought from the
audience, A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times.

But ''the actors tackle the roles without winking or condescension, and it is
nice to see them together again, however distracting the circumstances. They
will, of course, return, since in the superhero world, as in the real one, some
problems can never really be solved, only put to rest in between episodes.''

8 P.M. (TCM) THE ESSENTIALS: STARTING OVER Robert Osborne and Sally Field
explain why Martin Scorsese's ''Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore'' (1975) --
starring Ellen Burstyn in an Oscar-winning performance as Alice Hyatt, who sets
off from New Mexico to California with her 12-year-old son (Alfred Lutter) to
pursue her passion after her husband's sudden death -- is required viewing.
Among the reasons: Harvey Keitel as the small-town sadist who traps Alice for a
while; Kris Kristofferson as the rancher who finally wins her; and Diane Ladd
and Valerie Curtin as the waitresses in a diner where she works. ''Their
marvelous contributions in small roles are a measure of the film's quality and
of Mr. Scorsese's fully realized talents as one of the best of the new American
filmmakers,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The Times. Francis Ford Coppola's ''The
Rain People'' (1969), starring Shirley Knight as a pregnant housewife who
deserts her husband and takes up with a brain-damaged football player (James
Caan), follows at 10:15.

9 P.M. (CUNY) KILLER OF SHEEP (1978) City Cinematheque's tribute to the 25th
anniversary of Milestone Films continues with this series of interludes,
directed by Charles Burnett, about a slaughterhouse worker whose bloody
occupation wreaks havoc on his emotions and those of his family. Shot in the
Watts section of Los Angeles in the early 1970s by Mr. Burnett as an M.F.A.
thesis project, the film was never meant for commercial release. ''He operated
the 16-millimeter camera himself, edited the black-and-white images into a
visual poem and added the ballads, the jazz and the moody blues that seep into
your head like smoke,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in 2007, seven years
after the film was restored to shimmering black and white and blown up to 35
millimeter by Milestone. The result, she added, ''is an American masterpiece,
independent to the bone.''

9:30 P.M. (Reelz) POLKA KINGS The Cleveland-based Chardon Polka Band tries to go
mainstream by mixing traditional music with works by Justin Bieber and Lady Gaga
at Ukrainian summer camps, Oktoberfests and even National Football League games.

10 P.M. (Discovery Life) NEW GIRLS ON THE BLOCK This five-part series follows a
group of transgender women in Kansas City, Mo., as they navigate everyday life
with the support of Caroline Gibbs, the founder and director of the Transgender
Institute. The participants include Robyn and Andrew, who have gone from best
friends to lovers; Macy, who decided to transition five years into her marriage
to Sharon; and the best friends Kassidy and Chloe, both of whom are searching
for romance.

11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE Taraji P. Henson brings shades of Cookie,
her ''Empire'' matriarch, to the stage in her hosting debut; Mumford & Sons are
the musical guests.

What's Streaming Now

STAR WARS SAGA All six ''Star Wars'' films -- ''The Phantom Menace,'' ''Attack
of the Clones,'' ''Revenge of the Sith,'' ''A New Hope,'' ''The Empire Strikes
Back'' and ''Return of the Jedi'' -- are available for streaming. (amazon.com)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/television/whats-on-tv-saturday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN MARKFIELD/20TH CENTURY FOX)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); FILM (70%); ENTERTAINMENT
& ARTS AWARDS (70%); ACADEMY AWARDS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS
(56%); TALKS & MEETINGS (55%)

PERSON: HUGH JACKMAN (91%); JENNIFER LAWRENCE (79%); MICHAEL FASSBENDER (79%);
JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (50%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Age: 21. Score: --14. Emotion: 0.

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words


AUGUSTA, Ga. --  On Thursday, when Jordan Spieth shot a 64 and nearly set the
record for the lowest 18-hole score at the Masters, the soft-spoken Spieth
conceded he might have taken advantage of favorable conditions and a few lucky
breaks.

A drive about to disappear in the woods hit a branch and reappeared in the
middle of the fairway. A wayward putt suddenly changed course and veered into
the hole. A blind rescue shot from the rough hit the flagstick and ended up 2
feet from the hole.

And the greens were soft -- although that was true for everyone in the field.

On Friday, Spieth shot a 66, a round that no golfer bettered. That gave him a
two-day total of 14-under-par 130, the lowest 36-hole score in the history of
the Masters, one stroke better than the mark set by Raymond Floyd in 1976.
Spieth's score also tied the lowest two-round total in a major championship.

What excuse would Spieth use for such sterling play this time?

''It was less windy today,'' he said in all seriousness.

It is safe to say that the leader at the halfway point of the 79th Masters has
not let his record-setting dominance go to his head. Even after 15 birdies in
two days -- the four-round record in the tournament is 25 -- Spieth will barely
concede that he is playing well.

Spieth was the 54-hole leader a year ago and finished tied for second. But that
was when he was only 20 and playing in his first Masters. He is a seasoned
veteran now, and he speaks like one.

''The last couple days, it doesn't mean anything unless I can close it out,'' he
said. ''I don't want this to go in as the 36-hole record but as somebody who
didn't win.''

Spieth is having fun despite the professional stoicism.

''It's cool,'' he said of the record. ''Any time you can set a record here, it's
pretty awesome. I struck the ball better than yesterday, so I didn't rely on the
breaks as much.''

All right, enough of the excuses.

Spieth's second-round lead is considerable -- five strokes over Charley Hoffman,
who is playing in his second Masters. Three accomplished contenders -- Justin
Rose, Dustin Johnson and Paul Casey -- are lurking, but they are seven strokes
behind, at seven under. The heavyweights Phil Mickelson and Ernie Els will hope
for Spieth to come back to them, but Mickelson is eight strokes back, and Els
trails by nine.

For the near-miracle-minded, Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, Bubba Watson and Sergio
García are among those tied for 19th at two under.

But Spieth knows to expect something other than a coronation ceremony over the
weekend. The field will not just let him roll to an easy victory, and Augusta
National Golf Club tests every leader's mettle at some point regardless of the
lead.

Spieth learned as much last year and vowed he would not be tricked by early
success again.

''What I learned last year is that the weekend of a major, those rounds can
often seem like two rounds in one day,'' he said. ''It's all the kinds of mental
stuff that's running through your head -- the overall stress level.

''The hardest thing to do is put aside wanting to win so bad, and just kind of
let yourself go through the motion -- letting the ball-striking and putting
happen. I have to be very patient and understand that this weekend is going to
feel like a whole other tournament.''

Spieth's colleagues expect him to at least stand up to the challenge mentally.

Henrik Stenson, the world's second-ranked player, was one of Spieth's playing
partners Thursday and Friday. He came away impressed.

''That's definitely an old head on his young shoulders, isn't it?'' Stenson
said. ''He's playing strategically and very mature. He thinks well out there.''

Spieth's two-round total of 130 tied him with Nick Faldo (1992 British Open),
Brandt Snedeker (2012 British Open) and Martin Kaymer (2014 United States Open)
for the lowest 36-hole total in any major championship.

But Spieth could threaten a hallowed Masters mark -- Tiger Woods's record
four-round score of 270, or 18 under par. With 15 birdies already, Spieth is
also on a pace to shatter the record for birdies in one Masters. Phil Mickelson
set that mark in 2001, with 25.

Spieth, who teed off among the first groups Friday, had matching nine-hole
scores of 33, with six birdies and no bogeys. With a birdie on the second hole,
Spieth quickly picked up where he left off Thursday. He then sank an 18-foot
birdie putt on the par-4 fifth hole. Spieth, who has attacked the par 5s with
aggressive precision, made an easy birdie on the par-5 eighth hole, then rolled
in a 10-foot uphill birdie putt on the par-4 10th.

Moreover, Spieth had steely confidence when standing over testy little par putts
where a miss could have ruined his momentum. Spieth made a 4-foot par putt on
the first hole, a 6-foot par putt on the third and a 3-footer on the fourth.
Each was an important save and the closest he came to making a bogey.

Spieth made his fifth birdie of the day when his third-shot pitch at the par-5
13th green stopped within 8 feet and he made the putt. He also birdied the par-5
15th hole. On the closing 18th, he had a 7-foot downhill putt that he missed by
an inch.

Hoffman, who has three PGA Tour victories but has never finished higher than
38th on the tour money list, shot a 68 on Friday, which was only one stroke
higher than his startling opening-round score. He will be paired with Spieth in
Saturday's third round, although he said he was not worried about the pressure
of being in the last group.

''At the Masters, there's a ton of people out there following you no matter when
you play,'' Hoffman said. ''I don't think it will be that different.''

For Spieth, it may be reminiscent of his last-group pairing on the final day of
the 2014 Masters. He was in third place after two rounds in 2014 and in 12th
place after the opening round last year.

''He's basically spent his first six rounds at this tournament near the top of
the leaderboard,'' Geoff Ogilvy, the 2006 United States Open champion, said.
''He's playing amazing.''

Spieth should be accustomed to the added spotlight. One thing is fairly certain:
If Spieth should fail to break the 54-hole Masters record of 201 held by Floyd
and Woods, he is not likely to use the added attention as an excuse.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/masters-friday-updates.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jordan Spieth after his second-round 66. Below, Spieth on No.
10, where he recorded one of his 15 birdies over the first 36 holes. Left, Ben
Crenshaw, the 1984 and '95 champion, played his final Masters round. Ernie Els
called him ''the most influential man I've ever known.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN
SNYDER/REUTERS) (D1)
Jordan Spieth hitting from the rough on his way to a par on the 14th hole. At
last year's Masters, Spieth was the 54-hole leader but finished tied for second.
''I have to be very patient,'' he said Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK
BLINCH/REUTERS)
Top, Charley Hoffman, chipping on No. 15, shot a 68 and was in second, five
strokes behind Spieth. Above, Dustin Johnson after a birdie putt. He was tied
for third with Justin Rose and Paul Casey, seven shots off the lead.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS
EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) (D3) CHARTS: THE MASTERS: Augusta National Golf Club:
Round 2 Leaders
Notables
Standing Alone: Spieth set one Masters record Friday, and has a few more in his
sight over the weekend.
130: Lowest 36-hole score (64-66), eclipsing Raymond Floyd's 131 in 1976.
201: The 54-hole record shared by Floyd (1976) and Tiger Woods (1997). Needs to
shoot a two-under 70 on Saturday to break the mark.
270: Tiger Woods's record 72-hole total when he won his first Masters
championship, in 1997.
4: Players who have held the outright lead after all four rounds (Craig Wood,
1941
Arnold Palmer, 1960
Jack Nicklaus, 1972
 Floyd, 1976).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (74%)

PERSON: JORDAN SPIETH (94%); TIGER WOODS (89%); RORY MCILROY (79%); PHIL
MICKELSON (57%)

CITY: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (89%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Hamilton's Formula One Title That Wasn't

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CHINESE GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 806 words


Before the race, it had seemed that the Chinese Grand Prix of 2007 was set to
make history no matter what the outcome.

The British driver Lewis Hamilton, a rookie at McLaren Mercedes who had been a
protégé of the team since childhood, led the series by 12 points and could win
the drivers' title in this, the penultimate race of the season.

His teammate, Fernando Alonso, a two-time world champion who was in his first
year at McLaren, was the second-placed driver, 12 points behind Hamilton, while
Kimi Raikkonen, in his first year at Ferrari, was 5 more points adrift of the
British driver. To win the championship in his first season and become the first
mixed-race world drivers' champion, Hamilton had only to finish within 1 point
of his teammate or within 6 points of the Ferrari driver.

It had been a spectacular season for the rookie. But it had also been littered
with disputes within the team over its dueling drivers, and with the biggest
cheating scandal in the series' history: McLaren was disqualified from the
constructors' championship and required to pay a $100 million fine after a
spying scandal in which it had obtained secrets of Ferrari's car design.

In Shanghai, Hamilton scored the pole position, with Raikkonen second on the
grid, Felipe Massa, the other Ferrari driver, in third, and Alonso fourth. It
seemed almost a formality that Hamilton would win the title there.

But it rained shortly before the race, so the drivers used intermediate
wet-weather tires -- which are lightly treaded -- on the wet track. At the
start, the four leading drivers on the grid maintained their positions, with
Hamilton quickly building a huge lead.

But it looked as if he was on a light fuel tank, and when he made his first pit
stop after only 14 laps, that was confirmed. Still, he comfortably controlled
the race. But then it began to rain again. The downpour created complicated
choices for the teams about precisely when to stop and which tires to use.

Hamilton was kept on the track as his team weighed options and his tires began
to wear. By Lap 28, he lost the lead to Raikkonen. This was not a problem,
however: He only needed to finish second and keep Alonso -- who was in third --
behind him to win the title, even if the Ferrari driver won the race.

But the longer he stayed on the track, the more his tires began to wear out and
become ineffective. His right rear tire in particular was in bad shape, running
down to the canvas and beginning to delaminate.

''The tires were finished, '' Hamilton later said. ''It was like driving on
ice.''

He finally turned in to make his pit stop after Lap 31. It should have been a
formality. He should have quickly rejoined the track and maintained a position
to win the title. But as he headed into the pit lane, he slid off the entry road
and into a gravel trap, where the car became stuck.

Hamilton could not move the car. A crane had to be used to remove it from the
gravel. Not only had Hamilton lost the race; worse, Alonso finished second and
Raikkonen won, gaining 10 points and setting up a three-way showdown for the
title in the final race, in Brazil.

In São Paulo, the seemingly impossible happened: Raikkonen won the race, and
Hamilton and Alonso finished seventh and third, respectively. With that,
Raikkonen won the title, 1 point ahead of both of the McLaren drivers, who
finished the series level on points.

Hamilton's remarkable debut season ended in sadness and even controversy.

His team director, Ron Dennis, had said after the China race that the team had
not been thinking about Raikkonen, but had been trying to make sure that Alonso
finished behind Hamilton.

''We weren't racing Kimi, we were basically racing Fernando,'' Dennis said.
''Kimi winning and Lewis coming second was adequate. It just didn't quite work
out that way.''

That led Alonso to request that the race stewards keep an eye on the McLaren
management at the final race to make sure that the team treated him and Hamilton
equally.

For his part, Hamilton said of his mistake in China: ''When I got out of the car
I was just gutted. Because I haven't made a mistake all year and to do it on the
way into the pit, is not something I usually do. But you can't go through life
without making mistakes.''

Few people blamed Hamilton entirely for the error. Many in the British public
and news media chose to blame McLaren for keeping him out on the track too long.

''Job vacancy: McLaren race engineer. Must be able to spot when tires are
falling to bits,'' David Croft said while doing commentary on the race for BBC
radio.

In any case, Alonso left McLaren after the season, returning to Renault, the
team where he had won his world titles. And Hamilton went on to win the title
the next year -- clinching it by 1 point over Massa in the last race, in Brazil.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/autoracing/hamiltons-formula-one-title-
that-wasnt.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); ATHLETES
(89%); SCANDALS (72%); TIRES (70%)

PERSON: LEWIS HAMILTON (92%); FERNANDO ALONSO (92%); KIMI RAIKKONEN (78%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Changing Conditions Could Rein In a Runaway at Augusta

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON GOLF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words


AUGUSTA, Ga. -- Tiger Woods grew up a Lakers fan, an allegiance he carried into
adulthood. Watching the championship teams during Phil Jackson's era in Los
Angeles, Woods learned from Jackson, the master, how to work the officials to
level the playing field. He channeled Jackson on Friday after shooting a
three-under-par 69 at Augusta National Golf Club.

At two-under 142, Woods is seven strokes behind Charley Hoffman, a surmountable
deficit. The problem is Hoffman is in second place. The leader, Jordan Spieth,
is five strokes clear of the field at 14 under par and threatening to run away
with the tournament like another 21-year-old, Woods, once did.

With rounds of 70 and 66, Woods took a three-stroke lead over Colin Montgomerie
into the third round in 1997. After a 65 on Saturday, his lead was nine. Woods
closed with a 69 to win by 12, with a 72-hole score of 18 under. Should the
other players' caddies exchange their white coveralls for white flags of
surrender? Is the tournament over before the final day music is cued?

Rain softened Augusta National's greens this week, making them less treacherous,
more receptive. A birdie binge has ensued. In 36 holes, Spieth collected 15,
five more than Hoffman, who also has an eagle. Dustin Johnson had a record three
eagles (along with three birdies) in his round of 67.

Woods, who produced four of his total of seven birdies Friday, signed for his
first sub-70 score on the PGA Tour this calendar year. He is tied with the world
No. 1, Rory McIlroy. Woods then sent a message to the tournament committee by
suggesting it might be a good time to activate the greens' subterranean
turf-conditioning system, which absorbs moisture by pumping air into greens from
underneath.

''If they want to make this golf course a little drier, I was telling the guys
earlier, it's quiet out there, there's no SubAirs going,'' Woods said, referring
to the system's name. ''If they turn the SubAirs on, they can suck the moisture
out of this thing and get them firm, or they can live with it like it is and we
can go out there and make a bunch of birdies.''

Asked if he was lobbying for firmer greens, Woods said: ''It is what it is. You
have to make the adjustments. You've got to go get it or you've got to play a
little more passive.''

Ernie Els, who chased his opening 67 with a 72, is nine strokes behind Spieth.
He could be forgiven for feeling as if he still has a chance. At the 2012
British Open, he was six strokes behind Adam Scott with nine holes left. He
ended up beating Scott by one to win his fourth major. At the 2004 Masters, Els
closed with a 67 and was preparing for a playoff when Phil Mickelson birdied the
final hole to win by one.

''I'll tell you what I'd love to do,'' Els said. ''I'd love to go and shoot two
67s and see where that takes me.

It would leave Els, 45, at 15 under par, which is better than the winning score
of the past four Masters.

''I think experience will help me over the weekend because I've seen what can
happen,'' Els said, adding, ''There's some scars, but it's about 10 years away
now so I think I'm over it.''

Seung-Yul Noh, the 23-year-old from South Korea, has no scars from Augusta
National. He is at even-par 144 in his Masters debut. His strategy is simple.

''Don't care what anyone else is doing,'' he said. ''Just play for fun the next
two days.''

Noh is tied with three other players, including the Australian Geoff Ogilvy, who
knows how suddenly a lead can unravel in a major. At the 2006 United States
Open, Mickelson led by two with three to play. He lost by one to Ogilvy, who
said at the time, ''I think I was the beneficiary of a little bit of charity.''

''The way he's been playing,'' Ogilvy said, referring to Spieth, ''I'm sure the
course won't catch up to him, but Augusta seems to get its own back at some
point.''

He added: ''You never know. People have shot 12 under on the weekends before.''

The worst strategy any of Spieth's challengers could adopt, Ogilvy said, would
be to come out Saturday and go for every pin, as if they had nothing to lose.
''You can't force anything around here, because if you do it's going to go
really badly,'' he said.

Ogilvy added, ''As the course gets presented, I'll play it the Augusta way, and
if I hit good shots and make the putts, I'll have a good weekend.''

How it will be presented, of course, is out of the golfers' hands. Or is it? Not
if Woods had any say in the matter.

''With 36 holes here to go, anything can happen, you know,'' Woods said, adding:
''There's so many holes to play and so many different things can happen. And as
I say, we don't know what the conditions are going to be tomorrow, what the
committee is going to do.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/golf/changing-conditions-at-the-masters
-could-rein-in-a-runaway.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tiger Woods, left, at the Masters in 1997, where he finished at
18 under. Ernie Els, center, at the 2012 British Open
he came from six strokes behind with nine holes left. Phil Mickelson, right,
after losing the 2006 United States Open on a double bogey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE
MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JON SUPER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (93%); RORY MCILROY (79%); JORDAN SPIETH (79%); PHIL
MICKELSON (78%)

CITY: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fund-Raising May Value Spotify Above $8 Billion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


Spotify, the streaming music service, is close to raising $400 million from
investors in a round that will value the company at more than $8 billion, people
briefed on the matter said on Friday.

Included in the list of over a dozen investors are a division of Goldman Sachs
and an arm of the Abu Dhabi government, these people said. Others are likely to
include notable hedge funds and money management firms around the world.

If the round closes, it will place Spotify firmly in the ranks of some of the
most richly valued technology companies, joining the likes of Uber, Airbnb and
Snapchat.

A spokesman for Spotify declined to comment.

Spotify, which unveiled its app in 2008, is among a small class of fast-rising
streaming music services that have grown drastically in just the last few years,
including Rdio, Google Play Music, the Apple-owned Beats Music app and, most
recently, Tidal, a new service backed by the hip-hop mogul Jay Z.

But among that group, Spotify has shown the most outward signs of success. In
January, Spotify said it served 15 million paid subscribers, a 50 percent
increase in its paid customer base from just eight months previous.

Users are also able to listen to a free version of the service, which is
supported with advertising. More than 60 million people use Spotify in nearly 60
countries around the world, the company has said.

The company's rapid ascent over the last seven years underscores the rapidly
changing nature of how people want to discover music. Just as quickly as Spotify
has risen, sales of physical compact discs and digital downloads have plummeted,
leaving artists and industry executives looking to cash in on the next frontier
in music distribution.

But streaming music is by no means universally loved by those in the music
industry. Spotify, along with other streaming companies like Pandora, has faced
increasing pressure over its so-called freemium business model, as well as the
amount of royalties it pays to record companies and performing artists.

Late last year, the pop singer Taylor Swift abruptly removed all of her catalog
from Spotify after disagreements with the company over how it would be made
available to customers.

Daniel Ek, Spotify's chief executive, countered with a spirited defense of the
company's business model, saying that his company had paid more than $2 billion
in royalties to the music industry.

News of the investment round was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/fund-raising-may-value-spotify-above-
dollar8-billion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STREAMING MEDIA (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
(89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); DATA
PROCESSING SERVICES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%);
FUNDRAISING (78%); MUSIC & SOUND RECORDING INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP
MUSIC (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%)

COMPANY: SPOTIFY LTD (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%);
WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL EK (79%); JAY-Z (58%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

McIlroy Steps Up His Game to Go From Jittery to Upbeat, Despite Trailing by 12
Strokes

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 900 words


AUGUSTA, Ga. --  The lead-up to the Masters was interminable for Rory McIlroy,
who had been answering questions about winning the tournament to complete a
career Grand Slam. For a while Friday, it looked as if McIlroy's Masters week
would be painfully short.

McIlroy, the world No. 1, played the first nine holes in 40 strokes and was
three over par for the tournament. He birdied No. 10 to jump-start a 31 on the
back nine to match his opening score of one-under 71. At two-under 142, McIlroy
is tied with seven other players, including the defending champion, Bubba
Watson, and the 14-time major winner Tiger Woods.

At the turn, McIlroy said: ''I was just trying to get myself back to even par
for the tournament. And then I did that pretty quickly on the back nine.''

He added, ''So even though it was an up-and-down round, I finished on a high
note and at least make myself feel a little bit better going into the weekend.''

McIlroy, 25, is 12 strokes behind the 36-hole leader, Jordan Spieth, who is four
years his junior. ''I would need to shoot a 14-under-par weekend, and Jordan
would have to play a couple average rounds, and neither of those two things look
like they're going to happen, so it's going to be tough,'' McIlroy said. ''I'll
go out and try and play the best I can, and we'll see where that leaves me. But
a few more nine holes like the one I just had there, you never know.''

If anybody appreciates how hard it is to hold a Masters lead on Sunday, it is
McIlroy, who finished 10 strokes behind the winner, Charl Schwartzel, in 2011
after holding at least a share of the lead in the first three rounds. He led by
four going into Sunday's final 18.

''I know better than most people what can happen with the lead around here,''
McIlroy said. ''But Jordan's had the experience. He had the experience last
year. He had a couple-shot lead and couldn't quite hold on to it. But he'll have
learned from that, and he'll definitely handle it better this time around.''

A DUCK-TURNED-CADDIE A trip to Augusta National Golf Club was on Teemu Selanne's
to-do list before his fellow Finn Mikko Ilonen earned his second trip to the
Masters by finishing 2014 inside the world top 50. One of the retirement gifts
Selanne received from the Anaheim Ducks last season at the end of his 23-year
career was a round with a member.

''I'm so excited,'' said Selanne, 44, the Ducks' career leader in goals, points
and games played.

Selanne, who said his handicap index was 3.9, caddied for Ilonen, a European
Tour regular, during the par-3 contest Wednesday and walked both his rounds.
Selanne made a rookie mistake Thursday and was caught running toward the first
hole to watch Ilonen's opening drive. He was reprimanded by a Masters marshal,
who made his day, Selanne said, by calling him ''young man'' before scolding him
for running on the course.

Selanne, who said his handicap index is 3.9, said he had always wanted to attend
the Masters, but was never able to because the end of the N.H.L. regular season
coincides with the tournament.

''I had high expectations for what the course would be like,'' Selanne said. ''A
lot of times people get disappointed because the reality can't live up to the
expectations, but it's as beautiful as I thought it would be.''

As he walked the first 36 holes, Selanne, imagined himself hitting shots. The
hole that worries him the most, he said, is No. 7, a 450-yard par 4 that was
playing to a 4.37 stroke average Friday.

''That second shot scares me,'' he said, referring to the approach to an
elevated bunkered green.

Selanne was waiting for Ilonen when a man approached and asked for his
autograph. He said he was from California and was a big fan. When Selanne
obliged, the man thanked him profusely and said, ''This is bigger to me than
even golf.''

CHEERS FOR CRENSHAW Ben Crenshaw made his 50th birdie on No. 13 Friday, a
highlight of his 138th and final round at Augusta National. After putting out on
No. 18 for an 85, Crenshaw doffed his cap and saluted the crowd that was
standing and applauding him. The defending champion, Bubba Watson, stayed for 30
minutes after he finished his round to honor Crenshaw, who was making his 44th
start.

Earlier in the day, Ernie Els, who was grouped with Crenshaw when Els made his
Masters debut in 1994, saluted him. Els, 45, described him as ''a great asset''
to the game and said: ''Gentle Ben, the name says it all. He's the most
influential man I've ever known.''

Crenshaw's wife, Julie, said she wore waterproof mascara in anticipation of the
tears she expected would flow during and after the round. The tears did come,
and shortly after Crenshaw was through, it started sprinkling.

''I have to tell you one thing that happened today that just kind of really was
neat,'' said Crenshaw, who was grouped with Bill Haas and Jason Dufner. ''We
were playing the 12th hole, we were going across the Hogan Bridge, and there is
a red-tailed hawk on the ground right next to the green. And I have a decent
putt at a birdie, and Jason Dufner said: 'Ben Hogan's watching. You better make
that putt.'  And of course I choked, choked on it and missed it.''

Crenshaw, who missed the cut for the eighth consecutive year, said the
tournament ''has been a great part of my life'' but ''I should have stopped a
long time ago.''

He added: ''It's a joy to play the course. It's a gorgeous place.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/golf/rory-mcilroy-goes-from-jittery-to-
upbeat.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rory McIlroy on Friday at the Masters. Mired at two-under 142,
he said, ''I'll go out and try and play the best I can, and we'll see where that
leaves me.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL NOBLE/REUTERS)
   Ben Crenshaw with his longtime  caddie, Carl Jackson, on  the 18th green
after his 138th  and final Masters round at  Augusta National on Friday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (91%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%)

PERSON: RORY MCILROY (93%); JORDAN SPIETH (79%); TIGER WOODS (53%)

CITY: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (89%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Young Guns Are Driving Formula One's Next Revolution

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CHINESE GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 1206 words


If Formula One started a technical revolution last season with quieter, more
efficient hybrid engines, this season the series appears to be revolutionizing
the notion of what it takes to be a driver.

The early history of Grand Prix racing was about macho men in their 30s and 40s
mastering hulking, high-horsepower machines and living a glamorous life between
races. Juan Manuel Fangio, one of the greatest drivers, won the last of his five
world titles in 1957 at the age of 46.

But the professionalization of the series and the technological evolution of the
racing cars into less-brutal, aerodynamics- and electronics-driven cars has seen
the rise of younger drivers and a different style behind the wheel.

Lewis Hamilton, 30, may be the reigning world champion and leader of the series
again this year, but there is a clear trend -- one that may be threatening for
Hamilton and others of his generation -- toward teenage drivers at the pinnacle
of motor racing.

Only six of the 20 drivers this season are over 30. Two drivers are 20, and one
is 22. And the Toro Rosso driver Max Verstappen, who will be lining up for his
third race at the Chinese Grand Prix in Shanghai this weekend, is 17.

When Verstappen finished the Malaysian Grand Prix two weeks ago in seventh place
-- after qualifying sixth -- he was not only the youngest driver to race in the
series, but also the youngest to score points. He is more than two years younger
than the Russian driver Daniil Kvyat was when he scored points last year at 19.
It has been noted that Verstappen, whose parents are Belgian and Dutch, is too
young to obtain a drivers' license in either of his home countries.

Kvyat, now 20 and driving for Red Bull, finished the Malaysian Grand Prix right
behind Verstappen, while Verstappen's teammate, Carlos Sainz Jr., also 20,
finished ninth and Felipe Nasr, a 22-year-old driver for the Sauber team,
finished 12th. In Australia, Nasr had finished fifth, the best result ever for a
Brazilian driver in his debut Formula One race.

Before Verstappen, only nine teenagers had raced in Formula One, all at the age
of 19. Sebastian Vettel, now a four-time world champion, was one of them. Vettel
is the only other driver to have scored points as a teenager in Formula One: He
finished eighth, at 19, in his debut at the 2007 U.S. Grand Prix.

Today, the physical burdens of heavy steering, brutal gearshifts and low engine
driveability are a thing of the past; driving the modern cars is almost like
playing a video game. What remains, though, is the need for mental strength to
perform at the highest level, with the pressures of driving against the world's
best drivers, in the best cars, before hundreds of millions television viewers.

But Felipe Massa, who started in the series in 2002 at age 20, praised his
compatriot Nasr. ''For his first race in Formula One he did everything like a
mature driver,'' Massa said. ''He was really consistent, the way he was pushing
throughout the whole race.''

Massa compared it to his own first race, in which he said he had been knocked
out by his teammate at the first corner. But in his day, debuts at such a young
age were often deemed to be too early. Massa made many mistakes, so became a
test driver in his second season, learning his craft and maturing.

But Jos Verstappen, Max's father and a former Formula One driver, disagreed with
that approach.

''A driver has to be strong in his mind anyway to survive in this sport,'' said
Verstappen, who was involved in a spectacular accident in his first race in the
series at age 22 in 1994. ''And if he is mentally not ready at 17, then he is
also not ready at 20.''

Some critics have suggested that by having teenagers race rather than mature
men, Formula One is making the cars and the racing seem less challenging. But
the performance of the young drivers so far this year has spiced up a show that
many expect might again be dominated by one team, Mercedes.

The youthful excitement factor is exactly what the series' promoters want. That
image is crucial for the Red Bull energy drink company, whose two teams, Red
Bull and Toro Rosso, are home to all three of the youngest drivers.

''Red Bull is aware that teenagers and young people look at their parents
drinking Red Bull, and so they associate the drink with their parents'
generation,'' said Nav Sidhu, a founding director of Sidhu & Simon
Communications, a public relations and sponsorship activation agency with
extensive experience in Formula One. ''Having a teenager in the series and
associated with the drink can change that perception.''

Formula One has also noted that its fan base is aging, with younger people more
occupied with distractions like video games than with racing cars. But the
objective for team directors and engineers is still to win races, so seeking the
best drivers -- whatever their age -- is paramount. It is too early in the
season to know whether the current crop of young drivers will meet that goal now
or require further experience.

Despite their fine results, each driver made errors in Malaysia. Kvyat, who
moved to Red Bull this year after a year at Red Bull's junior Toro Rosso team,
has appeared less sure of himself than he was last year, when he faced less
pressure. In Malaysia, as Kvyat's teammate, Daniel Ricciardo, 25, was told by
the team to let him pass, since the Russian was faster, Kvyat made an error that
bore a hint of impatience, and he spun out before regaining control and
finishing the race.

Verstappen, meanwhile, nearly ended his race when he drove over the grass
heading into the pit lane. Nasr ruined both his and Kimi Raikkonen's race early
on when he came into contact with the Ferrari driver.

''These boys have got the speed,'' said Martin Brundle, a former Formula One
driver and now commentator on British television. ''They've just got to get some
experience.''

At Toro Rosso, while Sainz is still an unproven young rookie, his résumé looks
like a veteran's compared to that of Verstappen. While Verstappen spent one
season racing cars, and did not even win his championship, Sainz has spent five
seasons in car racing and won two championships.

That is typical of today's young drivers, who start top-level go-karting
competitions at age 10 or younger, then do several years of car racing before
starting in Formula One. Which means that they often have as much pure racing
experience as their predecessors in the early years of Grand Prix racing had in
their 30s.

It remains to be seen whether Formula One will lose some of its appeal because
the young age of drivers gives the impression that elite racing is easy. In
response to alarm from teams, fans and others when Toro Rosso hired Verstappen,
the International Automobile Federation, the series' governing body, set a
minimum age requirement of 18 for drivers to obtain the obligatory license to
drive in the series starting next year.

But now that the young drivers have begun to show their skill and maturity,
Helmut Marko, who hires the drivers for Red Bull, said the new minimum age
requirement was pointless. ''It is sad that now a regulation is coming in that
would have deprived both Max and Carlos of the license they need,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/autoracing/young-guns-are-driving-formu
la-ones-next-revolution.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); ATHLETES (68%)

PERSON: SEBASTIAN VETTEL (79%); LEWIS HAMILTON (79%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (69%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (76%); NETHERLANDS (68%); AUSTRALIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Reviving the Ferrari Passion From Within

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: CHINESE GRAND PRIX;
Pg.

LENGTH: 938 words


Maurizio Arrivabene, 58, was appointed managing director and team principal of
the Ferrari Formula One team in November. After two decades working in marketing
and promotion in his native Italy and elsewhere, he joined Philip Morris in
Switzerland in 1997, first as manager of event marketing and then as director
and vice president. In 2007, he was appointed vice chairman for Marlboro Global
Communication & Promotions at Philip Morris International, a longtime sponsor of
the Ferrari team. In 2010, Arrivabene became a member of the Formula One
Commission, representing the sport's sponsors. He was named to lead Ferrari by
the new Ferrari chairman, Sergio Marchionne. Arrivabene spoke with Brad Spurgeon
of The  International New York Times at the Malaysian Grand Prix two weeks ago,
just before Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel won the race, the team's first victory
since 2013.

Q. Is directing the Ferrari team a dream come true?

A. It was a dream that came true, because I was 20 years outside of Italy, and I
said, ''One day I want to go back to my country and I want to do something for
my country.'' It was somehow part of my old job, but I never thought that
something like this was coming. Now I'm happy because I have returned to Italy,
where I can try to use my experience for what I define as the best company that
you can find in Italy.

Q. Sergio Marchionne said he chose you for the job in part because of your
''thorough understanding not just of Ferrari but also of the governance
mechanisms and requirements of the sport.'' But directing 700 employees is
different than working in marketing at Philip Morris. How big a challenge is it,
and what has prepared you for it?

A. First, most of the people at Ferrari know me -- because of my old job,
because of my activities in Formula One. At least for the last five or six years
that accounted for 10 percent of my duties. So for me going there and running
one department -- because Ferrari racing is just one department of the Ferrari
company, even if it is a lot of people -- is not a big novelty. It is
challenging, but somehow equal to what I was doing. I was lucky enough to know
most of the people and to be confident within the atmosphere because I have been
visiting Ferrari for 25 years.

Q. How does someone with no racing experience run the world's most famous team?

A. In those 25 years, I've seen many team principals who were trying to look
like engineers and they were not. Or they were talking  like engineers without
knowing what they were talking about. I think in Formula One a team principal
needs to be first of all a manager: put the people together, make sure that
everybody is going in the same direction, find the right balance in between, and
sometimes take decisions here and at home. You don't need to be an engineer.
There are many people in the world who are leading groups or companies and they
are not actually the people who are doing the projects or running the projects.
They are the people who are running the company.

Q. Ferrari took a huge step forward over the winter. It feels like a different
team from last year. How was this done?

A. I realized immediately that the team was dismantled in some way; everybody
was thinking more to protect themselves instead of to work with each other. The
first challenge was to integrate the new people and all the engineers. James
Allison, the technical director, has done a great job in doing that and I am
very grateful to him.

Then for me the challenge was to regain the Ferrari passion. The Ferrari passion
never disappeared, it was always there. But my job was to visit all of the
different departments, to stay close to the guys, to stand by them the day
before Christmas, the last day of the year, to show to them, ''I am here with
you guys and we all have to push in the same direction.''

One of the things that I said was that I don't want to hear anymore that ''it's
the fault of the engine,'' ''it's the fault of chassis,'' ''it's the fault of
the aero.'' If we fail, we fail together. If we are going to win, we are going
to win together. And suddenly, I realized that the flame was taking life again.
And now it's here. We are all going in the same direction.

Q. Ferrari is a national icon in Italy, so is it an advantage or a disadvantage
for the team director to be Italian?

A. I was working outside of Italy for 20 years, so the advantage is that you
bring with you a mentality that is a bit more open, broader. Being an Italian,
you really understand the conversation of the guys, because as I said before,
you have top engineers, you have the people in the middle and you have the guys
of the team. You need to hear the conversations at all the levels. The devil is
in the detail, and when you understand the detail you can fix it if there is a
problem. Being Italian, or being an Italian with experience from a company
outside of Italy, you can give the passion that you need to have working for
Ferrari but at the same time the pragmatism, your experience, that you gained
from your full professional life.

Q. So when does Ferrari start winning again?

A. As soon as possible. I think Formula One is losing a lot of its value without
Ferrari. I think Formula One needs to see Ferrari winning again. It is good for
the sport. And my hope is, and my conviction is, that we will come back, not
tomorrow, but soon. I am the kind of person who likes to keep his feet on the
ground. I want to be realistic, but it is also being realistic when I say that
we are going in the right direction. I know how to get there; I just don't know
when we will get there.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/autoracing/reviving-the-ferrari-passion
-from-within.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING
(90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); SPORTS
SPONSORSHIP (78%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%)

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: PMI (SWX) (58%); PM (PAR) (58%); PM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%)

PERSON: SEBASTIAN VETTEL (79%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (54%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lowly Strivers Carrying a Sad Circus

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words


Young women in revealing outfits use slingshots to fire cheap novelties into
crowds of beckoning spectators. Two fans have a dance-off at center court for
the cruise vacation awarded for the less humiliating performance. A D.J. in an
orange blazer blasts a pulsing, party-time beat that causes involuntary nods of
the head.

This is a New York Knicks game at Madison Square Garden, a spectacle so rich in
bread-and-circuses distraction that the jowls of Roman emperors would jiggle in
approval, all to that incessant beat. But as the worst season in franchise
history approaches a merciful end, one aspect has been lost amid all the forced
gaiety and front-office gaffes.

A few men just a half-notch above N.B.A. anonymity have been stepping onto the
floor of a world-renowned sports arena and taking one -- and then another, and
then another -- for the team that rents them. They did it Wednesday night,
losing to the Indiana Pacers in a lopsided game squeezed between the timeouts
for carnival acts and video-screen waves from a section pompously called
Celebrity Row. And they did it again on Friday night at the Garden, losing by
99-91 to the Milwaukee Bucks. But for all the basketball horror conveyed in a
15-64 record, there is also honor in the Knicks of 2014-15. Honor not
necessarily among its executives, who own this season-long abomination, but
among its players, who play in hope of prolonging their flickering New York
minute.

These are the hungry temp workers of the league, the undrafted strivers, the
sacrificial lambs offered up to complete a season that was cooked by Christmas.
Many of them have managed to stay on because they are giving their all, which is
rarely enough to muster a victory, and because the Knicks are obligated to
provide warm bodies in blue-and-orange uniforms until the team's 82nd and final
game next week.

As Derek Fisher, the Knicks' coach and resident diplomat, put it after
Wednesday's loss: ''Every team we play against, you know, they have guys that
are more notable.''

Before Wednesday's failed attempt to claim what would have been only the team's
16th win, a few Knicks players loped about a locker room where impossibly large
sneakers lay on the floor, and where motivation to achieve the elusive goal of
effective defense was scrawled on a grease board. ''Tight shell,'' it
encouraged. ''Control paint.''

The absence of any ''notable'' filled the circular room; there was no Carmelo
Anthony, who is injured in body and possibly in ego, and is out for the season.
Instead, there were Langston Galloway, and Ricky Ledo, and Lou Amundson, and
Lance Thomas, all initially signed as 10-day-contract players -- temps, really
-- and now finishing out the year.

Galloway, all of 23, sat shoeless on the floor, a red headset looped over his
furrowed brow as he watched a tape of a recent Pacers-Knicks game on a huge
television screen. Undrafted after starring at St. Joseph's, he wound up with
the Westchester Knicks in the Development League before joining the parent club.
He has been good enough to start at guard on this depleted team, and recently
signed a partially guaranteed contract for next year.

Now he was studying tape, searching for an edge.

Nearby sat Ledo, even younger at 22, talking with a team assistant about game
tickets for family members. His convoluted back story has been lost in this
season's-end slop time. He comes from the West End of Providence, R.I., where
people close to him have been shot and jailed and killed, and where he emerged
as the best basketball player from Rhode Island in two generations.

He went to Providence College for a year but never played, then bounced for a
while between the Dallas Mavericks and its D-League affiliate, the Texas
Legends. Having scored 21 points in a loss against the Washington Wizards last
week, his talent as a shooting guard is not in question, but his maturity is.
Still, he is wise enough to know that now is his chance.

''I've just been waiting to play,'' Ledo said, his tattooed arms providing one
narrative of his young life. ''Coming from the D-League, I'm getting my shot
here.''

He then gave a pro's blowoff -- ''I gotta go get taped'' -- as Amundson, 32, who
keeps his long brown hair in a bun, lumbered past. A veteran of 10 teams, he has
earned admiration in part by throwing his large body into oncoming traffic: a
lunch-pail forward.

Perspective was found at the locker of Thomas, 26, a forward who, after starring
at Duke University, banged around New Orleans and Oklahoma City, Austin and even
China, before making it, barely, here. He plays hard and has learned the
triangle offense, that Rubik's Cube of basketball being imposed by the Knicks'
president, Phil Jackson.

Asked to name a highlight, Thomas had the good grace not to mention the
career-high 24 points he scored in a loss last month to the Toronto Raptors.
Instead, he said the highlight was this: playing for the team he rooted for
while growing up in Brooklyn and New Jersey.

''I don't take any of it for granted,'' Thomas said. ''It's still a blessing to
wear a Knicks uniform and to play in the Garden.''

An hour later, the spectacle featuring a sideshow of basketball began with both
centers missing the jump ball.

By the end of the first quarter, the Knicks had scored only 14 points and were
down by 12 against the motivated Pacers, who were fighting for a playoff spot.
Missed switches on defense, an air ball or two, and a rare play in which Cole
Aldrich of the Knicks tipped the ball in for Indiana. But: ''Let's hear it for
the Knicks City Dancers.''

The rest of the game on Wednesday followed the same inevitable course, a
humbling lesson in good but not good enough, as the Knicks made slightly more
than a third of their shots. Still, with just four minutes to play and the game
out of hand, Galloway could be seen clapping his hands in frustration -- the
gesture of a man who thinks he and his team still have a shot.

An actor from ''Game of Thrones'' waved from Celebrity Row. A fan from Long
Island missed a $10,000 half-court shot. A Gatling-gun-like contraption fired
off more cheap novelties. The D.J. played that last-hour-of-a-wedding-reception
beat.

But in the snatched moments of quiet, you could still hear the sneaker squeaks
of a basketball game, desperately played.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/basketball/amid-a-woeful-circus-basketb
alls-lowly-strivers-carry-the-knicks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coach Derek Fisher, with Ricky Ledo, said after Wednesday's
game: ''Every team we play against, you know, they have guys that are more
notable.'' (D1)
Ricky Ledo (11) scored 21 points on April 3. ''Coming from the D-League,'' he
said on Wednesday, ''I'm getting my shot here.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX
BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Lance Thomas, facing Philadelphia's Jerami Grant, starred at Duke but went
undrafted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
   Langston Galloway and Quincy Acy. Galloway began 2015 with  the Westchester
Knicks before joining the N.B.A. team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX GOODLETT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (76%); SPORTS (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
(83%); INDIANA PACERS (55%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (55%)

PERSON: CARMELO ANTHONY (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Memoir Coming From Taraji P. Henson

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 148 words


Taraji P. Henson, who plays Cookie Lyon, the saucy ex-con and former wife of the
hip-hop mogul Lucious Lyon on the hit Fox show ''Empire,'' has sold a memoir to
37 INK, a Simon & Schuster imprint. The book is scheduled to be published in
mid-2016.

The memoir will cover her childhood in Washington, where she grew up in a rough
neighborhood, her life as a single parent and her rise in Hollywood.

Ms. Henson has appeared in such films as ''Hustle and Flow,'' ''Baby Boy'' and
''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,'' which brought her an Academy Award
nomination for best supporting actress. But her work on ''Empire'' as the
fearless Cookie has brought the widest recognition to date. ''There's no mask,''
she said of the character in an interview with The New York Times. ''She is a
raw nerve.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/taraji-p-henson-of-empire-to-publis
h-a-memoir/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES
(78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ACADEMY AWARDS (74%); INFANTS &
TODDLERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: TARAJI P HENSON (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In G.E. Sale, End to Age of Hubris

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words


More than 10 years ago, the kinds of investors who seek out weak companies were
circulating presentations on Wall Street that argued that General Electric's
enormous lending business was a ticking time bomb.

The financial crisis of 2008 proved those skeptics right, and on Friday, they
appeared to have the final laugh. General Electric announced that it was selling
most of the loans inside its financial division, GE Capital, leaving a G.E. that
will be dominated by industrial businesses. The shift, to be completed by 2018,
would end one of the riskiest experiments in finance. It also indicates that
regulations intended to limit destabilizing financial practices are starting to
bite.

In a statement on Friday, GE Capital mentioned the weakness that drew criticism
all those years ago -- and was behind the plan to shrink. ''The business model
for large, wholesale-funded financial companies has changed, making it
increasingly difficult to generate acceptable returns going forward,'' the
company said.

The important term there is ''wholesale funding.'' That is industry parlance for
borrowing in the markets, as opposed to raising money from deposits. Borrowing
for short periods in the markets is tempting because it can be a cheaper source
of funding for lenders than issuing longer-term debt. Lenders take the cheap,
short-term money and lend it for higher rates to companies and individuals.

As profitable as that strategy might be for certain periods, it can be
precarious. In the 2008 tumult, investors who lent in that short-term market
fled, leaving the financial firms that borrowed there without funding. It was a
Wall Street version of an old-fashioned bank run. As a result, the Federal
Reserve had to step in and provide short-term loans to firms that could no
longer get them.

GE Capital had short-term borrowings that were equivalent to nearly a third of
its assets going into the crisis. That left it in a position where it had to
rely on the government. It was a humbling moment for a company that had a
triple-A credit rating at the time.

The weakness of GE Capital and others alerted regulators and Congress to the
risks posed by large financial firms that were not regulated banks. The overhaul
therefore gave the government the power to designate a large nonbank financial
company as important to the system -- and then regulate it like a bank.

As GE Capital adapted to the new regulatory regime, it began to operate with
more capital and less short-term borrowing. Measures of profitability slumped.
Its return on equity, for instance, was a meager 8.6 percent last year. By
selling many of its loans, GE stands to avoid being designated as a
''systemically important'' institution, and it said on Friday that it would work
with regulators to shed that title.

''G.E.'s decision today shows that some of the financial reform measures
regulators have taken are working,'' Dennis Kelleher, the president of Better
Markets, a group that has often asserted that the overhaul is inadequate, said
in a statement. ''Firms that threaten America's financial system -- like Wall
Street's too-big-to-fail banks -- have to be made to bear the costs of their
risky business so taxpayers don't have to pay the bill when their risks explode
like in 2008.''

GE Capital had $500 billion of assets at the end of last year, making it the
seventh-largest financial firm in the country. It had $69 billion of short-term
borrowings. That sum was substantially lower than before the crisis, but even
that may be too high in the new regulatory environment. The Fed is preparing new
rules that would mean extra constraints for companies that use a lot of
wholesale funding.

''Since the crisis, we've been making GE Capital smaller and safer, and it's a
really strong business,'' Seth Martin, a G.E. spokesman, said. One of GE
Capital's biggest businesses is lending to medium-size companies. Mr. Martin
said that activity was not particularly risky.

One concern raised by GE Capital's plans is that large amounts of financial
assets might be moving from regulated entities into firms that the Fed and
others have little power over. The Blackstone Group, the private equity firm, is
buying some of GE Capital's assets, for instance. But if Blackstone were to grow
to a certain size, it, too, could come under the Fed's regulation as a
''systemically important'' institution.

In many ways, GE Capital is a remnant of a heady, hubristic era in the markets
that gave birth to entities like Long-Term Capital Management, the giant hedge
fund that had to be rescued in 1998, and Lehman Brothers. GE Capital did not
implode in the same spectacular manner as those two, but its game was more or
less up.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/the-lessons-for-finance-in-t
he-ge-capital-retreat.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT RATINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%);
WHOLESALE BANKING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
(75%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

General Electric, in a Reorganization, Will Sell Off Its Financial Division

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Steve Lohr
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words


For decades, General Electric was happy to reap the enormous profits that arose
from its finance arm as it swelled into one of the country's biggest lenders.

But as banking has become a less profitable and riskier business, G.E. will
complete a transformation it began amid the tumult of the financial crisis:
selling off most of that division over the next two years.

Beginning by selling $26.5 billion worth of real estate assets, G.E. is
hastening to return to its roots as one of the mightiest industrial companies in
the world, whose operations include jet engines, oil drilling equipment and
medical devices. What it will mostly shed is GE Capital, a lender with hundreds
of billions of dollars' worth of assets.

The move announced Friday reflects the shifting landscape of the financial
world, especially for the largest players. They face greater regulatory scrutiny
and calls from analysts and investors to slim their operations or break up. Some
are shifting their focus to areas like wealth management as traditional
activities like trading prove less profitable. It is no surprise that G.E.
decided to re-evaluate its role in this ecosystem.

The divestiture campaign, code-named Hubble within G.E. and put together in
about six weeks, will erase one of the main legacies of the conglomerate's
vaunted former chief executive, John F. Welch Jr. But it is also a recognition
that manufacturing, not finance, represents the company's future.

''We're not sentimentalists,'' Jeffrey R. Immelt, the multinational's current
chairman and chief executive, said in an interview.

G.E.'s expansive campaign will bring other changes as well. In shrinking its
far-flung empire, the company will also bring back $36 billion in cash that now
resides overseas, taking a $6 billion tax hit in the process. And it will also
press to relieve itself from the burdens of being considered a too-big-to-fail
lender, a status that brings stricter regulatory requirements.

The wide range of asset sales will help finance a huge return of money to
shareholders, which G.E. estimates will eventually reach $90 billion. About $50
billion will come from a stock repurchase, one of the biggest on record.

''Jeffrey Immelt will have truly remade the company,'' said Steven Winoker, an
analyst at Bernstein Research. ''This is a massive strategic reallocation of
capital and investment.''

G.E.'s moves, Mr. Winoker said, are likely to quiet rumblings from some
investors and analysts that Mr. Immelt should step down, and give him time to
execute the plan, which runs through 2018.

Shareholders applauded the announcement, pushing shares in G.E. up nearly 11
percent on Friday, to $28.51, levels unseen since the financial crisis.

The downsizing is no small matter for a company whose empire encompasses 175
countries and employs about 305,000 people. But since the fall of Lehman
Brothers in 2008, which set off market upheaval that badly wounded G.E. when GE
Capital struggled to borrow, the conglomerate has been selling off pieces of its
finance operation.

The expansion of the finance business was part of the broader diversification of
G.E. starting in the 1980s under Mr. Welch, when American industry feared it
might not be able to compete against Japan. In 1986, for example, G.E. bought
RCA, mainly for its NBC television network, a lucrative cash-generating business
at the time, immune from foreign competition.

Mr. Immelt, who took over in 2001, shared some of that enthusiasm for
nonindustrial businesses. In 2004, G.E. acquired 80 percent of the Hollywood
studio Universal Pictures. And while Mr. Immelt selectively sold some financial
operations, GE Capital continued to grow, especially in commercial real estate
and other loans. In 2004, G.E. even bought a subprime lender in California, WMC
Mortgage, which it shed in 2007 for a $1 billion loss.

For years, the financial tilt looked smart and relatively easy. In an interview
in 2010, Mr. Immelt recalled, if a deal looked like a moneymaker, it got the
nod. ''And you don't have to build a factory,'' he said.

Yet the big bet on finance badly wounded G.E. after Lehman's demise, when the
market upheaval left the conglomerate hard-pressed to borrow debt for its
day-to-day operations.

Since the financial crisis, G.E. has taken steps to shrink its finance
operation, selling off smaller pieces over the years. In one of its most notable
moves, it spun off its private-label credit card arm -- now known as Synchrony
Financial -- in a $2.9 billion initial public offering last year.

Mr. Immelt said the company focused on moving carefully, its board mindful ''not
to burn stuff out'' at fire-sale prices.

Yet executives increasingly thought that its existing efforts were lost upon the
market. And G.E. felt increasingly constrained by its financial arm, which like
other lenders has suffered from far less growth than in the past.

And the company was ready to take advantage of a way to shed its designation as
a ''systemically important financial institution'' -- the official name for a
lender deemed by the government as too big to fail. The so-called Sifi status
imposes additional restrictions and requirements upon companies, potentially
limiting their earnings growth.

So in February, James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman and top deal maker at
JPMorgan Chase, received a call. Could he meet with G.E.'s top management?

Both he and Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, went to meet with Mr.
Immelt, as well as Jeffrey S. Bornstein, its chief financial officer, and Keith
S. Sherin, the chief executive of GE Capital.

Along with Centerview Partners, they received the bombshell assignment. And it
would be a sprint. What ensued were six weeks of daily meetings that stretched
for hours.

The divestiture campaign will be led primarily by only two firms, both in line
to claim large fees and great prestige. Both JPMorgan and Centerview have been
longtime G.E. advisers, having played prominent roles on some of its biggest
deals. JPMorgan, which was named global coordinator for the disposition plan,
advised G.E. on its sale of NBCUniversal to Comcast, and last year it helped
lead the spinoff of Synchrony. And for Centerview, a boutique investment bank,
the GE Capital plan will be another plum assignment. Leading the charge for the
firm was one of its co-founders, Blair Effron, who advised on G.E.'s $13.5
billion takeover of the energy assets of the French conglomerate Alstom.

With G.E.'s mind made up, one of the first potential deals that came up was the
disposal of most of the finance arm's real estate holdings. The most obvious
buyer was the Blackstone Group, one of the biggest buyers of properties on Wall
Street.

The deal team, which included Bank of America and Kimberlite Advisors, called
the head of Blackstone's team, Jonathan D. Gray, and offered him the opportunity
to buy exclusively, as long as he was willing to move fast and pay up.

''We thought there was only one buyer who can do this: Jon Gray at Blackstone,''
Mr. Sherin of GE Capital said. ''We told him, 'If you can hit this bid on an
exclusive basis, it's yours.' '' Mr. Gray responded quickly, setting up what
became the $26.5 billion worth of real estate deals announced on Friday.

Despite not putting the real estate assets up for a competitive auction, which
may have fetched a higher price, Mr. Sherin declared himself happy with the
result. Moving this way assured G.E. of both a speedy and certain transaction.

''Both parties think they got a fair price,'' he said.

G.E. said it would remain an acquirer of businesses as well, though its deals
would be aimed at bolstering industrial operations, like its purchase of the
Alstom assets. But more sales will come. While G.E. has allowed itself two years
to carry out the plan, the company's executives and advisers anticipate that a
huge portion of the deals -- particularly for assets in the United States --
will be finished by sometime next year.

The company is also confident that subsequent sales will generate attractively
priced offers. Even before Friday, according to the people briefed on the
disposal process, the biggest private equity firms around the world have asked
whether the GE Capital division that lends to leveraged buyouts would ever come
up for sale.

Other potential buyers include financial institutions around the world,
including big American lenders and Canadian, European and Japanese banks eager
to snap up businesses as they go up for auction.

''It'll be a food fight,'' one of the people briefed on the process said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/general-electric-to-sell-bul
k-of-its-finance-unit.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One analyst said that Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief of General
Electric, above, ''will have truly remade the company.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOH SENG
CHONG/BLOOMBERG NEWS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (B3) CHARTS: General Electric Then and
Now: GE Capital has shrunk from 42 to 28 percent of G.E.'s overall revenue since
2008. (Source: General Electric Annual Reports)
 Shrinking Giant: General Electric reached its peak size by 1999, but a growing
reliance on profits from its financial division was a drag on the company.
(Source: Bloomberg) (B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%);
ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS
(78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); DISMISSALS (65%);
STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JACK WELCH (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 136 words


An article on Thursday about President Obama's call for an end to therapies
aimed at ''repairing'' gay, lesbian and transgender youth referred incompletely
to the evolution of Mr. Obama's position on same-sex marriage. While Mr. Obama
began his national political career publicly opposed to same-sex marriage, he
did not begin his overall political career opposed to it. (In 1996 he filled out
a questionnaire during his first campaign for public office, an Illinois state
senate race, saying he supported same-sex marriage. By 2004, when he was a
candidate for the United States Senate, Mr. Obama said he did not support
same-sex marriage.) The article also described incorrectly an executive order to
ban discrimination by federal contractors. The action would cover sexual
orientation and gender identity, not gender.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
MARRIAGE (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%);
GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); US SENATE
ELECTIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani Lawmakers Urge Diplomacy in Yemen Conflict but Decline Combat Role

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and RICK GLADSTONE; Salman Masood reported from
Islamabad, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Declan Walsh contributed reporting
from London.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 862 words


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan --  The Pakistani Parliament voted on Friday to stay out of
the conflict in Yemen, but it urged the government led by Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif to play a diplomatic role in defusing the crisis.

The decision came as international aid agencies reported rising desperation in
Yemen, the Middle East's poorest country, where half the population suffered
chronic shortages of basics before the conflict escalated last month.

While a limited amount of emergency medicine was airlifted into Sana, the
capital, millions of Yemenis have little or no food, water and fuel; hundreds
have been killed, and more than a quarter-million displaced. The United Nations
humanitarian relief coordinator for Yemen, Johannes van der Klaauw, told
reporters at a news conference in Geneva that the crisis was ''getting worse by
the hour.''

Analysts in the Arab world saw the Pakistani Parliament's vote as a significant
setback for Saudi Arabia, which is leading a campaign of airstrikes against the
Houthis in Yemen. Saudi Arabia, a major donor to Pakistan, had incorrectly
advertised Pakistani participation in the campaign from the night it began more
than two weeks ago.

While declining a military role, the lawmakers vowed to stand ''shoulder to
shoulder'' with Saudi Arabia, a long-term Sunni ally that had requested
aircraft, warships and troops. The lawmakers also pledged to defend Saudi Arabia
if its ''territorial sovereignty and integrity'' was violated.

Saudi Arabia has accused Iran, the region's most influential Shiite country, of
providing military aid to the Houthis, whose leaders follow a variant of Shiite
Islam, and leaders in Tehran condemned the Saudi air campaign on Thursday. Most
experts say that Iran supports the Houthis but that it does not control them.

The parliamentary measure, which was passed with unanimous support, followed
four days of lively debate in a joint session of Pakistan's Senate and National
Assembly.

Critics of military action warned that Pakistan risked getting sucked into a
broader sectarian conflict in the region, particularly at a time of growing
violence against Shiites at home.

Pakistan is a predominantly Sunni country, but Shiites represent about 20
percent of the population.

The Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, visited Islamabad, the
Pakistani capital, this week and urged Pakistan to press for a cease-fire in
Yemen.

Mr. Sharif's government has close ties to Saudi Arabia, which gave Pakistan a
$1.5 billion grant last year. Mr. Sharif also lived in the Saudi city of Jidda
in the early 2000s, when he went into exile to escape the military rule of
Pervez Musharraf.

The parliamentary resolution on Friday appeared to largely align with Iran's
wishes. ''Pakistan should maintain neutrality in the Yemen conflict so as to be
able to play a proactive diplomatic role to end the crisis,'' read the
resolution, which had been presented by Finance Minister Ishaq Dar.

Lawmakers said they supported ''regional and international efforts for
restoration of peace and stability in the region.''

Still, the pledge to stand with Saudi Arabia and to defend its sovereignty was
seen as leaving open a door to possible military action if the situation in
Yemen were to worsen.

Citing sources close to Mr. Sharif, some Pakistani news outlets reported on
Friday that the Pakistani prime minister had privately warned Mr. Zarif, his
Iranian counterpart, against supporting the Houthis.

In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Sharif said he had used the meeting to express
concern about the Yemeni government being overthrown by ''nonstate actors.''

''Beside the loss of innocent lives, the crisis can undermine the unity of
Muslim world,'' Mr. Sharif said in the statement.

The emergency airlift of medical supplies to Sana, arranged by the International
Committee of the Red Cross and Unicef, arrived on Friday at the international
airport. The agencies said the supplies would be distributed to hospitals across
the country. The Red Cross said the shipment included 16 tons of medicine,
bandages, intravenous fluids and surgical equipment.

But relief workers in the country reported increasingly dire problems. Doctors
Without Borders said it had treated more than 800 war wounded over the past few
weeks, but that fighting had left many people, including pregnant women,
stranded in their homes or at checkpoints in need of medical treatment.

''Every day we are getting calls from patient in a critical condition --
sometimes war-wounded, sometimes with other serious health problems -- who
cannot reach our hospitals,'' Dr. Ali Dahi said in an interview posted on the
Doctors Without Borders website. He was working for the charity in Ad Dhale, a
town in southern Yemen.

Nuha Abdulljabbar, a Yemeni aid worker for Oxfam, the British charity, said in a
telephone interview from Sana that daily bombings by the Saudi-led coalition had
paralyzed the city.

''You never know when they will start to bomb,'' she said. ''There's no warning,
nowhere to go. It's pretty scary.''

Asked what Yemenis fear the most, she said, ''I think the main thing the people
are fearing is the silence of the world.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/pakistan-yemen-iran.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAR &
CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); FOREIGN
RELATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES &
TREASURIES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%);
RELIGION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%);
NAVAL VESSELS (66%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Korea's Real Lessons for Iran

BYLINE: By ROBERT L. GALLUCCI and JOEL S. WIT.

Robert L. Gallucci, a professor of diplomacy at Georgetown University, was the
chief negotiator for the 1994 nuclear deal with North Korea. Joel S. Wit, a
senior fellow at the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins, was the coordinator
for the deal from 1995 to 1999.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 936 words


PRESIDENT OBAMA'S defense of his emerging nuclear deal with Iran as a ''once in
a lifetime opportunity'' reminds his critics of an earlier landmark agreement,
intended to end the threat of a nuclear-armed North Korea.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and others have argued that the
eventual collapse of that agreement, resulting in North Korea's building nuclear
weapons, proves that a deal with Tehran is a big mistake. Those of us who
negotiated the North Korea deal know that important lessons can be learned from
that experience. But they are not the ones based on the critics' fundamental
misreading of history.

Faced with the prospect of a hostile, nuclear-armed North Korea in 1994, the
Clinton administration reached a deal that required the North to give up its
weapons program in return for energy assistance, the lifting of sanctions and
better relations with the United States. In the late 1990s, however, we caught
the North Koreans cheating and, early in the George W. Bush administration, the
agreement collapsed. Today, the North's reinvigorated bomb program may be
poised, as Mr. Netanyahu pointed out in his recent speech to Congress, to
produce as many as 100 nuclear weapons over the next five years.

Although our policy ultimately failed, the agreement did not. Without the 1994
deal, North Korea would have built the bomb sooner, stockpiled weapons more
quickly and amassed a much larger arsenal by now. Intelligence estimates in the
early 1990s concluded that the North's nuclear program was so advanced that it
could produce 30 Nagasaki-size nuclear weapons a year by the end of the decade.
More than 20 years later, that still hasn't happened.

The collapse of the North Korea deal has been used to argue that it is
impossible to conduct diplomacy with rogue states. But the only litmus test that
matters is whether an agreement serves our national interest, is better than
having no deal at all, and is preferable to military force. The arrangement with
Iran appears to be well on its way to meeting that standard.

The real lessons from North Korea have to do with why a deal with such a
promising start ultimately collapsed. While reaching an agreement is tough,
making it stick is even tougher.

The United States and its partners must avoid the ''problem solved'' mentality
that inevitably follows landmark agreements. This mentality took hold in 1994 as
senior officials moved on to deal with other foreign policy challenges while
implementation, left in the hands of lower-level bureaucrats, suffered. As a
result, the United States didn't follow through on two major incentives it had
promised in return for North Korea's nuclear restraint: the establishment of
better political relations and the lifting of economic sanctions. This does not
excuse the North's behavior, but it does show these deals require constant
attention.

The Iran framework is extraordinarily complex, and will require monitoring to
ensure that all the moving pieces -- limiting Iran's nuclear capabilities,
providing for inspections and lifting sanctions -- are effectively implemented.
One way to do this is for the United States and its partners to establish a body
that meets regularly to oversee implementation.

Another lesson is that we should not be surprised if Tehran is caught cheating.
While the Obama administration has emphasized the emerging agreement's highly
intrusive verification measures, the trick will be not only to catch cheating in
a timely manner, but also to react with a clear plan.

We failed to do that with North Korea. When the Bush administration confronted
the North about its cheating in 2002, the North simply withdrew from the
agreement and restarted its nuclear program. Having just gone to war in
Afghanistan and about to invade Iraq, the administration decided to start from
scratch and seek new nuclear negotiations that dragged on and eventually petered
out. In hindsight, President Bush could have followed the Clinton
administration's plan to confront North Korea with an opportunity rather than an
accusation. That meant offering the North more progress in building better
relations in return for stopping its threatening activities, including its
cheating.

For Iran, we need a mechanism for resolving disputes and a plan for political,
economic and possibly military steps to deal with violations that we and our
partners have agreed on beforehand.

Finally, we should understand that without a positive shift in political
relations, the chances that a nuclear deal will fail increase over time. We
included provisions in the 1994 accord for improving relations between the
United States and North Korea, but failed to recognize that four decades of
hostility could not be erased overnight. Continuing tensions on issues unrelated
to the nuclear agreement helped undermine the deal.

The same danger exists with Iran, given its hostility to American and Israeli
interests in the Middle East. Of course, North Korea and Iran are very different
politically; Tehran, along with hard-liners, has a young and increasingly vocal
reform movement. That may be reason for hope. But whether that difference will
translate into future moderation in Iranian foreign policy remains uncertain.

As American negotiators move toward a final agreement with Iran by the end of
June, they are right to look to our experience with North Korea. But they should
ignore the critics who say that the lesson is to abandon diplomacy. Diplomacy
can succeed with political will and sustained focus. We just need to remember
that the deal itself is only the beginning.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/north-koreas-real-lessons-for-iran.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
(94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Charges for Producer After Groping Claim

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 495 words


The Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will not face criminal charges in
connection with a woman's claim that he touched her breasts during a business
meeting in his office in TriBeCa last month, the Manhattan district attorney's
office announced on Friday.

''This case was taken seriously from the outset, with a thorough investigation
conducted by our sex crimes unit,'' Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the district
attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said. ''After analyzing the available evidence,
including multiple interviews with both parties, a criminal charge is not
supported.''

The woman, a 22-year-old Italian model whose name was not released by the
authorities, told the police that during her meeting with Mr. Weinstein, 63, he
had asked if her breasts were real and then touched her. She said he continued
to touch her inappropriately even after she asked him to stop, according to her
account.

Mr. Weinstein was questioned by the police after the allegations became public.
Through a spokesman, he had previously denied any wrongdoing. On Friday, a
representative for Mr. Weinstein welcomed the announcement that charges would
not be brought against him.

''We are pleased this episode is behind us,'' the representative, Risa Heller,
said.

The woman's lawyer, David Godosky, did not respond to telephone messages.

Investigators said the woman met Mr. Weinstein for the first time at a party on
March 26, where the two exchanged business cards. ''They did not know each
other,'' said a law enforcement official who did not want to be identified
discussing details of the investigation.

The next day, investigators said, Mr. Weinstein invited the woman to meet him in
the evening at his offices at the Tribeca Film Center on Greenwich Street.
During the meeting, she told him she would be auditioning for a lingerie ad and
showed him a portfolio.

The woman told investigators that Mr. Weinstein had touched her inappropriately
after telling her that it was important for casting agents to know whether her
breasts were real. She contacted the police after the meeting, and, at the
direction of detectives, placed a call to Mr. Weinstein and recorded their
conversation, law enforcement officials said.

During the call, Mr. Weinstein acknowledged that the episode had occurred,
investigators said. A follow-up meeting between the model and Mr. Weinstein at a
hotel the next day was also recorded.

Those recordings, however, did not provide enough evidence to support a
misdemeanor charge of forcible touching, prosecutors said. State law says people
are guilty of that misdemeanor when they touch another person's sexual parts
''for no legitimate purpose'' other than to degrade the victim or to satisfy
sexual desire.

The allegations against Mr. Weinstein cast a shadow over his image as a socially
liberal business executive with ties to prominent Democratic politicians such as
President Obama, former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-wont-face-charges-af
ter-groping-report-manhattan-prosecutor-says.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harvey Weinstein

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%);
MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%);
MISDEMEANORS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); FILM
FESTIVALS (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); BILL CLINTON (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats May Know What Party They're In

BYLINE: By NATE COHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL CALCULUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 711 words


The party identification of American voters was one of the most hotly debated
topics among analysts before the 2012 presidential election. Many Republicans
thought there were roughly equal numbers of Democrats and Republicans, and so
doubted polls showing President Obama with the lead. In the end, the polls were
right. This week, a  Pew Research report based on about 25,000 interviews in
2014 took a new measure of partisanship. Here are the most interesting findings:

Despite the president's sagging approval ratings in 2014 and the strong
Republican performance in the midterm elections, the Democrats retain a
nine-point advantage among adult Americans who lean toward a party
identification, 48 percent to 39 percent.

The tally is nearly unchanged from the 10-point Democratic advantage in 2012,
when President Obama won re-election.

The stability of the Democratic advantage in party identification suggests that
disappointment with Mr. Obama's performance hasn't caused traditionally
Democratic voters to reassess their partisanship. That's very different from the
reaction of Republicans in the middle part of the last decade, when
dissatisfaction with the Bush administration allowed Democrats to build the wide
advantage that persists today.

Non-Hispanic whites lean Republican by a nine-point margin, one of the party's
largest advantages among white voters over the last 20 years. But the advantage
is about the same as in 2004, when Republicans had an eight-point advantage, and
2012, when it was a seven-point advantage.

Notably, there isn't much evidence of a trend against Democrats. Since 2010, the
Republican advantage has held between seven and 11 points.

The Democrats have faced equal or larger deficits.

Perhaps because of the growing Democratic affinity for liberal cultural
politics, Republicans have made steady gains among white evangelical and
Catholic voters over the last decade. Since 2004, the Republican advantage among
white evangelicals has grown by 12 points, from 34 to 46 points. Over all, 68
percent of white evangelicals lean Republican, compared with just 22 percent
leaning Democratic.

The traditional Democratic advantage among white Catholics -- who were equally
likely to lean Republican or Democratic in 2004 -- has turned into a modest and
persistent Republican advantage for five straight years, including a nine-point
edge in 2014.

Political scientists delight in debating about the political leanings of the
young voters who reached voting age after Mr. Obama's 2008 election. One theory
has held that younger millennials will be significantly more Republican than
older millennials, since their politics would be defined by the Obama years, not
by opposition to the Bush administration. Others have argued that Democratic
strength among younger voters is the result of cultural and demographic changes,
not the national political conditions of the end of the last decade.

The Pew data, which includes 2,693 voters who are 18 to 25, suggests that the
youngest millennials are about as Democratic as older millennials. The youngest
millennials lean Democratic by 15 points; older millennials lean Democratic by
17 points. Fifty-one percent of the youngest millennials lean Democratic,
compared with 50 percent of older millennials.

There is, however, one intriguing weak spot for Democrats among the youngest
millennials: minorities. While young whites are far more Democratic than their
elders, the youngest nonwhite adults tend to be somewhat more Republican.

According to the Pew data, 17 percent of 18- to 25-year-old black adults lean
Republican -- far more than any other age group among blacks. The sample is
small -- just 354 black adults between the ages of 18 and 25 were queried -- but
it is not the only piece of evidence supporting this possibility. In the 2012
exit polls, just 80 percent of black men 18 to 29 supported Mr. Obama, although
the number of respondents was quite low.

The Pew data isn't enough to definitively state that Republicans fare better
among the youngest nonwhite voters, but it's something to keep an eye on.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our weekly
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/upshot/democrats-keep-lead-in-party-identifica
tion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US
PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%);
POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (88%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS
(78%); TRENDS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ADULTS (75%);
DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reliving the '90s to Seek Catharsis

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 539 words


First came the gnashing of teeth over Hillary Clinton's private email account,
and her soon-to-be announced presidential campaign. Then, with a TED talk,
Monica Lewinsky signaled her return to the spotlight. Now a show called
''Clinton the Musical'' has opened Off Broadway.

A person could be forgiven for wanting to hide under the bed until the 1990s
stopped making a comeback.

But cowering would be a mistake. Far better to crawl out from behind that dust
ruffle, head over to New World Stages and let ''Clinton the Musical'' quell your
fears.

Smartly silly, hilariously impudent and sneakily compassionate, it is nearly
guaranteed to leave you humming a bouncy, exuberant tune called ''Monica's
Song'' -- the lyrics are unprintable -- and thinking far more fondly of the
eight scandal-plagued years this country spent with a president from a place
called Hope. In this frothily satirical political history -- which has a book by
the Australian brothers Paul and Michael Hodge, and music and lyrics by Paul
Hodge -- No. 42 is actually two presidents: the urbane, silver-haired WJ Clinton
(Tom Galantich) and the louche, rutting Billy Clinton (Duke Lafoon).

''In my whole life I have only ever loved two men,'' Hillary (Kerry Butler)
says. ''And they happen to be the same man.''

So the famous Bill-and-Hillary package deal the country got in the 1992 election
is a three-for-one bargain here, with WJ, Billy and brainy, resilient Hillary
tussling for dominance in a White House designed by Beowulf Boritt, where the
portraits on the walls show past presidents and their amours.

Chief among the enemies waiting to pounce is the deliciously sex-crazed special
prosecutor Kenneth Starr (Kevin Zak), who gets his chance when Billy takes up
with Monica (Veronica J. Kuehn). The prosecutor and Linda Tripp (Judy Gold),
Monica's predatory confidante, are the show's only real villains. Newt Gingrich
(John Treacy Egan) is more of a buffoon.

Reworked and largely recast since its run last July at the New York Musical
Theater Festival, ''Clinton'' is now directed and choreographed by Dan
Knechtges, and its tone is affectionately lampooning. Chelsea Clinton is
mentioned by name only once, not cruelly. An occasional appearance by Socks the
cat is enough to remind us that a family, not just a presidency, was at stake
amid the Lewinsky scandal.

And Hillary? She tells us at the start that this is the story of her first
presidency, and she comes off awfully well. In a flattering blue pantsuit by
David C. Woolard, with hair designed by Tom Watson that looks consistently
great, Ms. Butler makes a peppy, very funny Hillary whose ambitions are huge but
whose capability is never in question.

The show's poster art notwithstanding, ''Clinton'' doesn't pit Hillary and
Monica against each other. It's sympathetic to both of them, painting Monica as
naïve and terribly young. That lack of meanspiritedness is crucial to its
success.

''Clinton the Musical'' isn't the sort of show that the real-life subjects are
likely to find entertaining, but for the rest of us, it's 95 minutes of healthy
catharsis.

''Clinton the Musical'' continues at New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street,
Clinton; 212-239-6200, clintonthemusical.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/theater/review-clinton-the-musical-proves-unim
peachably-amusing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clinton the Musical with Duke Lafoon and Veronica J. Kuehn at
New World Stages. (C1)
 In portrait frames, left, Kerry Butler, and right, Tom Galantich, eying the
action between Duke Lafoon and Veronica J. Kuehn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUSS ROWLAND)
(C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016
(90%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER
(77%); FESTIVALS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY
(72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Conjures Little Urgency in Tennessee, but Strong Views

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Alan Blinder contributed reporting from Atlanta.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1244 words


KINGSPORT, Tenn. --  On Wednesday, the Arby's Army, as the half-dozen men camped
out in the corner booths styled themselves, was considering Iran. This had not
been a regular topic here, particularly during the recent weeks of N.C.A.A.
basketball.

But earlier that day, Tennessee's junior United States senator, Bob Corker, had
appeared before a local Rotary Club to discuss the Obama administration's
recently announced framework agreement with Iran on its nuclear program. As the
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Corker, a Republican, is
a central figure in the struggle between the executive branch and Congress over
any final deal.

Only a couple of members of the Arby's Army had attended Mr. Corker's speech,
but the group was unified in its conclusion: ''This president is either naïve or
not supportive of America,'' said David Price, 61, who moved here from
California. With that, the conversation quickly left Iran for more familiar
ground: the awfulness of President Obama.

Inside the Beltway, there are few issues more urgent than the negotiations with
Iran, with experts parsing the complex details of the framework and political
insiders counting votes to see whether Congress can exert control over a final
agreement. Here in eastern Tennessee, the conversation may indeed get to foreign
policy and Iran -- but only after domestic politics, statehouse news, local
economic trends and basketball.

That said, for many people here, particularly evangelical Christians, the issue
has enormous resonance, tied up in a deep sense of the historic importance of
Israel and even in biblical prophecies. So, for many, the subject has both an
instinctive relevance and a too-distant, too-complicated quality.

''I'm sure people are following it,'' said Warren Gooch, the mayor of Oak Ridge,
a city two hours southwest of Kingsport that was created as part of the
Manhattan Project and, through its national laboratory, has a considerable
history with nuclear proliferation. ''But as far as my own discussions with
people, it's not a top-of-mind issue.''

Still, Mr. Gooch suggested this might change as Mr. Corker goes from city to
city explaining the situation, as he has been doing this week. The speeches are
more descriptive than polemical, with Mr. Corker sketching out a brief history
of Iran's nuclear program, laying out some of the current options and
encouraging listeners to pay attention.

''The details of this are very, very, very important,'' Mr. Corker said to the
breakfast crowd here on Wednesday morning. ''They're important to you in
Kingsport.''

As Mr. Corker made his tour of banquet halls and meeting rooms, fielding calls
from the president and other senators along the way, those who came to see him
revealed a broad spectrum of thinking. An investment adviser in Chattanooga
asked him if any involvement in the Middle East would not be futile. A man in
Kingsport asked if it was even possible to strike a deal with a country as
hostile to the United States and its allies as Iran.

The pastor of a small church outside Chattanooga, who did not ask Mr. Corker any
questions, said he saw in recent foreign policy developments the fulfillment of
the biblical prophecies of Ezekiel and Zechariah, presaging the final days.

''The Scriptures are very clear that the nations that distress Israel, God is
going to bring judgment on those nations,'' said the pastor, the Rev. Darrell
Rose. ''There are all these clues that Bible-believing Christians see as
warnings from God.''

With an opposite view, an Iranian-born nuclear engineer in Knoxville, H. M.
Hashemian, urged Mr. Corker to reach out to more Iranians, lamenting afterward
that Americans were getting a deeply skewed picture of Iran from the news media.

''If you just watch Fox News, you're going to hate Iran,'' said Dr. Hashemian,
who left Iran in 1974 and graduated from the University of Tennessee.

Knoxville is a university town, home to the Howard H. Baker Center for Public
Policy at the University of Tennessee and its think tank, the Institute for
Nuclear Security. But even there, said Brandon Prins, a political science
professor, the Iran negotiations are ''not something that people are talking
much about.''

''I think it's still too abstract,'' said Professor Prins, who teaches a course
on nuclear nonproliferation. ''The details are not easy to comprehend.''

The most-repeated questions for Mr. Corker were expressions of deep frustration
with the Obama administration. Bill Kelly, a former Navy intelligence official
in Kingsport, acknowledged that this was how people here tended to discuss Iran,
on the rare occasions the subject was raised at all. ''In many cases, Iran just
comes up in an anti-Obama situation,'' he said.

Chief among the complaints about the president were his insistence that an
agreement would not be subject to congressional approval and, most keenly, a
general sense that he was moving away from Israel.

''The majority of Chattanoogans are Christians, and we have our Judeo-Christian
ethics and worldview,'' said the Rev. Tony Walliser, who leads Chattanooga's
Silverdale Baptist Church, a congregation of about 5,000 people. ''We see Israel
as something like spiritual brethren.''

''You hear Netanyahu, and he says this is going to be terrible for national
security,'' Pastor Walliser said of the nuclear framework agreement, referring
to the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. ''And you see our one ally in
the Middle East, and you say, 'What is that all about?' ''

Still, even in Chattanooga, which the American Bible Society named the country's
most Bible-minded city in 2014, there were some who saw hope in the nuclear
talks.

''I see some conversations happening among and between folks that probably
should have been happening all along,'' said Carol Berz, a Chattanooga city
councilwoman and the owner of a dispute resolution service.

Ms. Berz did not attend Mr. Corker's speech to the local Rotary Club. But she
said she saw in his efforts to build a bipartisan coalition in the Senate a
reflection of what Secretary of State John Kerry was trying to accomplish in the
negotiations with Iran. ''I wish here in this country, Republicans and Democrats
could sit at the table like they're doing over in Switzerland,'' she said.

Like nearly everyone else interviewed, Ms. Berz said Iran almost never came up
in conversation, with people far more attuned to local crime and the various
developments in the state legislature, like a bill to allow guns in parks. This
is in part because all politics is local, she said, but she also suggested that
the stakes in Iran were so serious that people might prefer, for their own peace
of mind, to focus on matters closer at hand.

This sentiment was not uncommon: that while people might not be talking much
about Iran's nuclear program, they nonetheless saw it as an issue of profound,
even existential, consequence.

''Iran is important from two standpoints,'' said Mr. Price of the Arby's Army.
''Not only the secular, strategic threat, but also the theological component.''

By ''the theological component,'' Mr. Price, who described himself as an
evangelical, was referring both to Iran's involvement in Islamic terrorism and
to circumstances, such as threats to Israel, that he saw as fulfillments of
biblical prophecy.

''In eschatological terms,'' Mr. Price said, to murmurs of assent, ''I think a
lot of people think this is the end times.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/iran-conjures-strong-opinions-in-tennessee-
but-little-urgency.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bob  Corker, Republican  of Tennessee  and chairman  of
the Senate  Foreign Relations  Committee,  spoke this  week about the  nuclear
framework  accord on  Iran at a Rotary  Club meeting in  Chattanooga.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE BUGLEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%);
BASKETBALL (72%); TRENDS (71%); RELIGION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BOB CORKER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); DAVID E PRICE (55%)

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Warns of Deepening Crisis in Syrian Refugee Camp Overrun by Militants

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and HWAIDA SAAD; Rick Gladstone reported from New
York, and Hwaida Saad from Beirut, Lebanon.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 688 words


United Nations officials said Friday that the siege of Yarmouk, the devastated
refugee camp in Syria where 18,000 severely malnourished and dehydrated
Palestinians are trapped, had worsened despite emotional entreaties from
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, who sent an envoy to Damascus, the Syrian
capital, to help seek a solution.

Christopher Gunness, a spokesman for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency,
which administers aid to Palestinian refugees in the Middle East, said in a
statement that his information indicated that there had been no letup in
fighting since Islamic State militants and their affiliates invaded the camp
more than a week ago.

''The violence that began in Yarmouk on April 2nd is not just continuing, it has
intensified,'' he said. ''The world community must not stand by as a silent
witness to what the U.N. Secretary General has warned could be a massacre.
Yarmouk is at the lower reaches of hell. It must not be allowed to descend
further.''

On Thursday, Mr. Ban delivered an unusually strong denunciation of those
responsible for the crisis in Yarmouk, once the biggest enclave of Palestinian
refugees in Syria, which has become completely entangled in the four-year-old
civil war ravaging the country. The Islamic State is believed to have control of
60 percent of the camp, where most of its remaining inhabitants reside.

''A refugee camp is beginning to resemble a death camp,'' Mr. Ban told reporters
at the United Nations. He said residents, including 3,500 children, ''are being
turned into human shields.''

Yarmouk, on the southern outskirts of Damascus, is the closest that Islamic
State militants have come to the doorstep of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.

The camp is now essentially a combat zone between the militants, known for
flaunting their ruthlessness, and Mr. Assad's forces, who also have a reputation
for brutality that includes the use of indiscriminate weapons like barrel bombs.

Mr. Ban said residents ''face a double-edged sword -- armed elements inside the
camp, and government forces outside.''

Mr. Gunness said in his statement that his agency's inability to gain access to
Yarmouk ''is putting 18,000 Palestinian and Syrian men, women and children at
grave risks, as they remain unable to meet their most basic food, water and
health care needs, in a context of relentless fighting.''

In a telephone interview from his offices in Jerusalem, Mr. Gunness said he had
no reliable information on casualties inside Yarmouk.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group with a network of
contacts in the country, reported that Syrian military aircraft had dumped 36
barrel bombs on Yarmouk since last Sunday, and that at least 47 people were
killed in the fighting.

Asked on Friday about who Mr. Ban was communicating with regarding the Yarmouk
crisis, Stéphane Dujarric, his spokesman, told reporters that Ramzy Ezzeldin
Ramzy, the deputy special envoy for Syria, was en route to Damascus for
discussions, and that there were ''contacts going on in various levels with a
number of parties.''

The Palestinian leadership has given mixed signals about how to deal with the
crisis in Yarmouk, which housed 150,000 refugees before the outbreak of the
Syrian civil war in 2011.

Ahmed Majdalani, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization's executive
committee, was quoted by the BBC  as saying during a visit to Damascus on
Thursday that Palestinian leaders and the Syrian government were ready to
collaborate militarily to drive the Islamic State out of Yarmouk.

But his assertion was contradicted soon afterward by the P.L.O. headquarters in
Ramallah, West Bank, which said in a statement: ''We refuse to be drawn into any
armed campaign, whatever its nature or cover, and we call for resorting to other
means to spare the blood of our people and prevent more destruction and
displacement for our people of the camp.''

Sana, the official news agency in Syria, framed Mr. Majdalani's position
ambiguously, quoting him as saying ''any future steps to be taken in Yarmouk
camp will be coordinated between Syria and the Palestinians.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/middleeast/un-says-yarmouk-palestinian-c
risis-worsens-sends-envoy-to-damascus.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian fighter in the Yarmouk camp, south of Damascus,
on Thursday. About 18,000 people are trapped there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOUSSEF
BADAWI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (93%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%);
ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MALNUTRITION (89%);
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%);
INTERVIEWS (77%); RELIGION (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%);
MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%);
ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Crews Continue Search for Survivors After Tornado in Fairdale, Illinois

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 850 words


FAIRDALE, Ill. -- Crews searched for missing residents on Friday after at least
one tornado brought chaos to a tiny northern Illinois town, killing at least two
people and injuring roughly a dozen others while sweeping homes off their
foundations.

Crews combed each structure twice and were gearing up for a third search with
equipment and by hand Friday morning. Police and fire officials said at a
morning news conference that they were not sure how many people were still
unaccounted for here in Fairdale, a town of about 150.

''We're hoping our search will be fruitless, in the sense that we won't find
anybody,'' the fire chief in nearby Sycamore, Peter S. Polarek, said.

The two people killed were identified as Jacklyn K. Klosa, 69, and Geraldine M.
Schultz, 67. The authorities said those hospitalized did not have
life-threatening injuries.

''We hope and pray that that is all the fatalities,'' Gov. Bruce Rauner said as
he surveyed the damage. ''We are very blessed that more people were not hurt.
This was a devastating storm.''

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

About 15 to 20 homes were destroyed in Fairdale, according to the DeKalb County
sheriff, Roger A. Scott. Matthew Knott, division chief at the Rockford Fire
Department, said that just about every building in the town, about 80 miles
northwest of Chicago, had ''sustained damage of some sort.''

All homes were evacuated as a safety precaution, and electricity was out across
the area. The Red Cross and Salvation Army established a shelter at a local high
school.

Trees, power lines and debris lay strewn on the ground. Some homes in the rural
farming village were barely standing, and many had shifted from their
foundations. Roofs were missing. Metal siding from barns was wrapped around
trees.

Residents gathered at a road block a mile from town Friday morning, eager to
check the damage to their homes. The police, though, refused to let them in,
saying it was too dangerous.

Tornado that hit Fairdale brought winds up to 200 mph, classified as EF-4
http://t.co/sbFNSt3LZP pic.twitter.com/1EYhfIIqFP -- Chicago Tribune
(@chicagotribune) April 10, 2015

One resident, Al Zammuto, a 60-year-old machinist, said he and others had
received cellphone alerts at 6:45 p.m., but he had dismissed it because previous
warnings had not amounted to anything.

Then his windows exploded.

He took cover as the severe weather struck. Bricks were torn off the side of his
home. Minutes later, he stepped outside and could not believe his eyes. He said
the town ''looked like a landfill,'' and the sounds were haunting.

''People were screaming and yelling,'' he said. ''People were in total shock.''

Chad Connell, the Kirkland Community Fire Department chief, said he had watched
the tornado move across the area from his porch. Asked to describe it, he was at
a loss for words, saying only, ''It was big,'' as he shook his head.

''I've never seen anything like it in my life,'' he said.

Another 30 homes were severely damaged or destroyed in nearby Ogle County,
Sheriff Brian VanVickle said, adding that no deaths or significant injuries had
been reported there. Ogle County is adjacent to DeKalb County, which includes
Fairdale.

#tornado Fairdale @TotalTrafficCHI pic.twitter.com/p93AR7jBgD -- Bart Shore
(@BartShore) April 10, 2015

Sheriff VanVickle said 12 people had been trapped in the basement of a
restaurant in Rochelle that collapsed during the storm.

One of those people, Raymond Kramer, 81, told WLS-TV in Chicago that he and 11
others had been trapped in the restaurant's storm cellar for 90 minutes. They
were freed unharmed only after emergency crews removed debris that had fallen
all around.

''No sooner did we get down there when it hit the building and laid a whole
metal wall on top of the doors where we went into the storm cellar,'' Mr. Kramer
said. ''When the tornado hit, we all got a dust bath. Everyone in there got
shattered with dust and debris falling out of the rafters.''

Another photo from Grubsteakers on 64 & 251. #Rochelle #ilwx
pic.twitter.com/JRLcMKOM4C -- 23 WIFR (@23WIFR) April 10, 2015

WATCH: Video of a rescue from Grubsteakers earlier tonight after a tornado hit
the restaurant near Rochelle. https://t.co/c2msDes5Rw -- 23 WIFR (@23WIFR) April
10, 2015

Matt Friedlein, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service, said at least
two tornadoes had swept through six north-central Illinois counties, and that
damage survey teams would visit the area to determine how long they had stayed
on the ground, their strength and the extent of the damage.

Storm Chaser Captures 90 Minutes Of Fury In Northern Illinois -
http://t.co/aWKZ2w0KO6 pic.twitter.com/gG96GvoqKA -- WBBM Newsradio
(@WBBMNewsradio) April 10, 2015

After raking Illinois, Thursday's storms and cold front headed northeast,
dumping snow in Michigan's Upper Peninsula and sweeping across the Ohio Valley
overnight, Mr. Friedlein said.

The system was headed into the Appalachian region Friday morning with the
potential for severe thunderstorms, but ''not anywhere near the threat'' that it
packed in the Midwest, he said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/fairdale-illinois-tornado.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (89%); WEATHER (89%); SEVERE WEATHER (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS
(78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%);
MACHINE TOOLS (76%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); LANDFILLS (50%)

PERSON: BRUCE RAUNER (79%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (79%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do-It-All Era Ending as G.E. Returns to Core

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words


General Electric's announcement on Friday that it will sell off most of GE
Capital, its once-sprawling finance unit, is both another nail in the coffin of
the American conglomerate and a stark recognition that it has become harder for
financial services businesses to make big profits in the postfinancial crisis
environment of tighter regulation and lower risk.

''It's the end of an era,'' said Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance and
asset management at Columbia Business School. Since the financial crisis
destabilized G.E., its chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, has been steadily
shrinking the size of GE Capital, and in January described the downsizing of the
business as a ''historic pivot'' in the company's strategy. In G.E.'s most
recent quarterly earnings report, GE Capital contributed just 25 percent of its
parent's total profit, down from nearly half at its peak. By 2018, G.E. expects
financial services to contribute less than 10 percent of its income.

On Friday, the company stated clearly why it was moving away from the business
of making loans and investing in real estate. ''The business model for large,
wholesale-funded financial companies has changed, making it increasingly
difficult to generate acceptable returns going forward,'' G.E. said on Friday
when it announced its decision.

G.E. is not only one of America's oldest corporations, founded by Thomas Edison
in 1878, but has long been lauded as one of its best managed, even as other
industrial conglomerates fell out of favor. Its stock performance has languished
for years, but it's still one the world's 10 largest corporations by market
capitalization, with a value of $287 billion. Based in Fairfield, Conn., its
decision to largely get out of banking reflects the more difficult environment
facing financial services companies. Despite stringent cost-cutting at many Wall
Street banks, profit margins and revenue growth remain under pressure. In its
most recent quarterly earnings report, Goldman Sachs reported a double-digit
decline in revenue, and Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley all
reported weaker-than-expected earnings.

''Revenue growth in the banking industry is the worst it's been in eight
decades,'' said Mike Mayo, bank analyst for the research firm CLSA. ''The
regulatory environment is much tougher, and it's forcing companies to
rationalize their businesses.''

The results are yet another reminder of an economic truism -- reward correlates
with risk. Regulators have squeezed risk out of the financial system by
requiring banks and other large financial institutions to hold higher levels of
capital, which has inevitably driven down profits, since assets sitting on the
balance sheet are unlikely to generate much profit.

With G.E.'s decision to throw in the towel on financial services, others on Wall
Street are suggesting that regulators have gone too far. GE Capital's operations
may survive and even prosper in the hands of new owners, but few have G.E.'s
resources to provide loans in the event of another crisis.

In his annual letter to shareholders this week, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive
of JPMorgan Chase, warned that the recent liquidity problems and volatility in
bond and currency markets should be seen as ''a shot across the bow'' to
regulators. In the next crisis, he suggested, ''there may be a shortage of all
forms of good collateral'' because bank assets that might otherwise be deployed
are tied up by postcrisis capital and liquidity requirements. (A liquidity
crisis occurs when there's not enough cash flow to sustain orderly markets.
Large banks traditionally provide cash by acting as middlemen between buyers and
sellers.) On Thursday, Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and
Harvard economist, said he shared Mr. Dimon's concerns. Appearing on CNBC, Mr.
Summers said, ''There is a danger that, in their enthusiasm for keeping each
individual institution safe, that regulatory authorities will lose sight of
keeping markets open and liquid.''

G.E.'s decision to part with most of GE Capital is the latest in a series of
dispositions by the company. It has long said it wants to be only in businesses
where it can have a significant market share and meet its profit margin targets.
Last year it sold its venerable appliances division; it shed its remaining stake
in NBC Universal two years ago and its plastics business in 2007. Under the
direction of Mr. Immelt's predecessor, Jack Welch, G.E. sought to apply its
management skill to dominate markets as diverse as industrial turbines, medical
equipment and banking. But the decision to exit its finance operations
punctuates the company's abandonment of that strategy.

''I think this demonstrates that trying to emulate Warren Buffett isn't a good
strategy if you're not Warren Buffett,'' Professor Greenwald said. Mr. Buffett's
Berkshire Hathaway remains one of only a few successful publicly traded American
conglomerates. (Huge conglomerates out of Asia like Samsung and Mitsubishi are
still flourishing.)

Mr. Mayo, the bank analyst, said G.E.'s decision would inevitably put pressure
on other large financial companies to break themselves up. ''If this works for
G.E., other big banks should take notice, or even better, their large
shareholders should take notice,'' he said. For instance, Bank of America would
be much better off if it spun off Merrill Lynch, and Bank of New York Mellon
should sell some of its asset management boutiques, Mr. Mayo said. ''The big
banks can relieve the regulatory pressure by being less complex, and they can
unleash value.''

Regulators have drained significant profit opportunities from high finance, but
many of the large banks' complaints about overregulation may be a smoke screen.
''They could be taking more risks and doing more lending than they are,'' Mr.
Greenwald said of the banks. ''But they spread themselves too thin and got into
too many businesses they didn't really understand. GE Capital barely survived
the financial crisis.''

Some smaller, regional banks continue to perform well in the new regulatory
environment, as does the behemoth Wells Fargo, by focusing on businesses they
understand and where they have a competitive advantage. For example, M&T Bank
Corporation, based in Buffalo, in which Mr. Buffett owns a large stake, focuses
almost exclusively on traditional banking services in the Northeast United
States, and last year it had a profit margin of close to 25 percent. Wells Fargo
has a profit margin of nearly 28 percent. G.E.'s was barely over 10 percent last
year.

And Wells Fargo is trying to capitalize on G.E.'s move. On Friday, the San
Francisco-based bank, in a joint deal with Blackstone Group, the world's biggest
private equity investor in real estate, said it agreed to buy G.E. real estate
assets valued at $23 billion in a deal without any competitive bidding. ''Who do
you think is getting the better end of that deal?'' Professor Greenwald asked,
pointing out that Blackstone and Wells Fargo are focused, disciplined buyers of
real estate assets.

Investors applauded G.E.'s renewed focus on its core industrial businesses,
driving the stock up nearly 11 percent on the news. So did Mr. Greenwald.
''Specialization matters,'' he said. ''You have to be focused.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/do-it-all-era-ending-as-ge-r
eturns-to-core.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker at General Electric in Erie, Pa., in 1947, testing a
gas  ring that is used for heating the wheels of locomotives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY
EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ECONOMIC
CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION
(78%); INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL
RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%);
EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC
(58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); JPM
(NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%);
GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE
COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210
CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING
(58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, &
FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (59%)

CITY: ERIE, PA, USA (72%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Two HBO Comedies, Timing Is Everything

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 936 words


Poor, embattled Selina Meyer has finally hit the jackpot. She's returning to
television on the very weekend that a real-life politician is trying to become
what she already is: the first woman to be president of the United States. You
can't buy that kind of publicity.

Selina, played by Julia Louis-Dreyfus, is the title character of the acclaimed
HBO comedy ''Veep,'' which begins Season 4 on Sunday night. She was vice
president for the first three seasons, but as the new one begins, she has been
elevated to the presidency by a resignation and is running for a full term. Talk
about the stars aligning. On Friday morning, visitors to CNN.com who clicked on
the headline ''Hillary Clinton to announce 2016 bid Sunday with video'' were
greeted with a video advertisement for ''Veep.''

Another superbly caustic HBO comedy, ''Silicon Valley,'' also returns Sunday
night in the half-hour just before ''Veep,'' and it, too, has to deal with the
insistent intrusion of real life -- not just the recent headlines about sexism
in Silicon Valley, but the death of one of its stars, Christopher Evan Welch,
who played an angel investor. How these shows handle their own timeliness will
make for an interesting spectacle as the new seasons roll along. So much
temptation in a medium where restraint is sometimes in short supply.

''Veep'' built its success (which includes three Emmys for Ms. Louis-Dreyfus) on
bumbling. Selina, with the help of her staff of misfits, has done what vice
presidents do: bungle one thing after another, to great comic effect. Now that
she's (at least temporarily) president, though, the show has set itself a higher
bar. We believed Vice President Meyer as a character because we've been
conditioned by centuries of actual politics to view vice presidents, even the
competent ones, as jokes. But the presidency is another matter entirely.

We expect gaffes from the Oval Office too, but more serious ones, with more at
stake. The new season of ''Veep'' seems to realize this. It mixes the usual
idiocy -- there's a mess involving the removal of an ugly painting from the
White House, for instance -- with serious incompetence, like illegally gaining
access to a child's medical records. That plot line may or may not be a comment
on real-life privacy concerns, but it's representative of how ''Veep'' needs to
proceed. It will do best if it stays oblique, rather than indulge in straight-on
satirizing of actual events. We don't want this show turning into ''The
Newsroom.''

''Silicon Valley'' has its own brand of bumblers, and its own topicality issues.
It's the tale of a start-up called Pied Piper and the misfit men running it, who
try to navigate the cutthroat big-money digital world as their revolutionary
data-compression technology attracts attention.

The show's first season was simply great, brutally dissecting the pretension and
absurdity of Silicon Valley's culture and business practices. The core cast
members meshed beautifully, led by Thomas Middleditch as Richard, the main
brain, and T. J. Miller as Erlich, the cocky overseer of the house that is Pied
Piper's headquarters.

In Season 1, two rival gurus with unlimited fiscal resources were courting Pied
Piper: Gavin Belson, played by Matt Ross, and Peter Gregory, played by Mr.
Welch. Midway through the filming of that season, Mr. Welch died of cancer.

The show finished that season by turning Mr. Welch's character into someone who
was referred to from time to time but not seen. The Season 2 premiere, though,
deals with the loss more directly -- too directly, really. It's uncomfortable
and goes on too long, sabotaging the momentum the show had coming off of Season
1.

Subsequent episodes find things back on track, though, with a new possible
savior for Pied Piper materializing, played by Chris Diamantopoulos. It is his
character who gets to explain the Silicon Valley rabbit hole after Richard
naïvely expresses interest in having Pied Piper turn a profit.

''It's not about how much you earn,'' he says. ''It's about what you're worth.
And who's worth the most? Companies that lose money.''

The show continues to exploit the average viewer's ignorance about technology,
having characters spew out mumbo-jumbo that may mean something or may just be
the writers having a laugh. Same with the factoids, as when Gavin explains what
he sees as a coming ''data-geddon.''

''Data creation is exploding, with all the selfies and useless files people
refuse to delete on the cloud,'' he says. ''Ninety-two percent of the world's
data was created in the last two years alone. At the current rate, the world
data-storage capacity will be overtaken by next spring. There will be nothing
short of a catastrophe -- data shortages, data rationing, data black markets.''

Is any of that true? Who knows? That's part of the fun.

One subject ''Silicon Valley'' has not taken up directly but has been much in
the  news is sexism in the high-tech world. The series has preferred to skewer
its targets, including that one, indirectly, never more spectacularly than in
the Season 1 finale, where an absurd debate among the Pied Piper guys involving
penises led Richard to a breakthrough that saved the company.

There are a few women in this show, including a new one, played by Suzanne
Cryer, who settles into Peter Gregory's chair. But so far the writers have
resisted moralizing about the malecentric world their characters inhabit,
preferring to let it speak for itself.

That's a good instinct. Nothing kills comedy faster than pontification. Just ask
the first female president. The fake one, not the possible real one.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/television/veep-silicon-valley-and-the-in
trusion-of-real-life-events.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Julia Louis-Dreyfus's character will assume the presidency in
Season 4 of ''Veep.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK HARBRON/HBO) (C1)
   ''Silicon Valley,'' with T. J. Miller, faces real-life intrusions as it
satirizes the high-tech industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK MASI/HBO) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMMY AWARDS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%)

PERSON: JULIA LOUIS-DREYFUS (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schumer Feels Crosscurrents of Iran Deal

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words


WASHINGTON --  In an event as rare as garden tomatoes ripening in January,
Senator Charles E. Schumer has little to say.

Mr. Schumer, Democrat of New York, set off a tempest this week when he issued a
statement strongly supporting a bill that could disrupt a nuclear deal with
Iran.

With that bill, Congress is trying to ensure it has a say in the final
agreement, and the strong stand by Mr. Schumer, the Senate's No. 3 Democrat,
suggested that he could oppose an accord President Obama sees as a potentially
legacy-defining achievement.

Mr. Schumer has since largely declined to elaborate and has said only that he
will wait for a classified briefing before making further comment.

His position -- annoying to the White House, at odds with the majority of Senate
Democrats and expressed during a congressional recess -- reflects the vigorous
crosscurrents Mr. Schumer faces in his first real test since Senator Harry Reid
of Nevada, the minority leader, announced that he would retire, placing Mr.
Schumer as heir apparent.

Mr. Schumer, long personally hawkish on matters related to Israel, is caught
between the Jewish voters and donors in his state and beyond who are pressuring
him in conflicting directions, factions within his own party in the Senate, and
a watchful White House that is seeking to limit the role of Congress in any deal
it may make.

It is a struggle that several Senate Democrats with large Jewish constituencies
face but who, unlike Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the co-sponsor of
the bill pushing for congressional oversight of Iranian sanctions, have been
typically strongly supportive of the White House.

Senators Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and
Cory Booker of New Jersey are buffeted by the same winds as Mr. Schumer. They
are also now in the role of trying to negotiate with the White House on the
terms of the bill, which will be voted on by the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee next week.

They are ''in a very difficult position,'' said Steven J. Rosen, a former senior
official at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, the powerful
pro-Israel advocacy group. ''There are so many cross-pressures.''

For Mr. Schumer, the politics are particularly tricky. Few in his caucus expect
him to soften his tone on the negotiations, but they are also watching where he
may land should the White House pressure him to rally Democrats to support the
president.

''This is a very major controversy,'' Mr. Rosen said. ''Everybody will be
watching, of course. It's a test for him.''

Any conflict is a potential boon to congressional Republicans, who are eager to
splinter Democrats over the issue of Israeli security, a fact worrisome to
Jewish Democrats, who are the majority of Jewish voters but less politically
influential than right-leaning organizations like Aipac.

''The Republican Party, led by a Republican Jewish coalition, has decided the
only way they can get American Jewish voters is to make Israel a partisan
issue,'' said Greg Rosenbaum, chairman of the National Jewish Democratic
Council. ''And by making Israel a political issue, they undermine the bipartisan
rationale for support of the Israel-U.S. relationship.''

The bill that Mr. Schumer supports -- one that would ensure the right of
Congress to essentially approve or disapprove the rollback of sanctions against
Iran -- is being viewed by many in Washington as a proxy for all senators' views
on the underlying framework for a deal. Left-leaning groups equate support for
the sanctions measures as advocating war, while hawkish groups warn that failing
to support them is akin to capitulating to Iran.

The issue is actually more complex. Many senators, like Tim Kaine, Democrat of
Virginia, are more concerned with ensuring the prerogative of Congress's war
powers than inherently opposed to a deal.

Others, like Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, are deeply resentful of
the way Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, in effect did an end run
around Mr. Obama with his speech opposing an Iran deal to a joint meeting of
Congress and are supporting Mr. Obama.

And then there are a minority like Mr. Schumer, who, along with some
Republicans, have given the president room to negotiate, but also crave a
legislative backstop should they find a final accord distasteful.

Mr. Schumer has been gingerly stepping through the shoals for months. In
February, he told Secretary of State John Kerry at a private dinner with several
senators that the repeated criticism by White House officials of Mr. Netanyahu
after his speech to Congress was unhelpful.

That same month, Mr. Schumer pressed Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee
and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, to make changes that might
assuage more Democrats, like requiring 60 votes rather than 51 to pass a
resolution of disapproval of any agreement, thus ensuring that approval of the
resolution would be bipartisan.

Mr. Schumer, working both sides of the issue, also has plans to meet with former
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger -- who has been critical of the framework
for a deal -- and spoke Thursday with Wendy Sherman, the lead American
negotiator in the talks.

Yet his aggressive statement supporting a bill in its current form, and the
suggestion that he could vote to oppose the Iran deal, put Mr. Schumer at odds
with much of his party, the White House and the party's highest-profile
potential nominee to replace Mr. Obama, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

This comes while Mr. Cardin, who has become the ranking Democrat on the Foreign
Relations Committee since the recent indictment of Mr. Menendez, has been
shuttling between Mr. Corker and the White House to soften the language of the
measure.

Adding another layer of complexity, Mr. Schumer also called Mr. Netanyahu and
told him he thought it was intemperate for him to speak as he did to Congress
against the White House's wishes. He has been careful to say little on the
matter of late.

''I have a lot of questions about the framework and will be talking with both
sides and following closely as the details of the final agreement are ironed
out,'' said Mr. Schumer, who declined to comment for this article beyond a
prepared statement. ''I can often come to pretty quick judgments, but not on
something that is so complex and so consequential.''

Mr. Schumer, even with his powerful position, is not likely to twist the arms of
fellow Democrats to vote as he does.

''I think we all share the same objective,'' Mr. Cardin said. ''There is a
common view that Iran is a dangerous country. Sanctions have worked to get them
to the table and we have to be careful here.''

For Jewish Democrats, the issue is as complex as it is worrisome. ''Chuck
Schumer is going to be here later this month for a fund-raiser,'' said Stephen
Bittel, a Miami-based business executive and prominent fund-raiser for
Democrats, adding that Jewish voters of every persuasion were also expected.
''We are allowed to disagree; the key is to have honest dialogue.''

Mr. Bittel, like many others, hopes Mr. Corker's bill will be amended to please
more in his party. ''I think that the problem is we are in the most polarized
political environment in my adult life,'' he said. ''It's unfortunate.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/schumer-is-squeezed-on-various-sides-over-i
ran-deal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer supports a bill that gives Congress
a say in whether to roll back sanctions against Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW
BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) (A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%);
CAUCUSES (78%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (77%); AGREEMENTS (77%); US
PRESIDENTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); EMBARGOES &
SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (94%); CORY BOOKER (79%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); BARACK
OBAMA (58%); BEN CARDIN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (57%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Catch the Candidates if You Can

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 483 words


They are being called the ''uncandidates'' -- presidential aspirants campaigning
now in plain sight and filling their coffers even as they skirt campaign finance
law by coyly insisting they have not yet formally declared that they are
running. This is an insult to voters being promised straight talk by the busy
uncandidates, who cynically know they have little to fear from government
enforcement of money caps on their undisguised campaigning.

Complaints about this evasion were filed last month with the Federal Election
Commission by two nonpartisan watchdog groups, the Campaign Legal Center and
Democracy 21. They claim that the growing practice of remaining undeclared while
scooping up money is not just deceptive but illegal.

The F.E.C., the supposed referee of elections, has long been hamstrung by
partisan gridlock largely engineered by Republican commissioners. So voters
shouldn't expect much enforcement. But the groups' complaints present a clear
warning about a 2016 presidential contest already deep into fund-raising
mischief and ''dark money'' donors.

The uncandidates cited in the complaint are Jeb Bush, Scott Walker and Rick
Santorum, all Republicans, and Martin O'Malley, a Democrat. Their campaigns
insist they have been strictly following federal campaign law. But the watchdog
groups properly complain that, based on the candidates' activities, they should
be registered with the commission and subject to so-called testing the waters
regulations that limit individual contributions to $2,700, not the
$100,000-a-head donations that some presidential hopefuls have been collecting
at partisan dinners.

Mr. Bush stands to benefit separately from a new campaign twist by which a
supposedly ''independent'' nonprofit policy group created by a friend and former
staff member will be free to raise unlimited donations and keep its contributors
secret. The group, which is tax-exempt, will be closely intertwined with the
Bush campaign, according to The Washington Post, which found it quietly
registered in Arkansas. The group insists it will operate as a ''social
welfare'' organization, not as part of the Bush machine. That's hard to believe,
considering that the name of the group -- Right to Rise Policy Solutions -- is
echoed in Mr. Bush's two Right to Rise PACs.

The use of nonprofit groups for partisan politics has been growing in recent
elections as the Internal Revenue Service has failed to draw firm lines against
blatant politicking. The creation of a pro-Bush group floated by secret donors
can only advance the nonprofit guise further, and rivals can be expected to
match the deviousness with little to fear from the I.R.S. or the F.E.C.

However unknown the 2016 election outcome is right now, it's clear that a
torrent of unregulated and secretive money is already setting a woeful pace.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/catch-the-candidates-if-you-can.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CAMPAIGN
FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%);
TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%);
POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US
FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%);
FUNDRAISING (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (53%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (53%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (53%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING &
WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (79%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (56%); SCOTT WALKER (53%); RICK SANTORUM
(53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Engaging With Latin America

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 721 words


As President Obama arrived in Panama for the Summit of the Americas this
weekend, attendees were raptly watching how his encounter with President Raúl
Castro of Cuba would be choreographed and whether a face-to-face run-in with
President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela would be unbearably awkward.

There's plenty of potential for political theater any time heads of state of the
Americas convene, given the hemisphere's shifting alliances and strained
relationships. The meeting underway in Panama City, however, has the potential
to deliver more than the sort of drama and rhetoric that has dominated previous
summit meetings. Policy initiatives advanced by the Obama administration have
opened multiple opportunities to engage differently and more robustly with
neighbors that have long felt neglected, and in some instances slighted, by
Washington.

Clearly, the most dramatic of these initiatives has been the sweeping overhaul
of American policy toward Cuba announced by Mr. Obama in December. Beyond that,
there are other concrete steps the administration can take to strengthen its
standing in the region.

Central American and Caribbean leaders have become increasingly anxious about
their energy dependence on Venezuela, whose economic and political crisis has
forced it to cut back on petroleum shipments it has long offered neighbors under
attractive credit terms. If those nations are unable to find more dependable
energy sources, they could soon grapple with painful power shortages. That has
the potential to cripple already-weak economies, deepening poverty and
instability in a region intrinsically linked to the United States through
migration patterns and trade.

A day before flying to Panama, Mr. Obama met with Caribbean leaders in Jamaica
to discuss steps the United States could take to help the region embrace cleaner
energy sources, including investing in solar and wind power. While those
initiatives make good policy and environmental sense, the United States should
also take steps to make it easier for countries in the Caribbean basin to import
natural gas, a less carbon-intensive fuel than coal or oil. That would require
easing restrictions on the export of natural gas from the United States and
devising financing mechanisms that are palatable to the buying nations and
attractive for American energy companies.

Mr. Obama's effort to shield certain immigrants from deportation through
executive action and his administration's initiative to substantially increase
aid for Central America has earned him significant good will in Latin America.
But there are relationships with Latin American nations that remain
unnecessarily strained.

The relationship with Brazil is the most consequential and also, quite possibly,
the easiest to mend. President Dilma Rousseff, who was justifiably angered by
revelations in 2013 that the National Security Agency had been spying on her,
appears eager to turn the page. The summit meeting presents an opportunity for
Mr. Obama and Ms. Rousseff to set a new tone and identify opportunities for
cooperation in areas such as trade, environmental policy and regional politics.

Easing tension with Venezuela will be trickier. Mr. Maduro, a mercurial and
populist leader, has justified his government's growing authoritarianism on the
baseless argument that Washington is gearing up for a military intervention. In
the lead-up to the summit meeting, he gathered signatures of support for himself
in a document that he vowed to hand deliver to Mr. Obama.

The Obama administration's decision to impose sanctions on seven Venezuelan
officials last month did more to inflame Mr. Maduro's rhetoric than to curb his
government's despotic conduct. During his private meetings and public statements
in Panama, Mr. Obama can deflate Mr. Maduro's fearmongering by reiterating that
the United States is not about to carry out a coup in Caracas. More
significantly, Mr. Obama can be an inspirational voice for citizens ruled by
oppressive leaders.

He set the right tone on Friday, as he addressed civil society leaders from
around the region. ''Civil society is the conscience of our countries,'' Mr.
Obama said. ''It's the catalyst of change. It's why strong nations don't fear
active citizens.''

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/engaging-with-latin-america.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(89%); NATURAL GAS (87%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HEADS
OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WIND ENERGY (71%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); OIL
& GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%);
IMMIGRATION (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); POWER FAILURES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS
(66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); ENERGY SHORTAGES (66%); COMMODITIES SHORTAGES
(65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); NATURAL GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS
(62%); DEPORTATION (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (50%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN
REPUBLIC OF (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PANAMA (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%);
NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Question of Renovation vs. Relocation in Retirement

BYLINE: By HARRIET EDLESON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RETIRING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1340 words


SHOULD you downsize and move to a new neighborhood? Or renovate the family
residence to suit your retirement needs and lock in for the long term? It is one
of the most vexing questions older people face as they plan the shift from a
working life to retirement.

Mary and Christopher Anderson, who live on the western edge of Milwaukee, know
the situation well. They wrestled for several years with whether to renovate
their 1953 ranch house in preparation for retirement, or leave it and move to
the suburbs. But every time they tried to buy a house, someone beat them to it.

They took that as a sign that they would be better off updating their home of 18
years and staying put.

''We might not even get the money out dollar for dollar,'' said Mrs. Anderson,
54, who is still employed as a special-education teacher ''We'll get the living
out of it. You can't put a price on comfort.''

The Andersons appear to be in good company. An estimated 36 percent of retirees
plan to stay in their homes, according to a Merrill Lynch and Age Wave report
released in February. Most said that was because they loved their home and
neighborhood or because they valued the ability to remain independent while
still having friends and relatives close by.

The relationship between financial and emotional value shifts over time,
however, according to the report, which is based on a national survey of more
than 3,600 people. Between the ages of 55 and 64, half said their home's
financial value was more important, while half said its emotional value was.
From ages 65 to 74, 56 percent said home's emotional value was more important,
compared with 44 percent who said its financial value was. At 75 and older, 63
percent said emotional value while 37 percent said financial value.

Furthermore, baby boomers spend more money than any other group on renovations,
accounting for 47 percent of the home renovation market and spending $90 billion
annually, the report said.

Home is not just a building but a place to enjoy life, ''to build deeper and
more fulfilling connections,'' said David Tyrie, managing director, head of
personal wealth and retirement solutions at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

As people approach the years when Americans typically retire, 55 through 66 or
older these days, they also want, and often can afford, more comfort.

Although the economic downturn that began in 2008 tempered some renovation
spending. Vince Butler, co-owner of Butler Brothers Corporation in Clifton, Va.,
and a member of the National Home Builders Association, said his average project
dropped to $70,000 from $130,000.

But other remodelers say they are seeing an uptick in business again. In the
last 18 to 24 months, ''the dam just opened,'' as people jumped back into the
renovation game across the country, said Kevin Anundson, president of the
National Association of the Remodeling Industry, who is based in Elm Grove, Wis.

Yet, ''people are still a little more hesitant to spend on a very big project,''
he said. They just wanted to remodel their bathrooms by gutting them and
rearranging them a little bit for $25,000 to $35,000 in his area, he said.
''They scaled back what they were going to remodel,'' he added. ''The larger
projects did go away.''

Deciding whether to stay in your home and renovate rather than move to a
different home, whatever the size, is complicated. But, after clearing the
emotional hurdles, it is important to take a methodical approach to the project.

''Write down your wish list,'' Mr. Anundson said. ''Decide how much you want to
spend and see how far down you can get'' on the list. Allow yourself to dream,
as a way to figure out whether and how much you want to change your house.
''Pretend like you've got all the money in the world,'' he said. ''How would you
change your house? That really frees up the mental limits you put on yourself.''

Once you've considered all the things you might want to do, consult experts,
including remodelers, designers, architects, real estate professionals and
financial advisers to figure out how much your dreams will cost, whether the
expenditure is appropriate for your neighborhood and how you will pay for the
improvements.

Will you pay cash, use a home equity line of credit or loan or tap your 401(k)
or Individual Retirement Account? Keep the tax implications in mind if you
decide to withdraw money from a retirement account, said Jared Snider of
Exencial Wealth Advisors in Oklahoma City. Consider whether your assets are
better kept in investment vehicles that will yield more than the interest on a
home equity line at roughly 5 percent will cost you.

If your mortgage is paid off, you might want to use the equity in your home for
a home equity line of credit or loan, or, if you have money that is not giving
you much of a return, you might want to use it. If you take money from a 401(k)
plan or an I.R.A., you will have to pay tax on the income, which might put you
into a higher tax bracket, Mr. Snider said.

The Andersons decided to use money from her inheritance. It was important to
them to create a kitchen and family room space that could accommodate gatherings
of their extended family. Mrs. Anderson and her seven brothers and sisters
promised her parents ''we would continue to get together once a year,'' she
said.

They finished the project late last summer. At Christmastime, when the Andersons
hosted the family gathering, the group included the three siblings from
Illinois, one from Michigan and four from Wisconsin and their families -- 40
people in all, she said.

Robert Tardiff and his wife, Kathleen, made a similar choice. They decided to
renovate their Vienna, Va., home in stages, beginning about 10 years ago.
''We're really comfortable living in this environment,'' said Mr. Tardiff, 73,
who has a doctorate in toxicology and pharmacology and works part time at
Georgetown University. ''Our connections are all here,'' including their three
grown children and five grandchildren, who live in Northern Virginia and
Washington. He estimates he and his wife spent $150,000 in the last decade to
enhance their home.

Here are guidelines for remodeling:

â-  Gauge how long you plan to stay in your home. Is it five or 10 years, or do
you plan to live in your house for as long as you can live there independently?
''Spend the money that's comfortable for you and enjoy it,'' Mr. Anundson said.
There is no way to gauge precisely how much you'll get for your house when you
or your heirs sell it.

â-  Think through all the ramifications of your plan so remodelers or architects
can avoid having to ''undo'' or ''redo'' parts of previous jobs, Mr. Anundson
said. ''Tell all up front,'' in case water and sewer lines, for example, have to
be run to turn an attic into an additional bedroom and bathroom, he said.

â-  Consult a real estate professional in your market and neighborhood who knows
the value of comparable houses and whether they have been renovated. ''They are
the eyes and ears of what is in demand right now,'' Mr. Anundson said. ''They
are hearing why people buy or not buy places all the time.''

â-  Consider changes that will affect the curb appeal of your home, such as
minor upgrades in the kitchen, replacing a front door with a sturdy steel door,
replacing garage doors, adding a deck or replacing siding with energy-efficient
siding for better insulation, said Sandra O'Connor, regional vice president,
National Association of Realtors, Greensboro, N.C. Whatever the return you
receive when you sell, you are also ''getting the enjoyment of it while you're
living there,'' she said. ''It's rare to get back the money dollar for dollar.''

The Andersons spoke with three companies and obtained two bids before
proceeding. ''You can't put a price on family, on living comfortably when you
retire,'' Mrs. Anderson said.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/your-money/renovation-vs-relocation-in-retirem
ent.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Rebecca Anderson
her mother, Mary
 and her grandmother, also named Mary, at  their newly renovated home on the
western edge of Milwaukee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION
(89%); HOME REMODELING (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%);
HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING
(74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CONSTRUCTION
(71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (67%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Handshake for Obama and President of Cuba

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 795 words


PANAMA CITY, Panama --  President Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba shook
hands here on Friday night, and American officials said they would hold
discussions on Saturday during a gathering of regional leaders, in the first
full-fledged meeting between presidents of the United States and Cuba in more
than a half-century.

The expected encounter was not on Mr. Obama's official schedule, but it held
deep significance for the regional meeting, as the president's move to ease
tensions with Cuba has overshadowed the official agenda.

Mr. Obama is nearing a decision on removing Cuba's three-decade-old designation
as a state sponsor of terrorism, citing progress in the effort to re-establish
diplomatic ties after half a century of hostilities.

He spoke by telephone with Mr. Castro before the gathering, and on Thursday,
Secretary of State John Kerry met with Bruno Rodríguez, the Cuban foreign
minister -- the highest-level session between the governments in more than 50
years -- to lay the groundwork for the advancing reconciliation. The
much-anticipated handshake on Friday night came as leaders gathered for a
welcome dinner, where Mr. Obama and Mr. Castro were seated at the same table,
separated by two other people.

Before the official start of the summit meeting, Mr. Obama spoke at a civil
society forum. ''As we move toward the process of normalization, we'll have our
differences government-to-government with Cuba on many issues, just as we differ
at times with other nations within the Americas,'' he said. ''There's nothing
wrong with that, but I'm here to say that when we do speak out, we're going to
do so because the United States of America does believe, and will always stand
for, a certain set of universal values.''

The president rushed through a packed schedule on Friday as the summit meeting
got underway, beginning his day with a tour of the Panama Canal.

At a forum with business executives Mr. Obama promoted a $1 billion investment
package he has proposed for Central America in an effort to address the causes
of the surge of immigrants across America's southern border last summer. ''The
more we see our economies as mutually dependent rather than a zero-sum game, I
think the more successful all of us will be,'' he said.

Mr. Obama made it clear that he still had human rights concerns and was
determined to discuss them openly. He held a lengthy meeting with civil society
leaders from 12 other countries, including two from Cuba, after a speech at the
forum in which he referred to the American civil rights and gay rights movements
and to people who opposed apartheid in South Africa and Communism in the Soviet
Union.

''Civil society is the conscience of our countries,'' he said.

Cuba is attending the Summit of the Americas for the first time since the
meeting's inception in 1994. As senior Cuban and American officials spoke,
people representing pro- and anti-Cuban government groups clashed for the third
straight day on the sidelines, drawing a contrast with the diplomatic warming.

Hours before Mr. Obama arrived to address the civil society forum at a hotel
here, members of groups sent by the Cuban government tried to block access to
dissidents, calling them mercenaries who did not speak for Cuba.

At one point, amid angry chanting by the various groups, one of Cuba's
best-known government opponents, Guillermo Farinas, was jostled and manhandled
as he tried to pass through a crowd of pro-Castro demonstrators.

''These aren't really dissidents, they aren't really interested in democracy and
human rights,'' Patricia Flechilla, a Cuban student and delegate at the summit
meeting, told reporters, going on to repeat a familiar complaint from the Cuban
government that opponents are paid and propped up by foreign governments, namely
the United States.

The fracas interrupted the work of the forum, made up of nongovernmental groups
from across the hemisphere, to produce a statement directed at the region's
leaders.

Later, before Mr. Obama arrived, scores of people waving Cuban flags and
chanting ''Long Live Fidel, Long Live Raúl'' gathered outside the hotel.

Santiago Canton, executive director of RFK Partners for Human Rights at the
Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights, said the presence of Cuba
at the summit meeting would inevitably lead to discord that only highlighted the
lack of democracy and human rights on the island. ''People were sent by the
Cuban government to disrupt everything going on, and they are doing that well,''
he said after observing the clash. ''Human rights and democracy are weak points
on the Cuban side.''

Representatives of the Cuban delegation said they would withdraw from the civil
society forum rather than ''share space with mercenaries.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/americas/cuba-us-obama-castro-terrorism.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and President  Raúl Castro of Cuba  shook hands
Friday in Panama  City at a dinner before the  opening of a regional meeting.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PANAMA PRESIDENCY, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%);
EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); IMMIGRATION
(73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%);
LGBT RIGHTS (60%); TERRORISM (54%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (96%); PANAMA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%);
CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe; Czech Republic: President to Skip Parade in Moscow

BYLINE: By HANA de GOEIJ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 193 words


PRAGUE -- Reversing course after a storm of criticism, President Milos Zeman of
the Czech Republic said on Friday that he had decided not to attend a military
parade in Moscow on May 9 after all.

Other European Union leaders are boycotting the parade, which commemorates the
end of World War II in Europe 70 years ago, because of Russia's annexation of
Crimea and its involvement in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr. Zeman, who had said he would attend, announced on Friday that he would take
part in other commemorative events in the Russian capital but would skip the
parade.

Jiri Ovcacek, the president's spokesman, said that Mr. Zeman had made his
decision independently, and that he had not been influenced by pressure from
other Czech political leaders or from Andrew H. Schapiro, the American
ambassador to the Czech Republic.

''President Zeman will lay wreaths, and he will use the time designated for the
parade for a bilateral meeting with the Slovak prime minister, Robert Fico,''
Mr. Ovcacek said.

Mr. Fico has not yet confirmed that he will go to Moscow.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/europe/czech-leader-wont-attend-moscow-p
arade-after-criticism.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BOYCOTTS (72%); WORLD
WAR II (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: MILOS ZEMAN (92%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (89%)

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN
UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UKRAINE (90%); SLOVAKIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Chief at Participant Media Steps Down

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 170 words


LOS ANGELES -- Jim Berk on Friday resigned as chief executive of Participant
Media, the issues-oriented entertainment company.

Mr. Berk had been chief executive for more than eight years and worked closely
with the company's founder and chairman, Jeffrey Skoll, in building a film and
television operation with a bent toward progressive causes.

''Good Night, and Good Luck,'' ''The Help'' and ''Lincoln'' are among the many
films backed by the company, which was financed by Mr. Skoll, who made his
fortune as the first president of eBay.

Since 2013, when it started a television network, Participant has rapidly
expanded beyond the film business that had been its focus when Mr. Berk took
charge in 2006.

In a statement put out by Participant, Mr. Berk said, ''It is the right time for
someone else to take the helm.''

Mr. Skoll said he would serve as interim chief executive while searching for Mr.
Berk's successor.

Through a spokeswoman, both Mr. Berk and Mr. Skoll declined to elaborate on the
company's statement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/media/jim-berk-steps-down-as-particip
ant-medias-chief.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (71%); TELEVISION
INDUSTRY (71%)

PERSON: JEFF SKOLL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani Militant Leader Tied to 2008 Mumbai Attacks Is Freed on Bail

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and DECLAN WALSH; Salman Masood reported from
Islamabad, and Declan Walsh from London. Nida Najar contributed reporting from
New Delhi, and Waqar Gillani from Lahore, Pakistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan --  In a move that drew furious condemnation from India, a
Pakistani high court released on bail on Friday a militant commander accused of
orchestrating the 2008 attacks in Mumbai that killed more than 160 people.

The commander, Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, and six other members of the
Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group have been on trial since 2009 at a high-security
jail in Rawalpindi, just south of Islamabad, on charges of participating in the
Mumbai operation.

But the trial has been conducted largely in secrecy, and its halting pace has
given rise to speculation that its progress is being influenced by the vagaries
of wider tensions between Pakistan and India.

Those tensions have been particularly high since last spring and summer, when
Narendra Modi, a right-wing Hindu leader, became prime minister of India and
there was a marked escalation in violent clashes between the two countries'
troops near the Line of Control in the disputed region of Kashmir.

Mr. Modi protested loudly in December when a Pakistani court ruled that Mr.
Lakhvi should be released on bail, even though the Pakistani government, led by
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, managed to prevent his release at the time by
invoking a colonial-era public order act.

But those efforts collapsed when the high court ordered Mr. Lakhvi's immediate
release on bail, saying there was no reason to hold him in jail and provoking a
swift response from Indian officials.

Mr. Lakhvi's release was ''a most negative development insofar as bilateral ties
are concerned,'' Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman for India's ministry of external
affairs, told reporters in New Delhi. India's high commissioner to Pakistan
contacted the Pakistani authorities to register his ''strong concerns,'' Mr.
Akbaruddin added.

''He underlined that this has reinforced the perception that Pakistan has a dual
policy on dealing with terrorists, and those who have carried out attacks or are
posing a threat to India are being dealt with differently,'' Mr. Akbaruddin
said.

Tasnim Aslam, a spokeswoman for Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told
reporters that it would ''not be proper to cast aspersions on Pakistan's
commitment to countering terrorism'' when the country is pressing the fight
against Taliban militants inside its own borders.

Ms. Aslam blamed an ''inordinate delay'' in Indian cooperation with the Mumbai
trial for weakening the prosecution's case.

Pakistani analysts said it was not clear whether the military or other elements
of the security apparatus had influenced the court's decision on Thursday. What
seemed more certain, several said, was that the military did not wish to see Mr.
Lakhvi or his group aggressively prosecuted.

''His release has been inevitable for a while now,'' said Cyril Almeida, an
editor at the newspaper Dawn. ''The state is simply not interested in pursuing
the Mumbai-related trials.''

It was not immediately clear where Mr. Lakhvi went after he walked free from the
Adiala jail around 1 p.m. on Friday.

Mr. Lakhvi's lawyer, Raja Rizwan Abbasi, said that he was probably staying with
his family. ''Any further detention order would be illegal and in contempt of
court,'' he said.

The six other suspects remained in the Adiala jail.

India says that Mr. Lakhvi, widely considered to be the operational head of
Lashkar-e-Taiba, coordinated the November 2008 Mumbai attacks by phone from a
base in Pakistan. He was arrested the next month.

In December 2014, a Pakistani Taliban assault on an army-run school in Peshawar
killed 150 people, most of them children, and led to a concerted military
crackdown on certain militant groups.

Army special forces troops intensified operations in the country's tribal belt,
and Mr. Sharif's government lifted a moratorium on executions of militant
prisoners. Parliament authorized the army to try those prisoners in special
courts, which have sweeping powers and recently heard their first cases.

But the crackdown has largely avoided groups, like Lashkar-e-Taiba, that share
the military's stance toward India.

Lashkar fighters have infiltrated Indian-controlled Kashmir and attacked Indian
diplomatic targets in Afghanistan, moves that are widely believed to have been
supported by Pakistani intelligence.

Although Lashkar was officially banned in 2002, it continues to operate
unofficially through Jamaat ud-Dawa, its charity wing, which is based in the
eastern city of Lahore but has branches across the country.

The charity's leader, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, lives in a Lahore suburb with police
protection, free to move about the country making speeches, fund-raising and
appearing on television. His supporters have openly mocked a $10 million United
States government reward offered for information leading to his prosecution.

In his latest public appearance, on Thursday, Mr. Saeed led a rally in
Islamabad, the capital, at which he urged Mr. Sharif's government to ally with
Saudi Arabia in attacking Houthi rebels in Yemen.

Lashkar's fighters follow the Ahle Hadith school of Islam, which is closely
related to the Wahhabism of Saudi Arabia and has helped the group raise money in
the Persian Gulf countries. In the past year, its charity wing has expanded its
operations to southern Pakistan, raising fears about the government's failure to
check the spread of extremism.

''For India, the signal is clear,'' said Mr. Almeida, the newspaper editor.
''Kashmir is central to everything, and Pakistan won't let India forget that,
even if Prime Minister Modi doesn't want to talk to us.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/pakistan-militant-leader-mumbai-att
acks-released-on-bail.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, fist raised, after a court appearance in
Islamabad in January. A high court ordered his release Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY B.
K. BANGASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAIL (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS
OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS &
FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%);
TALIBAN (78%); PRISONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%)

ORGANIZATION: LASHKAR E TAYYABA (58%)

PERSON: NARENDRA MODI (79%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%)

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (94%); MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (93%); NEW DELHI,
INDIA (79%)

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (93%); KASHMIR (79%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obamas' Tax Return Shows Most Income Is From Salary

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 266 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama and his wife, Michelle, earned $477,383 in
adjusted gross income in 2014, a slight decrease from the previous year, and
paid $93,362 in federal taxes, according to a tax return released by the White
House on Friday.

Most of Mr. Obama's income comes from his $400,000 salary as president, and he
now receives far less in royalties from his books than he did early in his
presidency. In 2008 and 2009, Mr. Obama earned a total of $8.1 million from his
two autobiographies, ''Dreams From My Father'' and ''The Audacity of Hope.'' In
2014, the royalties totaled $94,889.

White House officials released the tax return with little fanfare, as they have
done in each year of Mr. Obama's presidency. The return shows that the Obamas
donated $70,712 -- or about 15 percent of their income -- to charity.

The largest gift was to Fisher House Foundation, a Chicago-based organization
that provides accommodations for families of service members who are receiving
treatment at military and veterans' hospitals. The Obamas donated $22,012 to the
group; in 2013 they gave $8,751, and in 2012 they donated $103,000.

White House officials said Mr. Obama's tax bill was higher than it would
otherwise have been because of policies that steered tax cuts to the middle
class and limited tax breaks for the wealthy. The president also paid additional
Medicare and investment income taxes, according to a post on the White House
blog.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, reported earning $388,844
and paying taxes of $90,506. The Bidens contributed $7,380 to charity.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/politics/obamas-tax-return-shows-most-incom
e-is-from-salary.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS
(90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); CHARITIES (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (75%); MEDICARE (72%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (67%);
VETERANS HOSPITALS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES
(55%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Corp. and Fox Said to Consider New Offices

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1046 words


News Corporation and 21st Century Fox, two giant media companies controlled by
Rupert Murdoch, are considering building a joint headquarters in a new 88-story
skyscraper at the World Trade Center, real estate executives and government
officials said this week.

If a deal is struck, the move by the companies from Midtown Manhattan to a new
tower downtown would complete the rebuilding of the office complex destroyed on
Sept. 11, 2001. It would also solidify the transformation of Lower Manhattan
into a technology and media hub and a lively residential community.

The companies, which include Fox News and The Wall Street Journal, have been in
discussions for months with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which
owns the site and the developer Larry A. Silverstein, who has the rights to
build the fourth and last office tower at the site, known as 2 World Trade
Center, according to the real estate executives and government officials, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because the deal had not been made final.

''This move would establish media hegemony in Lower Manhattan,'' said Mitchell
Moss, a professor of urban planning at New York University. ''News Corp. and Fox
are in everyone's living room. It removes any uncertainty that the new trade
center would be a major economic engine, and it validates the 15-year effort to
rebuild the World Trade Center.''

News Corporation and 21st Century Fox would require a substantial revision to
the long-planned 2 World Trade Center, at Vesey and Greenwich Streets, which the
British architect Norman Foster designed. The companies want the base of what is
now a cruciform-shape tower with a diamond crown to accommodate television
studios.

Earlier in the year, Mr. Murdoch's companies looked and passed on the Related
Companies' Hudson Yards project on the Far West Side of Manhattan. Mr. Murdoch's
companies are now housed at 1211 and 1185 Avenue of the Americas.

The discussions on the trade center are shrouded in a confidentiality agreement,
but several executives who have been briefed on the plans say both sides are
spending an enormous amount of time and money assessing the feasibility of the
project.

Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for 21st Century Fox, said on Friday that it and
News Corporation ''are each exploring options for their New York headquarters,
and the process is ongoing.''

The two media companies would join Condé Nast, The Daily News, Time Inc.,
McGraw-Hill, American Media Inc. and MediaMath in moving to an area once known
exclusively for its financial institutions.

The tallest tower at the site, the 104-story 1 World Trade Center, opened last
year. Mr. Silverstein completed the 72-story 4 World Trade Center in 2013 and is
now building 3 World Trade Center, an 80-story tower. But 2 World Trade Center,
which is intended to have 3.1 million square feet, remained in the planning
stages, without an anchor tenant to get the project off the ground.

Even as the new trade center has taken shape, the surrounding neighborhood in
Lower Manhattan has undergone a major transformation. The area, which 20 years
ago often looked like a ghost town at the end of the work day, is now home to
upscale restaurants, luxury retailers and more than 60,000 residents.

The financial industry, which lent the neighborhood its name, still has a strong
presence. The New York Stock Exchange remains on Wall Street. The Federal
Reserve Bank is on Liberty Street, and Goldman Sachs is an important downtown
firm.

But the industry's footprint has been shrinking steadily. One Wall Street, the
Art Deco home of Irving Trust and Bank of New York Mellon, is being converted
into luxury apartments, as are many other older downtown office towers. Chase
Manhattan Plaza was sold to a Chinese company.

Time Inc., and its stable of magazines and digital media properties, is moving
to the five-building office complex that was once known as the World Financial
Center. Merrill Lynch and Nomura, a Japanese financial firm, are gone from the
complex, and its owners have renamed it Brookfield Place.

Mr. Murdoch is not unacquainted with life downtown. HarperCollins, the
publishing division of News Corporation, is already in Lower Manhattan, at 195
Broadway. In 2013, News Corporation spun off 21st Century Fox, which includes
television studios, Fox Entertainment Group and various broadcast units.

The two companies have about 4,000 employees at their offices on Avenue of the
Americas.

Yet there are logistical issues at 2 World Trade Center, and the companies have
a history of failing to pull the trigger on major real estate moves.

In 2008, News Corporation was a partner and anchor tenant in a bid by the
Related Companies to buy the West Side railyards for a 26-acre residential and
commercial complex. Related effectively dropped out of the bidding a month
before the final selection after a shaky economy led Mr. Murdoch's company to
abandon the deal. Ultimately, Related did gain control of the railyards after
the winning bidder refused to sign the deal.

Even earlier, News Corporation negotiated for six months in 1989 with the
developer David Solomon to be the anchor tenant for a 42-story tower under
construction at the north end of Times Square. The two sides failed to come to
terms; Mr. Solomon tumbled into bankruptcy and lost his building.

The talks at the trade center began earlier this year. Initially, Mr. Murdoch's
companies had wanted to gain control of the site from Mr. Silverstein and build
a smaller tower designed by their own architect. That proved undoable for
various reasons.

The companies are now talking about taking about half of the building -- 1.5
million square feet -- designed by Mr. Foster, but they still may bring in their
own architect for the changes.

Given that the foundation has been built, the two sides are assessing whether
the structure can accommodate the changes they want for television studios.

If it proves possible, it is still unclear what kind of subsidy deal News
Corporation and 21st Century Fox would want from the Port Authority, the city
and the state. Generous sales tax breaks are available downtown, but there are
no more tax-free Liberty Bonds, which were used to finance the other office
towers at the trade center.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/news-corp-and-21st-century-fox-consid
er-move-to-world-trade-center-site-officials-say.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The News Corporation building, which houses The Wall Street
Journal and The New York Post, at 1211 Avenue of the Americas. In the rendering,
2World Trade Center is the second tower from the left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL
APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DBOX) (A16) MAP (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%);
REAL ESTATE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LAND USE
PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE
(72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(66%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY FOX INC (95%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%);
PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); AMERICAN MEDIA INC (61%); TIME
INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

TICKER: FOX (NASDAQ) (95%); TIME (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS
(95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING
STATIONS (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION
(70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL
PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING
(61%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Steering Issue but No Recall From G.M.

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words


As awareness grew last year of General Motors' failure to disclose a dangerous
defect in millions of older cars, its executives had a clear message for the
public: Safety was G.M.'s first priority.

By the end of the year, G.M. had recalled a record number of vehicles -- 30
million in North America -- and overhauled its safety practices.

But the company's handling of a recent steering issue sheds new light on where
G.M., and regulators, draw the line at what constitutes a safety issue worthy of
a recall.

Specifically, owners of some of General Motors' most popular cars are
complaining of a problem that they say is dangerous because the steering wheel
can stick after driving in one position for long periods.

''I was driving through a construction zone when my steering wheel locked up,''
the owner of a 2013 Buick Verano wrote the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration in December. The owner is one of more than 50 who cited a similar
problem to the agency.

''It surprised me and caused me panic somewhat. The lane was very narrow and
started to turn, but my steering wheel did not respond the way it should. It
took a lot of effort to turn the wheels. The car got too close to the cement
guardrails and collided with them.'' No injuries were reported.

Last July, G.M. sent dealers a technical service bulletin that told them how to
fix the problem, but only if an owner complained to a dealer. The repair is made
with a software update and is covered for 10 years or 150,000 miles from the
time the vehicle was new.

The automaker alerted owners to the problem in a letter in November, saying that
the steering wheel can ''stick in the straight-ahead position'' after driving
long distances in a straight line. It did not issue a recall.

General Motors has concluded that there is no need for a recall, Alan Adler, a
spokesman for the automaker, wrote in an email.

''Based on a very low rate of occurrence -- ranging from less than one half to
less than two incidents per thousand vehicles -- and the fact that the condition
is remedied when the wheel is turned, G.M. determined this was not a safety
issue,'' he wrote.

Federal regulators have not seen reason to open an investigation.

''Based on the bulletin and complaint narratives, the symptoms described would
be a brief, perceptible change in steering feel that has little to no effect on
the driver's ability to safely steer the vehicle,'' Catherine Howden, a
spokeswoman for N.H.T.S.A., wrote in an email.

But one former top investigator for the safety agency said that complaints about
steering should always prompt a thorough investigation.

''There's a possibility this would startle an inexperienced or elderly driver
with bad consequences,'' said Michael Brownlee, who ran the safety agency's
Office of Defects Investigation from 1987 to 1991 and retired in 1997 as
associate administrator for enforcement.

The problem was found on some models of the 2013-14 Buick Verano, Chevrolet
Cruze and Chevrolet Malibu.

G.M.'s decision not to recall the cars followed a similar decision that involved
brakes in pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles. In that case, owners
complained to the safety agency that their brakes failed after the lines rusted,
but G.M. has resisted issuing a recall, saying the issue is one of maintenance.
About 2 million trucks from the 1999 to 2003 model years are affected.

The safety agency began looking into that issue five years ago and recently
concluded its investigation after reviewing 3,645 complaints from owners
including allegations of 107 crashes resulting in 40 injuries.

The agency said that while failures could significantly increase stopping
distances, there was no reason for a recall because the rusted lines were a
result of expected wear, particularly on older vehicles in areas where road salt
is used. The agency also urged owners to routinely wash their vehicles.

Automakers have recalled vehicles over steering problems before. In February and
early March, almost 400,000 vehicles were recalled by General Motors, Hyundai
and Toyota because the power assist to the steering could be lost, making the
vehicles harder to turn.

But regulators see the sticking problem as ''significantly different'' from a
vehicle's losing the power assist, Ms. Howden said. ''When terms like 'notchy,'
'stick,' 'slip' or 'feel' are used, it does not indicate a meaningful increase
in steering effort,'' she wrote in an email.

Service bulletins are not intended to address serious safety issues, which by
law must be handled by recalls monitored by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. A recall requires repairs to vehicles that have not yet
experienced a problem. With a service bulletin, there are no such pre-emptive
repairs.

But sending the bulletins instead of issuing recalls was an approach that G.M.
used in previous years. A New York Times investigation last year found that
seven recalls for serious safety problems had been preceded sometimes by years
by technical service bulletins sent to dealers, a far cheaper alternative to
fixing every vehicle. And federal regulators have admonished G.M. for the
practice.

Even as G.M. decided not to issue a recall, owners continued to express concern
to regulators.

''At highway speeds the steering sticks, making it scary to drive and
dangerous,'' the owner of a 2013 Cruze wrote to the agency in December.

At least two minor accidents were reported but there was no mention of injuries.

In one of those crashes, the owner of a 2014 Cruze told the agency of ''driving
approximately 15 miles per hour, making a left-hand turn, the steering wheel
seized and caused the vehicle to crash into a sidewalk.''

Another 2013 Cruze owner told regulators in December that the sticking steering
''requires extra exertion of force to move it in either direction. This results
in the car swerving and on more than one occasion almost wrecking.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/gm-steering-issue-pushes-automakers-l
imits.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Buick Verano on the assembly line in Orion Township, Mich.
More than 50 Verano owners have reported a steering problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DUANE BURLESON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%);
AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%);
COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS &
ACCESSORIES (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behind Cruz Campaign's Striking Start, a Donor of Few Words

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and ALEXANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words


WASHINGTON --  The two men share a passion for unbridled markets, concerns about
the Internal Revenue Service and a skeptical view of climate change.

Now the two -- Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Robert Mercer, a Wall
Street hedge-fund magnate -- share another bond that could link them through
November 2016: Both want to see Mr. Cruz elected president.

Mr. Mercer, a reclusive Long Islander who started at I.B.M. and made his fortune
using computer patterns to outsmart the stock market, emerged this week as a key
early bankroller of Mr. Cruz's surprisingly fast campaign start. He is believed
to be the main donor behind a network of four ''super PACs'' supporting Mr. Cruz
that reported raising $31 million just a few weeks into his campaign.

The emergence of rich and relatively low-profile donors like Mr. Mercer could
single-handedly jump-start a presidential campaign, said Trevor Potter, a
campaign finance lawyer who served as a Republican member of the Federal
Election Commission.

''It just takes a random billionaire to change a race and maybe change the
country,'' Mr. Potter said. ''That's what's so radically different now.''

Mr. Mercer does not have the name recognition of fellow Republican financiers
like the Koch brothers or Sheldon Adelson, but he has spent more than $15
million since 2012 in support of conservative political campaigns and causes,
donating to a number of candidates who had never even met him. Both moderate
Republican candidates and Democrats in states like Iowa, New York and Oregon
have found themselves in the cross hairs of expensive attack ads that he
financed.

Mr. Mercer ''is a very low-profile guy, but he's becoming a bigger and bigger
player,'' said Bradley A. Smith, a campaign finance expert who was a Republican
appointee on the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Mercer's financial support for
Mr. Cruz ''sends the message to other donors that Cruz is a serious guy,'' Mr.
Smith said, ''and that brings in other donors.''

Rep. Peter DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon, remembers with some bitterness Mr.
Mercer's opposition to his re-election campaign in 2014 when he spent about
$650,000 on attack ads and other efforts in support of a conservative
challenger.

''I don't think the guy had ever even been to Oregon,'' Mr. DeFazio said. He
said he believed Mr. Mercer targeted him in part because of legislation Mr.
DeFazio sponsored that threatened higher taxes for hedge funds like Mr. Mercer's
fund, Renaissance Technologies.

''He's a patron for ultra-right-wing causes,'' Mr. DeFazio said, ''and in a
Republican presidential race, being an ultra-right-wing millionaire from Wall
Street isn't going to hurt you.''

He is also an example of how wealthy donors have been empowered by the Supreme
Court's 2010 decision in the landmark Citizens United case, which paved the way
for super PACs. Unlike candidates, super PACs can accept unlimited amounts of
money from individuals and corporations to support a candidate so long as they
do not officially ''coordinate'' with the campaign. Many moneyed Wall Street
veterans enjoy playing the political game, hosting fund-raisers and speaking
publicly about the horse they are backing. Mr. Mercer is not one of them. A
computer scientist by training, he is more at ease crunching numbers than
pressing the flesh. Mr. Mercer declined to comment.

He prefers to stay quiet about most things. After receiving a lifetime
achievement award from the Association for Computational Linguistics at an event
last year, Mr. Mercer told the audience he was daunted by the prospect of
speaking there for an hour, ''which, by the way, is more than I typically talk
in a month so it's quite a challenge.''

Intensely private, he has been described as ''an icy cold poker player'' whose
boss once jokingly called him ''an automaton,'' according to a description in
''More Money Than God,'' a book about the hedge fund industry by Sebastian
Mallaby.

Before joining Renaissance Technologies, Mr. Mercer, 68, worked at I.B.M.'s
research center, where he specialized in computerized translation of languages.

While little of his private life has been made public, some details have emerged
in recent court cases. In 2013, a group of former workers at his house sued him
for not paying overtime. They also accused him of deducting money from their
semi-annual bonuses as a form of punishment for, among other things, failing to
replace shampoos, close doors and change razor blades. ''The matter has been
resolved amicably,'' Troy L. Kessler, a lawyer for the employees, said.

In 2009, Mr. Mercer sued RailDreams, a toy train manufacturer, and its
president, Richard Taylor, for overcharging him $2 million for a contract to
build and install a model train and railway set at his home.

Mr. Mercer has said nothing publicly about his financial backing for Mr. Cruz's
campaign or how he came to support him. But his daughter, Rebekah Mercer, who
started a bakery in Manhattan called Ruby et Violette, has been more vocal. This
week she held a fund-raiser for Mr. Cruz at her Manhattan apartment.

When James H. Simons, the billionaire founder of the Renaissance hedge fund,
hired Mr. Mercer in 1993, the company was more university campus than Wall
Street firm. Mr. Simons, a mathematician and former code-breaker for the
National Security Agency, brought in astronomers and physicists to analyze reams
of data, using computer programs to search for patterns that could be used to
inform trading decisions. Mr. Simons has been a major political backer of
Democrats, donating $8.3 million in 2014.

The hedge fund's strategy has been tremendously successful. The firm's flagship
Medallion fund, which manages money only for employees today, has earned average
annual returns of 35 percent for two decades. Over all, the firm manages $25
billion, much of it employees' money.

Renaissance was also able to increase returns by borrowing large sums of money,
but the practice eventually caught the attention of Washington and government
agencies. Last year the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations accused
Renaissance of using complex financial structures that allowed it to
underestimate how much it owed the Internal Revenue Service by $6 billion.

Taxpayers ''had to shoulder the tax burden these hedge funds shrugged off with
the aid of the banks,'' Senator Carl Levin of Michigan said at a hearing last
summer.

The I.R.S. has been investigating Renaissance for at least six years. A
spokesman for the firm said its tax practices were legal and appropriate.

Mr. Cruz's campaign did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Mercer's
support for his candidacy or his hedge fund's $6 billion tax issue.

But the candidate, like his new Wall Street backer, has his own concerns about
the I.R.S., which might have gotten Mr. Mercer's attention. Last month, he
called for the agency to be abolished altogether.

Follow The New York Times Politics section on Twitter and sign up for the First
Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/politics/hedge-fund-magnaterobert-mercer-em
erges-as-a-generous-backer-of-ted-cruz.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Mercer (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TOTH/GETTY IMAGES) (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HEADS
OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES &
TAXATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE
(89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL
ADVERTISING (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTION
AUTHORITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (92%); PETER A DEFAZIO (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Market Closes Higher for Second Consecutive Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words


Stocks advanced on Friday, capping a second straight weekly advance for the
market. Investors were encouraged by the latest corporate deal news, that
General Electric would be selling its long-struggling lending business.

The good feelings in the market are unlikely to last. The focus next week turns
to corporate earnings, and so far the outlook is discouraging. With economic
sluggishness in the United States and Europe, as well as the rapid appreciation
of the dollar, analysts expect first-quarter results to be down 4.6 percent.

''Earnings are not going to be down because the U.S. economy is struggling,''
said James Liu, global market strategist at JPMorgan Funds. ''It's going to be
because of what has happened in energy and the dollar.''

Next week, the nation's biggest banks, including Bank of America, JPMorgan
Chase, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs, will report their results.. Thirty-five of
the members of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index will report their results,
as well as seven members of the Dow Jones industrial average

On Friday, the Dow rose 98.92 points, or 0.6 percent, to 18,057.65. The S.&P.
500 rose 10.88 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,102.06 and the Nasdaq rose 21.41
points, or 0.4 percent, to 4,995.98.

General Electric soared after the company said it would sell most of its lending
arm, known as GE Capital, and shift its focus back to its industrial business.
G.E.'s stock jumped $2.78, or 11 percent, to $28.51, making it the biggest
gainer in the Dow and the S.&P. 500.

It was a solid week for the market over all. The Dow and S.&P. 500 each rose 1.7
percent, while the Nasdaq rose 2.2 percent. The United States stock market has
not had two consecutive weeks of gains since mid-February.

Most of the gains this week can be attributed to the Federal Reserve. After the
disappointing March jobs report released this month, traders now say they
believe that the nation's central bank is not going to raise interest rates
until September instead of the originally anticipated June time frame.

William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on
Monday that the Fed's rate increases would be ''shallow'' when he cited the
recent weak economic data including the jobs report.

''I think we are still looking at two rate hikes this year, but they will likely
be later this year,'' Mr. Liu of JPMorgan Funds said.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.95 percent.
The dollar edged down to 120.20 yen from 120.57 yen while the euro fell to
$1.0597 from $1.0662.

In energy markets, the price of oil rose on Friday after a closely watched count
of working drill rigs declined.

Benchmark United States crude rose 85 cents to close at $51.64 a barrel in New
York. Brent crude, a benchmark for international oils used by many American
refineries, rose $1.30 to close at $57.87 in London.

In other futures trading on the Nymex, wholesale gasoline rose 4.8 cents to
close at $1.807 a gallon; heating oil rose 3.9 cents to close at $1.766 a
gallon; and natural gas fell 1.7 cents to close at $2.511 per 1,000 cubic feet.

In metals trading, gold rose $11 to $1,204.60 an ounce, silver rose 21 cents to
$16.38 an ounce, and copper edged up half a penny to $2.73 an ounce.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute:   Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on  Friday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%);
CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PRICES (79%);
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & REPORTS (77%);
COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%);
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES
(66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GENERAL
ELECTRIC CO (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%);
GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE)
(85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES
OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES
ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL
BANKS (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judith Malina, a Force at the Living Theater, Dies at 88

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2090 words


Judith Malina, an actor and director who with her husband, Julian Beck, founded
the Living Theater, a troupe of activists and provocateurs who advanced the idea
of political theater in America, catalyzed fierce debate over their methods and
intentions, and in the name of art ran afoul of civic authorities on three
continents, died on Friday in Englewood, N.J. She was 88.

Her death, at the Lillian Booth Actors Home, was confirmed by a friend and
playwright, Karen Malpede. Ms. Malina had lung disease caused by years of
smoking.

For movie and television buffs, especially those not old enough to remember
beatniks, Lenny Bruce, Vietnam War protests or other symbols of remonstration
against Eisenhower-era complacency, Ms. Malina was best known as a character
actress. She appeared on ''The Sopranos'' (as Aunt Dottie, a dying nun who
reveals to the gangster known as Paulie Walnuts that she is actually his mother)
and in films including ''The Addams Family,'' Woody Allen's ''Radio Days'' and,
perhaps most memorably, ''Dog Day Afternoon,'' as the anguished and frantic
mother of Sonny Wortzik, the misguided bank robber played by Al Pacino.

But she steered a far more emphatic and influential course with the troupe
sometimes known simply as the Living, which occupied the leading edge of stage
experimentation in the 1950s and 1960s and both fed and fed on the
counterculture of the 1960s and '70s. It was perhaps the most prominent and
persistent advocate for a ''new theater,'' one that sought to dissolve the
accepted artifice of stage presentations, to conjoin art and political protest,
and to shrink, if not eliminate, the divide between performers and the audience.

A diminutive woman (journalists often noted that she weighed less than 100
pounds) who studied acting and directing with Erwin Piscator, the German
director and theorist who, like Brecht, was a proponent of epic theater, Ms.
Malina was tireless and passionate in advancing the idea that theater can be,
and should be, a blunt force for cultural change. She and Mr. Beck, an
Expressionist painter as a young man who became renowned as a set designer,
considered themselves anarchists and pacifists, and their productions were
statements as much as performances.

Idealistic and fervent, they began planning a new kind of theater company in
1947, when she was 21 and he a year older. The troupe's first public production,
Gertrude Stein's ''Dr. Faustus Lights the Lights,'' was staged in 1951 at the
Cherry Lane Theater in Greenwich Village.

Their belief that the theater and real life are part of an experiential
continuum drew them, at first, to present plays written in verse or otherwise
abstract language -- they produced work by Kenneth Rexroth, T. S. Eliot, Paul
Goodman, Jean Cocteau, W. H. Auden and William Carlos Williams, among others --
and to involve their audiences in the action of their shows in defiance of the
so-called fourth wall, the conventional presumption of separation of the actors
from the audience.

''We believe in the theater as a place of intense experience, half-dream,
half-ritual, in which the spectator approaches something of a vision of
self-understanding, going past conscious to unconscious, to an understanding of
the nature of all things,'' Mr. Beck wrote in The New York Times in 1959. He
added that ''only the language of poetry can accomplish this, only poetry or a
language laden with symbols and far removed from our daily speech can take us
beyond the ignorant present toward these realms.''

The period of Mr. Beck and Ms. Malina's greatest impact and notoriety began in
the late 1950s with productions that included groundbreaking dramas like ''The
Connection'' (1959), Jack Gelber's harrowing depiction of a den of heroin
addicts, and ''The Brig'' (1963), Kenneth H. Brown's portrayal of a harsh day in
the life of a Marine prison. (Both were made into films.) It was during the run
of ''The Brig'' that the Living was shut down by the Internal Revenue Service --
an event that led to demonstrations outside the company's home at West 14th
Street and Avenue of the Americas, with placards bearing slogans like ''Art
Before Taxes.''

Mr. Beck and Ms. Malina represented themselves at their trial, arguing that it
was both wrong and unreasonable for the government to take away their theater
without making a good-faith effort to help them save it, and that their
nonviolent civil disobedience was a reaction against the unfair administration
of the law. But they also turned the trial into a loopy spectacle that included
rambling speechifying, outbursts of protest and Ms. Malina's recitation of her
poems.

''The human heart and the human mind have to examine the rigidity of the law,''
Ms. Malina said in summing up the case to the jury, which convicted her, Mr.
Beck and the Living Theater on several counts surrounding the crime of impeding
federal agents from seizing the assets of the tax-delinquent theater.

''Innocent!'' Ms. Malina exclaimed, each time the prosecutor, Peter K. Leisure,
used the word ''guilty.'' Judge Edmund Palmieri reprimanded her.

''You can cut out my tongue, but you cannot stop me from saying that I am
innocent,'' she responded. ''I will not grant you that privilege, sir.''

Mr. Malina and Mr. Beck were fined and given brief jail sentences, though
pending an appeal they were allowed to leave for Europe, where the Living had
bookings, and they and the company went into self-imposed exile.

As time went on, their shows, which included adaptations of ''Antigone'' and
''Frankenstein,'' were staged, usually by Ms. Malina, with mounting radical
fervor and an application of techniques that tended to sublimate artistic craft
in favor of political passion and to blur the distinction between performance
and real life. Living Theater productions through the 1960s were increasingly
characterized by improvisation, and troupe members addressed spectators
directly, encouraging them to participate vocally as if contributing to a
spontaneously evolving script and even exhorting them to join the troupe onstage
or exit the theater and take the performance into the streets.

The company's most notorious show, ''Paradise Now,'' consisted of a jumble of
nonlinear vignettes, theater games, ritualistic exercises, group embraces and
volleys of incantatory anticapitalist slogans and other epithets, some
encouraging sexual abandon and marijuana use, often culminating with members of
the company and the audience taking off their clothes. The vehemence of the
revolutionary message and its delivery joined the Living irrevocably to the more
perfervid nonviolent strain of the 1960s counterculture.

''I demand everything -- total love, an end to all forms of violence and cruelty
such as money, hunger, prisons, people doing work they hate,'' Ms. Malina
explained in a 1968 interview with The New York Times Magazine about the sort
off revolution her theater wanted to engender. ''We can have tractors and food
and joy. I demand it now!''

Performances of ''Paradise Now'' often generated chaos in the theater and
controversy outside it. In Europe, where the Living became a collective
(operating as, in one reporter's words, ''a tribe or an anarchist's commune'')
and commanded a large and youthful following that newspapers routinely described
as hippies, the police were called to shut down or prevent performances of
''Paradise Now'' and other Living shows in Rome, Avignon and elsewhere. In 1968
the Living returned to the United States, where, after a performance at Yale,
several members of the company and the audience were arrested for indecent
exposure.

The Living subsequently appeared at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, where their
performances engendered, in addition to the usual raucous reception, a critical
war waged in print, including in The New York Times, where critics including
Walter Kerr and Eric Bentley dismissed the Living as jejune and antitheatrical,
and Clive Barnes, who approved of the company's invention and physicality, saw
in it a melding of theater and dance.

The critic Richard Gilman wrote of the Living's ''Antigone'' in The Atlantic:
''The play is nearly intolerable whenever it has to be acted, whenever lines
have to be spoken and consciousness invoked,'' adding, ''It is evident from the
beginning that whatever else it has become, the Living Theater has lost almost
all its never more than marginal abilities for the rudimentary processes of
acting: speech, characterization, the assumption of new invented life.''

Writing in Saturday Review, however, Henry Hewes declared, ''What they have done
with Brecht's 1947 version of Sophocles' 'Antigone' is incredible and
enormous.'' He added: ''This 'Antigone' makes theatrical history with its fierce
totality of commitment. It is beyond theater.''

Ms. Malina was born in Kiel, a port city in northern Germany, on June 4, 1926.
Her mother, Rosel Zamojre, had been an aspiring actress before she married Max
Malina, a rabbinical student who became a leading cleric after the family moved
to New York City. There, according to John Tytell's exhaustive book, ''The
Living Theatre: Art, Exile and Outrage'' (1995), Ms. Malina met Mr. Beck in
1943, when she was just 17, and together they undertook a cultural education,
attending the theater, visiting museums and reading modernist writers like
Joyce, Pound and Cocteau. Ms. Malina worked as a singing waitress in a Greenwich
Village bar and eventually enrolled in Piscator's workshop at the New School for
Social Research.

In the 1970s and early 1980s, the Living again spent much of its time out of the
country, partly in Europe and partly in Brazil, where Ms. Malina and Mr. Beck
were once again arrested, this time for marijuana possession, though they said
they were innocent, and supporters of the company suspected that the authorities
were wary of the work they were preparing, a series of short politically tinged
plays to be performed in the streets of the town of Ouro Preto. After their
arrest, protests from cultural figures around the world, including Susan Sontag
and Jean-Paul Sartre, focused attention on their plight, and they were released
but expelled from the country.

Julian Beck died in 1985. Ms. Malina's survivors include their two children,
Isha Manna and Garrick Maxwell Beck; three grandchildren; and two
great-grandchildren.

In 1988, Ms. Malina married Hanon Reznikov, who wrote and performed in many
Living productions and who had been running the company since Mr. Beck's death.
For a time they established a theatrical home on East Third Street in Lower
Manhattan, until the city's Buildings Department closed the theater in 1993.

The company continued to produce work motivated by contemporary political
concerns, including the two Persian Gulf wars, the Wall Street bailouts and
income inequality, presenting it on different New York City stages; they also
created site-specific new works in Italy and Lebanon. Just before Mr. Reznikov's
unexpected death in 2008, the theater established another home in Lower
Manhattan, on Clinton Street. There Ms. Malina directed Mr. Reznikov's last
play, ''Eureka!,'' based on a dense late work about the origins of life by Edgar
Allan Poe, showing that the company had lost none of its ambition and energy.

''The Living Theater wants nothing less than to rewrite the theatrical
contract,'' Rachel Saltz began her review of ''Eureka!'' in The Times. ''Viewers
can no longer remain passive spectators hidden in the dark. There is no fourth
wall, so they must become participants. In 'Eureka!' -- a mix of science class,
happening, utopian dream and group hug -- that means helping out with a mighty
task: creating the universe.''

The Living was evicted from its Clinton Street space in 2013 but staged Ms.
Malina's ''Nowhere to Hide'' at the Burning Man Festival in 2014. The troupe
will continue to produce work under the leadership of Brad Burgess, Tom Walker
and Garrick Beck, who will share directorial duties, with Mr. Burgess as
artistic director, Mr. Beck said in an email.

Ms. Malina's published books include a compilation of her diaries and in 2012 a
memoir of sorts called ''The Piscator Notebook.'' In his foreword to that
volume, the theater scholar Richard Schechner wrote:

''The thing about Judith Malina is that she is indefatigable, unstoppable,
erupting with ideas. Malina is long-living, long-working, optimistic, and by the
second decade of the 21st century girlish and old womanish at the same time. She
survives and she bubbles, both.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/theater/judith-malina-founder-of-the-living-th
eater-dies-at-88.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Judith Malina, right, and Isha Manna Beck in a
performance of the play ''Anarchia'' at the Living Theater. Left, Ms. Malina in
2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE FREY
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); THEATER & DRAMA
(89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); FILM (78%); THEATER
COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); PAINTING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%);
WRITERS (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); POLITICS (72%); SMOKING (70%);
ROBBERY (66%); THEATER (58%); VIETNAM WAR (55%)

PERSON: AL PACINO (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Music of Middle-Earth, on Center Stage

BYLINE: By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 448 words


Imagine a musical version of the orcs, Tolkien's enslaved former elves, made to
serve the cult of an all-powerful moving image under the baton of a brainwashed
wizard.

It's true that none of the 250 fine musicians who provided the live musical
accompaniment for a screening of ''The Fellowship of the Ring,'' the first
installment of Peter Jackson's ''Lord of the Rings'' film series at the Lincoln
Center's Koch Theater on Tuesday had fangs or were engaged in the murderous
pursuit of hobbits. But far from celebrating the artistry that goes into film
music, this marathon ''Lord of the Rings in Concert'' only underlines the
abnegation of artistic privilege that genre requires.

The films (the complete trilogy is again presented over this weekend) are shown
to live musical accompaniment by the 21st Century Symphony Orchestra and Chorus
as well as members of the Brooklyn Youth Chorus, led by the Swiss conductor
Ludwig Wicki. This worldwide tour of ''The Lord of the Rings in Concert'' is
buoyed by the cultish veneration Mr. Jackson's films have sparked. It's also
billed as a celebration of Howard Shore's seething score, which won Oscars, for
the first and third films of the trilogy.

But in performance the interdependence of sound and image becomes painfully
obvious. The film's moments of innocent levity would not be nearly as bucolic,
its battles between good and evil not half as scary, without the music. And Mr.
Shore's pastiche -- a bit of Bruckner, a bit of Grainger, and Glass to weave
them together -- cannot stand on its own, either.

It was both impressive and sobering to watch the skill with which Mr. Wicki
synchronized the music of this vast score to the movie. On a small screen in
front of him a moving vertical line indicated the approach of a scene break and
it was that digital ''mind'' which ultimately held the controls.

Night after night on this juggernaut tour, orchestral soloists measure out their
lines in milliseconds with none of the freedom to let a phrase breathe that is
the mark -- and magic -- of a concert performance.

The sound was powerful but not always entirely acoustic. It's understandable
that certain solo instruments, like a Celtic flute that plays one of the
principal themes, required some help to assert themselves against the orchestra
and the film's spoken dialogue. But at times of heightened tension, it felt as
if the overall sound was being cranked up aggressively.

My 9-year-old son sat through much of the film with a finger thrust in each ear.

The concerts continue on Saturday and Sunday at Lincoln Center, and from
Thursday through April 19 in San Jose, Calif. Other coming performances are at
howardshore.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/music/review-in-the-lord-of-the-rings-in-
concert-musicians-in-sync-with-a-soundtrack.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lord of the Rings in Concert: Ludwig Wicki leading the live
musical accompaniment  to ''The Fellowship of the Ring'' at Lincoln Center.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FILM (89%);
WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%);
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); ACADEMY AWARDS (76%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: PETER JACKSON (92%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ft. Hood Attack Victims Earn War Casualty Medals

BYLINE: By DAVE PHILIPPS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 548 words


In an about-face by the Army, the victims of the deadly 2009 shooting at the
Fort Hood military base in Texas, some of them still limping, took the stage on
Friday and were recognized as casualties of war.

''We hope today, in some small way, we will help to heal the wounds that you
have suffered,'' the base commander, Lt. Gen. Sean MacFarland, told a gathering
there that included many of the wounded as well as families of the dead. In all,
47 people were awarded a Purple Heart or its civilian counterpart, a Defense of
Freedom Medal.

The medals had been a long time in coming. Though government investigators said
the gunman, Maj. Nidal Hasan, an Army psychiatrist, was motivated by his radical
Muslim beliefs and the shootings were called an act of terrorism in a 2011
Senate report, the Pentagon labeled the shootings a ''domestic criminal act''
and said victims were ineligible for honors and benefits given to troops wounded
in combat.

Major Hasan opened fire in a crowded Fort Hood processing center for soldiers
deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan, killing 13 and wounding more than 30.

Representative John Carter, a Texas Republican whose district includes Fort
Hood, repeatedly introduced bills starting in 2009 to grant the award to victims
and their families, which would also give them additional health care and
survivor benefits. But he faced resistance from the Pentagon.

Purple Hearts are typically given to troops wounded in battle, but official
criteria also allow the medals to be given to troops wounded on domestic soil in
an ''international terrorism attack.''

A 2013 Pentagon position paper warned that granting combatant status to the
victims not only could ''irrevocably alter the fundamental character of this
time-honored decoration'' but might also ''undermine the prosecution of Major
Nidal Hasan,'' who was awaiting trail on murder charges. By labeling him a
terrorist, the paper warned, the Pentagon could erode his ability to get a fair
trial and cause long delays in his prosecution.

Major Hasan was convicted of murder in August 2013 and sentenced to death. He is
now imprisoned at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.

With the gunman behind bars, Mr. Carter renewed his push for recognition of the
victims, and gained the backing of other representatives and both senators from
Texas.

In December, Congress passed legislation requiring the Defense Department to
review the Fort Hood case for Purple Heart recipients.

Secretary of the Army John M. McHugh announced the decision to grant the awards
in February.

''While we can never repay what was lost that day, today's ceremony brings
long-awaited justice to the victims,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas,
said at Fort Hood.

On Friday, General MacFarland acknowledged at the televised gathering that it
was difficult for many of the recipients to return to the scene of the deadly
shooting.

Before the victims filed in to receive their awards, the commander of Fort Hood
at the time of the shooting, Gen. Robert W. Cone, now retired, thanked them for
their sacrifice. He noted that many of those who had been shot continued to
serve in the Army, and offered a quote by Ernest Hemingway in ''A Farewell to
Arms,'' ''The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken
places.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/fort-hood-shooting-victims-recognized-as-wa
r-casualties.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gen. Sean MacFarland, left, the commander, awarded medals on
Friday to Capt. Brandy Mason
Christopher Royal, second from right, a chief warrant officer
 and Staff Sgt. Michael Davis. (POOL PHOTO BY RODOLFO GONZALEZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS (93%); ARMED FORCES (92%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
ARMIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (88%); US ARMY (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%);
DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%);
SENTENCING (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (73%); MURDER (58%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (78%); JOHN CARTER (74%); JOHN M MCHUGH (70%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton to Test Themes as She Officially Enters 2016 Presidential Race

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 872 words


The prolonged prologue to Hillary Rodham Clinton's second run for the White
House will reach its suspenseless conclusion on Sunday: The former secretary of
state, senator and first lady is to announce that she will indeed seek the
Democratic nomination for president.

Mrs. Clinton is expected to begin her campaign with a video message on social
media, followed by a visit to important early-primary states next week, said two
people briefed on her plans.

But for all the attention paid to how Mrs. Clinton would reveal her 2016
candidacy, little has been said about her reasons for mounting another
presidential bid. Her campaign rollout is expected to provide voters,
particularly users of Twitter, Facebook and other social media, a succinct
rationale that she is best positioned to address an American electorate that has
seen virtually stagnant wages for middle-income earners over the last 15 years.

A fresh epilogue to Mrs. Clinton's 2014 memoir, ''Hard Choices,'' posted on The
Huffington Post Friday morning, signaled a number of elements of what is very
likely to be a familiar feature of her campaign message: evoking her new status
as a grandmother to talk about creating opportunities for all Americans.

''I'm more convinced than ever that our future in the 21st century depends on
our ability to ensure that a child born in the hills of Appalachia or the
Mississippi Delta or the Rio Grande Valley grows up with the same shot at
success that Charlotte will,'' Mrs. Clinton wrote, referring to her new
granddaughter.

Mrs. Clinton will begin testing that and other themes in earnest beginning on
Sunday and stretching through next week when she travels to Iowa and later this
month to New Hampshire for a series of small-scale events where she can field
questions and address the concerns of the voters her campaign calls ''everyday
Americans,'' people made aware of her plans said.

In the early months of the Democratic primary contest, Mrs. Clinton's campaign
hopes to capture some of the magic of her successful 2000 run for the Senate in
New York, when she worked to show some of the common touch that had helped
catapult her husband to the White House. Her governing principle in the 2000
campaign was demonstrating that she would work hard to earn every vote.

Mrs. Clinton's team is also planning a slow expansion of its staff over the
course of the year, deliberately avoiding the appearance of a battleship heading
into the fight, as her organization seemed on her entry into the 2008 Democratic
campaign. Back then, Mrs. Clinton arrived at some events in Iowa on a chartered
aircraft called the ''Hill-A-Copter'' that became a symbol for how her campaign
spent heavily in the early voting states, leaving her short of cash as the
primary contest dragged on.

But even as Mrs. Clinton attempts to set aside her celebrity and offer herself
as a fighter for ordinary voters, her finance team and the outside groups
supporting her candidacy have started collecting checks in what is expected to
be a $2.5 billion effort, dwarfing the vast majority of her would-be rivals in
both parties.

The Clinton campaign's fund-raising staff and other aides have already started
working out of a new headquarters in Brooklyn, with almost the entire team
working there on Friday.

Mrs. Clinton has fielded advice from more than 200 policy experts in formulating
her economic agenda and still has not settled on the details. Rather than
deliver a robust policy speech immediately, she intends to ease into presenting
her ideas for alleviating the growing gap between rich and poor and for
increasing wages, said several people involved in her plans. The slow pace will
allow her to continue to generate news coverage as Republican presidential
hopefuls engage in heated debates in their crowded primary field.

But the essence of Mrs. Clinton's message has become clearer and was reiterated
in the new epilogue of her memoir on Friday. ''You shouldn't have to be the
granddaughter of a president or a secretary of state to receive excellent health
care, education, enrichment, and all the support and advantages that will one
day lead to a good job and a successful life,'' she wrote.

Many factors played into the timing of Mrs. Clinton's announcement. Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida, whom Mrs. Clinton's advisers are watching closely as a
potential opponent, staked a claim on Monday as his announcement date. Mrs.
Clinton's announcement on Sunday will certainly draw attention from Mr. Rubio's
entry into the race and could well eclipse it.

Some in her campaign are betting that Democrats will applaud the show of force
against a Republican. (Others involved insisted the date was selected before Mr.
Rubio scheduled his event, but said that the juxtaposition was an added bonus.)

Mrs. Clinton's advisers are holding a conference call for her entire staff on
Saturday afternoon, according to two people briefed about it. For all the
planning that went into Sunday's event, her team has been working feverishly in
recent days, another sign of how the campaign's infrastructure has been slow to
take shape.

Follow The New York Times Politics section on Twitter and sign up for the First
Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/politics/hillary-clinton-to-announce-2016-r
un-for-president-on-sunday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York last week. She is expected to
begin her presidential campaign on social media on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%);
US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); WAGES &
SALARIES (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Tool Is Suspected in Web Attack

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH; Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  Late last month, China began flooding American websites with a
barrage of Internet traffic in an apparent effort to take out services that
allow China's Internet users to view websites otherwise blocked in the country.

Initial security reports suggested that China had crippled the services by
exploiting its own Internet filter -- known as the Great Firewall -- to redirect
overwhelming amounts of traffic to its targets. Now, researchers at the
University of California, Berkeley and the University of Toronto say China did
not use the Great Firewall after all, but rather a powerful new weapon that they
are calling the Great Cannon.

The Great Cannon, the researchers said in a report published on Friday, allows
China to intercept foreign web traffic as it flows to Chinese websites, inject
malicious code and repurpose the traffic as Beijing sees fit.

The system was used, they said, to intercept web and advertising traffic
intended for Baidu -- China's biggest search engine company -- and fire it at
GitHub, a popular site for programmers, and GreatFire.org, a nonprofit that runs
mirror images of sites that are blocked inside China. The attacks against the
services continued on Thursday, the researchers said, even though both sites
appeared to be operating normally.

But the researchers suggested that the system could have more powerful
capabilities. With a few tweaks, the Great Cannon could be used to spy on anyone
who happens to fetch content hosted on a Chinese computer, even by visiting a
non-Chinese website that contains Chinese advertising content.

''The operational deployment of the Great Cannon represents a significant
escalation in state-level information control,'' the researchers said in their
report. It is, they said, ''the normalization of widespread and public use of an
attack tool to enforce censorship.''

The researchers, who have previously done extensive research into government
surveillance tools, found that while the infrastructure and code for the attacks
bear similarities to the Great Firewall, the attacks came from a separate
device. The device has the ability not only to snoop on Internet traffic but
also to alter the traffic and direct it -- on a giant scale -- to any website,
in what is called a ''man in the middle attack.''

China's new Internet weapon, the report says, is similar to one developed and
used by the National Security Agency and its British counterpart, GCHQ, a system
outlined in classified documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former United
States intelligence contractor. The American system, according to the documents,
which were published by The Intercept, can deploy a system of programs that can
intercept web traffic on a mass scale and redirect it to a site of their
choosing. The N.S.A. and its partners appear to use the programs for targeted
surveillance, whereas China appears to use the Great Cannon for an aggressive
form of censorship.

The similarities of the programs may put American officials on awkward footing,
the researchers argue in their report. ''This precedent will make it difficult
for Western governments to credibly complain about others utilizing similar
techniques,'' they write.

Still, the Chinese program illustrates how far officials in Beijing are willing
to go to censor Internet content they deem hostile. ''This is just one part of
President Xi Jinping's push to gain tighter control over the Internet and remove
any challenges to the party,'' said James A. Lewis, a security expert at the
Center for Strategic Studies in Washington.

Beijing continues to increase its censorship efforts under its State Internet
Information Office, an office created under Mr. Xi to gain tighter control over
the Internet within the country and to clamp down on online activism. In a
series of recent statements, Lu Wei, China's Internet czar, has called on the
international community to respect China's Internet policies.

Sarah McKune, a senior legal adviser at the Citizen Lab at the Munk School of
Global Affairs at the University of Toronto and a co-author of the report, said,
''The position of the Chinese government is that efforts to serve what it views
as hostile content inside China's borders is a hostile and provocative act that
is a threat to its regime stability and ultimately its national security.''

The attacks also show the extent to which Beijing is willing to sacrifice other
national goals, even economic ones, in the name of censorship. Baidu is China's
most visited site, receiving an estimated 5.2 million unique visitors from the
United States in the last 30 days, according to Alexa, a web ranking service.

Kaiser Kuo, a Baidu spokesman, said that Baidu was not complicit in the attacks
and that its own networks had not been breached. But by sweeping up Baidu's
would-be visitors in its attacks, researchers and foreign policy experts say,
Beijing could harm the company's reputation and market share overseas.

Beijing has recently said that it plans to help Chinese Internet companies
extend their influence and customer base abroad. At a meeting of the National
People's Congress in China last month, Premier Li Keqiang announced a new
''Internet Plus'' action plan to ''encourage the healthy development of
e-commerce, industrial networks and Internet banking and to guide Internet-based
companies to increase their presence in the international market.''

Yet the latest censorship offensive could become a major problem for Chinese
companies looking to expand overseas. ''They know one of their biggest obstacles
is the perception that they are tools of the Chinese government,'' Mr. Lewis
said. ''This is going to hurt Baidu's chances of becoming a global competitor.''

Researchers say they were able to trace the Great Cannon to the same physical
Internet link as China's Great Firewall and found similarities in the source
code of the two initiatives, suggesting that the same authority that operates
the Great Firewall is also behind the new weapon.

''Because both the Great Cannon and Great Firewall are operating on the same
physical link, we believe they are both being run under the same authority,''
said Bill Marczak, a co-author of the report who is a computer science graduate
student at the University of California, Berkeley and a research fellow at
Citizen Lab.

Mr. Marczak said researchers' fear is that the state could use its new weapon to
attack Internet users, particularly dissidents, without their knowledge. If they
make a single request to a server inside China or even visit a non-Chinese
website that contains an ad from a Chinese server, the Great Cannon could infect
their web communications and those of everyone they communicate with and spy on
them.

Ultimately, researchers say, the only way for Internet users and companies to
protect themselves will be to encrypt their Internet traffic so that it cannot
be intercepted and diverted as it travels to its intended target.

''Put bluntly,'' the researchers said, ''unprotected traffic is not just an
opportunity for espionage but a potential attack vector.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/technology/china-is-said-to-use-powerful-new-w
eapon-to-censor-internet.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Shifting Middle: Articles in this series are focusing  on the
reshaping of the American  economy and its effects on the  work force and the
middle class. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); FIREWALLS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%);
INTERNET & WWW (90%); CENSORSHIP (78%); INTERNET FILTERS (78%); MALICIOUS
SOFTWARE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
(73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ESPIONAGE (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (67%);
SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (74%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%);
BEIJING, CHINA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Does Not Allow Prince Andrew's Accuser to Join Suit

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 349 words


A federal judge in Florida has ruled that a woman who claimed she was forced to
have sex with Prince Andrew, Alan M. Dershowitz and others while she was a minor
cannot make those claims in a lawsuit filed against an associate of the prince
that she had sought to join.

Judge Kenneth Marra ruled Tuesday that the accusations of sexual abuse made by
the woman in court filings -- which have attracted significant attention -- were
''immaterial and impertinent'' to her effort to join a lawsuit against Jeffrey
Epstein, a wealthy businessman who had previously pleaded guilty to soliciting
prostitution.

The woman, whose name has not been disclosed in court documents, said Mr.
Epstein had forced her, beginning at age 15, to have sex with a number of
''financially powerful people,'' including Andrew, the second son of Queen
Elizabeth, and Mr. Dershowitz, a criminal defense lawyer.

Prince Andrew and Mr. Dershowitz have repeatedly denied the accusations.

Mr. Dershowitz said he had recently located old datebooks and also possessed
telephone logs and credit card records that would establish that he had not been
in the locations that the woman had claimed.

''I'm going to continue to fight because it is not enough to clear my name
legally,'' Mr. Dershowitz said on Friday. ''I am determined to get an apology
from her and for her to admit that she made the whole thing up.''

In his ruling, Judge Marra ordered that the ''lurid'' details against the men
that were contained in the woman's motion to join the case be removed from the
court record.

The lawsuit the woman wanted to join was filed in 2008 by two other women who
claimed that federal prosecutors had failed to adequately take into
consideration their legal claims as victims when they allowed Mr. Epstein to
plead guilty to a single count of soliciting an under-age girl for prostitution.

Florida police had previously said that detectives had uncovered enough evidence
to charge Mr. Epstein with several counts of unlawful sex with minors instead of
just one.

Mr. Epstein was ultimately sentenced to 18 months in prison.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/judge-does-not-allow-prince-andrews-accuser
-to-join-suit.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); SENTENCING (78%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE
(78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%);
EVIDENCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PROSTITUTION (75%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (74%);
JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (67%)

PERSON: PRINCE ANDREW, DUKE OF YORK (91%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED
KINGDOM (79%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

G.E. Is Finally Exorcising Financial Demons From Jack Welch Era

BYLINE: By ROB COX.

Rob Cox is editor of Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and
analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 593 words


At long last, General Electric is on its way to exorcising the financial demons
of Jack Welch.

It took 14 years, a near-death experience and a flat-lined stock price, but Mr.
Welch's successor, Jeffrey R. Immelt, is now getting out of the banking business
and returning G.E. to its industrial roots. It may have taken too long, but the
timing works now on many levels.

Mr. Immelt's timing hasn't always been so good. He took over as chairman and
chief executive of G.E. on Sept. 7, 2001, and was at the helm for a financial
collapse that led GE Capital to issue government-backed debt and cost the
company its prized AAA rating.

Since 2009, Mr. Immelt has been shrinking the unit's balance sheet. On Friday,
he started hacking in dramatic fashion.

To start, the $260 billion pillar of corporate America said it would sell most
of its commercial real-estate assets to buyout shop Blackstone, Wells Fargo and
other buyers, in a collection of transactions valued at $26.5 billion.

Over the next two years, G.E. plans to refocus its financial operations
exclusively where they are directly related to benefiting its operations in
healthcare equipment, energy and aviation. That will mean shedding something
like $200 billion of assets on GE Capital's books at the end of 2014 and fully
offloading its publicly traded consumer credit arm, Synchrony Financial, to
investors in a $65 billion divestment.

It's an opportune moment to act. The 31 percent rise in Synchrony's shares since
going public in August illustrates the growing appeal of financial assets and
how lenders with large wholesale financing needs can exist on their own. What's
more, many banks in the United States are desperate for higher returns and have
loan-to-deposit ratios low enough to take on some of G.E.'s corporate loans or
its equipment, inventory or franchise finance businesses.

By the time all this contraction has been completed, in three years, G.E.
expects to derive 90 percent of its earnings from industrial operations compared
to 58 percent today. That's a G.E. more like the one that Reg Jones passed on to
Mr. Welch in 1981. The whole-hog push into finance wasn't irrational, but the
financial and regulatory arbitrage that benefited G.E. during the 1990s and
early part of this century was brought to a grinding halt by the crisis and the
greater oversight that followed.

GE Capital's designation as a systemically important financial institution put
the whole Connecticut-based conglomerate into an existential conundrum. The
regulatory overhang turned off an entire generation of portfolio managers, and
the unit's return on equity was, at 8.6 percent last year, below its cost of
capital. Before the restructuring announcement on Friday, GE stock was down
about a third since Mr. Immelt took over.

Reducing GE Capital down to less than a systemically important financial
institution size should rectify the Immelt discount in time for him to entertain
a graceful succession. Handing another $90 billion back to shareholders in
dividends, buybacks and Synchrony stock over the next couple of years, as
planned, will further lubricate Mr. Immelt's glide-path to the egress.

With aggressive investors increasingly taking on gigantic companies like Apple
and PepsiCo, Mr. Immelt's bold if overdue step should help keep him out of the
crosshairs. Even repatriating some $36 billion of cash held overseas, which will
incur a hefty tax charge, suggests the mark of a leader willing to get a move on
rather than wait for rules to change, and eager to establish his legacy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/ge-is-finally-exorcising-fin
ancial-demons-from-jack-welch-era.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS
(78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); CORPORATE
DEBT (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS
(77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS OPERATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%);
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%);
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); HEALTH CARE (66%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); SYNCHRONY FINANCIAL
(91%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); WFC
(NYSE) (91%); SYF (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES
OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES
(91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT
INSTITUTIONS (91%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (91%); JEFFREY IMMELT (78%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.E.'s Retrieval of Overseas Cash Highlights a U.S. Tax Debate

BYLINE: By DAVID GELLES and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words


General Electric is returning to its industrial origins. And some $36 billion of
its cash is coming home as well.

The conglomerate's so-called repatriation of its foreign earnings, which will
mean taking a $6 billion tax hit, is notable in an era when corporate America
has bellowed loudly for an overhaul of the tax code. It's especially notable
when the one doing the repatriating is G.E., which has been criticized for its
strategies to lower its tax bill.

Among American multinational conglomerates, the company has drawn fire over its
aggressive lobbying for tax breaks and a series of maneuvers that allow it to
keep much of its earnings in other countries.

Robert Willens, an independent corporate tax adviser, said he had spoken with
several G.E. investors on Friday who, like him, were surprised that the company
would pay such a large tax bill.

''Given G.E.'s history of tax minimization, they too are skeptical that the
company will actually be repatriating foreign earnings and incurring the U.S.
taxes that such a repatriation would engender,'' Mr. Willens said.

But General Electric said that was exactly what it intended to do. The company
expects to pay about $6 billion to the Internal Revenue Service in order to
repatriate about $36 billion in foreign earnings from the sale of GE Capital.

Paying the bill and then using the cash as part of the huge payout to
shareholders -- G.E. estimates that its actions can return $90 billion to
investors, including through a $50 billion stock buyback -- was worth the tax
bill and not worth hoping for a change in the law.

''We decided not to wait for tax reform,'' Keith S. Sherin, the chairman and
chief executive of GE Capital, said in an interview on Thursday.

For G.E., it is simply the cost of exiting a complex and highly regulated
business that has weighed on its earnings for years.

Other American companies like eBay have brought home overseas cash, but General
Electric is the largest and most prominent one so far.

Still, given the uniqueness of General Electric's situation, it appears unlikely
that its move will now inspire other companies to repatriate billions of their
own cash from overseas.

''G.E.'s repatriation decision seems to be in conjunction with the major
restructuring they are going through,'' said J. Richard Harvey Jr., a professor
at the Villanova School of Law. ''Thus, I do not believe G.E.'s actions will
encourage other companies to follow suit.''

Behind the fight is the United States tax code, which levies taxes on money that
American companies earn overseas and bring home at the standard rate of 35
percent. That stands apart from many other countries, which do not tax money
earned abroad, leading many corporate chieftains to deride the situation as
''double taxation.''

Some companies have urged the federal government to enact a tax holiday, a
temporary break that would allow them to repatriate the cash tax-free, as
Congress did in 2004. (The Democratic staff of the Senate's Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations found in 2011 that the move did little to advance
its stated purpose of increasing hiring and research spending.)

Bringing back the overseas cash, according to people briefed on G.E.'s plans who
spoke on the condition of anonymity, was a decision born of the company's
decision to sell off most of GE Capital. Much of the money held overseas was
part of GE Capital as part of a vast international lending business.

Laws passed over the last two decades have enabled companies to defer paying
taxes on those earnings, to the consternation of lawmakers and corporate
critics.

In the course of examining GE Capital's assets, G.E.'s management and advisers
ultimately decided that the cost of bringing back those overseas earnings was
less than expected. At $6 billion, the tax bill proved to be ''multiples'' less
than analysts had estimated, said one of the people briefed on the plans, who
also spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Moreover, selling off GE Capital meant that the overseas cash served a less
important world.

G.E.'s decision to pay a large tax bill, however, is less about an altruistic
impulse to replenish the government's coffers than it is a part of a broader
financial strategy.

''For public traded companies, this is all about managing expectations and
managing earnings,'' said Stephen E. Shay, a professor at Harvard Law School.
''They care about the stock price. If you manage the earnings and get people to
give you a better price earnings multiple, that's much more important than cash
tax savings.''

What is more, a one-time tax charge might ultimately be less important for the
company's finances than the reformed balance sheet it will have after a series
of complex deals to offload its finance operations

''It's a combination of taxes and how it runs through the financial statements
that really make these issues important,'' Mr. Shay said.

And more than anything, the decision to pay the tax bill now is a signal that
G.E. is not holding its breath for a change in corporate tax laws.

''This reflects both their existential despair over seeing tax reform any time
soon, and the increasing implausibility of their claims that in fact their
offshore earnings will in fact ever be put to work in new foreign investments,''
said Edward D. Kleinbard, a professor of law at the University of Southern
California.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/general-electrics-move-on-ov
erseas-cash-highlights-tax-debate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX REFORM (90%); INCOME TAX
(90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TAX RELIEF (77%); HISTORY (77%); LOBBYING (77%);
TAX CONSULTING (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MULTINATIONAL
CORPORATIONS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS
(64%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

G.E.'s Move Is Enticing to Banks, but Hard to Copy

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE.

Antony Currie is an associate editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more
independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 384 words


Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, has plotted an
escape for GE Capital from onerous regulation. He is offloading most of the
conglomerate's finance unit, which should allow it to ditch the tag imposed by
watchdogs of being a systemically important financial institution, or SIFI. Big
United States banks might fancy similar liberty, but they are more tightly
hemmed in.

GE Capital plans to shed about three-quarters of the $360 billion in assets it
had on its balance sheet at the end of 2014. That will leave the unit with no
deposits, little or no securitization inventory, a far smaller international
business and hugely reduced debt needs, including for the commercial paper that
caused so much angst during the 2008 financial crisis.

Becoming far smaller, less reliant on short-term funding and less interconnected
to the financial system domestically and internationally should mean that
Washington is virtually certain to remove the company's SIFI (pronouncded
SIH-fee) designation, which comes with onerous additional regulation.

The likes of JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America all chafe to some
extent against the extra burden, although it comes with an arguably beneficial
aura of size and safety. But they lack some of G.E.'s options. For starters,
they don't have a collection of nonfinancial businesses delivering higher
returns to fall back on. G.E.'s industrial units provide that.

A breakup is still possible for any of these banks. Analysts at Goldman Sachs
suggested this year, for example, that chopping up JPMorgan might add value,
though executives, led by its chief Jamie Dimon, argued that the costs and lost
business would outweigh the benefits.

Even if it happened, the biggest banks' main business units might still merit
SIFI designation independently. JPMorgan's investment bank, for example, has
$860 billion of assets. That's in the same ballpark as Goldman Sachs, and
similarly interconnected. JPMorgan's retail bank holds some $455 billion on its
balance sheet, making it huge in its own right.

To shed the SIFI burden, big American lenders would have to aim much closer to,
say, $44 billion Jefferies. As radical as G.E.'s shift might be, shrinking a
megabank that much would be far more so. G.E.'s path is a tough one to follow.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/ges-move-is-enticing-to-bank
s-but-hard-to-copy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS
(89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING
(76%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (74%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); SECURITIZATION (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC
(90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); JPM
(NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%);
BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE
COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210
CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES
ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (74%); JAMES DIMON (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Longtime G.E. Advisers Tapped Again for Plum Assignment

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 1099 words


James B. Lee Jr., the vice chairman and top deal maker at JPMorgan Chase,
received a call about six weeks ago. Could he meet with General Electric's top
management?

Both he and Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, went to meet with Jeffrey
R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive; Jeffrey S. Bornstein, its chief financial
officer; and Keith S. Sherin, the chief executive of GE Capital, its finance
arm.

Along with Centerview Partners, they received a bombshell assignment: the
divestiture of most of GE Capital. And it would be a sprint.

The ambitious campaign will be led primarily by only two firms, both in line to
claim large fees and great prestige. Both JPMorgan and Centerview have been
longtime G.E. advisers, having played prominent roles on some of its biggest
deals.

Shrinking GE Capital is no small task. G.E. has said that it plans to reduce the
size of the lender, one of the biggest in the country, to roughly $90 billion in
assets from the $363 billion it was valued at last year.

The campaign will include a huge number of business sales, including prime
businesses like GE Capital's enormous commercial lending arm, one of the largest
servicers for middle-market companies. Soon after G.E. announced its plan on
Friday, calls from prospective bidders eager to put their names in for
particular assets flooded the advisers' phones.

The idea of selling parts of the lender is nothing new. Mr. Immelt has said for
years that shrinking his company's financial arm was a priority. Various plans
have existed under various code names for at least the last three years,
according to people briefed on the process. (What was announced on Friday was
given the project name ''Hubble,'' these people added.)

For JPMorgan, which was named global coordinator for the disposition plan, the
shrinking of GE Capital will be the latest in a long string of assignments. It
advised G.E. on its sale of NBC Universal to Comcast, and last year it helped
lead the spinoff of GE Capital's retail finance arm, now known as Synchrony
Financial. Mr. Lee led the bank's team, which eventually swelled to about 50
bankers.

And for Centerview, a boutique investment bank whose client list includes big
names like 21st Century Fox and PepsiCo, the GE Capital plan will be another
plum assignment. Leading the charge for the firm was one of its co-founders,
Blair Effron, who advised on G.E.'s $13 billion takeover of the energy assets of
the French conglomerate Alstom.

Both JPMorgan and Centerview had already been performing well in the rankings of
deal advisers, having advised on some of the biggest deals of the year. JPMorgan
now ranks third on Thomson Reuters' league tables for the year to date, while
Centerview ranks sixth, above larger rivals like Credit Suisse and Citigroup.

No single event served as a catalyst for G.E.'s move, according to the people
briefed on the process. Instead, the company had worked to shore up its mainstay
businesses -- manufacturing things as varied as jet engines and complex medical
devices -- which now grow at a steady clip. But executives felt that such work,
as well as previous asset sales that included the once-iconic appliances unit,
were lost on the market.

Moreover, the company felt increasingly constrained by its financial arm, which
like other lenders has suffered from far less growth than in the past.
Significantly increasing its earnings meant expanding GE Capital's balance sheet
and taking on more risk, as well as asking the industrial businesses to keep
bolstering their performance.

And the company was ready to take advantage of a way to shed its designation as
a ''systemically important financial institution'' -- the official name for a
lender deemed by the government as too big to fail. The so-called SIFI status
imposes additional restrictions and requirements upon companies, potentially
limiting their earnings growth.

But selling off GE Capital became enticing as what one person involved in the
process called an ''off-ramp,'' bolstering G.E.'s argument to financial
regulators that it should lose the SIFI classification.

Over the years, Mr. Immelt and his board held off pursuing what they thought
would have been a ''fire sale'' of the financial businesses. But with potential
buyers constantly popping up with reasonable offers, as well as improvements in
the main business and the possibility of removing the SIFI designation, now was
the time to move.

G.E. and the banks quickly went to work on the Hubble project by the middle of
February. The conglomerate's executives -- ''the two Jeffs,'' Mr. Sherin and
Daniel Janki, the treasurer of G.E. and GE Capital -- led the process, including
daily meetings that stretched for hours, the people briefed on the matter said.

''They're a SWAT team,'' one of these people said.

Helping make the process easier was both the huge amount of work that G.E. had
put into various versions of a GE Capital divestiture and its detailed
information on all its operations spread out across 175 countries.

With G.E.'s mind made up, one of the first potential deals that came up was the
disposal of most of the finance arm's real estate holdings. The most obvious
buyer was the Blackstone Group, one of the biggest buyers of properties on Wall
Street.

The deal team, which included Bank of America and Kimberlite Advisors, called
the head of Blackstone's team, Jonathan D. Gray, and offered him the opportunity
to buy exclusively, as long as he was willing to move fast and pay up.

''We told him, 'If you can hit this bid on an exclusive basis, it's yours,'''
Mr. Sherin told DealBook on Friday.

Mr. Gray responded quickly, setting up what became the $26.5 billion worth of
real estate deals announced on Friday.

More sales will come. While G.E. has allowed itself two years to carry out the
plan, the company's executives and advisers anticipate that a huge portion of
the deals -- particularly for assets in the United States -- will be finished by
sometime next year.

The company is also confident that subsequent sales will generate attractively
priced offers. Even before Friday, according to the people briefed on the
disposal process, the biggest private equity firms around the world have asked
whether the GE Capital division that lends to leveraged buyouts would ever come
up for sale.

Other potential buyers include financial institutions around the world,
including big American lenders and Canadian, European and Japanese banks eager
to snap up businesses as they go up for auction.

''It'll be a food fight,'' one of the people briefed on the process said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/dealbook/longtime-ge-advisers-tapped-
again-for-plum-assignment.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ELECTRICITY
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LEAGUE TABLES (78%); DIVESTITURES (75%);
COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); RETAILERS (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); SYNCHRONY
FINANCIAL (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (52%); PEPSICO
INC (51%); ALSTOM SA (51%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); JPM
(NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); SYF (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE)
(52%); PEP (NYSE) (51%); ALO (PAR) (51%); TRI (TSX) (50%); TRI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES
OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE
COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS524126
DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO
MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%);
NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN
CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED
WATER (51%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS482111
LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION &
CONTROL (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN
TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%);
NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7375
INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%); JEFFREY IMMELT (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe; France: India Agrees to Buy 36 Rafale Fighter Jets

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 137 words


Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India announced Friday during a state visit to
France that his military would buy 36 French fighter jets as it seeks to
modernize its air force, even as the two countries continue to work on a stalled
larger deal. The sale, which is expected to be completed in the coming weeks, is
the second to a foreign country for the French manufacturer of the Rafale jets,
Dassault Aviation. In February, Egypt purchased 24. A French Defense Ministry
official said that the latest deal, which will send completed jets to India, was
not part of the negotiations for a separate Indian order for 126 Rafale jets
that have been underway since 2012. Those talks remain stalled over questions
about the joint development of the jets, some of which would be built in India,
and the transfer of technologies.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/europe/france-india-agrees-to-buy-36-raf
ale-fighter-jets.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); DEFENSE
DEPARTMENTS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%)

COMPANY: DASSAULT AVIATION SA (57%)

TICKER: AM (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: NARENDRA MODI (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); INDIA (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Americas; Brazil: 3 Ex-Lawmakers Arrested in Corruption Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 145 words


The federal police on Friday arrested three former lawmakers who are suspected
of involvement in a corruption scheme at the state-run oil giant Petrobras. They
are the first politicians to be arrested in the scandal. Prosecutors have said
the scheme involved payments of at least $800 million in bribes and other funds
by big construction and engineering companies in return for inflated contracts
with Petrobras. Part of that money, prosecutors say, went to the governing
Workers Party and other parties. The three politicians -- André Vargas of the
Workers Party, Luiz Argôlo of the Solidarity Party and Pedro Correa of the
Progressive Party -- are accused of being involved with black-market money
dealers who in plea bargain deals have said they helped move the money along
with former top Petrobras executives who acknowledged taking hundreds of
millions in bribes.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/americas/brazil-3-ex-lawmakers-arrested-
in-corruption-case.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); CORRUPTION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BRIBERY
(90%); SCANDALS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); PLEA
AGREEMENTS (71%); ENGINEERING (55%)

COMPANY: PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (91%)

TICKER: PETR3 (BOVESPA) (91%); PBR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS
DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%);
SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing: Yahoo Shuffles Its Leadership Team

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words


Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive, announced a major reorganization of the
company's product teams on Friday, promoting the head of one recently acquired
company and effectively demoting the chief of another.

Under the new structure, Simon Khalaf, the Internet company's data-spouting
prophet of mobile, will become a senior vice president and oversee many of the
company's consumer-facing products, including the Yahoo home page, its portals
devoted to themes like sports and movies, and related Yahoo apps.

Mr. Khalaf  joined Yahoo in July when it bought his mobile analytics company,
Flurry, for about $300 million. Flurry, which offers data and advertising
services to mobile app developers, has since become the core of Yahoo's efforts
to compete with Google, Facebook and Twitter to persuade developers to use its
tools. Mr. Khalaf, a rapid-fire speaker with a knack for presenting complex
information simply and clearly, has become a crucial Yahoo ambassador to the
outside world and played a starring role at Yahoo's recent mobile developer
conference.

As part of the reorganization, the blogging platform Tumblr and its chief
executive, David Karp, will report to Mr. Khalaf, according to an internal
announcement made at Yahoo Friday morning.

Although Mr. Karp will remain part of the executive team, he will no longer
report directly to Ms. Mayer, which he has done since he sold Tumblr to Yahoo
for $1.1 billion in 2013. The move reflects Tumblr's struggles to broaden its
appeal beyond its core audience of of artists, teenagers and 20somethings
looking for a platform to express themselves. Tumblr has served as the
technology behind Yahoo's digital magazines, but it has faced challenges in
luring advertising. Tumblr's top ad executive, Lee Brown, recently left the
company and joined BuzzFeed after Yahoo integrated Tumblr's ad sales with
Yahoo's.

Mike Kerns, the senior vice president who previously oversaw Yahoo's home page
and verticals, is leaving the company to pursue entrepreneurial opportunities,
the company said in its internal memo. In a goodbye tweet, Mr. Kerns said that
in his five years at the company, he had ''learned a lot and met/worked with
great people.  Made a positive impact and can't wait to get to what's next.''

Two other executives are also taking on different roles.

Adam Cahan, who spearheaded Ms. Mayer's crash effort to remake Yahoo as a mobile
contender, will now oversee the company's video efforts. Like other big Internet
companies, Yahoo sees how eager mobile users are to watch video, and it is
trying to figure out how to serve those desires and make money from them. Mr.
Cahan, a trusted lieutenant to Ms. Mayer, will also focus on user interface and
product design, a topic that Ms. Mayer takes special interest in.

Jeff Bonforte, who leads the company's e-mail and messaging products, will now
supervise mobile apps in those areas. He will also oversee Flickr, the company's
photo-sharing service.

A Yahoo spokeswoman declined to comment on any specific management changes but
said in a statement, ''As we continue to look at ways to accelerate our growth,
aligning our product teams to enable tighter collaboration is critical to drive
innovation and deliver consistent and enjoyable user experiences across all
Yahoo products. In order to achieve that alignment, we made a number of
organizational shifts to emphasize our focus on the growth businesses of
mobile, social, native and video (aka ''Mavens'').''

The tech news site The Information first reported many of the changes in an
article this week.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/marissa-mayer-shuffles-yahoo-leadership
-team/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%);
ACQUISITIONS (78%); WEBSITES & PORTALS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%);
MOBILE APPLICATIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); FILM (75%); MAGAZINE
ADVERTISING (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ARTISTS
& PERFORMERS (64%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (90%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (91%); DAVID KARP (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Review Complaint About Gulf Air Carriers

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 154 words


The Obama administration said on Friday that it would review claims that
Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways received large subsidies from their
governments that distorted the global aviation market. The top three United
States airlines -- Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and American Airlines --
have asserted recently that their Gulf-based rivals had received more than $42
billion in state aid. They claim the subsidies allowed the Gulf carriers to
compete unfairly by buying newer planes and offering better service and
amenities. The United States carriers asked the government to freeze any new
flights from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, where the airlines are based,
and review open-skies agreements that the United States had signed with the two
countries. The Commerce, State and Transportation Departments said in a
statement that they took the allegations seriously and would seek public
comments.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/us-to-review-complaint-about-gulf-air
-carriers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%);
AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: QATAR AIRWAYS (93%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC
(58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED
PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Mexico: Governor Signs Bill on Civil Forfeiture

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 239 words


Gov. Susana Martinez signed a bill Friday virtually ending the practice of civil
forfeiture, making the state a leader in sharply restricting a contentious
policy that critics say deprives citizens of due process and gives law
enforcement a profit motive. ''This is landmark legislation to protect people's
property and due process rights,'' said Lee McGrath, a lawyer with the Institute
for Justice, a libertarian civil rights group that has long campaigned against
the practice. The law preserves criminal forfeiture, in which assets tied to
crime can be taken if the owner is convicted. In a letter to lawmakers, Governor
Martinez said the law improved constitutional protections even as she said that
forfeiture funds had helped ''in keeping our communities safe and in protecting
our officers from harm.'' Only one other state, North Carolina, does not permit
civil forfeiture, but law enforcement officials there can still profit from
forfeitures by cooperating with federal agents, Mr. McGrath said. The New Mexico
law seeks to end such profit-sharing in cases where the assets are valued at
less than $50,000. Civil forfeiture, in which law enforcement officials can take
possession of property they believe is tied to criminal activity without filing
charges or winning a conviction, has come under fire as abuses have been widely
chronicled in the news media and the federal government has taken steps to curb
the process.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/new-mexico-governor-signs-bill-on-civil-for
feiture.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSET FORFEITURE (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); DUE PROCESS (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

PERSON: SUSANA MARTINEZ (89%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reappropriating the Rape Joke to Taunt Society and Stand-Up

BYLINE: By ELISE CZAJKOWSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words


''Of course it's a gimmick!'' Adrienne Truscott said emphatically. ''It's also a
really relevant, loaded, successful gimmick.''

The performance artist was talking about her stand-up show, ''Adrienne
Truscott's Asking for It,'' which dives deep into the world of rape jokes and
the controversies they incite, and about why she performs naked from the waist
down.

The show, which plays on Saturday and on April 18 at Joe's Pub at the Public
Theater, was already in the development phase when the comedian Daniel Tosh
flippantly responded to a heckler at a show who disliked his jokes about rape.
His comment -- ''Wouldn't it be funny if that girl got raped by, like, five guys
right now?'' -- set off a firestorm in the comedy scene about whether rape was
an appropriate stand-up topic or whether this was a line that shouldn't be
crossed.

In the hourlong show and in conversation, Ms. Truscott comes down firmly against
any sort of censorship: she's not trying to stifle comedians' freedom of speech,
she said in an interview at a bar in Midtown. Instead, she is reappropriating
the rape joke as a feminist tool, challenging entrenched cultural attitudes
surrounding rape and parts of the stand-up scene that have failed to move beyond
a misogynistic past.

The punch lines of her jokes are never the victims themselves. Instead she is
aiming at the targets like the onstage antics of Mr. Tosh and the sexual assault
accusations leveled against Bill Cosby, as well as politicians like Todd Akin,
who made an infamous comment about ''legitimate rape.'' In character as a ditsy,
boozy stand-up in a bright blond wig, a cropped denim jacket, teetering high
heels and nothing else, she wanders into the audience while swigging cans of
beer. The idea is to confront the old notion that a woman who drinks too much or
dresses too provocatively is bringing sexual assault on herself: If that were
the case, she is saying, shouldn't she be raped every time she performs the
show?

''The fact that I'm not 'naked naked' is also relevant,'' she said. ''And I
would never have done this show naked. Then, there are layers of art history, of
the nude, the naked women. But I wear a jacket and shoes, which is the dumbest
outfit ever. It's also the most explicitly asking-for-it outfit ever.''

After more than a decade as part of the vaudeville duo the Wau Wau Sisters, Ms.
Truscott made her stand-up debut with the show, a quick leap considering that
comics generally work for years before trying a full 60 minutes. She took
''Asking for It'' (which includes a longer, not family-friendly subtitle) to the
Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 2013 and hit a nerve, winning multiple awards and
earning rave reviews.

''It's so exhilarating to see the ugliness of rape discourse taken on, and
bested, not with humorlessness or censoriousness, but with firecracker wit,
sophistication and luminous humanity,'' The Guardian raved when the show
transferred to London last year.

She continued performing it in Britain and Australia, though she says she never
anticipated that she would still be doing it 18 months after its debut. ''To my
delight and horror, it remains relevant,'' she said.

And she knows how strongly even the word rape affects people, which can make it
difficult for them to consider the artistic value of her work. ''In the moment,
because the combination of comedy and rape is so startling, they can't imagine
anything except the worst,'' she said.

But, she added, she didn't fully expect the conversations the show would prompt.
She finds herself constantly talking with audience members ''who still are
offended by my material because they're triggered, and then I find myself, in
some ways, ironically in the same position that Daniel Tosh was in when he made
a joke,'' she said. ''But I've come at it from a very different angle, with a
different intent.''

Shanta Thake, the director of Joe's Pub, said she was drawn to performers like
Ms. Truscott who have a transgressive side and ''are able to open up new
conversations and be funny in a way that's really uncomfortable.''

''Asking for It'' played at Joe's Pub once before, in 2013, when Ms. Truscott
and Ms. Thake first discussed the possible incongruity of serving dinner during
the performance, which they ultimately decided they could make work.

''She was like, 'Eh whatever, it's fine,' '' Ms. Thake said. '' 'People can eat
their calamari while I talk about rape.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/in-asking-for-it-adrienne-truscott-reappr
opriates-the-rape-joke.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The performance artist Adrienne Truscott, whose show ''Asking
for It'' is coming to Joe's Pub. (C1)
 Adrienne Truscott says her goal is to turn the tables on misogynistic cultural
attitudes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SEX
OFFENSES (89%); THEATER (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); FREEDOM
OF SPEECH (73%); ART HISTORY (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S
RIGHTS (68%); CENSORSHIP (66%); HISTORY (64%)

PERSON: BILL COSBY (79%); W TODD AKIN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Children's Story by Queen Victoria

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words


Queen Victoria was one of the most notable graphomaniacs of the 19th century,
penning an estimated 60 million words of diaries and letters over her lifetime.

But scholars and amateur Victoriaphiles alike will soon have a less daunting
keyhole into the royal mind to peep through: a whimsical children's story,
written by the future monarch when she was still a child herself.

''The Adventures of Alice Laselles, by Alexandrina Victoria, Aged 10 and ¾''
will be published in June by the Royal Collection Trust, which oversees roughly
a million objects held in some 13 current and former British royal residences.
The manuscript -- the earliest of Victoria's works to be published, according to
a release  -- was written in a red composition notebook bearing the somewhat
awkward dedication ''To my dear Mamma, this my first attempt at composition is
affectionately and dutifully inscribed by her affectionate daughter, Victoria.''

The story echoes standard melodramatic children's plots of the era. After her
father remarries,  the 12-year-old Alice is reluctantly shipped off to Mrs.
Dunscombe's school for girls, where she falls in with characters including the
clever daughter of a London banker, a motherless girl whose father has gone off
to India and a ''poor little French orphan'' who has lost an eye to smallpox.
Things reach a climax when Alice is wrongly accused of smuggling a cat onto the
premises, but she ultimately emerges triumphant as ''one of the best learners in
the school.''

Victoria herself had a lonely childhood at Kensington Palace, mixing with few
other children. Her education was supervised by her German governess, Louise
Lehzen, with whom she made a set of hand-colored paper dolls used to illustrate
the book.

''The fact that this is a children's story written by a real princess as a child
makes it absolute gold,'' Jacky Collis Harvey, the publisher of the Royal
Collection Trust, said in an interview. ''Together with the paper dolls, it
really brings all aspects of her imaginative life together.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/08/the-adventures-of-alice-laselles-st
ory-by-10-year-old-queen-victoria-to-be-published/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROYAL COLLECTION TRUST/ HER MAJESTY QUEEN
ELIZABETH II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%);
ORPHANS (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SINGLE SEX EDUCATION (66%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Early Baroque, Inventing What Was Left Unsaid

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words


L'Arpeggiata, a superb Paris early-music ensemble with a quirky sensibility,
opened Carnegie Hall's groundbreaking 25-day festival Before Bach this week with
concerts in Zankel Hall focusing on Cavalli and Purcell. But there were also
unexpected cameo appearances by old masters of another sort: Led Zeppelin and
Leonard Cohen.

Led Zeppelin sneaked in deftly on Tuesday evening, with a lick from ''Stairway
to Heaven'' as part of an improvisation by L'Arpeggiata's double bassist, Boris
Schmidt. But Mr. Cohen's ''Hallellujah'' appeared in all its glory, as an encore
on Wednesday.

In some ways, L'Arpeggiata represents the state of the art in early-music
practice today. During a period of experimentation in the 1950s and '60s,
centering largely on very early music of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance,
the need for conjecture to fill out the barest of sources was recognized and
reveled in by the likes of Noah Greenberg. When Baroque music came to the
forefront in the 1970s, with ostensibly complete performing materials more
readily available, a certain literalism set in. Scores that had often been
hastily and sketchily produced were widely considered sufficient, definitive,
even sacrosanct.

The most compelling performers today have come to realize how much was left
unsaid by composers in scores prepared on the run for use by performing
colleagues who were, if not immediately at hand, at least immersed in the style
of the period and locale. These performers see conjecture not as a worrisome
chore but as an opportunity; improvisation as a matter of course; invention as a
necessity.

L'Arpeggiata showed those traits in abundance in a delightful program on
Tuesday, ''L'Amore Innamorato: Arias by Francesco Cavalli,'' picking up where it
had left off in its Carnegie Perspectives residency at Zankel Hall three years
ago. Nuria Rial, a splendid Spanish soprano, sang numbers from operas including
''Calisto,'' ''Didone'' and ''Ormindo'' beautifully, and the ensemble filled out
the 75-minute program with instrumental ditties by Cavalli and others.

The selections tended toward works with variations above repeating bass figures,
which come as catnip to these players, inviting, as they do, the extemporization
of new variations. Such forms are widespread in the Italian Baroque literature,
and the piece the ensemble chose for both programs was a ciaccona (chaconne, an
evolving dance) not by Cavalli but by Maurizio Cazzati.

Cavalli's operas have been gaining fitful exposure in recent years, with
''Giasone'' heard in New York in 2011 and  ''Eliogabalo'' in 2013, and
''Veremonda, l'Amazzone di Aragona'' about to appear at the Spoleto Festival
U.S.A. in Charleston, S.C. Still, his music is not well known, and it was good
to hear these delicious samples in something like their original form.

Wednesday's program, ''Music for a While: Improvisations on Henry Purcell,'' was
rather different. Purcell's music is more familiar, or at least most of the
numbers here were. So L'Arpeggiata could perhaps be forgiven for taking a looser
approach to the music (though not forgiven by one listener, who stalked out,
shouting a protest, during the opening number, actually not Purcell but that
reused Cazzati ciaccona).

Avid fan as I am of L'Arpeggiata, even I cringed at a number of the jazzy
Purcell arrangements. Always sophisticated and pointedly anachronistic but often
New Age-y and toothless, they robbed Purcell's songs of their essential
simplicity.

Nowhere was that deficit more painful than in Dido's lament, ''When I am laid in
earth,'' from ''Dido and Aeneas.'' Ms. Rial's lovely rendering of the text was
followed by a dog-wagging coda with virtually all the instrumentalists taking
turns, ultimately reducing the great, soulful aria to the level of a lounge
ballad.

Ms. Rial shared the vocal numbers in this 90-minute program with the male alto
Vincenzo Capezzuto, and alas, I -- alone, to judge from the audience response --
couldn't develop a taste for his boyish, bodiless sound. Also a dancer, he
displayed fancy footwork in an encore, a pizzica (traditional dance).

Even where you might have wished to hear less from the instrumentalists, you had
to salute their finesse and bravura. Christina Pluhar, L'Arpeggiata's artistic
director, played theorbo throughout, giving a wonderful, firm basis to the
sound.

Doron Sherwin was sensational, as always, on the cornetto, an ungainly wooden
forerunner of the trumpet and an unlikely vehicle for such consummate
virtuosity. Veronika Skuplik was his excellent partner on violin. David Mayoral
was fine on percussion, and Gianluigi Trovesi on clarinet.

L'Arpeggiata's quest to add appropriate complexity and texture to music left
bare-bones by composers is most often admirable and scintillating, as in the
Cavalli. But, as in the Purcell, it risks at times giving short shrift to the
virtue of simplicity.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/music/review-larpeggiata-opens-before-bac
h-festival-at-carnegie-hall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: L'Arpeggiata: Nuria Rial singing with this Paris early-music
ensemble in ''L'Amore Innamorato: Arias by Francesco Cavalli,'' at Carnegie Hall
as part of the Before Bach festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
FESTIVALS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (91%)

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Say Hey! A Milestone Nears for Rodriguez, and Possibly a Dispute

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 872 words


Although Alex Rodriguez's return to baseball has been peaceful to date, an
unresolved matter could threaten the delicate détente between him and the
Yankees. Rodriguez hit his first home run of the season on Thursday, and so
begins the countdown to what could soon become a contentious milestone.

Thursday's home run was the 655th of Rodriguez's career and left him just five
away from tying Willie Mays for fourth on the career list. For the last eight
years, Rodriguez has been expecting a $6 million payment when he hit that 660th
home run, based on a marketing deal arranged at the end of 2007, when he signed
a 10-year, $275 million contract with the team.

If Rodriguez's career had evolved free of controversy, he might already have
received the bonus without any fuss, with still more bonuses expected to follow.
But in the post-suspension life of Rodriguez, the Yankees say they do not owe
him the money and do not intend to pay it. They gave that message to Rodriguez
and his lawyer, James Sharp, in a Feb. 10 meeting at Yankee Stadium. According
to two baseball officials with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because they were not authorized to speak publicly about it, the
team's stance has not changed.

Therefore, barring some kind of a negotiated deal, which is possible in the
amicable climate that now exists between Rodriguez and the Yankees, the matter
could be headed for an arbitration hearing. But the last hearing that Rodriguez
was involved in was an embarrassment for baseball, and both sides may want to
avoid a repeat.

Yankees officials declined to comment on the current situation. Rodriguez,
speaking after he took extra fielding practice at third base before Friday's
game against Boston, said the issue was not on his mind.

''It's family business,'' he said. ''It will take care of itself. My only focus
is what goes on between the lines.''

Before spring training began, there was no certainty that Rodriguez would hit
any home runs this season after his long absence from the game. But he played
well in Florida, and after his home run on Thursday, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi
batted him third in Friday's game, a sign of Girardi's current confidence in
him. It would now seem to be just a matter of time before Rodriguez reaches 660.

Theoretically, when he does and the Yankees decline to pay him, Rodriguez could
file a grievance with the players' union. The matter would then go before an
arbitrator in a hearing either during the season or after it.

The union would pursue Rodriguez's case, and Major League Baseball would be
obliged to defend the Yankees. But Major League Baseball could also seek a
middle ground to satisfy all parties. It presumably has no interest in reliving
the contentious hearing in 2013 in which Rodriguez appealed an initial 211-game
drug suspension, which was later reduced to one season.

One of those 2013 participants was Rob Manfred, who was then at war with
Rodriguez as the deputy commissioner in charge of ridding the sport of
performance-enhancing drugs. But Manfred, in his new role as commissioner, has
welcomed Rodriguez back to baseball, and he could push for a settlement. A deal
might even include a substantial donation to charity, which would be hard for
either side to reject.

Rodriguez's bonus options were dreamed up in what feels like a different
lifetime. Rodriguez had put together a standout 2007 season that would lead to
his second Most Valuable Player Award as a Yankee, and it seemed plausible that
he might end up becoming the sport's career home run king. At that point, he had
not been linked to the use of performance enhancers.

He had also, at the conclusion of the 2007 World Series, opted out of his
existing deal with the Yankees. After some hesitation, the team gave him his new
one, which included a separate agreement in which Rodriguez could receive up to
$30 million in additional bonuses. The $30 million would be broken down into
five $6 million awards for landmark home runs -- first for tying Mays, then for
tying Babe Ruth (714) and Hank Aaron (755) and, finally, for tying and
surpassing Barry Bonds (762). The Yankees would also have to pay 100 percent
luxury tax on the payments, meaning the bonus for 660 would actually cost them
$12 million.

Because performance bonuses are not permitted under baseball's contract rules,
they were made into a marketing deal, a novel approach. The Yankees would market
the milestone homers as historic landmarks, selling T-shirts, videos and other
mementos. But in the wake of Rodriguez's repeated drug troubles, the Yankees
feel it would be a farce to try that approach after whatever milestones he does
reach.

''A-Rod is pretty unmarketable,'' said Bob Dorfman, a sports marketing expert at
Baker Street Advertising. ''He's been getting a pretty decent reception at
Yankee Stadium, which kind of surprises me. But I don't see any opportunity to
market him based on any kind of home run history.''

Rodriguez could argue that the bonus payments were for the milestones
themselves, regardless of whether the Yankees chose to market them. There is no
telling how an arbitrator might rule, but if the sides agree to settle, it would
not get that far.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/baseball/for-alex-rodriguez-a-milestone
-looms-and-perhaps-a-dispute.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Rodriguez singling Friday night. He hit the 655th home run
of his career on Thursday, five short of Willie Mays's total. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (86%); SPORTS
INSTRUCTION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (69%);
LAWYERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (93%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SPIRA, JOEL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 93 words


SPIRA--Joel. Olshan Frome Wolosky LLP through attorneys Lawrence N Friedland,
Warren R Gleicher and Samuel P Ross deeply mourn the loss of esteemed client
Joel Spira who died on April 8, 2015 at age 88 and sends heartfelt condolences
to his family. Joel had the unique ability to be a legendary leader in the
lighting industry, holder of innumerable significant patents in this industry,
founder of Lutron Electronics Co., Inc. and at the same time to be humble and
considerate of others. Joel was a gentleman of the highest order and will be
greatly missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (53%)

COMPANY: OLSHAN FROME WOLOSKY LLP (91%); LUTRON ELECTRONICS CO INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%);
NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3625 RELAYS &
INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DEVINE, W. JOHN JR.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 627 words


DEVINE--W. John Jr.,W. John Devine Jr, went to his heavenly home on February 17,
2014 following a year long battle with leukemia that he came close to beating
after extensive chemo treatments. John's Celebration of Life will be held in the
San Diego, CA area on Saturday April 25th, prior to what would be his 75th
birthday. Anyone who knew John well and is interested in attending, please
contact wjohndevinecol@gmail.com for more details.

John was preceded in death by his father William John (Jack) Devine Sr., mother
Rita Marie Kiernan Devine and former wife Sara (Tabby) Tyler (Devine). John was
the firstborn son, born in Brooklyn, NY on April 27th, 1940. He attended St.
Anselm's Priory (now Abbey) High School in D.C. and Catholic University and the
University of Maryland. In 1958, John joined his parents in the Chevy Chase
Capers Show in Chevy Chase, MD where he did an amazing unforgettable performance
gyrating and back bending with a guitar in his hands during an Elvis
impersonation! John had a sense of humor like none other. His stories were spun
so that they were different every time and they were funny! Johnny had a warm
heart, genius mind and genuine generous giving personality. All in all, John
will be remembered for his unique qualities that made life worth living! John
could sit at a piano and play Exodus, without ever having a lesson in his life.
John served in the US Army from 1963 to 1965. His gift of encouraging and
entrusting those he worked with while delegating in a fun-loving way, gave John
friends through work as well as casual and formal events, especially bridge and
golf tournaments. John was a genius with numbers, math of any kind and used his
knowledge in a multitude of areas throughout his education, army service,
opening Toys R Us stores as Executive Vice President and COO, hiring and with
wisdom, found funny experiences that he related along his life's way! John
joined Toys R Us in 1966 and helped grow the company from four stores to over
200 and from $10 million to over $1 billion in sales. He opened their second
market in Los Angeles in 1968. In 1972 he was promoted to Executive V.P. and COO
and started their international division in 1982. He retired in 1983 to the
Dominican Republic. In 1991, John became Chairman of Child World. He moved to
San Diego in 1996, when he bought Auto Parts Club, and served as Chairman and
CEO. John was a world class bridge player including being three-time National
Bridge Champion. He began playing bridge with his brother Brian as teenagers by
playing "honeymoon bridge." They later ventured out to tournaments and were
known as "The Smith Bros.", because of their heavy beards - Jade Barrett recalls
playing against them. John owned a bridge club in Tenafly, NJ in the 1980s. John
won the Jacoby Open Swiss in 1985 playing with Roger Bates, John Mohan, and Alan
Sontag. The same team placed second in the Mitchell BAM in 1985. They also won
the Jacoby Open Swiss again in 1987 with the addition of Eddie Kantar. John was
also an outstanding golfer including being a three-time Club Champion at the
Knickerbocker Country Club in New Jersey and Sr. Club Champion and two-time
winner of the Lomas Cup at Lomas Santa Fe Country Club in Solana Beach, CA. John
is survived by his beloved fiance, Jan Gallagher, his two sons, Jack and Liam,
and his two daughters, Tyler and Juliana. He is also survived by his two
brothers, Brian and Terry and two sisters Rita Marie Grace and Ann Burns, and
his three grandsons, Walker, Miles, and Dominic. He also is survived by his
ex-wife Karin Stella Devine. John's Celebration of Life will be held in San
Diego, CA on Saturday April 25th, 2015. For all who knew John, please send
photos and stories to: wjohndevinecol@gmail.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEUKEMIA (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
CARD GAMES (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); EXECUTIVE
MOVES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); CATHOLICS &
CATHOLICISM (68%); ARMIES (67%); US ARMY (64%); GOLF (63%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS
(63%)

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME
STORES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN M DEVINE (89%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA
(79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 Are Found Dead at a House in Queens; Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Is Suspected

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and NATE SCHWEBER; Alain Delaquérière contributed research

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words


A veteran New York police supervisor who went to check on his parents at their
home in Queens on Friday found the couple, their tenant and her friend dead in
what the authorities said they believed was a case of carbon monoxide poisoning.

Officials said the victims -- Jerry Hugel, 83, and his wife, Marie, 80, as well
as their tenant, Gloria Greco, 70, and Walter Von Thadden, 76 -- were all
declared dead at the scene.

Investigators were focusing on whether a car left running in the garage on the
lower level of the Hugels' two-story brick-and-stone house was the source of the
carbon monoxide. The authorities said they believed the deaths were accidental
and not the result of a crime or suicide.

The Hugels were active in the German-American community in Queens. One city
official said Mr. Hugel was a well-known beer salesman.

''They are wonderful people,'' said Elizabeth Plavnicky, 54, who, like the
couple, belonged to a local Bavarian dance group, the GTEV Schlierachtaler
Stamm, which Mr. Hugel led for many years. ''I'm just speechless.''

Nelson Rocha, a family friend, said the Hugels had immigrated from Germany and
took delight in dancing often at a local restaurant, Plattduetsche Park, dressed
in traditional German clothing. ''He was so proud of his heritage,'' Mr. Rocha
said. ''He didn't mind that he was walking down the street in his lederhosen.''

Matthew Buck, a manager at the restaurant, confirmed that the couple were
regulars there. ''They're a part of our family,'' Mr. Buck said. ''It's a great
loss.''

Mr. Rocha said Mr. Hugel also played in a German band and decorated his garage
with German flags and banners.

Mr. Hugel and his wife had five children, and the couple had just celebrated 60
years of marriage, Mr. Rocha said. In a posting on his Facebook page last month,
Mr. Hugel wrote: ''Many, many thanks to all my friends remembering me for my
83rd birthday. I was very thrilled and had a beer on you.''

The bodies were discovered just after 3 p.m., when Robert Hugel, a police
sergeant who is assigned to the Technical Assistance and Response Unit, and has
worked for the department for over 30 years, came to the home while off duty to
check on his parents, officials said.

''He could not get in touch with his parents, so he went over there to the
house'' one police official said. ''It does not appear to be criminal. It
appears to be accidental at this point. It's a shame.''

The authorities said suicide also appeared unlikely. ''It just doesn't make
sense,'' the police official said.

The preliminary focus of the investigation was on the running car parked in the
garage, which was accessible through a sloping driveway, officials said.

Frank Dwyer, a spokesman for the New York Fire Department, said the first call
came in at 3:12 p.m., for a ''hazardous materials'' episode at the home on 86th
Avenue near 260th Street, in the Floral Park neighborhood of eastern Queens.

Firefighters and paramedics responded to the address and discovered the victims.
No one was transported to a hospital, officials said.

Jerry Hugel's body was discovered next to the running car in the garage, and his
wife was found in a kitchen area in the basement of the house, an official said.
Ms. Greco was discovered upstairs in the home, and her friend was discovered in
a living room on the first floor.

The deaths in Queens came four days after the deaths of a father and his seven
young children in a house in southern Maryland in which carbon monoxide was
cited as playing a role. There, officials said, Rodney Eric Todd, 36, and his
seven children, ages 6 to 16, appeared to have been overcome by gas that may
have come from a generator in the home that was found to be out of fuel.

In that case, too, the police said investigators did not suspect foul play
because the home was undisturbed when detectives arrived.

Outside the Hugels' home on Friday, Ramon Rivera, 50, a neighbor, described the
couple as patriotic people who could often be seen raising a large American flag
up a 25-foot silver pole in their front yard on the tree-lined street.

''They were always outside fixing up the place,'' he said. ''They would always
raise the flag.''

Myrna Dominicci, 60, another neighbor, said the deaths had left her shaken.

''Something like this is a wake-up call,'' she said. ''They're the nicest people
you're going to meet. I'm so sorry that this happened to them.''

Raj Patel, another neighbor, said he saw Robert Hugel weeping outside the home
just after 3 p.m. Mr. Patel said he overheard the police saying the car in the
garage was a Hyundai owned by the upstairs tenant who had turned it on with an
automatic starter on her key chain and then left it running through the night.

In a statement, Edward D. Mullins, the president of the Sergeants Benevolent
Association, the union representing the city's police sergeants, said, ''The
thoughts and prayers of the entire S.B.A. membership is with the Hugel family
during this terrible time.''

City Councilman Mark S. Weprin, who represents the area, said in a statement
that he was ''deeply saddened'' to learn of the deaths in his district ''due to
carbon monoxide poisoning.''

''It is my hope that this tragedy sheds light on the importance of having, and
maintaining, a carbon monoxide detector in all homes and apartments,'' Mr.
Weprin said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/4-dead-in-queens-home-carbon-monoxide
-poisoning-is-suspected.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The home on 86th Avenue in Floral Park, Queens, where a New
York police supervisor on Friday afternoon found his parents, their tenant and
her friend dead. Officials believe the four were killed by carbon monoxide.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
 Jerry and Marie Hugel, who died on Friday. ''They're part of  our family,'' a
manager at a local German restaurant said. (A16) MAP: The area in Queens where
at  least three of the victims lived. (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON MONOXIDE (91%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (90%); POISONINGS (90%); GAS
LEAKS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ACCIDENTAL
FATALITIES (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SUICIDE (77%); HOMICIDE
(77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING
(68%); DANCE (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Medical Panel Votes to Limit Telemedicine Practices in State

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; David Montgomery contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1120 words


Taking a stand against the rapidly expanding use of telemedicine, the Texas
Medical Board voted Friday to sharply restrict the practice in the state, siding
with organizations representing doctors over the objections of industry
representatives who said the new rules would reduce access to medical care at a
time of increasing demand.

The vote was the latest salvo in a four-year battle between the state board,
which licenses and regulates doctors, and Teladoc, a national company based in
Dallas that provides telephone or video consultations with doctors on its staff,
typically for routine problems like urinary tract infections, sore throats and
rashes.

It also comes as companies like Teladoc, helped by enthusiastic investors and
rapid advances in technology, are seeking to expand around the country,
promoting their services as a convenient, inexpensive alternative to the
emergency room, retail clinics or doctors who do not work nights or weekends.
Many states are loosening restrictions on telemedicine, and requiring insurers
to pay for it, citing doctor shortages and pressure to increase convenient
access to medical care, partly because of the Affordable Care Act.

Texas, however, is moving in the opposite direction. The Texas board already
required doctors to establish a relationship with patients before giving a
diagnosis or prescribing drugs.

But on Friday, it changed its rules to state that ''questions and answers
exchanged through email, electronic text, or chat or telephonic evaluation of or
consultation with a patient'' are inadequate to establish a doctor-patient
relationship. The move significantly tightens rules that already preclude video
consultations except under a narrow set of circumstances.

The Texas Medical Association and other groups representing doctors in the state
strongly supported the new restrictions, citing concerns about patient safety.
In a letter to the board, the association said it ''supports the use of
telemedicine that can provide safe, high-quality, timely care,'' but that
safeguards must be in place ''to protect patients and ensure telemedicine
complements the efforts of local health care providers.''

But Jason Gorevic, the chief executive of Teladoc, said in a statement that the
new restrictions were ''a huge step backward for Texas,'' eliminating ''a safe,
affordable and convenient health care option that many have depended on for more
than a decade.''

The new restrictions do not outright ban telemedicine, however. Doctors will
still be able to treat patients by phone or video from another location under
certain circumstances. For example, patients will have to be at a hospital or
clinic, with a second health care provider there to ''assist.'' The new
restrictions do not apply to mental health visits, most likely because of a
continuing shortage of psychiatrists.

Telemedicine companies either directly charge consumers a flat fee, typically
around $40 per consultation, or contract with employers or insurers to provide
the consultations as a covered benefit. But they emphasize that they cannot
treat serious problems or medical emergencies, and that they are meant to
complement, not replace, people's relationships with their doctors.

''This is going to quickly emerge as one way to relieve the demand pressures
that are being put on the system,'' said Ceci Connolly, managing director of the
PriceWaterhouseCoopers Health Research Institute. ''We're just getting
started.''

Texas is among a handful of states that still require an in-person exam before a
telemedicine consult can take place, according to the American Telemedicine
Association, a trade group in Washington. Other states have vaguely worded
policies that are not clear on whether an in-person visit is needed first.

In a recent interview, Mr. Gorevic said Teladoc's national network of 700
board-certified physicians receive special training in how to conduct
telemedicine consultations and follow clinical guidelines that are ''specific to
telehealth.'' The company, which operates in every state except Arkansas and
Idaho, has seen rapid growth in demand for its services, he said, with almost
300,000 consultations last year, double the number in 2013. It has more
customers in Texas than in any other state.

The company says its doctors are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
When a customer requests a consultation by calling or going to the company's
website, Mr. Gorevic said, a doctor licensed in the person's state responds
within 10 minutes on average. Its doctors do not prescribe narcotics, other
controlled substances, or what it refers to as ''lifestyle drugs,'' such as
Viagra.

Teladoc's conflict with the medical board started in 2011, when the board
threatened to discipline the company's doctors for prescribing drugs to patients
they had not seen in person. Teladoc sued, accusing the board of changing its
rules without going through the proper process. Late last year, a state appeals
court sided with Teladoc, which led the medical board to issue an emergency rule
in January. Teladoc won a temporary injunction while the board went through its
formal rule-making process over the last few months.

The new restrictions are to take effect in June. Before voting on them, Frank
Denton, an investment executive from the Houston area who was the only board
member to oppose them, said telemedicine was the ''least desirable'' way to
deliver health care but that ''the public should have the right to use that
option.''

But another board member, Dr. George Willeford of Austin, expressed the opinion
of the majority when he said he worried that telemedicine, unless properly
regulated, could weaken doctor accountability to patients. ''I'm terribly,
terribly worried about the absence of responsibility and accountability,'' he
said.

That view was echoed at a public hearing on Thursday by Dr. Steven Yount, a
family practice doctor in Bastrop, near Austin, who said that hands-on diagnosis
and treatment was essential.

''A patient encounter that from the very get-go removes many of the abilities of
a physician to comprehensively look at any given patient is of a lower
quality,'' Dr. Yount said.

But most of about a dozen people who spoke at the hearing, including several
Teladoc officials, opposed the change. Bill Hammond, chief executive of the
Texas Association of Business, said the restrictions would ''drive a stake
through the heart'' of telemedicine in Texas at a time when thousands of small
businesses are looking for innovative solutions to combat rising insurance costs
and to provide health care to employees.

''This proposal is bad for business, bad for health care, bad for consumers,''
Mr. Hammond said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/texas-medical-panel-votes-to-limit-telemedi
cine-practices-in-state.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEMEDICINE (92%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS
(90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ASSOCIATIONS
& ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); US
STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%);
BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (77%); LABOR
SHORTAGES (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); EMPLOYMENT
CONTRACTS (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (70%);
UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (68%);
MENTAL HEALTH (60%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ivan Doig, Novelist of the West, Dies at 75

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 552 words


Ivan Doig, who immortalized his Rocky Mountain roots in 16 celebrated books of
both fiction and nonfiction, died on Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 75.

The cause was multiple myeloma, said Geoff Kloske, the publisher of Riverhead
Books.

Mr. Doig (pronounced DOY-guh) was a passionate writer of the purple sage,
vividly breathing life into his characters (''He was lightly built, and an
extraordinary amount of him was mustache'') and his upbringing (childhood was a
''flame-lit and shadow-chilled time'') and poetically evoking the muscularity of
his native Montana (''the climb of the continent to its divide, higher, greater,
more sudden than seemed possible; like a running leap of the land'').

Reviewing his novel ''The Whistling Season'' in The New York Times Book Review
in 2006, Sven Birkerts described Mr. Doig as ''a presiding figure in the
literature of the American West.''

Ivan Clark Doig was born in White Sulphur Springs, Mont., on June 27, 1939. His
father, Charlie, was a ranch hand. His mother, the former Berneta Ringer, was a
ranch cook. She died of asthma on Ivan's sixth birthday.

He accompanied his father on ranch jobs along the Rocky Mountain Front and on
Friday night respites at local taverns, before they settled down with his
grandmother on a sheep ranch near Dupuyer, Mont. In his junior year of high
school (the Class of 1957 totaled 21 students), he recalled, he made up his mind
to be a writer.

Asked why, in an interview with Powell's Books in Oregon, he replied: ''A
lifetime of reasons, but here's one: For the love of language and that daily
tryst of the pair of us, it and me, creating something that did not exist
before.''

He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from Northwestern
University, where he met Carol Muller, a fellow journalist. They married. She
survives him.

After earning a doctorate in American history from the University of Washington,
he pursued a career as an editorial writer and an editor on The Rotarian
magazine, but turned to writing books, eventually turning out 400 words a day.

''This House of Sky: Landscapes of a Western Mind,'' a memoir published in 1979,
was a finalist for the National Book Award. ''Mr. Doig's story reinforces our
diminishing conviction that there is something special in American earth, in
American experience and in the harrowing terms of American survival,'' Wright
Morris wrote in a Times review.

Mr. Doig's novels, beginning with ''The Sea Runners'' in 1982 and ''English
Creek'' two years later, won him the most acclaim. ''The Whistling Season''
became a Times best seller in 2006. His McCaskill trilogy covered the first
century of Montana's history.

In 2007 he won the Wallace Stegner Award, named for the historian and novelist.

His most recent books -- ''The Bartender's Tale,'' published in 2012, and ''Last
Bus to Wisdom,'' to be published this year -- are more autobiographical.

''I come from the lariat proletariat, the working-class point of view,'' Mr.
Doig told The Great Falls Tribune in 2013.

Still, he preferred not to be pigeonholed as a regional author.

''I don't think of myself as a 'Western' writer,'' he wrote on his website. ''To
me, language -- the substance on the page, that poetry under the prose -- is the
ultimate 'region,' the true home, for a writer.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/books/ivan-doig-author-who-lived-the-western-l
ife-dies-at-75.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivan Doig, who was born in White Sulphur Springs, Mont.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL DOIG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%);
FICTION LITERATURE (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (73%); ASTHMA (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SHEEP &
GOAT FARMING (66%); SHEEP FARMING (66%); HISTORY (64%)

COMPANY: RIVERHEAD BOOKS (58%); POWELL'S BOOKS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS451211
BOOK STORES (53%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (53%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); WEST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia Vents, and Shrugs, at a Gay TV Star

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words


MOSCOW -- In February, Odin Biron, an American actor who plays a naïve American
son of two gay fathers in the hugely popular Russian medical sitcom ''Interns,''
took a calculated risk. He disclosed that he was gay.

At first, there were a few tense weeks. His colleagues were shocked. His agent
advised him not to talk to the tabloid media. On the show's fan pages, some
viewers wrote of their disgust or cried conspiracy theory. Mr. Biron said he was
advised not to take the metro.

''That first week was very weird,'' Mr. Biron said recently in an interview in a
cafe here. ''There was a sense of physical danger, political danger.'' Shaken,
he left the country until things calmed down. Then he came back.

Mr. Biron's coming out took guts. That an actor is gay is hardly news, even in
Russia. But what is rare is that he went public. In recent years, the nation's
ingrained ''don't ask, don't tell'' culture has run up against a 2013 law that
criminalizes so-called gay ''propaganda,'' and another law against offending the
sensibilities of religious believers. One of Mr. Biron's co-stars on ''Interns''
-- Ivan Okhlobystin, a former Russian Orthodox priest who said last year that
gay people should be burned alive in ovens -- called Mr. Biron ''a sodomite.''
He also said that Mr. Biron was crazy to come out and cause an unnecessary
scandal for the show.

But Mr. Biron, a fresh-faced 30-year-old from Duluth, Minn., who peppers his
speech with exclamations of ''gosh'' and ''my goodness,'' said he knew exactly
what he was doing. ''I wanted to utilize my position, the stardom capital, the
fame capital that I'd built up here -- I wanted to use that for good,'' he said.

''Especially since Vanya had made those comments,'' he added of Mr. Okhlobystin.
''I wanted to balance that out some way.''

The effects of Mr. Biron's coming out, in an interview with New York magazine,
are still playing out. For now, his announcement doesn't seem to have ended his
career in Russia -- although he said he made his disclosure already prepared to
leave the country later this spring. His talent agency says he has gotten new
work offers in Russia. He says people still stop him on the street to pose for
photos. He is back on the set shooting the next season of ''Interns.''

''Everyone's been incredibly positive,'' Mr. Biron said. ''Work supported me
immediately.''

''It's a really awesome way for things to work out,'' he added.

Since the show made its debut in 2010, Mr. Biron has played Phil Richards, a
likable American medical intern. The twist of having two gay fathers, who are
only alluded to, makes Mr. Biron complicit in both mocking and shoring up
Russian stereotypes about the West as a decadent, gay-friendly place -- a theme
of the push toward family and religious values under President Vladimir V. Putin
in recent years.

In real life, Mr. Biron -- who bears a passing resemblance to another American
in Russia, Edward J. Snowden -- lives in Moscow with his boyfriend, a Kazakh
film director. He first arrived as an undergraduate on an exchange program with
the Moscow Art Theater School, the home of the Stanislavsky method of acting,
eventually becoming one of two Americans that year to graduate from its
intensive degree program.

''He joined us without knowing a word of Russian, and in a year and a half he
was already playing Hamlet in Russian,'' said Konstantin Raikin, a theater
director and a former teacher of Mr. Biron's. Mr. Raikin said he knew Mr. Biron
was gay and wasn't surprised by his coming out. ''The most important thing to me
is that he's a good person and a great actor,'' he said.

Still, ''I think he underestimated this issue in Russia,'' Mr. Raikin added.
''If he had known what the attitude toward it in Russia was, he might have been
more careful.''

Outside Russia, some advocates of equal rights for gay people regard him as a
hero, but in Russia, the reactions to Mr. Biron's coming out seem to have ranged
from indifference to some tabloid interest. Word traveled quickly on news
websites and via social media, but television news stations barely blinked. It's
hard to know whether that's because they weren't interested or because his
talent agent had advised him against appearances that might hurt his career.

In Russia, ''you have to be responsible with every word,'' said Elena Filippova,
a spokeswoman for the Sevensense talent agency, which represents him. ''One
wrong word can harm your career in the future.''

The producers of ''Interns,'' which on average draws 3.7 million viewers per
episode and is one of the biggest hits on Gazprom Media, a subsidiary of the
energy giant and the country's largest media conglomerate, do not seem eager to
call attention to Mr. Biron.

Vycheslav Dusmuhametov, one producer, said through a spokeswoman that the show
had no concerns about ratings related to Mr. Biron's coming out.

But it is clear that Mr. Biron's disclosure has caused tension on the set. The
dynamic with Mr. Okhlobystin is a Dostoyevskian drama in its own right -- a
clash of two men with deeply held, irreconcilable beliefs. After Mr. Biron came
out, Mr. Okhlobystin, who plays the interns' boss, Bykov, wrote in a tweet:
''Bykov will never know that Phil is a pervert. But Okhlobystin, when he learned
that his friend Odin is a sodomite, bashed his head against the wall and cursed
fate.''

In a phone interview last week, Mr. Okhlobystin said he was still in shock. ''He
wasn't discussed or judged, but everyone was wondering, 'Why? Why now?' '' Mr.
Okhlobystin said. ''This scandal is embarrassing. It would be better if it never
happened.''

He said he could no longer remain friends with Mr. Biron. ''Of course not,'' he
said.

''It put us in an idiotic position,'' he continued. ''A sodomite is working near
us, and then he confesses that. It would be better for us not to know.'' He
added that as professionals, they would finish shooting the rest of the season.

Still, Mr. Okhlobystin had some praise for Mr. Biron. ''He's a beautiful person,
he's a talented person, he knows Russian really well,'' he said. He said his
comments last year that gays should burn in ovens had been overblown, but that
he stood by them. ''As an Orthodox Christian, I have to hold a certain opinion
about gays,'' he said. ''For us they're not people, homo sapiens, they're like
aliens.'' But he said he also believed that ''we hate the sin, not the sinner.''

''Odin is absolutely safe, and his life will be comfortable, please don't
worry,'' Mr. Okhlobystin added.

For his part, Mr. Biron called Mr. Okhlobystin ''a performance artist'' who
likes pushing buttons and whose words shouldn't be taken at face value. ''I'd
definitely say we're very good working mates,'' Mr. Biron said. ''I don't think
we're talking about endeared friendship here. I don't think that's possible.''

Ilya Glinnikov, another ''Interns'' co-star, said he knew that Mr. Biron was gay
but was surprised by his coming out, and did not believe that his colleague
needed to call attention to his sexuality. ''I don't understand why he did it
now,'' he said.

On an ''Interns'' fan page with nearly 700,000 members on Vkontakte, the Russian
Facebook, reactions were split. ''I respect his courage,'' wrote one fan, Darina
Streltsova. Others disagreed. ''I personally feel disgusted by the fact that
he's gay, but I don't have to live with him, and at the same time I enjoy
watching Phil!'' Kristina Misurina wrote.

There's a general sense that Mr. Biron has more freedom because he is American.
''There are barely any openly gay or lesbian Russian public figures, partly
because for them it can have further negative consequences in their careers,''
said Igor Kochetkov, a council member of Russia's Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
Transgender Network.

In fact, Russians who have come out have not fared as well as Mr. Biron. In
2013, Oleg Dusaev, a musician and cultural journalist, came out, outraged over
news that the children's hospital where he volunteered would no longer accept
blood donations from homosexuals. He lost his job and left the country after he
disclosed his sexual orientation.

In a Skype interview, Mr. Dusaev said he admired Mr. Biron's courage. ''When a
popular actor talks about his being gay, I think it's very important for
teenagers who love him,'' Mr. Dusaev said.

In addition to ''Interns,'' Mr. Biron is starring in a sold-out production of
Gogol's ''Dead Souls'' at the Gogol Center, a well-regarded avant-garde theater.
Kirill Serebrennikov, who directed the play and directs the theater, said that
Mr. Biron's coming out was not a major event. ''In our theater, no one cared.
Everyone gave him a hug and a kiss,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/television/after-interns-star-came-out-in
-russia-a-mix-of-fury-and-shrugs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Odin Biron, an American actor in Russia, on the set of the
sitcom ''Interns,'' where he plays a doctor with two gay fathers. He recently
returned to that country. (C1)
Odin Biron, on the set of ''Interns.'' A co-star has referred to him publicly as
a ''sodomite.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ivan Okhlobystin of ''Interns.'' (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); CELEBRITIES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%);
INTERVIEWS (89%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); RELIGION (70%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); DULUTH, MN, USA (53%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remains From His Last Day

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN.

Gail Collins and Joe Nocera are off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words


Imagine him in the last week of his life, 150 years ago this month. Shuffling,
clothes hanging loosely on the 6-foot-4-inch frame, that tinny voice, a face
much older than someone of 56. ''I am a tired man,'' he said. ''Sometimes I
think I am the tiredest man on earth.''

Springtime in Washington, lilacs starting to flower. The Capitol Dome finally
free of its scaffolding. His month began in triumph against the largest
slaveholding nation on earth. Richmond fell and was set afire by its retreating
residents. On April 4, Abraham Lincoln, with his 12-year-old son, Tad -- his
birthday! -- walked the smoldering shell of the rebel capital, walked a mile or
so, pressed by a throng of liberated blacks, to sit as a conqueror in the seat
of the Southern White House.

''No day ever dawns for the slave,'' wrote a man who had once been owned by a
fellow man. In Richmond, thereafter, all days had dawns.

On the dawn of his final day, April 14, Lincoln rises as usual at 7 a.m.,
breakfasts on coffee and an egg. He meets with his cabinet, confers with an
ex-slave, lunches with the unpredictable Mary Todd. They have plans to attend
''Our American Cousin.'' In the box at Ford's Theater that evening, a white
supremacist fires a single shot from a Derringer. The bullet penetrates
Lincoln's brain and lodges just behind his right eye. The most significant
casualty in a war that took more lives than any other in the nation's history
dies the next morning -- the first president to be murdered.

Now think of the legacy on this anniversary of the American passion play. Think
of free land for the landless, the transcontinental railroad, the seeding of
what would grow into national parks, the granting of human rights to people who
had none.

And think of how much the party of Lincoln has turned against the expansive
political philosophy of Lincoln. Not the emancipation of four million people --
Northern Democrats who died on southern battlegrounds, and certainly the
Republicans who held power then, get their share of credit for ending the
Original Sin of the United States.

But beyond: Could the Republicans who control Congress in 2015, the party of no,
ever pass a Homestead Act? That law, which went into effect the very day, Jan.
1, 1863, Lincoln's wartime executive order to free slaves in the breakaway
states did, carries a clause that very few Republicans would support now.

Former slaves, ''famine Irish,'' Russian Jews, single women, Mexicans who didn't
speak a word of English -- all qualified to claim 160 acres as their own. You
didn't have to be a citizen to get your quarter-square-mile. You just had to
intend to become a citizen.

In that sense, the Homestead Act was the Dream Act of today. It had a path to
citizenship and prosperity for those in this country who were neither citizens
nor prosperous.

Consider the vision to stitch a railroad from east to west, an enormous tangle
of infrastructure. In 1862, Lincoln signed legislation spurring construction of
the transcontinental railroad. That same year, he approved a bill that led to
the creation of land grant colleges.

Today, Congress will not even approve enough money to keep decrepit bridges from
falling down, and has whittled away funds to help working kids stay in college.
It's laughable to think of Republicans' approving of something visionary and
forward-looking in the realm of transportation, energy or education. Government,
in their minds, can never be a force for good.

In 1864, Lincoln signed a bill that allowed California to protect the Yosemite
Valley and the Mariposa Grove of giant Sequoias -- wild land that would
eventually become part of the National Park system. Republicans of today are
openly hostile to conservation, a largely Republican idea.

The great, nation-shaping accomplishments of Lincoln's day happened only because
the South, always with an eye on protecting slavery and an estate-owning
aristocracy, had left the union -- ridding Congress of the naysayers.

Today, the South is solidly Republican and solidly obstructionist. The party is
also solidly white. No, they're not slave-apologists, though many fail to
recognize the active, toxic legacy of the Confederacy. And no, their insults of
President Obama -- calling him a king, an incompetent, an outsider, echoing some
of the slights against Lincoln -- do not in any way make Obama the Lincoln of
today.

But you can say this with certainty: what unites the Republican Party, on this
150th anniversary of the murder of Lincoln, is that they are against the type of
progressive legislation that gave rise to their party. Lincoln is an oil
painting in the parlor, to be dusted off while Republican leaders plot new ways
to kill things that he would have approved of.

Nothing in politics is static. Things will change. Party philosophies will flip,
new alliances will emerge. What we know for sure again comes from Lincoln:
''Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/opinion/remains-from-lincolns-last-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISTORY (78%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SLAVERY (76%); THEATER (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%);
FAMINE (64%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); SEPARATISM &
SECESSION (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remains From His Last Day

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN.

Gail Collins and Joe Nocera are off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 802 words


Imagine him in the last week of his life, 150 years ago this month. Shuffling,
clothes hanging loosely on the 6-foot-4-inch frame, that tinny voice, a face
much older than someone of 56. ''I am a tired man,'' he said. ''Sometimes I
think I am the tiredest man on earth.''

Springtime in Washington, lilacs starting to flower. The Capitol Dome finally
free of its scaffolding. His month began in triumph against the largest
slaveholding nation on earth. Richmond fell and was set afire by its retreating
residents. On April 4, Abraham Lincoln, with his 12-year-old son, Tad -- his
birthday! -- walked the smoldering shell of the rebel capital, walked a mile or
so, pressed by a throng of liberated blacks, to sit as a conqueror in the seat
of the Southern White House.

''No day ever dawns for the slave,'' wrote a man who had once been owned by a
fellow man. In Richmond, thereafter, all days had dawns.

On the dawn of his final day, April 14, Lincoln rises as usual at 7 a.m.,
breakfasts on coffee and an egg. He meets with his cabinet, confers with an
ex-slave, lunches with the unpredictable Mary Todd. They have plans to attend
''Our American Cousin.'' In the box at Ford's Theater that evening, a white
supremacist fires a single shot from a Derringer. The bullet penetrates
Lincoln's brain and lodges just behind his right eye. The most significant
casualty in a war that took more lives than any other in the nation's history
dies the next morning -- the first president to be murdered.

Now think of the legacy on this anniversary of the American passion play. Think
of free land for the landless, the transcontinental railroad, the seeding of
what would grow into national parks, the granting of human rights to people who
had none.

And think of how much the party of Lincoln has turned against the expansive
political philosophy of Lincoln. Not the emancipation of four million people --
Northern Democrats who died on southern battlegrounds, and certainly the
Republicans who held power then, get their share of credit for ending the
Original Sin of the United States.

But beyond: Could the Republicans who control Congress in 2015, the party of no,
ever pass a Homestead Act? That law, which went into effect the very day, Jan.
1, 1863, that Lincoln's wartime executive order to free slaves in the breakaway
states did, carries a clause that very few Republicans would support now.

Former slaves, ''famine Irish,'' Russian Jews, single women, Mexicans who didn't
speak a word of English -- all qualified to claim 160 acres as their own. You
didn't have to be a citizen to get your quarter-square-mile. You just had to
intend to become a citizen.

In that sense, the Homestead Act was the Dream Act of today. It had a path to
citizenship and prosperity for those in this country who were neither citizens
nor prosperous.

Consider the vision to stitch a railroad from east to west, an enormous tangle
of infrastructure. In 1862, Lincoln signed legislation spurring construction of
the transcontinental railroad. That same year, he approved a bill that led to
the creation of land grant colleges.

Today, Congress will not even approve enough money to keep decrepit bridges from
falling down and has whittled away funds to help working kids stay in college.
Government, to most Republicans, can never be a force for good.

In 1864, Lincoln signed a bill that allowed California to protect the Yosemite
Valley and the Mariposa Grove of giant Sequoias -- wild land that would
eventually become part of the National Park system. Republicans of today are
openly hostile to conservation, a largely Republican idea.

The great, nation-shaping accomplishments of Lincoln's day happened only because
the South, always with an eye on protecting slavery and an estate-owning
aristocracy, had left the union -- ridding Congress of the naysayers.

Today, the South is solidly Republican and solidly obstructionist. The party is
also solidly white. No, they're not slave-apologists, though many fail to
recognize the active, toxic legacy of the Confederacy. And no, their insults of
President Obama -- calling him a king, an incompetent, an outsider, echoing some
of the slights against Lincoln -- do not in any way make Obama the Lincoln of
today.

But you can say this with certainty: What unites the Republican Party, on this
150th anniversary of the murder of Lincoln, is that they are against the type of
progressive legislation that gave rise to their party. Lincoln is an oil
painting in the parlor, to be dusted off while Republican leaders plot new ways
to kill things that he would have approved of.

Nothing in politics is static. Things will change. Party philosophies will flip,
new alliances will emerge. What we know for sure again comes from Lincoln:
''Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history.''




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISTORY (78%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SLAVERY (76%); THEATER (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%);
FAMINE (64%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); SEPARATISM &
SECESSION (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Need for Civil Legal Aid

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 211 words


To the Editor:

The real crisis in the legal industry is not a decline in law school enrollment
(''Despite Forecasts of Doom, Signs of Life in the Legal Industry,'' DealBook,
April 1), but the unsustainable disconnect between supply and demand for legal
services.

The vast majority of Americans can't afford lawyers, whose rates average $200 to
$300 an hour. In life-changing legal situations, like the potential loss of
one's home, family or livelihood, it is estimated that 70 to 98 percent of state
court cases involve at least one unrepresented litigant.

But it doesn't have to be this way. Civil legal aid advocates are working to
address the serious legal needs of Americans struggling to make ends meet. In
partnership with leaders like Jonathan Lippman, New York State's chief judge of
the Court of Appeals, civil legal aid organizations are pioneering innovations,
including online access to information and forms, court-based self-help centers,
and creative use of non-lawyers.

If we increase our investment in civil legal aid, we'll have a healthy legal
industry and a healthy justice system that fulfills our country's promise of
justice for all, not just for the few who can afford it.

MARTHA BERGMARKExecutive DirectorVoices for Civil JusticeWashington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/a-need-for-civil-legal-aid.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTPUT &
DEMAND (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JUDGES (71%); APPEALS COURTS (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Independent Film on PBS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 251 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Is PBS Neglecting Its Mission?'' (Op-Ed, April 7):

We appreciate Norman Lear's passionate support for the independent film series
''POV'' and ''Independent Lens'' on public media.

PBS and its member stations' commitment to independent film is unrivaled. Last
year hundreds of hours of independent productions appeared in the PBS prime-time
schedule -- and this will not change.

No other media outlet provides such a wide-ranging and accessible showcase. Our
organizations firmly believe that independent film is a vital way to present a
diversity of voices and explore complex issues -- which are the fundamental
principles of public media's mission.

We are working collaboratively to ensure that ''POV'' and ''Independent Lens''
reach the widest possible audience. This includes a prime-time placement on
local stations' broadcast schedules, as well as distribution on digital
platforms -- a powerful way to reach younger, engaged viewers -- and theatrical
releases, such as the premiere of Stanley Nelson's ''The Black Panthers:
Vanguard of the Revolution,'' which PBS is bringing to movie screens this fall.

The media landscape continues to shift, but our dedication to the work of
independent film is unwavering.

PAULA KERGERNEAL SHAPIROSALLY JO FIFERSIMON KILMURRYArlington, Va.

Ms. Kerger and Mr. Shapiro are president and chief executive of, respectively,
PBS and WNET. Ms. Fifer and Mr. Kilmurry are executive producers of,
respectively, ''Independent Lens'' and ''POV.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/independent-film-on-pbs.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); PUBLIC
TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION
STATIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%);
EXECUTIVES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Faith and Flying

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 230 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Refusing to Fly With a Woman in the Next Seat'' (front page, April 10),
about ultra-Orthodox Jewish men who object to being seated next to a woman on a
plane because religious laws prohibit physical contact with women who are not
their wives:

Can someone explain why a woman should be asked to move her seat because an
ultra-Orthodox man refuses to sit next to her? Why is it not up to the man to
find himself another seat on the plane? Or to alert the airline at the gate or
before that so accommodation can be made in advance?

Perhaps the man should have to leave the flight if there is no passenger willing
to accommodate him.

The burden should not be placed on women but rather on the man making the
demand.

ELIZABETH NADAS SEAMANSPittsburgh

To the Editor:

My suggestion for a man refusing to sit next to a woman who is not his wife is
that he should be asked by a flight attendant to sit down, and if he won't, he
should be removed from the airplane.

Giving in to such a ridiculous demand opens the gates for other such situations,
such as people saying they won't sit next to a black person, a white person, a
child, a person obviously of another religion or whatever.

LARRY WINDERBAUMNew York

To the Editor:

There is a very simple solution for ultra-Orthodox men who don't want to sit
next to women on a plane: Buy two seats.

HANNAH METZGERChicago




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/faith-and-flying-orthodox-jewish-men-o
n-a-plane.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%);
AIRLINES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Calculating How Much a Life Is Worth

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 539 words


To the Editor:

Regarding ''When 'Moneyball' Meets Medicine,'' by Jeremy N. Smith (The Upshot,
Sunday Review, April 5), which focuses on disability-adjusted life years, or
DALYs, ''a measure based on international estimates of how much each nonfatal
condition detracts from perfect health'':

Nearly 25 years after the enactment of the Americans With Disabilities Act, the
stereotypes and devaluation of people with disabilities are rife in the article.
Among other instances, there's the mention that ''being paralyzed, for example,
is considered close to half as healthy as perfect health.''

If someone uses a wheelchair but is otherwise well, how can anyone compare that
with, say, being mobile but in constant pain from rheumatoid arthritis?
Similarly, if a person's work depends on hearing, then profound deafness affects
that person differently than it affects someone who writes computer codes.

If the purpose of health economics is to create a more sensible, balanced health
policy and prioritize treatments, let's talk about really relevant factors, not
some artificial construct that pretends to tell you how a diverse group of
people who have in common only a particular diagnosis feel about their
disability.

BARBARA W. GOLDSTEPHEN F. GOLDPhiladelphia

The writers are a pediatrician and a disability rights lawyer, respectively.

To the Editor:

''When 'Moneyball' Meets Medicine'' offers a way for injustice to meet medicine.

Ranking the value of medical treatments and public health measures by the number
of disability-adjusted life years saved discriminates against old people (who
have fewer years ahead) and disabled people (since being paralyzed halves the
DALY value of each year). But old people and disabled people may value their
lives just as much as young and healthy people value theirs.

Rather than treating the old or disabled as second-class citizens, society
should spend health care funds in accordance with the egalitarian principle that
all human lives have equal value.

FELICIA NIMUE ACKERMANProvidence, R.I.

The writer is a philosophy professor at Brown University.

To the Editor:

The United States health system is market-driven, which means that treatment
choices made by patients, with the advice of their medical providers, determine
what is spent on back pain, breast cancer, depression or any other medical
problem. ''How much each nonfatal condition detracts from a perfect life'' is
factored into what the market decides it is worth, not by arbitrary weights that
lack the ability to factor in what really matters to each person.

Can DALYs, which are purported to be internationally determined, factor in
cultural and religious preferences? Does losing a finger have the same weight
for a pianist as for an accountant? Should we rely on what patients tell us they
would prefer in hypothetical health situations, as DALYs do, or measure what
they actually chose in a market, albeit an imperfect one?

The value and quality of a life are too important to rely on DALYs rather than
on the actual preferences and choices made by patients.

RICHARD M. SCHEFFLERBerkeley, Calif.

The writer is a professor of health economics and public policy at the
University of California, Berkeley.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/disability-and-health-care-calculating
-how-much-a-life-is-worth.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%);
PARALYSIS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ARTHRITIS (78%); DEAFNESS (77%);
DISCRIMINATION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%);
MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (72%); PEDIATRICS (72%); BACK DISORDERS &
INJURIES (72%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (72%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS
(72%); DISABLED ACCESS (71%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); PHILOSOPHY (60%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BREAST CANCER (50%); RELIGION (50%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Take Me Back to the #Ballgame

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 323 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Don't Let Statistics Ruin Baseball,'' by Steve Kettmann (Op-Ed, April 8):

The issue is not whether an overabundance of numbers or calculations is causing
a degradation of the national pastime, but rather whether the game itself is
suited for our 21st-century mind-set.

We are a universe of distractions, of tweets and cellphones. We are overwhelmed
with information, and most of us spend far too much of our focus and energy
devoted to anything but what is directly in front of us. Baseball, with its own
unique rhythm, allows us the luxury of time to contemplate and consider, to be
less frenetic and more engaged.

The average major league baseball game is now more than three hours long. In a
world where we expect everything immediately, where we are used to noise and
hype, there are instead long moments of silence. Football and basketball are in
your face, with high energy both on the field and off, as the scoreboard and the
sound system overwhelm our senses in a wall of sounds and images.

While the writer worries that too much attention is directed at everything but
the play that is happening, I think, to paraphrase the Bard, the fault lies not
in baseball, but in ourselves. If we can't slow down and enjoy the serenity and
peace of a sport without a clock or constant demands, we should look at our own
possible shortcomings.

I don't believe that most of those in attendance at these games are consumed by
WAR (Wins Above Replacement). Yes, baseball could use some tweaking after all
these years. And maybe it is a bit anachronistic.

But while we no longer consider whether Willie, Mickey or the Duke is the best
center fielder in New York, there will be another generation that will take the
time to contemplate matters not overburdened with figures. These fans will be
enveloped in the feel and texture of a sport that offers something far beyond
numbers on a page.

ROBERT S. NUSSBAUMFort Lee, N.J.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/take-me-back-to-the-ballgame.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERICA GOROCHOW)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; GIVING A LITTLE EXTRA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1 words

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chase Headley hit a home run in the ninth inning Friday night to
tie the Yankees' game against the Red Sox at 3-3. Coverage at
nytimes.com/sports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: Katie Workum Presents 'Black Lakes' at Danspace Project

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 404 words


Artists change. The Katie Workum behind the whimsical ''DanceOff!'' cabaret
series, which she organized along with Terry Dean Bartlett for several years
starting in the early 2000s, seems to have little to do with the Katie Workum of
today. In recent years, she's distanced herself from that good-time vibe to
present works that place female dancers in slippery, dreamlike settings where
movement relates to deep sensations.

She takes that evanescent quality further in her latest work, ''Black Lakes,''
presented at Danspace Project on Thursday night. At the start, Ms. Workum walks
resolutely and briskly to center stage before standing quietly with her eyes
closed. A heavy exhale sends shudders from her shoulders to her belly; she
shifts from side to side in profile. It's almost as if she's an artist's model,
yet her body, with minuscule jolts or waves of motion, refuses to succumb to
stillness. Instead of mind over matter, the body is in charge.

Ms. Workum bases her choreography on the improvisational practice known as
authentic movement, in which the mind and the body work in tandem -- slippery as
it sounds -- to delve into deep states of kinesthetic awareness. Try this out:
close your eyes and witness the impulsive movements of your body.

In ''Black Lakes,'' set to a spare score by James Lo featuring crackling sounds,
bits of conversations and bells, Ms. Workum and her two dancers, Eleanor Smith
and Weena Pauly, close their eyes frequently. Ms. Workum writes in a program
note, ''My choreography is no longer me giving you ideas that I have told my
dancers to do, striving to present a perfect hour of dance.''

But no hour of dance is ever perfect, and ''Black Lakes,'' which changes each
night, rarely rises above its improvisation-practice roots. The dancers possess
considerable virtues -- from Ms. Workum's cool power to Ms. Smith's feline grace
and Ms. Pauly's plush openness -- yet as they tangle their bodies together,
scurry across the floor in off-kilter hops or press their heads together while
circling the stage, their movement phrases read like exercises.

Later performances might be different; the one I saw felt like an exploration of
the mundane, which, however purposeful, didn't reveal an authentic-movement
experience as real or as roughly hewn as the practice itself. ''Black Lakes''
creates an impression of a feeling; for all its intimacy it's like watching a
dance behind glass.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/dance/review-katie-workum-presents-black-
lakes-at-danspace-project.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCERS (89%); DANCE (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY
(89%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; West Bank: Palestinian Is Said to Be Killed by Israelis

BYLINE: By DIAA HADID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 284 words


TEL AVIV -- Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian man on Friday after a
funeral procession turned into a violent confrontation in the West Bank,
Palestinian medical workers said.

The episode took place near the Palestinian town of Beit Ummar, in the southern
West Bank, during a funeral for a Palestinian man that was attended by several
thousand people.

The funeral procession apparently turned violent as the mourners passed an
Israeli watchtower near the town's cemetery.

A spokeswoman for Israel's military said Friday that Palestinians had begun
hurling rocks and bottles and rolling burning tires at Israeli soldiers. She
said the soldiers had fired small-caliber bullets at ''the lower extremities''
of four demonstrators who appeared to be endangering them.

A Palestinian medic who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to talk to reporters said that the soldiers had shot one man around
his right kidney and that he was not breathing when he was carried to an
ambulance. Other medics identified the man as Ziyad Awad.

Another man was shot in the shoulder, the first medic said.

The Palestinian news media reported that the funeral was for Jafar Awad, 22, who
died three months after he was freed from an Israeli prison. The reports said
that he had been hospitalized since his release and that Palestinians accused
the Israeli prison authorities of neglecting his health. It was unclear whether
he was related to the man shot on Friday.

A stabbing in the northern West Bank on Wednesday seriously wounded an Israeli
soldier, breaking several weeks of relative calm.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/middleeast/palestinian-said-to-be-killed
-by-israeli-soldiers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WOUNDS
& INJURIES (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); PRISONS (65%)

COMPANY: EAST WEST BANCORP INC (58%)

TICKER: EWBC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%);
SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Lucrative Way to Insure Against the Improbable

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1447 words


It's tax time again, which means many people will be writing checks to the
Internal Revenue Service. But not a lawyer in Los Angeles, who last year put all
of his earnings, $840,000, into a tax shelter and plans to put $1 million in
this year. He doesn't have to pay any income tax.

In fact, he was able to borrow back some of the money to live on and write off
the interest on the loan.

The attorney accomplished this feat by putting his earnings into a captive
insurance company, a vehicle that allows companies to insure themselves against
risks that are too expensive to buy coverage for in the regular insurance market
or to cover events that are unlikely to happen but would be costly if they
actually did.

Until a decade or so ago, most captives, as they are known, were set up by large
companies.

But captives have gained in popularity among small-business owners who see
another benefit: They can be designed so that the risks they insure are so
unlikely that the captives will never pay out a claim and all those premiums
will go back to the business owners or their heirs with little or no tax.

Stephen M. Moskowitz, a tax lawyer and certified public accountant in San
Francisco who advised the California lawyer, said he also worked with a dentist
who set up a captive to insure against a terrorist attack in his dental office.

He said in an interview that he was confident he was following the letter of the
law. ''All these Fortune 500s that make billions in profits and don't pay any
income taxes? How do they do that? They follow the rules,'' he said. ''My
personal opinion is these rules were put in to benefit the big boys, and the
medium boys got a hold of them.''

The question is whether these small captives have gone too far. This year, the
Internal Revenue Service placed them on its annual ''Dirty Dozen list of tax
scams.'' Small captives now share space with phishing, identity theft and
offshore tax avoidance.

In its commentary, the I.R.S. criticized wealthy individuals who canceled or
greatly reduced their income by putting money into small captives. The agency
took particular exception to promoters who drafted policies ''to cover ordinary
business risks or esoteric, implausible risks for exorbitant 'premiums,' while
maintaining their economical commercial coverage with traditional insurers.''

Yet promoters of captives persist, seemingly undaunted.

''They said a couple of things that are extremely general -- one about
unscrupulous promoters,'' said Celia Clark, a lawyer in New York who wrote an
article in Trusts and Estate Magazine last year about the asset protection and
estate planning benefits of small captive insurance companies. ''But when you're
dealing with that level of generality, I don't get anything out of that that
would be useful. We're waiting to hear how it plays out in court.''

Other lawyers are warning their business-owning clients to be wary of the siren
song of captives -- or at least to make sure they have a real insurance need and
are not blinded by other supposed benefits of captives.

David Slenn, a lawyer at Quarles & Brady in Naples, Fla., and the chairman of
the American Bar Association's captive insurance committee, said the push to set
up small captives had gotten out of hand. The interest in captives is being
driven by lawyers and accountants who are seeking additional fees now that the
estate tax exemption has been permanently set and there is not as much annual
business, he said.

''When you consider insurance and what it's traditionally used for and you
compare that to some of the worst offenders with a captive, you see it was set
up to achieve a different role,'' Mr. Slenn said.

''We're starting to see this flood of people from the trusts and estates world
using the captive as part of an estate planning structure. It's becoming absurd.
People are marketing captives as a possible substitution for estate planning.''

He predicted that the I.R.S. would go after the worst offenders to make an
example of them. These include captive insurance companies that are owned by
trusts -- as opposed to a company -- and have accumulated a lot without ever
paying out claims. Another is the the captives that make loans to the heirs of
the business owner who benefits from the trusts or allow the heirs to use their
interests as collateral to buy something else.

However these captives are set up, Mr. Slenn said, they have distorted the
original purpose of captives and also sidestepped the gift tax laws.

Under Internal Revenue Code guidelines, business owners can put up to $1.2
million a year into a captive as an insurance premium with just an actuary
signing off on the risk being insured. (Above that number, more justification
for the premiums is required.) When business owners ultimately take a
distribution from the captive, it will be taxed at the lower rate for qualified
dividends.

The costs to set up a small captive, about $100,000, and to maintain them,
around $50,000 a year, are steep. But they can be deducted as business expenses.
At the outer limits, captives are being promoted as a way around gift and estate
taxes and as a vehicle to retain employees in a private company.

If a captive were found by the I.R.S. to be abusing the law, the deductions
would be denied and back taxes and penalties owed. But the burden of proof seems
to be high.

The I.R.S. went after Mr. Moskowitz's dentist who insured against a terrorist
attack in his dental practice but lost, he said.

''At first blush you'd say, 'No way,''' he said. ''The I.R.S. said no. The tax
court said yes. We won.''

Other insurance risks that get listed for policies written by captive insurance
companies include disability, employment practice liability, business
interruption and online attacks.

Yet most business owners who set up captives keep their regular insurance --
they also get a deduction for those premiums -- and never pay out a claim from
their captives. So they keep all that tax-free money in a company they or their
heirs own.

''You hope there are no claims,'' Mr. Moskowitz said. ''I've owned my house for
25 years. I've never made a claim. But the insurance company keeps taking your
premium.''

The insurance company has at least been insuring against the risk of fire. And
likewise, a small captive is supposed to insure a legitimate risk.

Beckett Cantley, an associate professor at John Marshall Law School, said
recently that the I.R.S. had started to question whether someone would have
bought insurance for a certain risk without the tax benefits of a captive.

The agency is also looking at loans made immediately back to the person who set
up the captive. ''If you needed the funds so badly for the business, why did you
take out such a large insurance policy?'' Mr. Cantley said.

Then, there is the estate planning component for people who don't need the money
in their lifetime. Ms. Clark, whose clients are almost entirely family-held
businesses, said using captives to pass wealth to children or grandchildren free
of estate and gift taxes is appealing to her clients.

As she explained it, the captive could be set up and owned by children and
grandchildren. Except for the money paid to establish the captive as an
insurance company, the rest of the money put into the shelter would be free of
gift tax.

''The really huge advantage that I didn't spell out in the Trusts and Estates
article because I don't want the wrath of an enormous agency coming down on my
head is that the only gift that is considered a gift is the initial contribution
being paid into the trust,'' Ms. Clark said.

''That capital contribution is going to range between $50,000 and $300,000. Any
other future potential appreciation in value of those shares is not coming from
gifts but from business transactions.''

The I.R.S. is not alone in its campaign against small captives. At a Senate
Finance Committee meeting in February, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa,
asked Mark Mazur, the assistant secretary for tax policy at the Treasury
Department, to look into ways to narrow the uses of captives.

There is a right way to set up these captives. But it takes longer and requires
bringing in independent actuaries and accountants.

''You see people setting up structures using the same people all the time and
they're going through the routine,'' Mr. Slenn said. ''What captive managers
like to do is turnkey and save on cost.''

But those shortcuts just might bring I.R.S. scrutiny.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/your-money/irs-is-looking-into-captive-insuran
ce-shelters.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Slenn said some policies distort the original purpose of
captive insurance companies and sidestep gift tax laws. But Celia Clark, a
lawyer, said her clients liked using captives to pass wealth to offspring free
of estate tax. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL VALENTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INSURANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); LAWYERS
(89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAPTIVE INSURANCE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (87%); ESTATE
GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); DENTISTRY (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%);
ESTATE PLANNING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY INSURANCE
(75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE
(73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); WIRE FRAUD (65%); INTERNET CRIME (64%); INTERVIEWS
(64%); IDENTITY THEFT (60%); PHISHING (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%);
TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Milder Warning Opposed for Swedish Tobacco Item

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 907 words


A bid by a Swedish company to be the first in the United States to display
weaker warnings on its tobacco product suffered a blow on Friday when a panel of
experts convened by the Food and Drug Administration concluded that the proposed
label did not fully convey the product's health risks.

The company, Swedish Match, argues that its product, Snus (pronounced snoose) --
moist ground tobacco in a sachet to be tucked between the lip and the gum -- is
far less harmful than cigarettes and that any warning label should reflect that.
The company argued that the current rules, which treat all tobacco products as
equally dangerous, are misleading and a disservice to the more than 40 million
Americans who still smoke.

But the panel of outside experts did not see it that way. Experts repeatedly
said more studies were needed before they could be sure such a change was
justified for a tobacco product. They said that the research the company
presented did not rule out certain health risks, such as adverse effects in
pregnancy, and that the proposed label did not reflect that.

One panel member said there also was not enough information on the environmental
impact -- for example, on how the used sachets would be disposed of.

The panel's recommendations are not binding, but opponents of smoking said the
F.D.A. would be hard pressed to approve the company's application after the
tough treatment at the meeting.

''F.D.A. will have no choice but to reject Swedish Match's application,'' said
Matthew Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids, an antismoking
group.

But Dr. Lars-Erik Rutqvist, senior vice president of scientific affairs for
Swedish Match, sounded an optimistic note, pointing out that such panels are
designed to be critical and that the F.D.A. is not obligated to take their
advice.

The agency has until June to rule on the company's application.

''If you ask me, 'Are you depressed?' I say no,'' he said, sitting at a table in
a carpeted conference room at the F.D.A.'s sprawling facility in suburban
Maryland. ''The role of this committee is to pick apart the type of material
they are being presented with, and they did a good job of that.''

It is the first time since the government began requiring warning labels 50
years ago that federal regulators are considering whether to let a company claim
a tobacco product is less harmful than cigarettes.

Swedish Match says that Snus is 90 percent less harmful than cigarettes and
argues that the product's popularity in Sweden helped drive rates of lung cancer
and oral cancer in men to the lowest levels in Europe. The company submitted
more than 130,000 pages of documents, hoping to prove the claims, including
dozens of studies and 50 years of data from Snus users in Sweden.

The panel's meeting stretched over two days and included 10 voting questions,
but the tone tilted decidedly against the company.

The panel was not asked directly whether the F.D.A. should approve Swedish
Match's application, but was tasked with evaluating whether the evidence
presented justified a gentler label.

Panel members voted unanimously that the evidence was insufficient to prove that
Snus did not increase the risk of tooth loss or gum disease, though they were
split on whether there was evidence that showed any increased risk of oral
cancer.

Perhaps the most direct question, whether the research showed that health risks
from Snus were ''substantially lower'' than those from cigarettes, divided the
panel in half, with four members voting yes and four no.

''I voted no because I have a problem with the word 'substantially' lower as it
relates to all health risks,'' said Pebbles Fagan, an associate professor at the
University of Hawaii Cancer Center. ''There's no evidence that pregnancy
outcomes related to Snus would be any different than with any other tobacco
product.''

But other panel members were persuaded.

''You can still care about a wide array of health effects and still endorse the
idea that there's a substantial reduction in risk,'' said Kurt M. Ribisl, a
professor of health behavior at the University of North Carolina Gillings School
of Global Public Health. ''Cancer and heart disease are top killers of women in
this country, and the risk for those are substantially lower in these
products.''

Some experts cautioned that being too strict could backfire, preserving the
status quo, which offers addicted smokers very few appealing options for
quitting.

''The evidence is very strong over decades that this product is substantially
lower in risk when compared with cigarettes,'' said David Abrams, executive
director of the Schroeder National Institute for Tobacco Research and Policy
Studies at the Legacy Foundation, an antismoking research group, adding that
authorities should keep close tabs on use by youth. ''This bigger picture should
not be missed.''

The debate often lagged, and committee proceedings were punctuated by long
silences, prompting one member to remark that ''sitting here silently'' was not
going to help the agency decide.

At one point Mitch Zeller, head of the F.D.A.'s Center for Tobacco Products,
which will ultimately decide on the application, appealed directly to the
members. ''It is not an easy question we put to you, but we do need you to
grapple with it and ultimately render a vote,'' he said.

Mr. Zeller congratulated the company as the meeting ended, calling it a
''trailblazer.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/science/milder-warning-opposed-for-swedish-tob
acco-item.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A container of Snus, whose  maker, Swedish Match, argues  is
less harmful than cigarettes.  It wants weaker warning  labels on the product.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNUS LAUPA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRODUCT LABELING (89%); LUNG CANCER (78%); SMOKING
(78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FDA REVIEW (77%); CANCER (77%); ORAL CANCER
(75%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POLLUTION &
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (51%)

COMPANY: SWEDISH MATCH AB (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (85%)

TICKER: SWMA (STO) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING
TOBACCO & SNUFF (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Cost of Trout Fishing

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS M. THOMPSON.

Douglas M. Thompson, a professor of geology at Connecticut College, is the
author of ''The Quest for the Golden Trout: Environmental Loss and America's
Iconic Fish.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 844 words


NEW LONDON, Conn. -- WITH the long winter now behind us (I hope), I'm about to
head out to the nearby Salmon River here in Connecticut to see what a season's
worth of ice has done to the place. Now that fishing season has arrived, the
river no doubt will be crowded with newly stocked fish and wader-clad fishermen
who share my passion for this sleek and beautiful creature. But my rod will be
collecting dust at home. I reluctantly gave up fishing 10 years ago after I saw
what a century of stocking nonnative fish was doing to the landscape I love.

Twenty-eight million Americans will buy freshwater fishing licenses this year.
Eight million of them will be trout and salmon anglers. Native wild trout have
mostly disappeared in the face of this immense fishing pressure. They have been
replaced by nonnative hatchery fish and their river-born ''wild'' trout
offspring. Nationwide, state and federal fisheries agencies dump some 130
million trout in lakes, rivers and streams each year. Although this stocking
lures people outside, the hatcheries that produce these trout create
environmental problems.

Trout aquaculture is heavily reliant on pellet feed. The federal and state
hatchery production of some 28 million pounds of trout per year requires roughly
34 million pounds of feed. These pellets are derived from herring, menhaden and
anchovies harvested from oceans in quantities that the United States Department
of Agriculture and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration say are
unsustainable. We are devastating populations of marine species simply to
support a freshwater hobby.

If that's not bad enough, hatcheries are major polluters. Each year, much of the
roughly six million pounds of fish excrement, uneaten food and dead and decaying
fish that I estimate are produced by these hatcheries leach nutrients into
wastewater that is often then dumped untreated into the closest stream or river.
This wastewater can also contain medicines and antibiotics used to limit
diseases in crowded pens, and disinfectants that sterilize holding tanks.
Ultimately, these hatcheries may be contributing to the proliferation of ''dead
zones'' -- biological wastelands created by excess nutrients -- that are choking
estuaries and coastal ecosystems downstream.

For more than a century, government stocking efforts and more recent
well-intentioned but illegal introductions of fish by anglers have wreaked havoc
on native trout and other fish species. Seven species of native trout are
considered threatened and others have become extinct because of interbreeding
and competition from nonnative trout and other game fish introduced into
freshwater streams. Despite these problems, most trout stocked this year will be
nonnative to the streams and rivers where they will be released.

Many of the fishermen who will revisit their favorite stream this spring are
happy to release their quarry after hooking and reeling them in. Although
catch-and-release might seem, logically, to help maintain high numbers of
catchable fish, the science does not validate this practice. Survival rates of
hatchery fish in the wild are very low, especially after hooking damage and
exhaustion associated with repeated catch-and-release encounters.

Studies suggest that 75 to 80 percent of hatchery trout are gone soon after
stocking. The fact that many states still routinely stock streams regulated as
catch-and-release-only waters is a strong indication that catch-and-release does
not ensure fish survival. Hatcheries are breeding fish that are poorly adapted
to life in the wild. Even worse, these fish can pass on their undesirable traits
to wild populations of native fish.

Although stocking trout is harmful, eating them is far better than eating native
wild trout. When these native fish die, their genetic uniqueness dies, too.
(Brook and lake trout are the only trout native to the entire Northeast, for
instance; nonnatives like brown, rainbow and golden trout are also released into
Northeast streams.) Unfortunately, many states set uniformly high catch limits
that draw no distinction between native versus nonnative trout. Therefore,
anglers need to hold themselves to a higher standard than the rules that govern
their actions.

In the end, perhaps the most ethical approach for anglers would be to catch and
consume nonnative wild and hatchery-produced game fish. Huge resources go into
the production of farm-raised fish, after all, and at serious environmental
costs. Conversely, it is more important than ever to protect wild populations of
native fish with catch-and-release practices. Many states provide trout
identification materials in their angler regulations. Establishing stricter
limits and mandatory releases of native species whenever they are healthy enough
to survive being hooked could help preserve the genetic integrity of aquatic
environments.

If we continue to ignore the impact of hatchery fish on aquatic ecosystems, we
will soon regret what has been lost.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/the-cost-of-trout-fishing.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRISTINA SPANÓ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); AQUACULTURE (90%); SPORT
FISHING (90%); FINFISH FARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEWERAGE
SYSTEMS (89%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (87%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS
(77%); FISHERIES (77%); RIVERS (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); FOOD SAFETY
REGULATION (76%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (76%); OCEANOGRAPHY (76%); AGRICULTURE
DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAKES (72%); MARINE BIOLOGY (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); COASTAL
AREAS (69%); ANTIBIOTICS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION (54%)

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (74%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; A TORNADO'S RAVAGES IN NORTHERN
ILLINOIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1 words

URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rescue crews, above, searched for missing residents in
Fairdale, Ill., on Friday. The day before, a tornado cut a path of destruction,
below, through Fairdale, a tiny community of about 150 people, and other parts
of DeKalb County. At least two people were killed, and about a dozen others were
injured. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JON DURR/GETTY IMAGES
 DANIELLE GUERRA/DAILY CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spurs' Big 3 Pass Baton to Leonard

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1011 words


SAN ANTONIO --  With a little over two minutes remaining in the game here on
Wednesday night, two fans were ushered onto the court for a contest. They would
be racing to make a layup, the catch being that they first had to rest their
foreheads on traffic cones and spin around 10 times.

''I think they're getting dizzy,'' the stadium host said, before a man named
Josh staggered to the rim for the $500 prize.

This amusement was a fitting coda to a game in which the Houston Rockets had
been mercilessly strapped to the San Antonio Spurs' Tilt-a-Whirl of passing and
running and throttling defense. As the final seconds ticked off the clock, the
Rockets looked a bit woozy, too.

It is nearly mid-April, which means the Spurs are performing their yearly ritual
of terrifying the rest of the league. At Houston on Friday, led by Tim Duncan's
game-high 29 points, they won a 10th consecutive game, 104-103. During this
streak, the Spurs' average margin of victory has been 18 points. They have won
20 of their past 23, and with two regular-season games to play, they are
rounding into form to defend their title.

It has felt familiar, except for one thing: For years upon years, the men known
as the Big Three -- Tim Duncan, 38; Manu Ginobili, 37; and Tony Parker, 32 --
have set the tone. But in the last couple of months, the three veterans have
been trying in earnest to cede the spotlight to Kawhi Leonard, the team's quiet
small forward, a herculean athlete.

''He's playing great right now, and I think his confidence is building. He
understands what his role is, and we're riding him right now,'' said Duncan, who
seemed perfectly content having scored only 6 points on Wednesday. ''He's been
playing unbelievably, and he's been the driving force behind us these last 10 or
15 games. Hopefully he can do what he does over these last few games, and we'll
continue to support him.''

Leonard, 23, had a relatively quiet night Wednesday by his recent standards: 20
points, 4 steals and 3 rebounds. But he shot 9 for 15 from the field and was
unneeded for much of the fourth quarter, as the Spurs ran away with a 110-98
win.

After that game, Parker, who led all scorers with 27 points while playing on a
sore right ankle, rhetorically passed the torch to his young teammate.

''It's going to be Kawhi's team, anyway,'' Parker said. ''Timmy transitioned to
Manu, Manu transitioned to me, and now it's going to be transitioned to Kawhi.
I'll try my best to stay aggressive and be involved, but Kawhi is going to be
the man.''

Leonard always seemed poised to break out -- but that he would be ''the man''
was never guaranteed. He was named the most valuable player of the N.B.A. finals
last season and, in his brief time as a professional, has distinguished himself
as one of the league's strongest and savviest defenders.

Leonard, whose long arms and big hands dangle down almost to the hem of his
baggy shorts and untucked jersey, notched seven steals in a recent victory over
the Golden State Warriors, the top team in the Western Conference.

Kevin McHale, the coach of the Rockets, said it was obvious that Leonard had
achieved a new level of lucidity on defense.

''You get to a point where your mind and body and everything kind of melds
together, and the game actually becomes pretty easy,'' McHale said. ''You just
feel that you know what guys are going to do. You've played them a lot of times.
You make them take shots you want them to take. You take away stuff you want to
take away. You dictate to them when they have the ball. Normally, guys are
dictating to you.''

But it has been Leonard's performance on offense that has pushed him into the
spotlight.

Going into Friday's rematch against Houston, he was averaging 16.5 points a
game, and four times this season he has matched his high regular-season point
total, 26. His scoring averages have reflected his improvement and his
developing role: He averaged 7.9 points as a rookie, 11.9 in his second year and
12.8 in his third.

Since the beginning of March and before Friday's game, he was averaging 19.6
points (with a 55.5 shooting percentage), 6.5 rebounds, 2.9 steals and 2.7
assists a game.

Over the past few weeks, the Spurs have been running more isolation plays for
Leonard, who missed time this season with a torn ligament in his right hand. His
muscular body has posed a challenge for defenders. He has found a sweet spot
along the baseline, where he comfortably sinks hook shots and jump shots.

''He's just becoming more confident in what he does,'' Spurs Coach Gregg
Popovich said. ''It's just feeling a little bit more natural and not forced. He
understands that I trust him. We go to him a little bit more.''

Leonard's prodigious strength and athleticism have always been obvious, and they
were on display again in the second half of the game on Wednesday night.

About three minutes after halftime, Leonard finished a breakaway dunk with the
nonchalance of someone lifting an arm to drop a letter into a mail slot. Later
in the quarter, corralling a Rockets miss, he bounded the length of the court,
slashed through the defense and propelled himself to the rim for a layup that
gave the Spurs a 13-point lead.

Midway through the fourth, with the Spurs looking for a knockout punch, Leonard
simply dropped a hefty shoulder and rumbled to the basket to delight the crowd
again with a swooping layup. Seconds later, the Rockets' starters were on the
bench.

''The game does slow down each year as you keep playing,'' said Leonard, who
will be a restricted free agent this summer. He deflected a question about his
recent personal brilliance: ''Once you have a whole group on the same page, each
individual tends to play better.''

Popovich has pointed out that Leonard almost seems bored when he plays, so muted
are his emotions on the court. This is something that Popovich loves: ''He's
gotten over himself, and he understands that it's just basketball, and he didn't
invent the wheel or anything.''

It is just basketball, Spurs basketball, with the perennially dizzying results.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/sports/basketball/spurs-prepare-to-pass-the-to
rch-and-kawhi-leonard-is-ready.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kawhi Leonard (2) and James  Harden on Wednesday. ''It's  going
to be Kawhi's team,''  Tony Parker said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN ABATE/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN ANTONIO SPURS (94%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (83%)

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Hawks Deny Being With Copeland

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A ROUNDUP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words


Pero Antic said he and his Atlanta Hawks teammate Thabo Sefolosha were not with
Indiana Pacers forward Chris Copeland when Copeland was stabbed outside a
Manhattan nightclub this week. Antic and Sefolosha were at the scene early
Wednesday. They were charged with obstructing the authorities and disorderly
conduct and were released without bail. On Friday, Antic, speaking for the first
time about the scene at the arrest, said he and Sefolosha had not been part of
Copeland's group. ''We don't have nothing to do with what happened with that,''
Antic said. ''We weren't together. We didn't even see the guy, and whatever
happened, happened way before.'' The National Basketball Players Association
said in a statement that it was investigating the arrests.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); ATHLETES (88%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT
(70%); BAIL (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA HAWKS (93%); INDIANA PACERS (84%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Underdogs in Semifinals

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | TENNIS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 83 words


Madison Keys and Lucie Hradecka are surprise semifinalists at the Family Circle
Cup in Charleston, S.C. Keys, the seventh seed, beat Lauren Davis, 6-2, 6-2.
Hradecka, a qualifier, knocked out the No. 4 seed Sara Errani, 6-2, 6-4. Keys
and Hradecka will play Saturday.

Third-seeded Andrea Petkovic, the defending champion, advanced with a 2-6, 6-3,
6-1 victory over the qualifier Danka Kovinic. Petkovic will face fifth-seeded
Angelique Kerber, who beat No. 13 seed Irina-Camelia Begu, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (4).



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/tennis/underdogs-in-semifinals-at-famil
y-circle-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (72%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rapids End Long Skid

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SOCCER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 21 words


Dillon Powers had a goal and an assist, and Colorado beat host F.C. Dallas, 4-0,
as the Rapids ended an 18-game winless streak.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/soccer/rapids-end-18-game-skid-with-win
-over-fc-dallas.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kaminsky Is Top Player

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | COLLEGE BASKETBALL;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 67 words


Frank Kaminsky of Wisconsin won the John R. Wooden Award as the top player in
men's college basketball at the first College Basketball Awards from Club Nokia
in Los Angeles.

Breanna Stewart of Connecticut won the Wooden Award as the women's college
basketball player of the year.

â-  The Wisconsin forward Sam Dekker decided to skip his senior season with the
Badgers and enter the N.B.A. draft. (AP)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/ncaabasketball/frank-kaminsky-is-top-pl
ayer.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS AWARDS
(88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Islanders Beat Penguins

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | HOCKEY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 109 words


John Tavares broke a tie with his 37th goal of the season early in the third
period and the Islanders pulled away to beat the host Pittsburgh Penguins, 3-1,
on Friday night.

The Islanders can finish no worse than third in the Metropolitan Division, but
the Penguins failed to lock up a postseason berth. Pittsburgh still has several
ways it can make the playoffs.

â-  Cam Atkinson scored on a rebound midway through the third period, and Sergei
Bobrovsky made 23 saves to lead the host Columbus Blue Jackets to a 4-2 victory
over Buffalo, assuring the Sabres the worst overall record in the league and the
best chance at the No. 1 pick in the N.H.L. draft.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/hockey/islanders-beat-penguins.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (86%)

COMPANY: COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); COLUMBUS BLUE
JACKETS (55%)

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (75%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giants Linebacker Barred

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 54 words


Giants linebacker Victor Butler was suspended without pay for the first four
games of the regular season for violating the N.F.L.'s policy on
performance-enhancing substances, the league announced Friday. Butler played two
games with Indianapolis last season and signed a reserve future contract with
the Giants in January.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/football/giants-linebacker-victor-butle
r-is-suspended.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (66%)

STATE: INDIANA, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Cautions Prosecutor Over Remarks on Silver Case

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 578 words


A judge refused on Friday to dismiss corruption charges against Assemblyman
Sheldon Silver, whose lawyers had argued that Preet Bharara, the United States
attorney in Manhattan, had made improper statements that deprived their client
of the presumption of innocence.

But the judge, Valerie E. Caproni of Federal District Court, said she did not
''condone the government's brinksmanship relative to the defendant's fair trial
rights, or the media blitz orchestrated by the U.S. attorney's office'' in the
days after the arrest of Mr. Silver, the former State Assembly speaker.

She cited a news conference held by Mr. Bharara on the day of the arrest in
January, and a series of posts on Twitter from his office citing his comments
and a previously scheduled speech he gave the next day in which he condemned
Albany's culture of corruption.

''In this case,'' the judge wrote, ''the U.S. attorney, while castigating
politicians in Albany for playing fast and loose with the ethical rules that
govern their conduct, strayed so close to the edge of the rules governing his
own conduct that defendant Sheldon Silver has a non-frivolous argument that he
fell over the edge to the defendant's prejudice.''

Mr. Silver, a Democrat from the Lower East Side of Manhattan, was forced to step
down as speaker after his arrest. Prosecutors have accused him of abusing his
office in order to obtain nearly $4 million in illicit payments through two law
firms, while maintaining publicly that the income came from bona fide legal
work.

He has pleaded not guilty to two counts of honest services fraud and one count
of extortion under the color of official right.

Mr. Silver's lawyers had asked Judge Caproni to dismiss the indictment or to
poll the grand jury that indicted him to determine the impact of the
prosecutor's comments.

The government had asked the judge to deny the motion, noting that Mr. Bharara
had repeatedly emphasized that the charges were only allegations and
''explicitly stated'' that Mr. Silver ''was presumed innocent unless and until
proven guilty.''

Judge Caproni, in denying the defense's requests, cautioned both parties ''that
this case is to be tried in the courtroom and not in the press.''

She said she was ''troubled,'' in particular, by remarks by Mr. Bharara ''that
appeared to bundle together unproven allegations regarding the defendant with
broader commentary on corruption and a lack of transparency in certain aspects
of New York State politics.''

Prosecutors were afforded ''considerable latitude'' to speak about cases to
further law enforcement goals, she said. But she added that ''remarks that
associate the accused with a long line of convicted criminals,'' for example,
''tend to blur the distinction between legitimate public commentary and improper
opinion.''

The judge continued: ''A far more prudent course -- and one that would have been
far more respectful of the defendant's presumption of innocence and fair trial
rights -- would have been to delay the arrest until after the U.S. attorney's
speech and for the U.S. attorney to stay focused on politicians who have
actually been convicted.''

Mr. Bharara's office had no comment. Mr. Silver's lawyers, Joel Cohen and Steven
F. Molo, said in a statement that they were ''pleased that the court took
exception to the conduct of the United States attorney,'' and ''we look forward
to continuing our attack on the merits of the case and our client's ultimate
vindication.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/judge-cautions-us-attorney-over-remar
ks-on-sheldon-silver-case.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assemblyman Sheldon Silver,  who resigned as speaker, is accused
of abusing his office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN R. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); JUDGES (90%); ARRESTS (90%);
INDICTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ETHICS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%);
US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); FRAUD &
FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (75%); EXTORTION (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Service Officer Faces Charges in a Break-In

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 267 words


The Secret Service on Friday suspended a uniformed officer who was arrested in
Washington after being accused of breaking into his ex-girlfriend's home and
threatening to assault her.

The officer, Arthur Baldwin, kicked in the door of the woman's home and fled
before the police arrived, according to court documents. He was armed, according
to the Justice Department.

''My ex-boyfriend won't leave me alone,'' the woman told a police officer,
according to the court documents. The couple had been together for two years,
the authorities said.

The episode was the second embarrassing incident for the Secret Service this
week. On Wednesday, the agency said it had put a supervisor on leave after he
was accused of threatening to assault a female employee.

The Secret Service said in a statement that Officer Baldwin was assigned to its
Foreign Missions Branch, and that the agency's Office of Professional
Responsibility was investigating the matter. Officer Baldwin's security
clearance has been suspended, the statement said.

Officer Baldwin, 29, was charged with first-degree attempted burglary and
destruction of property. He appeared before a judge in Washington on Friday and
was released. The judge ordered him to stay away from the woman.

According to the Justice Department, the hinges on the woman's front door were
broken, and the door was dented and marked with footprint marks. Two windows
were broken.

The woman initially spoke to the police, but then stopped cooperating. Officer
Baldwin said he had kicked in the door, but that he had not broken any windows,
the authorities said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/service-officer-faces-charges-in-a-break-in
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DOMESTIC
OFFENSES (90%); VANDALISM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROPERTY
CRIMES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%);
BURGLARY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%);
INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Again Sets Changes for Schools on Climate

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 395 words


For the second time in less than five months, West Virginia has altered its
standards for teaching science to introduce doubts about the scientific
consensus on climate change.

This time, the changes are less contentious than those proposed last year, when
the state Board of Education quietly modified the state's version of nationally
developed science standards. The Next Generation Science Standards were
developed by 26 states to help establish consistent guidelines for teaching
science and reflect the overwhelming scientific consensus that climate change is
occurring and is greatly influenced by human activity.

The changes in December were proposed by L. Wade Linger Jr., a member of the
board and a technology entrepreneur, who has expressed skepticism about climate
change and the impartiality of scientists involved in the field.

His proposed changes included edits to a requirement that sixth graders ''ask
questions to clarify evidence of the factors that have caused the rise in global
temperatures over the past century.'' Mr. Linger wanted the words ''and fall''
to be added after ''the rise.''

That change, and others, sparked a protest from educators, who said the board's
actions injected false information and politics into the classroom. Mr. Linger's
proposals were also seen as part of an effort to roll back or slow the adoption
of the new standards.

In January, the board reinstated the standard's original language subject to a
final vote. On Thursday, the board took up the standards again and voted to
adopt smaller, narrower changes. These new standards suggest that students
should ''develop skills'' to debate scientific issues, and support their
arguments, ''either claims or counterclaims with evidence.''

The board also substituted the word ''change'' for ''rise'' in the original
passage that read, ''a rise in global temperatures.''

Mr. Linger said that the new changes were intended to set a new overall tone for
scientific debate, ''rather than trying to go through and tweak every little
syllable that might feel like dogma or indoctrination.''

Joshua Rosenau, the programs and policy director for the National Center for
Science Education, said he considered the narrower changes acceptable, since
they do not introduce false information. He added: ''I can't quite motivate
myself to shout 'Victory!' from the rooftops.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/science/state-again-sets-changes-for-schools-o
n-climate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); CLIMATE
CHANGE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING
(89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CORRECTION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 38 words


An editorial on Friday about the National Rifle Association's convention
incorrectly described the rules for carrying concealed firearms at the event.
Carrying is prohibited at one of the main convention venues, not all of them.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FIREARMS
(90%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trickery and False Promises in Thailand

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 437 words


In a cynical sleight of hand, Thailand's military junta lifted martial law last
week only to replace it with even more draconian powers for the ruling military
junta led by Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha.

This is not what Thailand's friends and allies, including the United States, had
in mind when they encouraged the junta to lift martial law imposed after a
military coup last May. No one should be fooled by this move, designed more to
provide a political fig-leaf for foreign investors and for Thailand's tourism
industry, which is suffering because tourists have trouble getting travel
insurance for countries under martial law. It has little to do with restoring
democracy.

After seizing power last year, General Prayuth promised elections and a return
to civilian rule of law. Not only do those promises remain unfulfilled, but
General Prayuth, in place of martial law, has now granted himself sweeping
executive, legislative and judicial powers under Article 44 of Thailand's
interim Constitution.

Under Article 44, military personnel down to the rank of second lieutenant may
be appointed as ''peace and order maintenance officers,'' with the power to
search, arrest and detain people with no judicial oversight. Since the May coup,
more than 1,000 academics, activists, politicians and bloggers have been
detained or sent to Thai military installations for ''attitude adjustment.''

General Prayuth also now claims ''the power to close down the media, arrest
people, order for people to be shot.'' He said recently with apparent
seriousness that he would ''probably just execute'' journalists who did not toe
the government's line. The United States, the United Nations, the European Union
and human rights groups were quick to condemn the general's remarks.

Back in January, Daniel Russel, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian
and Pacific affairs, delivered a message from President Obama warning Thailand's
military junta it was ''losing credibility in the eyes of its international
friends and partners by not moving more quickly to end martial law.''

General Prayuth appears to have heard the part about martial law but apparently
did not choose to hear the rest of the message, which urged the restoration of
civil rights, the drafting of a new constitution with democratic participation,
and free elections.

Those are the main ingredients of any plausible strategy to heal the political
and regional divisions that have fomented political chaos and now risk
transforming Thailand, a major regional power, into a pariah state.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/trickery-and-false-promises-in-thailan
d.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARTIAL LAW (93%); MILITARY RULE (92%); COUPS (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); ARRESTS (88%); RULE OF LAW (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS
(75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TOURISM (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%);
TRAVEL INSURANCE (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%);
FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS
(67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); WRITERS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE
BOARDS (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR THE COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS
(58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER
STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spanish Judge Accuses Moroccan Former Officials of Genocide in Western Sahara

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 441 words


TUNIS --  A Spanish judge has ruled that 11 Moroccan former officials should
stand trial on charges of genocide in connection with killings and torture in
the former Spanish protectorate of Western Sahara from 1976 to 1991.

Judge Pablo Ruz ruled Thursday that there was evidence of crimes that amounted
to genocide against the Sahrawi people during the period when the territory was
annexed and controlled by Morocco. He specifically called for seven of the
former Moroccan military and political officials to be arrested and extradited
to Spain.

The decision, in the tradition of previous rulings that cross international
boundaries, is rooted in Spain's universal justice law, which has allowed
Spain's high court to hear cases of human rights violations committed anywhere
in the world. Legal reforms introduced in 2013 after protests from China reduced
the scope of the law, but Judge Ruz ruled that charges of genocide could still
be brought in this case because many of the victims were considered Spanish
citizens from the period when Western Sahara was a Spanish protectorate.

Morocco invaded and forcibly annexed Western Sahara in 1976 and fought a long
war against a pro-independence movement, the Polisario Front, forcing several
hundred thousand Sahrawis to flee into exile.

Since 1991 the United Nations has tried repeatedly to resolve the conflict
through a referendum on the territory's status and through bilateral talks, but
the efforts have been unsuccessful. Sahrawi activists have organized a campaign
for self-determination around human rights, while Morocco has insisted on its
sovereignty over the land.

The Spanish ruling cited evidence of a campaign of bombings, killings,
disappearances and torture from the period of the war, saying it amounted to ''a
generalized and systematic assault against the Sahrawi civil population by the
Moroccan military and police.''

Judge Ruz, who is scheduled to step down from his post soon, was ruling on an
investigation initiated by a noted judge, Baltasar Garzón, after human rights
groups claimed that 500 Sahrawis had disappeared since 1975.

The ruling is likely to upset Morocco, which has tried in recent years to
improve its image on human rights. It has been accused of torturing detainees in
its prisons in the past, and running a black site used by the C.I.A. for
terrorism suspects after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Sáenz de Santamaria of Spain said on Friday that
the government respected judicial decisions, but she did not say whether it
would seek the extradition of the suspects.

Morocco's government did not comment on the ruling.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/europe/spanish-judge-accuses-moroccan-fo
rmer-officials-of-genocide-in-western-sahara.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); HUMAN
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); TORTURE (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUITS &
CLAIMS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(73%); TERRORISM (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%);
INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (65%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

COUNTRY: WESTERN SAHARA (98%); SPAIN (94%); MOROCCO (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


''It just takes a random billionaire to change a race and maybe change the
country.''

TREVOR POTTER, a Republican campaign finance lawyer, talking in part about
Robert Mercer, a major financial supporter of Ted Cruz's candidacy.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parking Rules

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 47 words


Because of Good Friday (Orthodox) and Passover, alternate-side street-cleaning
regulations will be suspended in New York City on Friday and Saturday. Other
regulations will remain in effect.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/new-york-parking-alert-alternate-si
de-parking-rules-suspended-through-saturday/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Time, Nets Pound Wizards And Bolster Push for Playoffs

BYLINE: By TOM PEDULLA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; NETS 117, WIZARDS 80; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 659 words


Randy Wittman, the coach of the Washington Wizards, tried to warn his players
before Friday's game against the Nets that they were about to face a far
different opponent from the one they drubbed by 37 points at home on Feb. 7.

His message went unheeded.

The Nets, playing with more togetherness, energy and urgency than Washington had
seen before, blew past the Wizards, 117-80, to continue their playoff push with
their 10th victory in the last 13 games.

The most lopsided victory by the Nets (37-42) since they started to play at
Barclays Center in 2012 enabled them to remain in the eighth, and final, playoff
spot in the Eastern Conference.

The Boston Celtics have an identical record but hold the tiebreaker and are in
seventh place.

With the Nets soaring -- they amassed 29 assists with only six turnovers --
Coach Lionel Hollins is focused on sweeping the final three games of a regular
season that once seemed lost.

''If we win out, we're in,'' Hollins said. ''That's the beauty of it. We're not
worried about anybody.''

The Nets visit the Milwaukee Bucks and Jason Kidd, their former coach, on Sunday
before playing at home against the Chicago Bulls on Monday and the Orlando Magic
on Wednesday.

The Nets' confidence has risen along with their position in the standings.

''With this team, the sky is the limit,'' forward Thaddeus Young said. ''We
think we can play with anybody as long as we execute and do the things we do.''

Although Wittman praised the Nets beforehand by saying, ''They are playing as
well as anyone right now,'' that did not keep him from resting John Wall, his
stellar fourth-year point guard, for the second consecutive game.

Wall also sat out when Washington pounded the lowly Philadelphia 76ers, 119-90,
on the road Wednesday.

Wittman's decision did not reflect any disrespect of the Nets; it merely had to
do with his team's strong position in the Eastern Conference standings. The
issue is not whether Washington (45-34) will advance to the playoffs, but where
the Wizards will be seeded and whether they will do enough to earn home-court
advantage.

Apparently, that was not sufficient motivation. An exasperated Wittman said
afterward that his team was a ''no-show.''

He added: ''This was, basically: Come out and play the game, it's on the
schedule, and we're in New York. We had no rhyme or reason to what we were doing
out there from the start.''

The Nets were blazing early and their benched poured it on late, outscoring the
dispirited Wizards by 42-18 in the fourth quarter. In a sign of how badly
Hollins wanted a fast start -- not to mention the game -- center Brook Lopez and
point guard Deron Williams played all 12 minutes of a first quarter in which the
Nets sprinted to a 31-14 margin. Lopez poured in 14 points with 5 rebounds in
the quarter. Williams piled up seven assists.

Lopez became the sixth member of the Nets to snare 3,000 for his career. He
joined Buck Williams and Kidd as the only players in club history to score 7,000
points with 3,000 rebounds.

With Lopez reaching 20 points, the Nets built a 54-38 halftime lead. Their 17
assists with three turnovers reflected how selflessly and efficiently they
operated on offense, connecting on 51.1 percent of their field-goal attempts (24
of 47).

Defensively, they often had the Wizards scrambling to beat the shot clock. The
Wizards hit just 38.1 percent (16 of 42) from the field in an opening half that
proved decisive.

Lopez led four Nets scorers in double figures with 26 points, the ninth time in
the last 13 games he had tallied 25 or more. He reached that mark just five
times through the first 56 games. Bojan Bogdanovic (22 points) and Jarrett Jack
(14) led a strong effort by the bench. Young contributed 10 points.

Bogdanovic, playing despite a sore throat, made all six of his 3-point attempts.

''Brook is killing everything, so they have to trap him,'' he said. ''So there
are many open looks for the guards.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/basketball/this-time-nets-pound-wizards
-and-bolster-push-for-playoffs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brook Lopez, who finished with 26 points for the Nets, defending
the Wizards'  Nene on Friday night. The Nets breezed to their 10th victory in
the last 13 games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (91%); BOSTON CELTICS
(56%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (55%); CHICAGO BULLS (54%); ORLANDO MAGIC (54%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%);
NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Celtics Hold On to Win at Cleveland

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 626 words


Marcus Smart scored 19 points, and the visiting Boston Celtics maintained their
grip on a playoff spot by holding off the short-handed Cleveland Cavaliers,
99-90, on Friday night.

Five Celtics players scored in double figures. Isaiah Thomas had 17 points,
Avery Bradley scored 15, Tyler Zeller had 13, and Brandon Bass added 12.

The Celtics and the Nets are tied, at 37-42, but the Celtics hold the tiebreaker
after winning three of the four meetings between them. Boston is 21-12 since
Feb. 21, when it was a season-high 14 games below .500.

The Cavaliers played without the injured All-Star Kyrie Irving and used their
reserves extensively after having clinched the No. 2 seed in the East on
Wednesday. Cleveland entered the game having won 18 consecutive home games.

Kevin Love led Cleveland with 19 points.

THUNDER 116, KINGS 103 Russell Westbrook scored 27 points and had 10 assists as
Oklahoma City held off visiting Sacramento and remained even with New Orleans
for the final playoff spot in the Western Conference.

Oklahoma City scored the last 6 points of the first half, then the Kings fought
back again in the third quarter.

The Thunder closed the quarter strong, outscoring Sacramento by 10-4 with
Westbrook leading the way. He hit a 3-pointer and a driving layup to put the
Thunder back in front for good.

PELICANS 90, SUNS 75 Anthony Davis had 19 points and 9 rebounds, leading host
New Orleans past Phoenix.

Eric Gordon scored 15 points, Tyreke Evans had 14, and Dante Cunningham and
Norris Cole each added 12 to help the Pelicans keep pace with Oklahoma City.
Omer Asik had a season-high 18 rebounds.

PACERS 107, PISTONS 103 Rodney Stuckey scored 24 points, including three
straight jumpers down the stretch, and Indiana kept up its playoff push with a
win at Detroit.

Indiana (36-43) has won four in a row and is one game behind the Nets and the
Boston Celtics for the last two Eastern Conference playoff spots. All three
teams won on Friday.

RAPTORS 101, MAGIC 99 Lou Williams made a 3-pointer with 9.9 seconds left to
lift Toronto to a win at Orlando, the Raptors' 11th straight victory over the
Magic.

DeMar DeRozan led Toronto with 29 points. Tyler Hansbrough added 16 points, and
Williams finished with 13.

BUCKS 99, KNICKS 91 Giannis Antetokounmpo returned to the lineup, scoring 23
points, and helped move Milwaukee to the verge of a playoff spot with victory at
the Knicks.

The Bucks would have secured a place in the postseason with losses by either
Boston, the Nets or Indiana, but all three won.

Langston Galloway scored 20 points, and Lance Thomas added 16 for the Knicks.

HAWKS 104, HORNETS 80 Mike Muscala scored 17 points, and host Atlanta beat
Charlotte, reaching 60 wins for the first time in franchise history.

Kyle Korver had 16 points for Atlanta (60-19), and Al Horford finished with 15
points and 8 rebounds.

TWO HAWKS DENY BEING WITH COPELAND Pero Antic said he and his Atlanta Hawks
teammate Thabo Sefolosha were not with Indiana Pacers forward Chris Copeland
when Copeland was stabbed outside a Manhattan nightclub this week.

Antic and Sefolosha were at the scene early Wednesday. They were charged with
obstructing the authorities and disorderly conduct and were released without
bail.

On Friday, Antic, speaking for the first time about the scene at the arrest,
said he and Sefolosha had not been part of Copeland's group.

''We don't have nothing to do with what happened with that,'' Antic said. ''We
weren't together. We didn't even see the guy, and whatever happened, happened
way before.''

The National Basketball Players Association said in a statement that it was
investigating the arrests.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/basketball/celtics-hold-on-to-win-at-cl
eveland.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS
(89%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (94%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (91%); SACRAMENTO KINGS
(83%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%); PHOENIX SUNS (54%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA
(90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (87%); DETROIT, MI, USA (68%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA
(67%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%);
OKLAHOMA, USA (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (68%); ONTARIO, CANADA (67%); WEST USA (56%);
GEORGIA, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Truck and Bus With Athletes Crash in Morocco, and 33 Die

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 241 words


RABAT, Morocco --  A fiery head-on collision between a semitrailer truck and a
bus carrying a delegation of young athletes in southern Morocco on Friday killed
33 people and injured seven, according to the state news agency and local news
media reports.

The crash took place just before sunrise at 7 a.m. in the Chbika district, near
Tan-Tan, a southern desert city, the news agency reported.

A video posted by the French-language newspaper L'Economiste shows the flaming
wreckage of the tour bus, which caught fire after a collision with what the
newspaper identified as a tanker truck carrying hydrocarbons. The video shows
people wandering around the burning hulk in a desert landscape.

According to details provided by the Le360.ma news site, the bus was carrying
young athletes and officials from the Ministry of Youth and Sports who were
involved in a national sports competition.

Les Inspirations Éco, a newspaper, reported on its website that the athletes
were from the northern town of Bouznika and from Laayoune, a city farther to the
south in Western Sahara, a territory controlled by Morocco. It added that the
celebrated 10-kilometer runner Hassan Issengar, 31, was among the dead.

According to the State Department website, traffic accidents are a ''significant
hazard'' in Morocco.

Although there are modern highways between the main cities, the rest of the
country is served by two-lane roads, many of them in poor condition.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/africa/truck-and-bus-with-athletes-crash
-in-morocco-and-33-die.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES
(77%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPECIAL
FREIGHT TRUCKING (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%)

CITY: RABAT, MOROCCO (88%)

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (94%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dog Bites Airbnb Guest. Who Pays?

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER.

Twitter: @ronlieber

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words


On Airbnb's short and startling ride to global ubiquity, it has delighted many
people. Hosts can rent rooms or their entire home and use the income to avoid
having a day job, to make ends meet or to get into the bed-and-breakfast
business without bothering with local licensing rules or all the usual red tape.

Travelers get to express their displeasure with local hotels and their sky-high
prices and double-digit taxes. Plus, they can stay in residential neighborhoods
or rural areas where inns might not exist.

That's all well and good until somebody gets hurt. Which is what happened late
last month to Mike Silverman, a 58-year-old American who encountered a host's
Rottweiler on the third day of his stay in Salta, Argentina.

By the time the dog was through with his arm, he had suffered a six-square-inch
gash and a handful of puncture wounds. When he first contacted Airbnb, it
declined to cover his two-night hospital stay, or do much of anything else
besides refund the money for his aborted stay.

And so it goes in the so-called sharing economy, where companies create a market
for others to sell rides and rent rooms, while wrapping themselves in
shiny-happy hero capes. But when it comes right down to it, what the companies
share most of all is risk, even if the chance of grievous injury is relatively
low.

Airbnb now claims more than one million listings in about 190 countries, and it
became that big in part by ignoring inconvenient local rules banning short-term
rentals. In the process, its hosts would sometimes  get caught upin the
enforcement of municipal codes. The company eventually warned hosts about this,
but it also never stopped taking their listings in cities or buildings where the
rules were reasonably clear. Many municipalities have since changed their laws
in the company's favor.

Insurance companies frown upon people turning their houses into hostels and have
even threatened to cancel the policies of homeowners who do this. While Airbnb
knew this when it started in 2008, it began to provide liability insurance for
its hosts only late last year. And that coverage is secondary: Hosts have to
make initial claims to their own insurers, which may cancel the policies if they
find out about the hosts' innkeeping activities.

All this is irrelevant for Mr. Silverman, however, since Airbnb's new liability
coverage doesn't extend outside the United States. Over the last year, he and
his wife have driven from Alaska to the bottom of South America, trying to stick
to a budget of $100 a day.

The pair have stayed in about 20 Airbnb properties without incident over the
years. They tend to look for ones with kitchens and decent Wi-Fi, and they
carefully examine reviews written by previous guests. That's how they found a
place in Salta, in the far northwest of Argentina, for about $60 a night. Airbnb
said on Thursday that it pulled down the listing after the canine attack.

Quite often, a host's Airbnb listing will make no mention of a pet. The Salta
listing and reviews didn't mention the fact, and in the first couple of days
that Mr. Silverman and his wife stayed at the property, the dog never barked or
growled or moved much, despite plenty of activity near the building, according
to Mr. Silverman.

Which is why he was shocked when he stuck his hand out to the dog for a sniff a
few days into his Salta stay, only to have the dog leap and clamp its jaw on his
arm.

In some respects, Mr. Silverman was lucky. He has a plate in his forearm from a
motorcycle accident, and he believes that when the dog's teeth hit the plate, it
loosened its grip momentarily to try to bite again. At that point, he was able
to get away.

''I looked down, and I knew instantly it was bad,'' he said. ''I could see my
artery, the tendons exposed and the muscle. There was blood everywhere.''

At the hospital, the couple was required to pay a deposit before he could be
admitted for the night, and the owner of the flat could not provide it, so the
couple had to come up with the cash. The immediate medical concern was the risk
of infection, which tends to be higher in older bite victims. Ten days after the
attack, some of the wounds still had not yet closed completely.

Mr. Silverman may have rattled Airbnb in his request to be reimbursed for his
medical bills and additional lodging costs -- compensation beyond the original
room refund the company offered. He wrote in an email to Airbnb: ''There is also
a pain and suffering element as well as, perhaps, permanent nerve damage. Have
you ever been attacked by a large dog? When I close my eyes at night, I see this
thing tearing at my arm and blood everywhere -- which is exactly what
happened.''

But Airbnb's initial email responses politely turned him away. ''Please
understand our refund was an attempt to soften the impact of an unfortunate
accident and to provide our best possible customer service to you,'' one said.
''Unfortunately, per our terms of service, we are unable to consider any request
for compensation in liability scenario such as this.'' Then it went on to say
how much the company valued him as a guest and wished him well in his recovery.

The response, however, changed right after I inquired on his behalf, with the
company then asking for his medical bills and the receipts for his lodging
expenses.

Nick Papas, an Airbnb spokesman, added the following in an email: ''Over 30
million guests have stayed on Airbnb, and these kinds of incidents are
incredibly rare, but when they happen, we try to make things right. This was a
terrible incident, and we're working with the guest to help cover his medical
and other expenses and we've provided a full refund.''

Mr. Silverman respects a fair bit of what Airbnb has accomplished. He spent
years as a technology and strategy consultant, and he's enough of a student of
the world to see how much economic opportunity the site creates for many hosts
in countries with low average incomes. He's also aware of what he refers to as
the Latin American view of liability, which is that bad things sometimes happen
to people, and there's not much you can do about it when they do.

But less experienced Americans and Europeans may not know about these attitudes,
or the possible lack of insurance in many countries when they make their
reservations.

Instead, they take comfort in the Airbnb brand, all of the company's positive
press and the fact that it usually provides happy experiences. All the more
reason then, in Mr. Silverman's opinion, for the company to provide some kind of
insurance backstop all over the world.

''There's just an obligation on the part of an organization that is providing
hospitality to have some level of protection for both their hosts and for the
guests that use that facility,'' he said. ''They seem to want to deny that they
are in the business that they are in.''

Mr. Silverman wanted to know how many accidents have happened at Airbnb-listed
properties. I've asked the company for this information before and gotten
nowhere, and the same thing was true this time. So we don't know how many other
dog bites have occurred, and we don't know whether travelers have died of carbon
monoxide poisoning, say, in illegally converted hostels.

Mr. Papas of Airbnb did say that the company was seeking to expand its host
liability coverage to other countries. Until that happens the world over, here's
hoping that the company's quick change of heart in Mr. Silverman's case reflects
a determination to pay claims for serious injuries without the injured having to
put up a fight.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/your-money/questions-about-airbnbs-responsibil
ity-after-vicious-attack-by-dog.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kerry Lin treats Mike Silverman, bitten by an Airbnb host's
dog. (B1)
 The Airbnb-listed house in Salta, Argentina, where Mike Silverman  and his
wife, Kerry Lin, stayed before he was attacked  by the host's dog. The listing
said nothing about a dog, but the  incident pointed out the messy insurance
issues around liability  for hosts and risks for guests. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANIBAL
ADRIAN GRECO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BITES & STINGS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); INSURANCE (87%);
HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); BUDGETS
(77%); PRICES (76%); DOGS (74%); SHARING ECONOMY (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE
(72%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS
(57%)

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle Class, or So They Think

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; A SHIFTING MIDDLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words


It's not only what you have, but how you feel.

When it comes to membership in the middle class, earnings and assets are just
part of the definition. Nearly nine out of 10 people consider themselves middle
class, as a recent survey by the Pew Research Center found, regardless of
whether their incomes languish near the poverty line or skim the top stratum of
earners.

''Middle income is not necessarily the same thing as middle class,'' said Rakesh
Kochhar, a senior research associate at Pew. Even as the proportion of
households in the middle-income brackets has narrowed, people's identification
with the middle class remains broad.

That's because the middle-class label is as much about aspirations among
Americans as it is about economics. But a perspective that was once
characterized by comfort and optimism has increasingly been overlaid with stress
and anxiety.

Part of the reason has to do with lost jobs and stagnating incomes. At the same
time, the psychological frame -- how Americans feel about their security and
prospects -- and the sociological -- how they stack up in relation to their
parents, friends, neighbors and colleagues -- are just as important as purely
economic criteria. And on both these counts, middle-class Americans say they are
feeling increasingly vulnerable.

''There is a very big difference between the psychological self-definition of
class and anything approaching a useful economic definition of class,'' said
Richard Reeves, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings
Institution. ''Policy in the end will hinge quite importantly on what you mean
when you're talking about the middle class and who you mean.''

And that's the political challenge for Democrats and Republicans looking to
inspire voters with policies to address what President Obama calls
''middle-class economics.'' Any appeals have to involve both cents and
sensibility.

Middle-class anxiety has been driven by several factors: increasing instability
in incomes, a sense among many Americans that they are failing to keep up with
the gains of previous generations, and an increasing gap between themselves and
the very rich.

A recent report from economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
concluded that ''families that are neither rich nor poor may be under more
downward economic and financial pressure than common but simplistic rank-based
measures of income or wealth would suggest.''

The study, conducted by William R. Emmons and Bryan J. Noeth, found that one
reason many Americans viewed themselves as struggling was that their real
incomes had not advanced significantly beyond their parents' even when they
reached higher educational levels, while those who matched their parents'
achievements were actually worse off.

As J. Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley,
put it: ''People who thought they were upwardly mobile are finding themselves
with no higher real incomes. And people who thought they were sociologically
stable are finding themselves poorer.''

Money, of course, provides the wherewithal for acquiring what are considered the
traditional bedrocks of a middle-class life: adequate health care, college for
the children and retirement savings, generally with a car and a regular summer
vacation thrown in.

Some version of that basket can be bought across a range of incomes, depending
on location. It might include a used Pontiac instead of a late-model Lexus, or a
small walk-up instead of a house with a backyard. And even though consumption
was once a useful shorthand guide to a middle-class lifestyle, it is no longer
as reliable in a world where cellphones and flat-screen TVs are staples in a
majority of households below the poverty line and retirement savings, even among
top earners, are often treated as a luxury.

There isn't one middle class, but many middle classes. Still, what all of them
ultimately require, experts say, is a sense of economic security.

''If there's no security, there's no middle class,'' said Thomas Hirschl, a
sociologist at Cornell and an author of ''Chasing the American Dream.''

That feeling of security has been eroded by several factors.

Median per capita income has basically been flat since 2000, adjusted for
inflation. The typical American family makes slightly less than a typical family
did 15 years ago. And while many goods have become cheaper or better, the price
of three of the biggest middle-class expenditures -- housing, college and health
care -- have gone up much faster than the rate of inflation.

Equally important, Mr. Hirschl found a high degree of income volatility among
most Americans in the four decades between 1969 and 2011. At some point in their
working lives, a full 70 percent earned enough to put them in the top fifth of
earners, and as many as 30 percent reached the equivalent of $200,000 in 2009
dollars, or roughly the top 4 percent.

Similarly, nearly 80 percent at least temporarily plunged into a red zone, where
their income dropped near or below the poverty line, or they were compelled to
gain access to a social safety net program like food stamps or collect
unemployment insurance. More than half of Americans ages 25 to 60 will
experience at least one year hovering around the poverty line.

For most people, their 20s and 30s have traditionally been the least secure
decades, with earning power building to a peak in their 40s and 50s, Mr. Hirschl
said. But the recession upended that pattern for many Americans. Older workers
experienced an extended bout of unemployment, often followed by a new job at a
lower wage.

A recent Pew Research Center poll found that four out of 10 Americans said
household incomes had hardly recovered from the recession; most everyone else
said there had been only a partial recovery.

And compared with the mid-'90s, a smaller share of Americans now say they
believe it is possible to start out poor, work hard and get rich, the classic
tale captured by the American dream.

Income volatility has given many people both a taste of life in an upper-income
bracket and a bracing slap of instability.

''Income fluidity is a double-edged sword, creating opportunity for many, along
with insecurity that this opportunity may end sooner than hoped for,'' Mr.
Hirschl concluded.

What is particularly surprising about the increasing income volatility since the
1970s, said Dan Sichel, an economics professor at Wellesley College, is that it
coincided with an unusually stable stint of economic growth that lasted from the
mid-1980s until the recession in 2007.

''There was a big increase in the number of people who saw big drops in their
income,'' Mr. Sichel said.

That psychological lens helps explain rising middle-class anxiety. What about
the social frame? Here, increasing inequality has helped undermine middle-class
security and optimism.

Economists and other researchers have repeatedly found that the satisfaction a
paycheck brings is related not only to its size, but how it compares to other
people's. That verity is apparently more pointed for middle-income households
than for those at the lower and higher end of the spectrum.

A review of the latest studies on the middle class by the Congressional Research
Service concluded that ''when those at the upper end of the distribution fare
much better than they do, the level of middle-class satisfaction is generally
lessened.''

Yet in the last 15 years, nearly all of the gains in income have streamed toward
the upper end of the spectrum.

Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University and the author of ''The
Winner-Take-All Society,'' explains that across most white-collar professions --
whether dentists or sales supervisors -- a very small group at the top is doing
spectacularly better even as a great majority is mostly plugging along. ''No
matter who you are, whatever group you define yourself in terms of, you're
poorer now in relative terms than you were earlier,'' he said.

The feeling of comparative deprivation and the ultrarich separating themselves
from the rest of society helps explain why only 1 percent of Americans accept
the rich or upper-income label. Even most people earning over $250,000 -- the
top 5 percent of wage earners -- identify as middle class. There's always
someone wealthier around.

''The gap between you and them is much bigger than it used to be,'' Mr. Frank
said. ''That's why people feel more stressed out than they used to.''

Articles in this series focus on the reshaping of the American economy and its
effects on the workforce and the middle class. Read Part I and Part II.

A Shifting Middle: Articles in this series are focusing on the reshaping of the
American economy and its effects on the work force and the middle class.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/economy/middle-class-but-feeling-econ
omically-insecure.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A suburban family in 1958. Many Americans sense that they are
failing to keep up with the gains of previous generations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY H.
ARMSTRONG ROBERTS/CLASSICSTOCK/CORBIS)   CHART: Economic Roller Coaster:   By
the age of 60, almost 80 percent of Americans have drawn on unemployment
insurance or welfare, or have fallen into poverty for at least a year. By
contrast, more  than 30 percent have received an exceptionally high income for
one year or more.  Many experience both extremes. (Source: ''Chasing the
American Dream,'' Thomas A. Hirschl (Cornell University))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (93%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COMPANY
EARNINGS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); FAMILY (76%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL
RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Role Player Homers, but He Can't Save Mets

BYLINE: By TIM ROHAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; BRAVES 5, METS 3; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 722 words


ATLANTA --  During batting practice, the common approach is to bat that day's
starters, the top hitters, in the first few groups. On Friday, the Mets' second
group included David Wright, Daniel Murphy, Curtis Granderson, and -- John
Mayberry Jr.?

The Mets were facing a left-handed pitcher -- Atlanta's Eric Stults -- for the
first time in this young season, and Manager Terry Collins had unveiled his
right-handed lineup with Mayberry batting third, the spot where Lucas Duda
usually bats.

Seeing Mayberry there may have looked odd. Before Friday, he had started a game
batting third only twice. The Mets signed him to a one-year, $1.45 million deal
this off-season, but they did so for a specific purpose. They need him to hit
left-handed pitching.

Mayberry does that well -- well enough that the Mets will often use him in place
of Duda or Granderson, their two lefties who struggle against left-handers.

Mayberry, technically, did his job Friday; he homered off Stults. But he struck
out late, against a right-hander, with the go-ahead run on second base. The
Braves capitalized on two Wilmer Flores errors and a fielding gaffe by Wright,
to win, 5-3.

''We gave them some extra outs, two or three of them tonight,'' Collins said.
''As I told you, at this level, you're going to get beat if you do that.''

The addition of Mayberry and, more important, Michael Cuddyer to go along with
David Wright has made the Mets' right-handed lineup look more formidable, though
it was not all that powerful against the Braves. Collins had the three of them
batting in order: second, third and fourth.

Standing at 6 feet 6 inches tall and weighing 235 pounds, Mayberry rivals Duda's
size and is an imposing figure at the plate. His father, John Mayberry, played
in the majors for more than a decade, made two All-Star teams and finished
second in the voting for the 1975 American League Most Valuable Player Award.

The younger Mayberry was a first-round pick in the 2005 draft but never played
like a first-round pick. He has lasted this long mostly because he can hit
left-handers.

Over his career, he has batted .269 against them, compiling 68 extra-base hits
and 78 R.B.I. in fewer at-bats than one full season's worth. He made a good
first impression with the Mets this spring, hitting .415 with four home runs.

Collins said he chose to bat Mayberry third partly because he did not want to
disturb the rest of the order.

Friday seemed to be an opportune time for Mayberry to make his debut. The Mets
were scheduled to face three left-handers in their next six games, and Stults
was not all that intimidating, a 35-year-old journeyman signed to on a
minor-league deal.

In the fourth inning, ahead 1-2 on Wright, Stults tried fooling him with a
looping curveball, and Wright golfed it over the outfield wall. On the next
pitch, Stults floated an 87-mile-per-hour fastball over the plate, and Mayberry
crushed it.

In the dugout, Jon Niese, the starter, patted Wilmer Flores on the chest, as if
to reassure him. The game was tied at 3-3 then, mostly because Flores had made
two throwing errors in the first three innings that allowed the Braves to add
two runs.

''I'm not going to make excuses,'' Flores said. ''I just made two bad throws.''

Another fielding gaffe ultimately did the Mets in.

In the eighth, the score still tied, with one out and a runner on second, Wright
fielded a ground ball from Andrelton Simmons. Instead of throwing to first, he
tried to tag the runner coming from second, Jace Peterson, who scooted around
him safely. By the time Wright turned around, Simmons was scampering to second
base, which had been left uncovered. Rafael Montero, the Mets' pitcher at the
time, then intentionally walked the bases loaded to create a double play
opportunity.

Montero struck out Cameron Maybin. Then he fell into a 3-2 count with Phil
Gosselin and fired a 95 m.p.h. fastball that Gosselin roped into the outfield,
scoring two runs.

''You have a split second to make a decision,'' Wright said. ''I made a
decision, and it turned out to be the incorrect one.''

The Mets had had their opportunity to take the lead in the top half of the
inning, but it was against a right-hander, the Braves' Jim Johnson. With Wright,
the go-ahead run, on second base, Mayberry and Cuddyer had struck out to end the
inning.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/baseball/against-left-handers-mets-look
-to-john-mayberry-jr.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mets catcher Travis d'Arnaud tagged out Andrelton Simmons  of
the Braves at home plate in the second inning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN C. COX/GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (82%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: 'Blues Symphony' by Wynton Marsalis Has Its New York Premiere

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 462 words


Classical composers have long been lured by the jazz tradition, with George
Antheil and George Gershwin among the first to write jazz-influenced orchestral
works. Jazz musicians have also written for traditional orchestras, and
contemporary artists including Steve Coleman and Henry Threadgill have recently
been commissioned by the American Composers Orchestra to cross genres.

On Thursday at the Rose Theater, George Manahan conducted the ensemble in the
New York premiere of Wynton Marsalis's ''Blues Symphony.'' Almost an hour long,
this exploration of the blues felt toward the end like an interminable pastiche,
an array of references unfolding in dizzying succession over seven movements,
each using the basic blues form.

Mr. Marsalis highlights important historical developments in the genre, and the
symphony certainly has its alluring moments: the texturally rich opening
movement, with its lively piccolo and nod to the American Revolution, and a
soulful evocation of an African-American Baptist church service. The trumpeter
Wayne du Maine vividly rendered the jazz trumpet solo in the third movement.

Along the way, the score segues into references to various cities (1890 New
Orleans; 20th-century Harlem; Charleston, S.C.), musical luminaries (the flutist
Alberto Socarras and the drummer Max Roach) and styles (ragtime, gospel, bossa
nova and choro). The musicians played with vigor and commitment, but the
compositional approach seemed more appropriate to a lecture hall than a concert
hall.

Mr. Marsalis attended the same New Orleans high school as the composer Courtney
Bryan, whose ''Sanctum'' received its premiere on Thursday. Ms. Bryan took
inspiration from recorded sermons, like Shirley Caesar's ''The Praying Slave
Lady,'' and recent events in Ferguson, Mo., layering uneasy string sections with
the sounds of moaning and recordings of rallying cries like ''Hands up, don't
shoot.''

Although Ms. Bryan's orchestral writing sometimes proved simplistic, the brief
moments of calm in the work did evoke a refuge in difficult times.

One of Ms. Bryan's aims was to depict the improvisatory aspect of preaching
traditions. The term ''improvisatory flair'' is sometimes used to describe
performances of strictly notated pieces that sound spontaneous. And it could
certainly apply to the vivid rendition by the pianist Uri Caine of his Double
Trouble for soloist and orchestra, which features a notated part for orchestra
and a mostly improvised part for soloist.

Mr. Caine wrote the piece (a commission from the orchestra) in 2008; this
version featured a score for expanded ensemble. Mr. Caine's dynamic
improvisations created a witty conversation with the ensemble, a sometimes
raucous dialogue that ebbed and flowed in unpredictable directions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/blues-symphony-by-wynton-marsalis-has-its
-new-york-premiere.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(91%); MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (79%);
KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); THEATER (76%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA (58%)

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mentally Disabled Man, Convicted in '87 Murder, Is Freed in Connecticut

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 534 words


HARTFORD --  Richard Lapointe changed from an orange prison jumpsuit into a
black T-shirt that read ''I didn't do it,'' then walked out of the Hartford
Superior Court building on Friday and threw his hands in the air in triumph.

After almost 26 years in prison, and 10 days after the State Supreme Court threw
out his convictions in the rape and murder of his wife's grandmother, Mr.
Lapointe, 69, was freed on a $250,000 bond.

''Of course I didn't do it,'' Mr. Lapointe said later during a news conference.
''That wasn't me. I wouldn't do nothing like that to nobody. I wouldn't even
kill my worst enemy.''

At his trial in 1992, Mr. Lapointe was convicted in the 1987 killing of Bernice
Martin, 88, who was stabbed, raped and strangled before she was found in her
burning apartment in Manchester, Conn. A judge sentenced him to life in prison
without the possibility of release.

Mr. Lapointe, who is mentally disabled, confessed to the crime after a 9 ½-hour
interrogation, and prosecutors pointed to that and other evidence as proof of
his guilt.

But the State Supreme Court ruled on March 31 that he was deprived of a fair
trial because prosecutors failed to disclose notes by a police officer that
suggested the crime occurred at a time for which Mr. Lapointe had an alibi.

Murder charges have been refiled. But the prosecutor, Gail Hardy, said the state
needed to review the evidence before deciding whether it could go forward with
another trial. The state did not refile the capital felony count.

Mr. Lapointe is due back in court May 15. His attorney, Paul Casteleiro, said he
was hopeful that Mr. Lapointe would not be tried again, pointing out that he had
already served the mandatory minimum sentence for the remaining counts.

The notes from Sgt. Michael Ludlow of the Manchester police indicated that the
fire in Ms. Martin's home started between 7:50 and 8 p.m. on March 8, 1987, when
Mr. Lapointe's wife, Karen Martin, said he was home with her. (They have since
divorced.)

Mr. Lapointe's lawyer and supporters said the evidence also showed Ms. Martin
was tortured and killed over a long period of time by someone who had killed
before. They argued that Mr. Lapointe, with limited mental and physical
abilities and no criminal history, could not have committed the crimes.

Mr. Lapointe suffers from Dandy-Walker Syndrome, a congenital brain malformation
that results in hydrocephalus, or water on the brain. Mr. Casteleiro said his
client's mental impairment also made him vulnerable to giving a false
confession.

''He should not have been in a courtroom in the first place,'' said Mr.
Casteleiro. ''He should have never been charged. We don't welcome a retrial, but
if they want to retry him, we'll be more than prepared.''

The case became a cause célèbre among advocates for the mentally disabled and
others, including the writers Arthur Miller and William Styron. Mr. Lapointe,
who is barred from seeing his family, will be living with a couple from East
Hartford, Conn., who has agreed to take him in while more permanent arrangements
can be made, Mr. Casteleiro said. Mr. Lapointe is under a 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
curfew and must report to the court whenever he leaves the house.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/mentally-disabled-man-convicted-in-87
-murder-is-freed-after-connecticut-court-ruling.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Lapointe, center, with  Kate Germond and Paul Casteleiro
of Centurion Ministries,  a prisoner advocacy  group, on Friday in Hartford.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JARED RAMSDELL/JOURNAL INQUIRER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING
(89%); EVIDENCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (88%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES
(78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); LAWYERS (77%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%);
CAPITAL CRIMES (76%); ALIBI (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BAIL (73%); JUDGES
(72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Craftsman of Russian Verse Helps Ukraine Find Its New Voice

BYLINE: By SALLY McGRANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1325 words


ODESSA, UKRAINE -- EVERY morning at 6, Boris Khersonsky turns on the computer in
his dacha. Under the gaze of the dusky icons covering the walls, one of
Ukraine's most famous literary bloggers -- a 64-year-old psychiatrist, former
Soviet dissident and acclaimed poet -- logs onto Facebook to conduct what has
become something of a daily symposium on the identity of the new Ukraine.

There, in political essays, poems, jokes and surreal diary entries where the
only individual whose psychological health can be trusted is a talking cat, Dr.
Khersonsky makes his case. ''Ukraine can only become a whole state by admitting
its differences,'' he said. ''Admitting, and admiring.''

A tall, white-haired man who radiates calm, Dr. Khersonsky -- an increasingly
influential voice in Ukraine's intellectual circles -- has for years advocated
moving away from the idea that Ukrainian nationality should be determined by
ethnicity.

But watching the pro-European protests in 2013 in Kiev, Ukraine's capital, and
the change in leadership in 2014, he became increasingly aware of something
else. While his mother tongue, the bulk of his cultural heritage and most of his
artistic fame have come from Russia, he felt he was Ukrainian at heart.

Now, say many, the poet, who made a name for himself at age 55 with a series of
verses tracing the fate of his Jewish family over five generations in Odessa,
has come to embody a new kind of Ukrainian citizenship. ''He's a very important
figure because of his mixed background,'' said Iryna Slavinska, literary critic
at Ukrainska Pravda. ''He is Ukrainian, in the modern sense. It doesn't depend
on the language you speak. It's not like in the Soviet passport, where you were
Russian or Ukrainian or Jewish. It's your choice.''

In Ukraine, added Ms. Slavinska, much debate takes place on social media
platforms. Online, writers exchange poems, news and opinions as they grapple
with current political events. However, traditionally these conversations have
been balkanized -- with a clear divide along language lines. Fellow poets credit
Dr. Khersonsky with being the first and most important Russian-language poet to
reach across the aisle.

Now he has struck up collaborations with prominent Ukrainian-language poets to
translate one another's poetry. ''It's very important for me, that we come
together,'' said Serhiy Zhadan, a Ukrainian-language poet who has worked with
Dr. Khersonsky. ''Everyone who writes in Ukraine is a Ukrainian poet. Also if
they write in Russian.''

A generation older than most of the blogging Ukrainian literati, Dr. Khersonsky
traces some of his sang-froid in the face of death threats and the recent,
victimless bombing of his officially registered apartment to experience.
''Terrible things happened to members of my family, and it really called me to
justice,'' he said. ''Not only my experience, but the experience of my father
and my grandfather.''

BORN in 1950, Dr. Khersonsky has spent most of his life in Odessa, a city on the
Black Sea known for its humor, literature and multicultural tradition, as well
as a once-thriving Jewish community that just after World War I made up nearly
half the population.

Dr. Khersonsky's family suffered enormous losses during the Holocaust. But
silence surrounded the topic, in both political and private life. Growing up, he
had little notion of this family legacy. ''I was a normal boy of Jewish
doctors,'' he said. ''Ours was a completely assimilated Jewish family, without
any traditions.''

Soviet anti-Semitism was a fact of life, however. When he was 5, the K.G.B.
picked up his grandfather, a neurologist. Released the next day, the doctor
suffered a stroke that left him unable to read or speak. In a poem, Dr.
Khersonsky wrote:

He ... has already been relieved

of his position as a way of combating

Jewish pre-eminence in science,

and lives in perpetual fear of arrest.

Dr. Khersonsky, who said he was always a good student, secured a spot in medical
school despite an unofficial 2 percent admission quota for Jews. When he was
caught telling anti-Soviet jokes in his first year, though, he risked expulsion.
In a stroke of luck, Dr. Khersonsky said he was saved when he ran into the head
of the school's Communist youth organization at an Orthodox Church service. ''I
shouldn't have been there,'' he said. ''But he doubly shouldn't have been
there.''

Fascinated by the Orthodox religious tradition, Dr. Khersonsky was eventually
baptized by a dissident priest. While he said he now felt distant from the
church, his poetry is rich in biblical symbolism, often delving into issues of
morality, love and good and evil.

Last May during a demonstration in Odessa, Dr. Khersonsky surprised himself by
ordering his taxi to drop him and his wife at the scene of deadly street
fighting between pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian groups. Mixing with the crowd,
they saw masked snipers and chain-wielding hooligans, talked to participants and
witnessed a fire that killed more than 40 pro-Russian demonstrators. He called
it a tragedy.

But, he said, risk-taking has always been a personality trait. Shortly after
getting his degree in psychiatry, for example, he got a job at the Odessa Mental
Health Hospital No. 1. Dr. Khersonsky collected information about dissidents
wrongly incarcerated at the hospital on charges of being mentally ill. He said
he passed on information to an underground publishing group for two years before
a hospitalized acquaintance accidentally gave him away.

Dr. Khersonsky was in his 30s before he learned that more than 42 members of his
parents' families, including a respected Yiddish poet on his mother's side, died
in the Holocaust. Perestroika was in effect then, and Dr. Khersonsky began
writing poems about these long-lost relatives -- fleeting glimpses into the
lives and fates of Rachel, Robert, Moses and the beautiful Shulamith. ''Without
perestroika, I still would have written it,'' he said, but he would not have
thought of publishing the poetry.

Published in Moscow as a collection called ''Family Album,'' in 2006, those
poems eventually made him famous.

YOUNGER Ukrainian intellectuals look not only to Dr. Khersonsky's experiences as
a Soviet dissident for guidance, but also to his experiences with systemic
collapse. While he said he initially welcomed capitalism, the economic turmoil
that followed Ukraine's independence was a disappointment. ''What we received
was a criminal capitalism,'' he said.

In 1992, to escape the dire economic situation, his parents, sister,
brother-in-law and niece -- Yelena Akhtiorskaya, now an American writer --
emigrated to the United States. Dr. Khersonsky, who had a young son and
daughter, thought seriously of joining them. But he feared he would be unable to
continue working as a psychiatrist.

Like Pasha, the main character in Ms. Akhtiorskaya's well-received debut novel,
''Panic in a Suitcase,'' published last year, Dr. Khersonsky ultimately decided
not to trade Odessa for Brighton Beach, Brooklyn.

''We emigrated without even getting out of bed,'' he wrote, in one poem, of
remaining in Odessa as friends, family, and most of the city's Jews left. But
Dr. Khersonsky, who believes Ukraine's war with Russia is lost, hopes political
turmoil will not force him to leave the country.

In the meantime, his work as a psychiatrist -- a dark-red velvet couch sits in
the corner of the dacha for patients -- helps keep him calm.

After taking a call from a pro bono client -- a woman who fled the fighting in
Donetsk -- Dr. Khersonsky said that if the opportunity arose, he would be happy
to psychoanalyze his country.

''If Ukraine came to lie on my couch, I would say, 'You need a long process of
integration,''' he said. ''I might also tell her she needs to develop a better
sense of reality. And of course I will remind her she should visit me twice a
week for one hour. I won't charge her much, because of her financial
difficulties.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/europe/a-russian-poet-helps-ukraine-navi
gate-its-new-identity.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boris Khersonsky, top, a psychiatrist, poet  and former Soviet
dissident, in his office in  Odessa, Ukraine, last month. Above, with  a book of
his poems from the 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS
(89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LITERARY
CRITICISM (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ETHNICITY
(71%); POLITICS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); JEWS
& JUDAISM (64%); BOMBINGS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

CITY: ODESSA, UKRAINE (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Young Hopes of Kenya, Laid in the Grave

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words


GATUNDU, Kenya --  The cars swung out onto Thika Road, one by one.

They moved together, in a line on Friday morning, past miles of apartment
buildings, up into the hills, deeper and deeper into rich green farmland. In
front, a hearse carried the body of Angela Nyokabi Githakwa, 21, one of the 142
students massacred last week at a Kenyan university.

As one of the first in her family to go to a national university, Ms. Githakwa's
prospects had been swiftly rising -- just like Kenya's.

Her generation witnessed the end of dictatorship, the growth of democracy, an
incredible economic expansion, Kenya's netting gold medals at the Olympics and a
recent Oscar. The country even played a hand in producing the first
African-American president of the United States.

But her short life also tracked the disaster next door. Just as Ms. Githakwa was
taking baby steps, Somalia was imploding. Its government had collapsed. Its
economy flatlined. Militant groups flooded the streets. Many children born in
Somalia at this time did not get to go to school; they picked up guns.

As the years passed, and Ms. Githakwa was preparing for her high school exams
and General Electric and Google were investing millions in operations in Kenya,
the Shabab Islamist militant group was bullwhipping women next door, trying to
establish a seventh-century caliphate.

Kenya and Somalia -- two nations that achieved independence around the same time
and share a border -- could not have been headed in more opposite directions.

''We had no idea what was happening over there,'' said Dennis Mwaura, one of Ms.
Githakwa's friends. ''Somalia wasn't something we studied in school. We didn't
think about it much -- until this.''

Last week, Kenya's promise generation collided with Somalia's generation chaos.
Four young militants on a suicide mission claimed by the Shabab burst into
Garissa University College and shot to death scores of students, sparing the
Muslims and telling the Christians to lie down, eyes closed.

The Shabab are Kenya's new plague. One of the most murderous offshoots of Al
Qaeda, they have claimed responsibility for slaughtering hundreds of Kenyans in
recent years, striking street markets, country buses, rural police posts, a rock
quarry and the country's fanciest mall.

But this was the first time they specifically went after students. The gunmen
were about the same age as their victims, officials said.

On Friday, Kenya began to bury its dead. This weekend will be a long one. Slow
processions of freshly washed vehicles will chug into just about every corner of
this country, coming to rest in front of country churches.

So many of the students represented a life their parents never dared dreaming
of.

''My son, he was going to run a factory,'' said Rex Chagwi, the father of a
young man named Newton, who was killed in the massacre. ''Me,'' he said,
laughing, ''I didn't even get past seventh grade.''

Many of the slain students were the first ones from their villages to make it to
university. On Friday, hundreds of people drifted up the muddy road into the
church that was holding the funeral for Ms. Githakwa (pronounced gee-THA-kwa).
It was as if the entire village were there, sitting quietly in white plastic
chairs.

Education is prized in Kenya. Few take it lightly. It represents a ticket to a
new life. Families literally mortgage the farm to pay for tutors and boarding
schools to give their children a leg up on the high school exams that can
determine the future.

''I sold sugar cane. I sold our cows,'' said Rosina Wanda, whose daughter Selpha
was killed at the school. ''Now,'' she started to say and looked down at a
picture of her girl in her hands.

She could not finish her words. Ms. Wanda's face went blank; she was standing at
a funeral home in Nairobi, the capital, about to set off for her town of
Kakamega, with a long wooden box holding her daughter's body.

Garissa University College, in a thorny frontier town near the Somali border,
drew students from the entire country. The 800 or so studying at the university
were assigned there by a national board.

Ms. Githakwa's family revealed at her funeral on Friday that she had actually
tried to transfer to a different school because of security fears. But in the
words of an uncle, the national board's decision was ''very difficult to
unlock.''

She had abruptly come home at least once, not during a vacation, to her farm in
central Kenya because of terrorism warnings. The town of Garissa had been hit
several times before this attack.

''But that's what you have to know about Jojo,'' Mr. Mwaura said, using her
nickname, which means the loved one. ''Jojo was determined. She wasn't going to
let anyone scare her away.''

Standing barely five feet tall, thin, with caramel colored skin, she wore a
silver rosary necklace that never came off. Many of her friends think the Shabab
might have seen that.

''She was executed because of her strong Catholic faith,'' her funeral program
said.

According to Kenyan officials, the four Shabab gunmen burst into the university
at dawn on April 2 and split into teams of two. They moved dorm to dorm, room to
room, selecting Christians to kill.

Though police officers and infantry soldiers quickly had the university
surrounded, many Kenyans are outraged that it took a team of specially trained
commandos more than eight hours to arrive because they had to wait for an
aircraft in Nairobi. The authorities said the commandos ended the siege in about
15 minutes, killing all four gunmen, raising questions of whether more lives
could have been easily saved.

One gunman has been identified as a Somali-Kenyan former student at the
University of Nairobi law school and the son of a chief, rekindling fears that
Kenya's Shabab threat is homegrown -- and no longer the province of the poor.
The identities of the other three killers remain unknown.

Ms. Githakwa was shot while still in bed, her family said. She was hit three
times, once in the neck and twice in the chest. Her friends and family shuffled
past her coffin for one last look. Her head rested on a lace pillow, a thin
scarf around her neck. Her makeup was thick. Her sister leaned over the coffin
and wailed.

The anger seemed to grow as the funeral went on.

''It's time to call a spade a spade,'' said Moses Kuria, a member of Parliament.

Mr. Kuria, who has already been charged with hate speech for insulting another
ethnic group, accused people in northeastern Kenya, who are predominantly
Somali, of helping terrorists and said: ''If I go to jail for saying this, so be
it. At least I'll be alive.''

The Kenyan government is clearly struggling with how to respond to the massacre,
the gravest terrorist attack since the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in
Nairobi, which killed more than 200 people, the vast majority of them Kenyans.

On Thursday, in of front of a crowd of grieving relatives, a police commander
said that Kenyan civilians, if they ever fall into the hands of armed militants,
should fight back so they are not killed ''like cockroaches.''

Opposition leaders are demanding that Kenya pull its troops out of Somalia,
where they are part of an international stabilization mission. The Kenyans first
stormed across the border in 2011 to oust the Shabab from their southern
strongholds.

The Shabab, which means youth in Arabic, have used this as an excuse to kill
Kenyans, and it fits perfectly with their new ideology.

They started out as resistance fighters, fighting Ethiopian troops and winning
some genuine support inside Somalia. They went on to take over much of the
country, backing Somalia's transitional government into a small corner of the
capital and imposing their harsh brand of Islam on Somali civilians at will.

But they have lost much of their territory, many of their fighters and most of
their money. And after being scolded by Osama bin Laden for killing too many
Muslims in Somalia with indiscriminate suicide bombs, the Shabab shifted to
targeting Christians. Kenya is majority Christian, and its border is notoriously
porous.

On Friday afternoon, Ms. Githakwa was laid to rest. Her grave sits under a
banana tree, the hillsides all around steep and quilted with rows of crops --
pineapples, beans, coffee and tea.

''This is the way, this is the way to heaven,'' people sang.

A light drizzle began to fall and people praised the rain. It was the beginning
of the rainy season. The clumps of earth shoveled onto the coffin fell quietly,
damp and soft.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/africa/kenya-mourns-students-from-its-ge
neration-of-promise.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A funeral in Kenya on Friday for Angela Nyokabi Githakwa, one
of 142 students killed in an attack last week by young militants. (A1)
Angela Nyokabi Githakwa, who was killed in the attack on Christian students at
Garissa University College last week, was buried Friday at her father's
ancestral farm in Mutunguru, Kenya.
 Relatives and friends paid their respects to Ms. Githakwa, who was among the
first in her family to attend a national university. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER
HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-SHABAAB (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%);
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CHILDREN (73%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (71%); DICTATORSHIPS
(70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RELIGION (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); GOOG
(NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET
PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

COUNTRY: KENYA (97%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kansas Man Is Charged With Plotting to Bomb Base

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 650 words


KANSAS CITY, Kan. --  A 20-year-old Topeka man was arrested and charged on
Friday with plotting to detonate a suicide car bomb on the military base at Fort
Riley, Kan.

The man, John T. Booker Jr., whose enlistment in the Army last year was denied
after he posted on Facebook that he wanted to wage jihad, told a confidential
government informant in December that he wanted to strike the military
installation, according to a complaint filed in Federal District Court in
Topeka. Mr. Booker then took steps over the next several months to plan the
attack, including buying materials to make a bomb, renting a storage locker and
filming a video saying he was acting in the name of the Islamic State, the
extremist group in Iraq and Syria.

The charges were announced here at the office of the United States attorney for
the District of Kansas, Barry R. Grissom. Eric K. Jackson, the special agent in
charge of the F.B.I.'s local office, joined him at a news conference.

''Over a period of months, he began doing and taking actions that were more than
just mere talking,'' Mr. Grissom said, adding that Mr. Booker's arrest ''reminds
us that we in law enforcement have to remain vigilant.''

Mr. Booker, who also goes by the name Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, according to the
complaint, was charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction,
attempting to damage property by means of an explosive and providing material
support to a foreign terrorist organization.

Later Friday, the authorities arrested a second man, Alexander E. Blair, 28,
from Topeka, who they said shared Mr. Booker's extremist views, knew about his
plot and gave him money to rent a storage locker. Mr. Blair was charged with
failing to report a felony.

The Army recruited Mr. Booker in February 2014, and he had been scheduled to
start basic training last April. But in March 2014, according to the complaint,
he posted multiple messages on Facebook that expressed terrorist aspirations,
including: ''I will soon be leaving you forever so goodbye! I'm going to wage
jihad and hopes that i die.''

Later that month, F.B.I. agents interviewed him and, according to the complaint,
he told them he wanted to commit an insider attack against American soldiers as
Maj. Nidal Hasan did in 2009 at Fort Hood, Tex. Mr. Booker was denied entry to
the Army because of his statements, but the authorities said then that he was
not a danger to the public, and he was not arrested.

But in October, Mr. Booker began speaking with an F.B.I. informant about his
terrorist goals, the complaint said. He told the informant he wanted to join the
Islamic State, and the informant introduced him to another informant, who
proffered himself as a ''high-ranking sheikh planning terrorist acts in the
United States,'' the complaint said.

Mr. Booker told the informants he wanted to target the base at Fort Riley. The
informants then helped Mr. Booker put together what he thought was a car bomb
but was actually a dud. The authorities said that Mr. Booker never breached Fort
Riley's perimeter.

Mr. Booker agreed to let the informants make the car bomb and planned to drive
it onto the base to detonate it, killing himself in the process, the complaint
said. On Friday morning, the authorities said, the informants met Mr. Booker in
Junction City, Kan., which is west of Topeka and near Fort Riley, in a van in
which they had supposedly built the bomb. One informant showed Mr. Booker how to
arm the device, which was actually inert, the complaint said.

The other informant then drove Mr. Booker to what he said was a little-used gate
that would let them enter Fort Riley secretly. There, F.B.I. agents arrested Mr.
Booker without incident at around 9 a.m. In federal court in Topeka, Mr. Booker
waived his right to a detention hearing and pleaded not guilty. A message left
with the public defender's office representing him was not returned.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/kansas-man-charged-with-plotting-suicide-at
tack-at-fort-riley.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE
DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MUSLIMS &
ISLAM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ARMED
FORCES (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%);
MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); FELONIES (73%); LAWYERS
(72%); RELIGION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

CITY: TOPEKA, KS, USA (92%)

STATE: KANSAS, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Murderer at 14, Then a Lifer, Now a Man Pondering a Future

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words


CHICAGO --  Adolfo Davis admits he was a swaggering thug by the age of 14 as he
roamed and dealt drugs with a South Side gang.

He also describes a childhood of emotional and physical deprivation: a mother
fixated on crack, an absent father, a grandmother's overflowing and chaotic
apartment.

From the age of 6 or 7, he often had to buy his own food or go hungry, so he
collected cans, pumped gas for tips and shoplifted. At 10, he went to juvenile
hall for wresting $3 worth of food stamps and 75 cents from a girl. At 12, he
fell in with the Gangster Disciples.

''I loved them, they protected me, they were my family,'' Mr. Davis said in a
recent interview.

At 14, in 1990, he was out with two gang members when they robbed a rival drug
house and shot the occupants, leaving two dead. Now 38, he has spent the last 24
years in prison on a mandatory sentence of life without parole.

But his future will be reconsidered in a new sentencing hearing here on Monday.
It is one of the first such proceedings in Illinois to result from the Supreme
Court's landmark ruling in Miller v. Alabama that juvenile murderers should not
be subject to mandatory life without parole.

The exact role of Mr. Davis, then known as Spooncake, is disputed. He said he
had stood guard at the doorway and had not pulled a trigger; prosecutors
suggested otherwise but did not prove it. In any case, he shared culpability for
what were essentially executions. Tried and convicted as an adult, he received
the automatic penalty at the time for a double murder, a term of ''natural life
without parole.''

In the 2012 ruling, the Supreme Court did not say life terms were never
appropriate. But, building on earlier rulings that ''children are different,''
and citing research on brain development, the court said sentencing must take
account of mitigating factors like the offender's background and age, and
consider the potential for change.

Mr. Davis was one of about 2,500 prisoners across the country at the time who
were serving life without parole for juvenile murders, most of them as a result
of mandatory sentences that gave judges no leeway, according to the Campaign for
the Fair Sentencing of Youth, an advocacy group.

The 2012 decision did not say whether the new rules should apply retroactively,
to cases long closed. Since then, state and lower federal courts have disagreed,
creating drastic differences for prisoners depending on where they live.

Ten states, including Illinois, are applying the standard to pre-2012 cases and
have started the process of resentencing. Four states -- Louisiana, Michigan,
Minnesota and Pennsylvania, with about 1,130 prisoners who could be affected --
have declined to make the ruling retroactive.

The Supreme Court is expected to clarify the issue next fall, when it hears the
appeal of a convict in Louisiana.

In Illinois, Mr. Davis's suit was one of several that led the Illinois Supreme
Court to rule in favor of retroactive application to the roughly 80 state
prisoners who received mandatory life for crimes committed as juveniles. The
state attorney general disagreed and appealed to the federal Supreme Court, but
in December, the court declined to take the case.

Here and around the country, victim rights groups have strongly opposed the
reopening of past sentences.

''The families of the victims will suffer the most,'' said Jennifer
Bishop-Jenkins, a co-founder and board member of the National Organization of
Victims of Juvenile Murderers.

She became a champion of victim rights 25 years ago when her pregnant sister and
her sister's husband were murdered in Winnetka, Ill., by a 16-year-old who
received a mandatory life sentence.

''When I started thinking of the possibility that we'd have to go back to court,
I couldn't sleep for four months,'' she said. ''Our mother was devastated.''

A new sentencing hearing in that case is scheduled for this month. While Ms.
Bishop-Jenkins feels confident that the killer, because of the particulars of
his acts, will have the life sentence renewed, she noted that the transcript of
his original sentencing hearing was missing and that key witnesses were dead or
gone.

Re-creating a fair sentencing process is often impossible in old cases, she
said, and there are ample existing ways to pursue what seem to be unwarranted
life sentences, such as executive clemency or other petitions.

Mr. Davis's supporters said they had not been able to find any relatives of the
two murder victims in his case; none have come forward to comment on his
resentencing.

In the interview at the Cook County Jail, Mr. Davis spoke of his childhood and
what he describes as a profound personal breakthrough that occurred during a
four-year stay in a maximum-security prison, sitting in a cell for 23 hours a
day.

His story suggests multiple failures: of his family, of the child-welfare
system, of the juvenile-justice system and, he admits now, of a boy who valued
toughness over empathy.

His life sentence put him in a succession of juvenile and adult prisons where
gang rivalries festered. He continued to lash out, getting into fights and
committing other violations that led the authorities to send him, in 1998, to
the ''supermax'' prison, now closed, in Tamms, Ill.

Mr. Davis and his supporters in his new appeal, including a priest who has known
him for 24 years and a therapist who treated him at Tamms, describe a changed
man -- a claim that Cook County prosecutors challenged when they successfully
opposed his clemency bid in 2012.

The solitude at Tamms was almost unbearable, Mr. Davis said. He spent hours
playing games of four-handed spades. But the unaccustomed quiet time also led to
insight, he said, and his first appreciation of human contact and trust.

''When I got out and got hugs from my family, I cried,'' he said. ''I hadn't
realized how important that was.''

''I understood why women say they like to cuddle,'' he said sheepishly.

As part of his therapy in the supermax, Mr. Davis started to write poetry, much
of it, initially, outpourings of rage toward his absent parents. ''How could you
bring me into this world when you knew you wasn't ready?'' one of his first
poems asked.

By 2003, his writings, which circulated in prison magazines, focused more on the
daily horrors of prison and offered warnings to others: ''Young blood, you think
it's cool,'' he wrote, but you'll end up ''dead or in the pen.''

In 2005, he even started to forgive his mother, though she never visited him in
prison, writing, ''I never felt your pain, because I was dealing with my own
pain.''

Before the hearing on Monday, Mr. Davis's lawyers -- Patricia Soung of the
Loyola Law School in Los Angeles and Rachel Steinback, a lawyer with the civil
rights law firm Loevy & Loevy in Chicago -- prepared a sentencing memo calling
for his release because of his remorse, his growth and his mentoring of others
while in prison.

The Cook County prosecutors have not prepared a written statement, but they are
expected to argue for a new life sentence. Opposing the 2012 clemency bid, the
prosecutors said young Adolfo had been ''an active and willing participant in
the murders'' and ''was not simply a naïve child being led astray by older
friends.''

Though it was never established in court, the prosecutors said there was
evidence that he had fired a gun that night and that he did not dispute that he
had carried one to the scene. They cited his lengthy juvenile record and
disputed the claim that he had become an exemplary prisoner, noting that he was
caught receiving marijuana from a visitor in 2006. Mr. Davis called that a
''stupid decision.''

''Petitioner may have been 14 years of age at the time of the murders but packed
a lifetime of experience as a criminal and gang member in that short amount of
time,'' they wrote.

The two sides will present their cases orally before Judge Angela Petrone of the
Cook County Circuit Court. During or after the hearing, the judge could order
anything from a new life term to an immediate release for time served.

After emerging from the supermax, Mr. Davis signed up for a correspondence
course and earned a high school diploma. He became a teacher's aide in basic
education classes, and started mentoring troubled young men, some in prison and
some outside, by telephone, working through the Rev. David Kelly of the Precious
Blood Ministry of Reconciliation, who counsels offenders, victims and families
on the South Side.

In a letter to the court, Father Kelly said that of hundreds of youths he has
worked with, ''Adolfo Davis stands out'' for his seeming transformation and
desire to help at-risk youths.

If Mr. Davis is released, Father Kelly said, his group will give him a full-time
job as a counselor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/12/us/justices-ruling-allows-illinois-man-jailed-
at-14-to-reconsider-his-future.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adolfo Davis, 38, has spent  the last 24 years in prison,
serving a mandatory sentence  of life without parole. He is  scheduled for a new
sentencing  hearing on Monday. The  Rev. David Kelly, left, has sent  a letter
to the court attesting to  Mr. Davis's transformation.  Far left, Mr. Davis when
he  was 15, the year after his arrest  on murder charges. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALYSSA
SCHUKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); GANGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUVENILE
JUSTICE (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (88%); CORRECTIONS (88%); SUPREME COURTS
(87%); CHILDREN (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); FOOD ASSISTANCE (76%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BRAIN (61%);
SHOPLIFTING (56%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jules and Nellie: The Places They'd Go

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words


Do you regard space travel as one of the highest callings in the destiny of our
species? If so (and I do), head immediately to BAM Fisher in Brooklyn. The
Ensemble for the Romantic Century's ''Jules Verne: From the Earth to the Moon,''
a dazzling musical and multimedia paean to human aspiration, will send you into
the stratosphere.

The show's framework is simple: It recounts the true-life meeting of the
journalist and feminist Nellie Bly (Samantha Hill, Cosette in Broadway's ''Les
Misérables'') and the science-fiction writer Jules Verne (Jonathan Hadary) in
1889, at Verne's home in Amiens, France. Bly was on a global tour, sponsored by
The New York World, to beat the mark set by Verne's character Phileas Fogg in
''Around the World in 80 Days.''

Verne, tended by his gruff, patient wife, Honorine (Jayne Atkinson), bemoans his
declining health but vehemently champions the technological ambition and can-do
spirit of the United States. And he is delighted with Bly's company. Who
wouldn't be? The boyishly tousled Ms. Hill -- clad in robust tartans (costumes
courtesy of Vanessa James) -- is resolute, enthusiastic and gracious. When she
admiringly sings the Stephen Foster song ''Beautiful Dreamer'' to Verne, it is a
valentine to the imagination.

Bly is celebrated in a sequence featuring a charming barbershop quartet (Brian
J. Gay, Andrew Howard, Matt MaGrath and Keaton Williams) in newsboy caps and
waistcoats, who hoist her aloft as a list of future American milestones --
desegregation, gay rights, women's suffrage -- is projected around them.

But there is plenty more going on in this sparkling constellation, directed by
Donald T. Sanders. Ingenious video design by David Bengali, on three screens,
intercuts images of majestic nebulas and spiraling galaxies (some from the
Hubble Telescope) with animated diagrams of elliptical trajectories, lunar
module footage and clips from George Méliès's pioneering 1902 film fantasy ''A
Trip to the Moon.'' When a twinkling cosmos melds with the ocean's surface
during Bly's trans-Atlantic voyage, the imagery is sheer poetry.

Enhancing the breathtaking visuals is a first-rate chamber ensemble, comprising
Sean Lee on violin; Jiyoung Lee on cello; Andrew Gonzalez on viola; Max Barros
on piano; and Eve Wolf, who wrote the show, also on piano. Playfully joining in
at times is Joe Jung on banjo and mandolin.

Their exquisite, alternately delicate and muscular playing (including works by
Chausson, Gottschalk and Chaminade) is not without humor: Following
intermission, the musicians perform in aeronautical jumpsuits.

Verne envisioned aviation's thrust into the stars. Bly, who completed her trip
ahead of schedule, rightly predicted that women would have the vote by 1922. The
march of progress continues.

''Jules Verne: From the Earth to the Moon'' continues through Sunday at BAM
Fisher, Fishman Space, 321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene,
Brooklyn; 718-636-4100, bam.org.

''Jules Verne: From the Earth to the Moon'' continues through Sunday at BAM
Fisher, Fishman Space, 321 Ashland Place, near Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene,
Brooklyn; 718-636-4100, bam.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/review-when-jules-verne-met-nellie-bly.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jules Verne: From the Earth to the Moon: Jonathan Hadary and
Samantha Hill in this musical at BAM Fisher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN MARCUS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%);
CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); FEMINISM &
WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); POETRY (74%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (74%); MUSIC (71%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE
(69%); FICTION LITERATURE (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%);
OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (61%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (94%); EARTH (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

ISIS Strikes Iraqi Town, Exacting Deadly Toll

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed
reporting from Baghdad and Ramadi.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 628 words


BAGHDAD --  Islamic State fighters launched a heavy attack on government-held
territory in Anbar Province late on Thursday and on Friday, killing 25 Iraqi
police officers and soldiers, and then 15 family members of local police
officers, according to Iraqi officials.

The attackers overran large parts of Albu Faraj, a town just north of the
provincial capital, Ramadi, less than two days after officials in the province
declared that they had begun an offensive against the extremists to the east of
the capital, police officials in Ramadi said.

A convoy of police reinforcements sent to Albu Faraj was attacked by a suicide
bomber, wounding Maj. Gen. Kadhim al-Duleimi, the Anbar Province police
commander, the police officials said. They spoke on the condition of anonymity
as a matter of official policy.

The attack continued into Friday afternoon, they said. Officials were still
trying to determine how many of those who had been taken to a hospital in Ramadi
from the attack in Albu Faraj had died.

Also on Friday, two bombs went off in Baghdad in the morning, according to an
official with the Ministry of Interior, speaking on the condition of anonymity
because he was not allowed to give information to the news media.

In one of the Baghdad attacks, a suicide bomber targeted a restaurant in the
northern part of the city, which at the time was frequented by Shiite militiamen
taking a break from the fighting. Seven were killed and 16 were wounded, the
official said.

The other Baghdad attack involved a bomb planted in a parked car in the Karada
neighborhood, on the predominantly Shiite eastern side of the capital. Five
civilians died and 12 were wounded.

Despite heavy fighting in northern Salahuddin Province and around Tikrit in
March, as well as continued skirmishes in Anbar Province, Baghdad remained the
deadliest place in the country in both civilian and military casualties,
according to United Nations officials.

Of the 997 Iraqis killed in March, 729 were civilians, the United Nations said.
Baghdad had the highest civilian death toll, with 362 killed, and Anbar had the
second highest, with 237 killed.

Hundreds of families fled the fighting in Albu Faraj, and the extremists were
said to have overrun half of the community, although they did not come close to
the Anbar Operations Command, the joint headquarters for Iraqi security forces.
The headquarters are adjacent to Albu Faraj, a suburb of Ramadi on the opposite
side of the Euphrates River from the city center.

After taking control of parts of Albu Faraj on Thursday night, the extremists
rounded up relatives of police officers from the community on Friday, killing 15
-- seven children, six women and two elderly men -- a Ramadi police official
said. There was no way to independently verify the claim, but the Islamic State,
also known as ISIS or ISIL, has carried out such vengeance attacks against the
relatives of its enemies.

Officials said two federal police brigades were sent as reinforcements to the
fight in Albu Faraj on Friday.

On Wednesday, the chairman of the Anbar Provincial Council announced that a
long-awaited major offensive had started with a government attack on Islamic
State positions in Sajariya, east of Ramadi. But top Iraqi officials said that
attack was isolated and not part of their expected major offensive, which many
predict will not begin until after Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi returns from a
visit to Washington on Tuesday.

The offensive in Sajariya halted on Friday morning, according to a provincial
councilman, Farhan Mohammad, when Iraqi forces ran out of ammunition.

Maintaining logistical support for the Iraqi military and the police has been a
major challenge, with their systems plagued by corruption and mismanagement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/middleeast/iraq-islamic-state-anbar-prov
ince-attack.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (91%); MUSLIMS
& ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE
DEVICES (89%); FAMILY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%);
SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

India Concludes Evacuation of Its Citizens From Yemen

BYLINE: By HARI KUMAR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 162 words


NEW DELHI -- India on Friday concluded the evacuation of its citizens who were
stranded in Yemen as a transport plane carrying the last group landed in the
southern state of Kerala.

Indian airplanes and naval vessels have evacuated 4,640 Indians and 960 foreign
citizens since the effort began late last month, according to India's Ministry
of External Affairs.

On this last day all who wished to go were evacuated and no one was left at
airport. A satisfying day. pic.twitter.com/CP7oeGnnv1 -- Vijay Kumar Singh
(@Gen_VKSingh) April 9, 2015

#YemenEvacuation Mission Accomplished. IAF and other personnel before the last
flight of C-17 out of Djibouti. pic.twitter.com/oSOVRHkOUv -- Sitanshu Kar
(@SpokespersonMoD) April 10, 2015

Large numbers of Indian citizens from Kerala had been working in hospitals in
Sana, the capital of Yemen. In addition to the Indian operation, 11 Indian
citizens were evacuated by a Pakistani ship, and India evacuated some Pakistani
citizens.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/india-concludes-evacuation-of-its-c
itizens-from-yemen.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (88%); AIRPORTS (88%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); SANAA, YEMEN (79%)

STATE: KERALA, INDIA (93%); SOUTH INDIA (92%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); YEMEN (94%); DJIBOUTI (79%); PAKISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

When Women Are Too Thin

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 342 words


The French Assembly's recent approval of three amendments aimed at battling
anorexia could set the stage for a new fashion trend from Paris: models on the
plus side of size 0. The amendments take aim at dangerously thin models,
websites that promote unhealthy weight loss, and commercial photographs that
digitally alter the appearance of models' weight.

These amendments are only a small part of a sweeping health care reform bill.
But given France's stature as a fashion-industry leader, it is the ''skinny
model'' parts of the bill that have received international attention.

This is not surprising. According to France's Health Ministry, up to 40,000
people suffer from anorexia in France, 90 percent of them women. But anorexia is
hardly an exclusively French problem: 24 million Americans suffer from eating
disorders. The death of the Brazilian-born model Ana Carolina Reston in 2006 and
the 2010 death of the French model Isabelle Caro, who weighed only 60 pounds
when she posed for an ad campaign in 2007, helped spur government efforts to
address the problem. In fact, France is following in the footsteps of Spain and
Italy, which have voluntary industry standards and have considered legislation,
and Israel, where a law against ultrathin models went into effect in January
2013. One of the French amendments would require models to get a medical
certificate that their body mass index is a minimum of 18. Employers who hire
models who don't meet this minimum would risk a fine of about $83,000 and a
prison term of up to six months. Another would require commercial photographs
that have been digitally retouched to distort body weight to be labeled as such.
The third amendment would punish websites that promote unhealthy weight loss and
anorexia with a fine of 10,000 euros and up to one year in prison. The health
care bill moves next to the French Senate, where it is expected to be approved.
These amendments send a powerful message from the global capital of fashion that
severe malnutrition should never be considered fashionable.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/when-women-are-too-thin-france.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EATING DISORDERS (92%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); TRENDS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW
(89%); DIETING (89%); FASHION TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
(76%); FRENCH PARLIAMENT (73%); MALNUTRITION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

My Unveiling Ceremony

BYLINE: By MONA ELTAHAWY.

Mona Eltahawy is the author of the forthcoming book ''Headscarves and Hymens:
Why the Middle East Needs a Sexual Revolution.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1034 words


CAIRO -- I wore the hijab -- a form of dress that comprises a head scarf and
usually also clothing that covers the whole body except for the face and hands
-- for nine years. Put more honestly: I wore the hijab for nine years and spent
eight of them trying to take it off.

I chose to wear the hijab at age 16, soon after my family moved from Britain to
Saudi Arabia. I wanted to save my sanity, and so I struck a deal with God: I'd
cover up, as I was taught a good Muslim girl should, if God would save me from a
breakdown that I was sure would come in that country where women were considered
the walking embodiment of sin. I wanted to hide -- from eyes and hands that made
going out anywhere, especially unaccompanied, hellish.

Almost immediately, I missed the wind in my hair. When I caught my reflection in
a window, I did not recognize myself. I wanted to reconcile the internal and
external me, but I was to discover that choosing to wear the hijab is much
easier than choosing to take it off.

I finally summoned the courage to stop wearing it in 1993, when I was 25 and had
moved back to my birthplace, Egypt. For years, despite my inner doubts, I
represented to others my choice to veil as a feminist one. If a woman could
choose to wear a miniskirt, surely I could choose to cover my hair? I wanted
people to address my mind and to not objectify me, I would say. Ultimately, I
could not sustain that line of thinking because, as a feminist, I demanded that
people address my mind and not objectify me, regardless of how I dressed.

What helped me part ways with the hijab was a conversation my mother had with a
family acquaintance. Asking after my brother and me, the man wondered if I was
married. When my mother said I wasn't, he replied: ''Don't worry. She wears a
head scarf -- she'll find a husband.''

Then I understood: I wasn't the hijab poster girl I thought I was. I was just a
hijab.

After I unveiled, I remained overwhelmed with guilt. For years, I would not tell
anyone that I'd once worn a head scarf.

To write about the hijab is to step into a minefield. Even among those who share
my cultural and faith background, opinions veer from those who despise it as a
symbol of backwardness to those for whom religion begins and ends with that
piece of cloth. And while a majority of women in Egypt today are veiled, that
hasn't always been the case: The pendulum swings.

When I was a child in Egypt, none of my aunts wore head scarves. Photographs
from family weddings in the 1970s show aunts with bare heads and dresses, at
times standing next to belly dancers who sparkled in beaded bikinis and gauzy
chiffon barely covering their legs. In today's weddings, most of my aunts and
their daughters are covered up, and there are no belly dancers.

I had one aunt, four years older than I, who adopted the hijab at age 17, in
1980. When we would go out walking, strangers would look aghast and spit
insults: ''What the hell are you doing?'' ''What is that tent you're wearing?''
Decades later, in Cairo, such public abuse is hurled at women like me who don't
veil.

There are many explanations for why women veil themselves. Some do it out of
piety, believing that the Quran mandates it for modesty's sake. Others do so
because veiling visibly proclaims their Muslim identity. For yet others, the
veil is a way to avoid unwanted attention and gain some freedom from harassment
in public space that has become increasingly male-dominated.

The rise of Islamism, particularly the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, has
increased the prevalence of veiling. Often, the Islamists' social control has
been boosted by regimes that were nominally secular but promoted the same
conservative values to burnish their religious credentials.

In 2005, I went to interview Mohammed Mahdi Akef, the Muslim Brotherhood's
spiritual leader at the time, in Cairo. I expected to be asked to cover up;
whenever I'd interviewed Brotherhood leaders before, I'd been handed a scarf to
wear. This time, though I was dressed in a T-shirt and trousers, the aide who
ushered me in did not give me a head scarf; I was pleasantly surprised.

I asked Mr. Akef if the Brotherhood, should it ever govern Egypt, would change
the Constitution to curb women's rights -- for instance, by making the veil
mandatory. He insisted that the Brotherhood believed in pluralism and inclusion.
Then the dialogue took a strange turn.

''And as proof,'' he said, ''you are here interviewing me, and you are naked.''

''I am not naked.''

''Your hair is naked, your arms are naked; according to God's law, you are
naked.''

''The verses in the Quran regarding women's dress have been interpreted
differently,'' I said.

''Don't listen to those who try to say the hijab is not mandatory. There are no
different interpretations. There is just one interpretation and, according to
that interpretation, you are naked.''

So much for pluralism. This is our version of the sort of ''purity culture''
that is promoted everywhere by the religious right, with its obsession with
women's bodies, its notion of modesty that unfairly burdens girls and women and
its glorification of female virginity.

But the political revolutions that began in 2010 in the Middle East and North
Africa have also inspired us to challenge social mores long taken for granted.
Because I have finally been open about the fact that I once wore the hijab, I
have heard from more and more women who want to unveil. ''How did you take it
off?'' they ask. ''How did you handle family pressure?''

For some who are rejecting the hijab, it's their first public appearance without
a head scarf in five or 10 years -- in one case, 30. Many directly link their
unveiling with the revolution and their personal understanding of freedom. What
happens in Egypt influences the rest of the region; I see the pendulum swinging
the other way again.

My head scarf came off 22 years ago, but I have never stopped wrestling with
what veiling means for Muslim women. Authenticity is about more than a layer of
cloth on one's head. To be acknowledged as more than our head scarves is the
right of every Muslim girl and woman.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/mona-eltahawy-my-unveiling-ceremony.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS &
ISLAM (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); RELIGION (75%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Editorial Cartoon

BYLINE: By PATRICK CHAPPATTE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 12 words


For three decades Cuba has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/patrick-chappatte-cuba-checklist-terro
rism-obama.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); TERRORISM (82%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Say Woman Admitted She Wed for Cash and to Aid With Citizenship

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 615 words


A woman who has had 10 husbands admitted that she wed one man in return for cash
and helping him get citizenship, prosecutors said on Friday in a Bronx
courtroom.

Most of her husbands immediately applied for citizenship and some, when denied,
divorced her and refiled with different wives, prosecutors said.

And one husband, from Pakistan, was later deported in connection with terrorism
threats against the United States, the authorities said.

The woman, Liana Barrientos, is still married to him -- and to three other men,
a prosecutor said.

The details behind Ms. Barrientos's matrimonial habits and choice of husbands
began trickling out on Friday as she was arraigned on fraud charges in State
Supreme Court. Ms. Barrientos, 39, pleaded not guilty and stood tight-faced
beside her lawyer, Christopher Wright, as an assistant district attorney,
Jessica Lupo, described her case.

''The concern here,'' Ms. Lupo said, ''is that these men are individuals from
'red flag' countries such as Egypt, Turkey, Georgia and Pakistan.'' Immigration
attempts from countries so described are under heightened scrutiny because of
possible links to terrorism.

Ms. Barrientos's lawyer did not speak to reporters after the hearing. None of
her husbands appeared in court.

Ms. Barrientos married nine of the 10 men between 1999 and 2002. She is charged
with fraud only in the case of her 10th husband, whom she married in the Bronx
in 2010. She wrote on her marriage license that she had not previously been
married, prosecutors say. She faces up to four years in prison.

A spokesman for the federal Department of Homeland Security said that Ms.
Barrientos came to the department's attention after agents with the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services ''spotted irregularities'' in
immigration cases connected to her.

A spokeswoman for the citizenship agency, Katie Kaplan, declined to discuss Ms.
Barrientos's case but said, ''There are a number of ways we can stumble upon
something that looks not quite right.''

''Often officers who are adjudicating cases notice certain patterns of people in
repeating cases or repeating stories,'' she added.

Ms. Lupo, the prosecutor, said that when first questioned, Ms. Barrientos said
her only husband was her most recent one, an immigrant from Mali.

Last fall, Ms. Lupo said, Ms. Barrientos was confronted with a pile of marriage
licenses by Homeland Security investigators and conceded that she had married
one other man, from the former Soviet republic of Georgia.

''She admitted going to an interview with him and giving him pictures as well as
other documentation, and receiving money for those actions,'' Ms. Lupo said.

Ms. Barrientos got a ''couple of thousand'' dollars, a spokesman for the
Department of Homeland Security said.

The Georgian, Vakhtang Dzneladze, was actually the seventh man Ms. Barrientos
had married in New York State. He got his citizenship in 2006 and divorced her
in 2007, Ms. Lupo said.

Ms. Barrientos's eighth husband, Rashid Rajput, was deported in 2006 after a
federal investigation ''regarding making threatening statements toward the
U.S.,'' Ms. Lupo said.

The authorities would not say if the other nine husbands have faced legal
trouble.

Ms. Barrientos was released without bail, and is due back in court on May 18.
She declined to speak to reporters as she left the courthouse.

Two hours after leaving court and about 15 blocks away, Ms. Barrientos was
arrested on charges of entering the subway system without paying.

She and a relative, Tracy Barrientos, 19, walked through an open emergency gate
at the 149th Street-Grand Concourse station, said Officer Sophia Mason, a police
spokeswoman.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/woman-admitted-to-marrying-one-of-10-
men-for-money-prosecutors-say.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Liana Barrientos, with her lawyer, Christopher Wright, pleaded
not guilty to fraud charges on Friday in a Bronx courtroom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGG
VIGLIOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY
(89%); MARRIAGE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS
(89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); NATURALIZATION (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%);
TERRORISM (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); GEORGIA (91%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lauren Hill, 19, Athlete Who Battled Brain Tumor

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 291 words


Lauren Hill, who played basketball for Mount St. Joseph University in Cincinnati
while contending with an inoperable brain tumor, died on Friday in Cincinnati.
She was 19.

Her death was confirmed by Brooke Desserich, the co-founder of Ms. Hill's
foundation, the Cure Starts Now.

''She's made an impact on the world,'' said her coach, Dan Benjamin. ''People
are contacting me because they want to share her story.''

A year and a half ago, Ms. Hill was a high school student getting ready for
college. She decided to play basketball at Mount St. Joseph, a Division III
program. A few weeks later, she started experiencing dizziness while playing for
her high school team in Lawrenceburg, Ind., near Cincinnati.

Tests found the tumor, but treatment did not work. She knew she had less than
two years left.

The N.C.A.A. agreed to let Mount St. Joseph move up its opening game against
Hiram College by two weeks because Ms. Hill's condition was deteriorating.
Xavier University offered its 10,000-seat arena so more people could attend.
Tickets sold out in less than an hour.

By the time the game came around on Nov. 2, the tumor had affected Ms. Hill's
right side so much that she had to shoot with her nondominant hand. With the
former Tennessee women's coach Pat Summitt and several W.N.B.A. players on hand,
Ms. Hill took a pass and made a left-handed layup only 17 seconds into the game.
She also made the last basket of the game.

''It's a dream come true,'' she said. ''Everything that happened today was
amazing.''

Ms. Hill played in four games and made five layups before the spreading tumor
forced her to give up playing. When the season ended, her team held its annual
dinner in a room at the hospital where Ms. Hill was being treated.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/ncaabasketball/lauren-hill-who-fought-t
umor-to-play-college-basketball-dies-at-19.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lauren Hill of Mount St. Joseph in her first college game,
during  which she scored with her nondominant hand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM
UHLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%);
TICKET SALES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Four Hands, Two Grands

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 561 words


Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock strolled onstage at Carnegie Hall on Thursday
night like a longtime comedy team. Both were members of Miles Davis groups, both
have widely recorded on electric keyboards as well as piano, and both are among
jazz's greatest pianists. But the last time Mr. Hancock and Mr. Corea toured as
a duo was in the late 1970s before resuming celebrated solo careers.

Still, camaraderie reigned, down to level of note-by-note interaction. Basking
in the applause that greeted them, they reminisced about when they lived in New
York City in the 1960s; they hinted at the concert to come. ''How do they know
what we're going to do when we don't know what we're going to do?'' Mr. Corea
mused. As they moved toward their grand pianos, Mr. Hancock added, ''You thought
we were joking.''

With that, they were off into a chromatic wilderness. For nearly the entire
concert, Mr. Hancock and Mr. Corea played as if each had vowed never to let the
other play alone for long, while retaining the prerogatives of a soloist. It
made for a night of dense yet remarkably transparent music; what could have been
endless collisions were kaleidoscopic overlays instead. Their two very distinct
styles could still be discerned: Mr. Hancock's bluesiness and
through-the-looking-glass harmonies, Mr. Corea's pinging melodies and hints of
flamenco, Chopin and Stravinsky. But they often merged into a glorious,
vertiginous rush of ideas.

In the opening piece, one pianist, often Mr. Hancock, would splash through
chords and clusters on the way to an intricately rippling ostinato; the other
would dip into it, place a bright improvised tune atop it and start nudging it
toward its next harmonic transformation, shifting the implied groove or
streaking around the keyboard to set off a supersonic two-man chase.

The difference between their 1970s duo concerts and this one was that Mr.
Hancock and Mr. Corea both brought synthesizers onstage as well. The one
electronic duet on Thursday was their most unmeshed music, an inventory of
sounds (sometimes changing midnote) that wandered from spooky tones toward
comedy. There was palpable, though respectful, relief when Mr. Corea made the
first move back to piano.

They played a breakneck new piece by Mr. Corea -- ''I received an email and that
was in it,'' Mr. Hancock said afterward -- before returning to familiar
material.

Davis's ''All Blues'' unfurled new implications for its open-ended harmonies. On
Mr. Hancock's ''Cantaloupe Island,'' Mr. Corea playfully challenged the rolling
rhythm of its familiar vamp with syncopations and polytonal toppings of his own.
Mr. Hancock's ''Maiden Voyage'' began as a rapt, luminous meditation, with its
theme peeking out one tentative note at a time, before the duo teased it toward
a waltz and sent it spiraling through key changes.

For the finale, Mr. Corea enlisted the audience, dividing it into five parts
(two male, three female) to share a minor chord. They offered reverently
elaborated sections of ''Concierto de Aranjuez,'' the Joaquín Rodrigo
composition that Miles Davis redid on ''Sketches of Spain,'' returning to the
chord for the audience to sing, then accelerated into Mr. Corea's ''Spain,''
with more audience call and response, to end on a final, euphonious chord with
the audience. It was comedy again, but underpinned with the deepest
musicianship.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/music/review-chick-corea-and-herbie-hanco
ck-on-two-grand-pianos-at-carnegie-hall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock:  Mr. Hancock, left, and Mr.
Corea performing as a duo at Carnegie Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Baseball's Eternal Opening Day

BYLINE: By DOUG GLANVILLE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 897 words


Opening Week in major league baseball has come and gone in a flurry. One of my
former teams, the Chicago Cubs, started the fireworks last Sunday, with a
shutout loss at the hands of the Cardinals' ace, Adam Wainwright. That kicked
off a tough schedule for their new manager, Joe Maddon. No worries, it's only
April, the beginning of a six-, maybe seven-month marathon, and statistics at
this point are volatile. This early in the season, players could be hitting .500
or even .000, teams are undefeated and stadiums are sold out, but this will
change.

My job at ESPN forces me to recall my baseball past for the sake of good
analysis, but it would come back to me anyway, because playing baseball for a
living was a time I want to remember. I want to share the gritty details with my
kids as soon as they know the definition of a backdoor slider or the infield fly
rule.

I also realize that it has been 10 years since I last put on the uniform. A
decade. The decade before that, when I was a player and living the dream, it
also unfortunately happened to be an era laced with steroids. But I was still
there.

There are moments now when 10 years feels like an eternity. When I prepare to
broadcast a game, I can evaluate a pitcher using FIP (''fielding-independent
pitching''; how a pitcher performs apart from his defense) or a hitter using WAR
(''wins above replacement''; how much value a player has over his replacement).
Whatever happened to ''batting average,'' or ''stolen bases''? It goes on: I can
discuss the imaginary K-zone to determine whether a pitch was a strike, I can
see what a key player said on Twitter about why he overthrew the cutoff man.

But sometimes the most dramatic change is in how my body feels. Last week, my
family decided to do a yard cleanup of the front of our kids' school. So a
handful of us spent almost two hours picking it up. The best technique seemed to
be to get low and stay low. But little did I realize that was like doing lunges
for two hours. My legs are still sore. Hardly a professional baseball player.

Then I look at my kids and realize that I am having full-blown conversations
with real people who were not even close to being born when I retired.

Thankfully, I have moments when it still feels like yesterday. In looking at the
games this past week, I thought back to all of my Opening Days.

I can still remember them. The first week, you might have a few Opening Days.
You open up at home, and you might also find yourself at other home-openers as
the road team. I remember my first Opening Day, in Miami in 1997, when even
balmy South Florida couldn't calm my nerves. And being the first hitter and
getting the first hit ever at Enron Field in Houston. And witnessing a
''Survivor''-themed Opening Day in Montreal in which tiki lamps representing the
opposition -- us -- were snuffed out and so ''eliminated.''

As for the games themselves, one year, I went 0 for 6 against the Mets after
contracting what I was sure was the bubonic plague the night before. Another
year, I was 3 for 7 with a home run, and came away convinced I would lead the
league in home runs with 162. And there was the season my father had a severe
stroke the last day of spring training, which made my excitement about facing
the Hall of Famer Randy Johnson in the opener dissipate in a heartbeat.

Opening Day marks time like no other day in the season. It is a transition, from
an off-season of adapting to your lessons of the year before to putting them
into practice. That reality can give even a veteran sweaty palms.

It's also when you begin anew to add to your time capsule. It would have been
nice to fill it with all-star trophies, World Series rings and M.V.P. awards.
Yet most players, like me, have to be creative; most players have to define
important moments by something that may be special only to them.

So, if I could, I would drop into it: My 1,000th hit, which I got the day my
father passed away. The picture with Jackie Robinson's wife, Rachel, from 25
years ago. My Phillies Wiffle ball helmet. The first autograph I ever received
in the mail, from Bob Boone. The jersey signed by everyone I played with and
against in the Hall of Fame game -- the only game my kids saw me play. The stub
from the day I retired, when my wife and my mother came in support. The picture
with Mike Schmidt from a charity bowling event. Garry Maddox's R.S.V.P. to my
wedding. The game ball from my winning hit against the Marlins in Game 3 of the
N.L.C.S. in 2003. My first hit, which was against my favorite team, the
Phillies. My M.V.P. trophy from playing winter ball in Puerto Rico, which was
more about how the people of Puerto Rico embraced me as family. To name only a
few.

But this time capsule would have to contain infinite space because it is also
filled with relationships, or symbols of those relationships, many of which
began on Opening Day. Not necessarily an Opening Day from my career, it could be
from any time and place. Some of them I watched on TV when I was a child, others
I could only imagine -- like the power of Jackie Robinson's Opening Day. But
they all are part of me.

As for 2015, it looks as if my old Phillies and Cubs might have learning-curve
seasons. But every day offers another chance to add to a cup that already
runneth over with good memories. And I love the fact that in baseball, the flow
never stops.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/baseballs-eternal-opening-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS
(78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); STEROIDS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); ST LOUIS
CARDINALS (84%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

With a Few Bounces on the Way, Providence Rights Itself in Time

BYLINE: By PETER MAY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 680 words


BOSTON --  Providence College was the runaway coaches' choice to win the 2015
Hockey East title in a preseason poll. Another poll had the Friars ranked third
in N.C.A.A. Division I.

They had the experienced goalie, Jon Gillies, and a group of seasoned, savvy
upperclassmen, and all seemed in perfect working order. Then the games got in
the way -- and Providence experienced what Coach Nate Leaman called ''a near
miss.''

The Friars, who won 22 regular-season games and finished second to Boston
University in Hockey East, needed help on the day before Selection Sunday to
make the 16-team tournament field. But now that they are in the Frozen Four
championship game on Saturday, things have changed.

''This is the Providence team we all thought we'd see at the beginning of the
season,'' Hockey East Commissioner Joe Bertagna said.

B.U., the Friars' opponent Saturday night, helped Providence by beating
UMass-Lowell in the finals of the Hockey East tournament. Minnesota then denied
Michigan the automatic berth awarded to the Big Ten champion, and Leaman was
finally able to exhale.

''I texted Don Lucia and told him, 'Thank you,' '' Leaman said Friday, referring
to the Minnesota coach.

''We felt like we had a second life,'' Leaman said. ''We had a near miss. I
think it was probably a good thing for us. It increased our level of
desperation. It brought us together as a group. And we've been playing our best
hockey.''

The Friars (25-13-2), the final at-large selection in the field, also benefited
from what Leaman called ''a few bounces'' along the way. The N.C.A.A. placed
them in the East Regional, contested down the street at the Dunkin' Donuts
Center. Their first-round opponent, Miami of Ohio, was missing two of its best
players. Providence disposed of Miami, upset Denver in the regional final and
dominated Nebraska-Omaha, 4-1, on Thursday to advance to the championship game.

The Friars have a chance to become the second No. 4 regional seed to win the
title since Yale, which also needed help to make the tournament, in 2013.

Providence's 13 losses are the most for an N.C.A.A. finalist since 2008, when
Notre Dame had 15. A victory over B.U. would tie Providence for second place
with Michigan State (1996, 2007) and Minnesota (1976) for most losses for an
N.C.A.A. champion. The 1981 champion, Wisconsin, had 14 defeats.

While B.U. (28-7-5) is chasing its sixth title and appearing in its 11th
championship game, Providence is seeking its first title in just its second
championship game appearance.

The 1985 Friars, led by goalie Chris Terreri, lost, 2-1, to Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute in the title game. Terreri, who played for the Devils, was
named the most outstanding player.

''I know it's been a long time coming for Providence,'' said B.U. Coach David
Quinn, a native of Cranston, R.I. ''It's been a great program for a long time.
Nate's done a phenomenal job. I'm happy for the team, I'm happy for the school,
but I will be more happy to beat them.''

The two teams split games on Oct. 31 and Nov. 1, with each team winning on the
road.

The matchup guarantees that the N.C.A.A. champion will come out of the East for
a record fourth straight year and the seventh time in the last eight years.

If Providence prevails, this would be the third straight year in which the
Frozen Four has produced a first-time champion. That has not happened since the
first three years of the tournament (1948-1950.)

SLAP SHOTS

Boston University's Jack Eichel won the Hobey Baker Award, presented to the top
college player. He is the first freshman to win the award since Maine's Paul
Kariya in 1993. Eichel is expected to be the No. 2 pick in the N.H.L. draft. ...
North Dakota's Zane McIntyre was named the winner of Mike Richter Award, which
honors the most outstanding goalie. Richter played college hockey at Wisconsin
and 14 seasons for the Rangers. McIntyre, who did not play well in North
Dakota's 5-3 loss to B.U. on Thursday night, was also a finalist for the Hobey
Baker Award. The third Hobey Baker finalist was Harvard's Jimmy Vesey.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/hockey/with-a-few-bounces-providence-ri
ghts-itself.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Providence College players after a third-period goal in a Frozen
Four semifinal victory over Nebraska-Omaha on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG M.
COOPER/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); RANKINGS (89%);
ATHLETES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: PROVIDENCE COLLEGE (98%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF
MASSACHUSETTS (55%)

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); OMAHA, NE, USA (85%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%);
NEBRASKA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Block Remittances to Somalia

BYLINE: By KEITH ELLISON.

Keith Ellison is a Democratic representative from Minnesota.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words


WASHINGTON -- AYAN HASAN works as a medical professional in Minnesota to support
her family in Somalia. Her mother, stepmother, six siblings and her blind uncle
depend on her remittances, the money she sends home every month. The money goes
toward food, water, doctor visits, housing and tuition. If she couldn't send
money to Somalia, she worries, her 14-year-old brother might drop out of school
and be recruited by extremists.

But her worries may soon be realized. Banks, afraid of running afoul of
government anti-laundering regulations, are pulling the plug on remittance
services to Somalia. If nothing is done, the Hasan family may have to face life
without help from Ayan.

My district is home to one of the largest Somali communities in the world.
Somali-Americans are proud of Somalia's progress in the last few years. The
nation successfully fought oppressive colonization and ended the ensuing decades
of dictatorship and civil war. While millions still live in poverty, Somalia is
establishing a legitimate government recognized by the international community.

The fragile progress in Somalia and other parts of East Africa is sustained in
part by money sent from friends and family overseas. Every year Somali-Americans
send about $215 million to Somalia, more than the $200 million annual aid
package from the American government.

Remittances from around the world account for up to 40 percent of Somalia's
gross domestic product. This money keeps Somalis from going hungry, sends their
children to school and provides seed capital for entrepreneurs to start
businesses. And it limits the appeal of insurgent organizations like the Shabab;
a pipeline from family members abroad makes it easier to reject the money that
terrorist groups use to attract recruits.

Thanks in part to this growing stability, Somalia and its international partners
have made important gains in fighting terrorism in the region. The United States
has made significant investments in the African Union Mission in Somalia and
other military efforts to root out terrorist activity.

Unfortunately, the remittances lifeline from the United States may soon be cut
off completely. In February, the bank that handled up to 80 percent of
remittances to Somalia closed the accounts of remittance businesses that provide
money-transfer services from the United States. In May, one of the few remaining
banks will also close accounts. And this week, Kenya suspended the licenses of
13 Somali remittance firms in response to the brutal murder last week of 148
students at Garissa University College.

Why are the banks shuttering these services? For one thing, having a
money-services business as a client increases the difficulty of regulatory
requirements, as banks must meet high standards under anti-money-laundering
rules.

To make things easier, the Treasury Department and other regulators have
published statements clarifying the rules and standards for handling
money-service firms. The statements essentially say financial institutions do
not need to be infallible to pass exams, and are not required to know the
customers of every firm they serve. But banks have decided that it is still not
worth the risk and trouble -- what if remittance funds fell into the hands of
the Shabab?

The Shabab's recent attacks show why we must make it easier to send verified
humanitarian remittances to the Horn of Africa -- not harder. There have been
only a few reported cases of remittances actually reaching the Shabab in the
last two decades. The funds were minimal, in one case about $8,000 and in the
other about $200.

We need to be creative. In the short term, banking regulators could assist banks
that want to serve their East African diaspora communities. The Federal Reserve
Bank of New York could use its own wire service and relationships with large
international banks to process the transfers to East Africa.

In the long term, we could follow the example of Britain and set up a ''safe
corridors'' program for banks, which closely monitors money transfers to prevent
laundering. We could collaborate with the State Department's Agency for
International Development or embassies to send the money through their aid
channels. We could provide technical assistance to the Somali government and
central bank to strengthen their own financial-control capacity. And we could
amend the anti-money-laundering laws to provide banks the assurance they need to
offer these services.

Safe and transparent channels of humanitarian remittances must be able to reach
desperately poor and struggling nations while ensuring funds are not reaching
terrorists. The stability and safety of the Horn of Africa is at stake.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/opinion/dont-block-remittances-to-somalia.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); CHILDREN (78%);
AL-SHABAAB (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (78%); FAMILY
(78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (75%);
BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (75%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STEPPARENTS (73%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS
(71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP
(69%); DICTATORSHIPS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (52%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (92%); KENYA (79%); EASTERN
AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amid a Homecoming, Talk of Tomorrow

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words


There was talk of history and of homecoming at City Center on Wednesday, as
Dance Theater of Harlem returned to a site of its glory days, some decades ago.
Virginia Johnson, who was the company's star ballerina back then and who has
served as its artistic director in the two years since it restarted after a long
debt-caused hiatus, reminisced some but directed attention to the present group
and to works on the program that were new or new to the company. The august
Carmen de Lavallade, appearing in a tribute to her husband, Geoffrey Holder, a
legend from the troupe's past who died in October, encouraged the audience to
embrace the new generation of dancers. ''It's their turn,'' she said.

One of the new pieces was titled ''Coming Together.'' That's a phrase I would
like to apply to the company as it struggles to rebuild and redefine itself, but
''holding together'' seems more apt. As in its last two New York seasons, the
troupe is still visibly getting its footing, brilliant here, wobbly there.
Problems of technique and repertory show neither deterioration nor much
progress. The dancers earned the ovations of a supportive crowd through grit and
pluck.

As before, the more classical the piece, the more weakness it exposed. Samuel
Wilson and Ashley Murphy attempted ''Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux,'' a challenging
traditional showpiece that George Balanchine choreographed for his own company
on this stage in 1960. They made it through, but barely, with Ms. Murphy's charm
and fire hidden behind a fixed smile of effort. Only the final overhead lift had
a sense of release, a triumphant note of ''We made it!''

Also as before, the company appeared freer and happier in contemporary works. In
''Dancing on the Front Porch of Heaven,'' which Ulysses Dove created for the
Royal Swedish Ballet in 1993, the dancers fiercely attacked the overheated
phrases, not giving up even as the work's repetitions palled. They took the same
approach to the company premiere of Nacho Duato's ''Coming Together,'' a
go-go-go dance that runs to the repetitions of Frederic Rzewski's score while
appending eccentricities like a soccer ball and a plate.

''Vessels,'' which Darrell Grand Moultrie made for this troupe last year, also
opts for the insistent drive of a minimalist score (this one by Ezio Bosso).
This dance, too, is composed of effects, some of them striking, that don't quite
add up. The evening's unevenness derived from the choreography as much as from
its execution. All of the dancers had bright moments, though Chyrstyn Fentroy
was the most consistent: supple, buoyant, with an elegance of line recalling Ms.
Johnson in her prime. As the company rushes forward, Ms. Fentroy was a reminder
of qualities it should not leave behind.

Dance Theater of Harlem continues through Saturday at City Center, 131 West 55th
Street, Manhattan; 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/arts/dance/review-dance-theater-of-harlem-at-c
ity-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dance Theater of Harlem: From left, Ashley Murphy, Samuel
Wilson, Alison Stroming and Anthony Javier Savoy of the troupe, performing in a
new work, ''Coming Together,'' by Nacho Duato, at City Center.
 Samuel Wilson and Ashley Murphy dancing in the program. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN
DOUGLAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%);
CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); BALLET (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Sea Drilling Rule Planned, 5 Years After Spill

BYLINE: By CORAL DAVENPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1088 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration is planning to impose a major new
regulation on offshore oil and gas drilling to try to prevent the kind of
explosions that caused the catastrophic BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico,
administration officials said Friday.

The announcement of the Interior Department regulation, which could be made as
soon as Monday, is timed to coincide with the five-year anniversary of the
disaster, which killed 11 men and sent millions of barrels of oil spewing into
the gulf. The regulation is being introduced as the Obama administration is
taking steps to open up vast new areas of federal waters off the southeast
Atlantic Coast to drilling, a decision that has infuriated environmentalists.

The rule is expected to tighten safety requirements on blowout preventers, the
industry-standard devices that are the last line of protection to stop
explosions in undersea oil and gas wells. The explosion of the Deepwater Horizon
oil rig on April 20, 2010, was caused in part when the buckling of a section of
drill pipe led to the malfunction of a supposedly fail-safe blowout preventer on
a BP well called Macondo.

It will be the third and biggest new drilling-equipment regulation put forth by
the Obama administration in response to the disaster. In 2010, the Interior
Department announced new regulations on drilling well casings, and in 2012, it
announced new regulations on the cementing of wells.

The latest regulation, a result of several years of study, will be imposed on
all future offshore drilling equipment and will be used by the administration to
make the case that it can prevent a BP-like disaster as oil exploration expands
in the Atlantic. The Interior Department is also reviewing a proposal from Royal
Dutch Shell to drill in the Arctic's Chukchi Sea, off the coast of Alaska.

''We're coming on five years, and we've been working tirelessly in the
regulation division since it happened,'' said Allyson Anderson, associate
director of strategic engagement in the Interior Department's Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement. ''We've doubled down on building a culture of
safety,''

But environmentalists remained highly skeptical.

''Making sure the design, operation and maintenance of the blowout preventer is
the best it can possibly be is imperative, no question,'' said Bob Deans, a
spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense Council and co-author of the book
''In Deep Water,'' an investigation of the cause of the spill. ''Industry and
government have taken measures over the past five years to reduce some of the
risk in what is an inherently dangerous operation at sea. That's a far cry from
saying it's safe. And the last thing we need is to expose Atlantic or Arctic
waters to a BP-style blowout.''

Environmentalists also noted that a panel appointed by President Obama to
investigate the spill concluded that the chief cause of the disaster, which left
the Gulf Coast soaked in black tar, was not the blowout preventer but a broad
systemic failure of oversight by the companies involved in drilling the well and
the government regulators assigned to police them.

Five years after the spill, the number of accidents and injuries per
oil-producing well has increased, according to Interior Department statistics.
Between 2009 and 2014, the overall number of oil- and gas-producing wells
dropped about 20 percent, and accidents and incidents associated with drilling
in the Gulf of Mexico dropped 14 percent. But during that period, accidents and
injuries per producing well increased by about 7 percent.

A report last year by the Chemical Safety Board concluded that the blowout
preventer's blind shear ram, an emergency hydraulic device with two cutting
blades, punctured the pipe and sent oil and gas gushing to the surface. The
study found that the drill pipe had buckled under the tremendous pressure of the
oil and gas rising from the well from the initial blowout.

That report warned that another disastrous offshore oil well blowout could
happen despite regulatory improvements in the four years since the BP well
explosion.

''The new regulation is important,'' said William K. Reilly, a co-chairman of
the presidential panel that investigated the spill, and the administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency under the first President George Bush. ''The
signal from the department that it is attending to each of the systems is more
important. The blowout preventer is the last-ditch preventer. It was activated
too late in Macondo. If you get to the point where it's all you've got, it
better be good. But the system process we identified -- attention to management,
process design, adherence to the system -- those are really vital long before
you ever get to the point where you have an emergency.''

Mr. Reilly blamed Congress for some of the continued systemic problems, saying
that lawmakers should have appropriated funds to increase programs for safety
training and inspection.

Administration officials say that since the spill, the Interior Department has
initiated the most aggressive and comprehensive offshore oil and gas regulation
and oversight in history. The agency has nearly doubled the number of safety
inspectors in the Gulf of Mexico, from 55 at the time of the spill to 92 today.
After the accident, the Interior Department was restructured, separating the
agency charged with overseeing safety from the one charged with overseeing the
collection of revenue.

The agency has also put in place a requirement that any company performing
deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico must have access to containment dome
technology -- essentially, a dome that can be put over an exploded well to
contain gushing oil. At least two ports in the Gulf of Mexico now store
containment domes that can be used in emergencies.

While the oil industry typically opposes regulations, it has followed some of
the recommendations made by the presidential panel. The big oil companies
created and funded the Center for Offshore Safety, an institute intended to
promote and disseminate best practices in drilling.

''The industry's overall safety record was strong before Macondo, and the
co-chairs of President Obama's national spill commission were absolutely right
when they said that offshore drilling is now even safer,'' said Jack N. Gerard,
president of the American Petroleum Institute, which lobbies for the oil
industry. ''We will continue to build on these achievements because our goal is
zero accidents and zero spills.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/new-sea-drilling-rule-planned-5-years-after
-bp-oil-spill.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new rule will be used to make the case that a disaster like
the 2010 BP spill can be prevented. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES COAST GUARD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (90%);
OIL SPILLS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (90%); OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (90%); OIL
EXTRACTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%);
ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); OIL EXPLORATION
(78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES
(78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%);
ANNIVERSARIES (56%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (59%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (65%); RDSA (AMS) (65%);
RDS.B (NYSE) (65%); RDS.A (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%);
NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL
GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trapped Once, but Forever Stuck on the Cyclone

BYLINE: By VIVIAN YEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 893 words


Eighty-five feet above the belly of Brooklyn, the very top of the Coney Island
Cyclone offers an unmatched view of a place that seems to always teeter on the
brink of reinvention. Amusement park operators, roller coaster visionaries,
real-estate developers and a hurricane or two have all come and gone, grasping
at Coney Island's down-at-the-heels glory.

But in a landscape of man-made peaks old and new -- the Parachute Jump, the
Steeplechase, the Thunderbolt -- the summit of the Cyclone is a stalwart. For 87
years, once the Cyclone car has taken riders to the top, it has, very quickly,
hurtled them to the bottom.

Until, two weekends ago, it did not.

''Everything's great, and then we start going up the hill,'' recalled Adam
Myers, 17, ''and all of a sudden it starts slowing down towards the top, and
next thing I know, it just stops.'' Mr. Myers, an aspiring roller coaster
designer from North Bellmore, on Long Island, had driven to Coney Island's Luna
Park the night before to secure a spot on the Cyclone's first public ride of the
season on March 29.

The riders were stuck for a little more than 10 minutes, Mr. Myers estimated,
before park staff reached them and began leading them down the wooden slats that
form a kind of catwalk alongside the tracks.

It was a minor interruption; there were no injuries. Angie Morris, the brand
manager for Luna Park, explained that cold temperatures caused the transmission
belt to slip off the drum, activating a ''safe mode'' on the roller coaster and
causing the car to stop.

''It was a small isolated issue that was quickly resolved,'' she said.

After a Buildings Department inspection, the ride was running by the next
weekend. There to greet it for its reopening were seven of the dozen riders who
had gotten stuck, reunited and ready to use the ride vouchers the park had
distributed after the mishap. They called themselves the Cyclone Seven.

At age 87, the wood-and-steel Cyclone, if not quite as popular as it was in
Coney Island's heyday, remains remarkably alluring. The older it gets, the more
classic it seems, attracting more than its share of characters: tourists riding
for history's sake, teenagers riding for riding's sake, current and former
Brooklynites riding for nostalgia's sake and roller coaster fanatics, like Mr.
Myers, riding for an intimate connection to the ride from which many a more
modern coaster has borrowed.

All those types were there, paying $9 each for just under two minutes of thrills
on a recent chilly afternoon, the middle of spring break for New York City
public schools. A few men rode with one hand atop their heads, holding onto
their black skullcaps. Teenagers held with their smartphones in outstretched
hands, recording their own screams.

''It's quite clunky,'' said Chris Delahunt, who was visiting Brooklyn from
England with his family. ''It's like something from a bygone era, but there's
something wonderful about that.'' The Cyclone, he said, reminded him of an aged
wooden roller coaster that he used to ride growing up in Kent, adding that
''it's brilliant.''

His wife, Michala Delahunt, eyed the compact structure with something less than
enthusiasm. ''No, I'm fine!'' she said when asked if she was going to ride.

The Cyclone Seven said they returned to show that they believed the ride was
safe. Besides Mr. Myers, they included Erik Knapp, the self-christened Mr.
Cyclone, who camps out overnight before opening day each year to secure a prime
seat and who sports a Cyclone tattoo on one arm; David Zubin, 24, who has been
riding the roller coaster since he was a child; and Diana Elsener, 34, of
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., who routinely makes the three-hour journey to Coney Island
to honor a family tradition.

Ms. Elsener said the park should have called emergency personnel and could have
been more gracious to its stuck patrons, especially those who went out of their
way to demonstrate the ride's safety by returning. (Luna Park did provide one
ride voucher.)

But Ms. Elsener, who missed two days of work because of soreness and a charley
horse after her first attempted ride, added, ''I don't think anything can really
stop me from coming back and riding the Cyclone.''

The Cyclone has attracted a sprinkling of lawsuits over the years, including
several alleging head and neck injuries that have been settled. In 2007, a
tourist from California fractured several neck vertebrae and died several days
later of complications from surgery.

But among the Coney Island patrons interviewed on a recent afternoon, only those
who had no stomach at all for roller coasters refused to ride.

Antoinette Evans, 42, marveled at how closely it matched her memories of Coney
Island from her youth. ''It looks exactly the same as when I was a kid -- which
is amazing,'' she said.

''Which is maybe worrisome,'' interjected her aunt Lucy Fradkin. (In fact, much
of the wood in the structure has been replaced over the years.)

Mr. Zubin, one of the Cyclone Seven, said many friends and relatives had advised
him never to ride the roller coaster again, or at least to sue its operator. But
''the Cyclone is like my baby right now -- got to take care of my baby,'' he
said. ''I had faith in my roller coaster. I knew it wasn't going to break
down.''

Except, it was pointed out to him, the Cyclone did break down.

''The second time,'' he amended.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/once-trapped-atop-coney-island-cyclon
e-but-forever-stuck-on-it.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Riders on the Cyclone in Brooklyn on Wednesday. On the first
day of the season, below, riders had to climb down after the roller coaster got
stuck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARIBEL GONZALEZ)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%);
REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 62 words


A picture caption on Page 36 this weekend with a report in the ''This and That''
feature about a limited-edition bag designed by Max Mara and the architect Renzo
Piano to mark the reopening of the Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan
refers incorrectly to a sketch of the bag. The sketch was made by Max Mara's
design team -- not by Mr. Piano, who designed the museum.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


An article on Page 18 this weekend about first-generation students in the Ivy
League refers imprecisely to whether the government defines first-generation
students. While there is no official definition, federal Trio programs for
disadvantaged students do define them: students whose parents have no bachelor's
degree. The article also misstates the pledge made by Washington University in
St. Louis regarding enrolling freshmen eligible for low-income Pell grants, and
when it made that pledge. It announced in January, not last year, that it hoped
to increase their rate from 8 percent to 13 percent by 2020, not that it hoped
to double the rate by that time.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS (88%); STUDENT
FINANCIAL AID (86%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%)

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (86%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


An entry in the Spare Times listings in some editions on Friday about a
discussion at 2 p.m. tomorrow by Grace Hightower De Niro about her book, ''The
Women of Rwanda,'' misidentified the Book Culture store at which the event will
be held. It is the one at 450 Columbus Avenue, not 536 West 112th Street, and
the telephone number is 212-595-1962.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COUNTRY: RWANDA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


An article in some editions on Wednesday about the Rangers' 4-2 victory over the
Devils on Tuesday referred incorrectly to the Islanders' qualification for the
postseason. The Islanders clinched a postseason berth on Thursday; they had not
yet qualified for their second postseason trip in three seasons on Tuesday.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


A picture caption in some editions on Wednesday with an article about
Connecticut's victory over Notre Dame in the final of the N.C.A.A. women's
basketball tournament, using information from The Associated Press,
misidentified the UConn player shown fighting for a rebound with Taya Reimer and
Breanna Stewart. She is Kia Nurse, not Kiah Stokes.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (86%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (84%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 50 words


An article in some editions on Friday about the final day of testimony in the
trial of Pedro Hernandez, who is charged with murder in the 1979 disappearance
of Etan Patz, 6, erroneously included one of Etan's relatives among those who
were in the courtroom. Julie Patz, his mother, was not in attendance.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); TESTIMONY (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words


An article on Friday about the 150th anniversary of the end of the Civil War
misstated the name of a song played by a brass band during a program at
Arlington National Ceremony marking the date. It is ''Yankee Doodle'' -- not
''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' the name of a 1942 musical film about the composer
George M. Cohan.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION
(85%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cooper Union, in Deal Over Inquiry Into Tuition, Offers to Let President Go

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 723 words


Cooper Union has offered not to renew its president's contract to try to address
an inquiry into the college's finances and a lawsuit over its decision to charge
undergraduates tuition for the first time in more than a century.

Last week, the Cooper Union board voted to offer to let the college's president,
Jamshed Bharucha, go after his contract expires next year, as part of a larger
deal with the state attorney general's office, according to three people with
knowledge of the discussions.

The office of Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman has been looking into
whether Cooper Union's move last year to start charging its students was
appropriate. But the inquiry has also focused on a batch of financial decisions
made about 10 years ago.

At that time, the school borrowed $175 million to construct a new building in
the East Village, using the land it owns under the Chrysler Building as
collateral. In the process, it renegotiated the rent it charged to Tishman
Speyer Properties, which controls the Chrysler Building, in an arrangement that
the board's critics said grossly undervalued the land. Among the issues the
attorney general is exploring is whether Cooper Union board members had
conflicts of interests when the rental agreement was made.

Mr. Bharucha, an academic with a background in cognitive neuroscience, became
president in 2011, so those interlocking deals predate him. But he shepherded
the start of tuition, and, according to some board members, he alienated people
across the school community, including board members who supported instituting
tuition.

Two board members, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the board was
declining to comment publicly, said that regardless of the attorney general's
inquiry, a renewal of Mr. Bharucha's contract was far from assured.

Mr. Bharucha's departure would not end the investigation. However, the board's
vote, which was reported by The Wall Street Journal on Thursday, puts the
college and the attorney general one step closer to a deal that is expected to
also include a package of procedural reforms and monitoring, according to a
person with knowledge of the discussions but who was not authorized to speak
publicly about them.

Returning the school to financial health and restoring free tuition ''is going
to take a dramatic change in the way Cooper Union is run, therefore Bharucha has
to go,'' said Richard Emery, a lawyer who is representing a group of faculty,
alumni and students called the Committee to Save Cooper Union in a lawsuit
challenging the tuition.

''The entire financial architecture of the organization, of the school has to be
redesigned.''

The college, formally the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art,
was founded in 1859, and endowed with valuable New York City real estate by the
industrialist Peter Cooper with the goal of educating working-class New Yorkers.

Mr. Emery has argued that the way Mr. Cooper set up the school, he intended to
require that it be free, and to alter that would require court approval.

Lawyers for the board, however, say that the trust only requires the school
provide some free nighttime lectures.

''Words, aspirations, quotes, dreams are not binding,'' Barbara Mather, a lawyer
for the trustees, said last year.

The attorney general's office has been trying to mediate between the two sides.

Mr. Bharucha said in an interview on Friday that when he joined the college, he
had not planned to institute tuition, but it became clear that the school's
operating deficit was double what had been previously thought. He put in motion
a plan to stabilize its finances, he said, by charging tuition to undergraduates
on a sliding scale depending on need, up to about $20,000 a year, and by
starting new programs, like master's degree studies, to generate more revenue.
This year's freshman class was the first to be charged under the tuition
schedule.

Mr. Bharucha said returning to a tuition-free model at the college would be a
''catastrophic mistake.'' But he declined to discuss last week's board vote or
the possibilities for his life after Cooper Union.

''I have no regrets about taking the job or about the leadership that I have
exercised because Cooper Union is an extraordinary place,'' Mr. Bharucha said.
''It was attractive to me then, and it still is now.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/nyregion/cooper-union-offers-to-let-president-
go-as-part-of-deal-with-state-attorney-general.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cooper Union, above, began charging tuition for the first time
in more than a century, a move shepherded by its president, Jamshed Bharucha,
left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
ENDOWMENTS (78%); AGREEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
(78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%);
LAWYERS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (65%);
NEUROSCIENCE (65%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Did You Write Your College Application Essay About Money? We'd Like to Hear From
You

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg.

LENGTH: 173 words


In each of the last two springs, I have put out a call to high school seniors
around the world to send me the college application essays they've written that
year about money, working or social class. I read every one of them and then,
with the help of an outside expert, pick a handful to run in The New York Times.

You can read the 2014 collection here and the 2013 one here; the video above
features one of last year's writers.

This year, we're doing it again. If you've written an essay like this or you are
a parent, teacher or guidance counselor who knows someone who has, please
encourage them to email their essay to moneyessays@nytimes.com Please include
the following information with your submission:

Your name

Your email address

Your high school

Where you live

The name of the college you're going to attend (if you know it yet).

Your essay should be attached to your email as a Microsoft Word document or PDF.
Selected essays will be published in May. Those whose essays are chosen will be
paid our normal freelance rate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/your-money/did-you-write-your-college-applicat
ion-essay-about-money-wed-like-to-hear-from-you.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WRITERS (77%);
FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Memories Sweeter Than the Home

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 706 words


I am working up a rush of nostalgia during the Islanders' final spring at Nassau
Coliseum. The Isles, who clinched a postseason berth Thursday, play their last
regular-season game at the Coliseum on Saturday against the Columbus Blue
Jackets.

There were so many great times in that squat, prosaic arena near the bright
lights of Hempstead Turnpike.

I say the Islanders were the best team I ever covered because they had more so
many stars who delivered with Canadian-Swedish-suburban modesty. And they won
four straight Stanley Cups from 1980 through 1983. Somehow I narrowed my
favorite moments to five.

MAY 24, 1980 Bob Nystrom's overtime goal to win  Game 6 of the 1980 Stanley Cup
finals made the Islanders champions within a decade of their being born in 1972
as an expansion team out in the suburbs. It was not a lovely goal but was
typical of the hard-working Nystrom, from western Canada, who secured his
reputation by winning the Cup.

Bobby Ny married a Long Island woman and stayed on the Island to become perhaps
the player who remained closest to the team over the decades -- and the father
of an N.H.L. player. This was the start, by a guy who became a storied figure.
Without his goal, we would not be having this discussion.

APRIL 13, 1982 John Tonelli saved a dynasty. His goal at 6 minutes 19 seconds of
overtime secured a 4-3 victory in the fifth and deciding game of the Patrick
Division semifinals against the Pittsburgh Penguins. The Islanders trailed by
3-1 in the third period before Mike McEwen scored at 14:33 and Tonelli netted
the tying goal at 17:39. The Islanders had won two straight Cups, but a number
of teams had done that. Edmonton was the coming power out west. A dynasty was on
the line as the Islanders had six minutes left in regulation time. The transfer
of power from the Islanders to Edmonton did not happen until two years later.

Tonelli was a great guy -- almost everybody on that team was -- and has become a
successful businessman in New York, but somehow he has not been honored the way
many of the Islanders' greats have been.

MAY 8, 1982 Mike Bossy intercepted a bad pass and scored late in overtime to
take the first game of the Stanley Cup finals against the Vancouver Canucks. I
was there, and as I remember, it was cold outside for May. I can still see
Harold Snepsts making the bad pass, and Bossy swooping in and shooting while
Snepsts was already breaking his stick.

About eight years later, my son David was a young reporter in Peoria, Ill.
Snepsts was coaching the Peoria Rivermen. As David tells it, he introduced
himself and said, ''Mr. Snepsts, I am from Long Island -- and in 1982 I was the
happiest kid ...'' And Snepsts said, ''You're talking about the Bossy goal!''

I caught up with Snepsts at an All-Star Game in Vancouver in 1998. He still
wanted that pass back.

APRIL 20, 1983 The Islanders crushed the Rangers, 7-2, in Game 5 of the Patrick
Division finals, and Bob Bourne made the most beautiful, athletic goal I will
ever see. He picked up the puck behind his own net, with Billy Smith watching,
and flitted his way right, then left, split two defenders and scored at an
angle.

True, the Rangers were already behind, 4-1, and going down. But as I wrote back
then, this was straight off the pond. Bourne was a great athlete and played
minor league baseball, splitting first base with Clark Gillies in the Houston
Astros' chain. To watch him was to watch an athlete at the peak of his career --
impromptu beauty.

NOV. 4, 2007 When Al Arbour was 75 and had long since retired after coaching
1,499 games for the Islanders, the team signed him to coach one more game and
round off the numbers. I watched the team's head coach at the time, Ted Nolan,
go along with it, with great professional respect.

Arbour, who led the Isles to those four Stanley Cups in his 19 seasons with the
team, had come into a news conference the day before and spotted me and two
other oldies from New York papers. He gave a mock groan, and we said he couldn't
escape us.

The next night, the Isles fell behind the Penguins by 2-0 but won, 3-2, for
Arbour's 740th victory.

I love hockey because of the respect for history and for the game itself. This
was a perfect example.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/hockey/transcendent-islanders-moments-a
t-the-nassau-coliseum.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Nystrom, left, John Tonelli and Butch Goring after Tonelli's
overtime goal won a 1982 playoff series for the Islanders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE
BENNETT STUDIOS/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS
(77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); SUBURBS (70%)

COMPANY: COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (86%); COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (58%)

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA
(73%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
OHIO, USA (73%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Naval Buildup Starts to Yield Results, U.S. Report Says

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 603 words


SINGAPORE --  China is rapidly building coast guard ships, the vessels that
China most commonly uses for patrols in the South China Sea, and in the last
three years has increased the number of ships in that category 25 percent, a new
report by the United States Navy says.

China has the world's largest coast guard fleet, with more such ships than its
neighbors Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines combined, the
report shows.

The unclassified assessment of the Chinese Navy, the first in nine years by the
United States Navy's Office of Naval Intelligence, says the rapid modernization
over the last 15 years is yielding dramatic results.

The Chinese Navy is ''on track to dramatically increase its combat capability by
2020 through rapid acquisition and improved operational proficiency,'' the
report says.

In 2014, China began construction on, launched or commissioned more than 60
vessels, and a similar number of ships were planned in 2015, it said, adding:
''In 2013 and 2014, China launched more naval ships than any other country and
is expected to continue this trend through 2015-16.''

The United States Navy faces growing competition from China in the Pacific
Ocean, and Washington has become increasingly concerned about China's maritime
power as it undertakes reclamation works to create artificial islands in
contested areas of the South China Sea.

The new islands were to serve a variety of purposes, among them the
establishment of defensive military capabilities in the waterway, one of the
busiest trade routes in the world, China's Foreign Ministry said Thursday.

The Navy report noted that despite its slowing economy, China had continued its
double-digit increases in military spending, announcing in March a military
budget of $141.5 billion, an increase of 10 percent.

In keeping with President Xi Jinping's goal to make China a great maritime
power, China will have a much more robust navy with far greater reach in the
coming decade with multiple aircraft carriers (China has only one so far),
ballistic missile submarines and, potentially, a large-deck amphibious ship. At
the moment, the report says, the Chinese Navy is built around destroyers,
frigates and conventional submarines.

The report confirms recent announcements in the Chinese state-run news media
that China has deployed the YJ-18, a new generation supersonic antiship cruise
missile that could present unprecedented challenges to the air defenses of
American and allied ships, said Andrew S. Erickson, an associate professor at
the United States Naval War College in Rhode Island.

''Everyone serious about understanding Chinese military capabilities must
familiarize themselves with this missile,'' Mr. Erickson said.

An article in China Daily said last week that three ''cutting-edge
nuclear-powered attack submarines'' had been manufactured by China and that one
of them, referred to as the Type-093G, had a wing-shaped cross section designed
to improve speed and mobility and to reduce noise. That submarine carried a
vertical launcher capable of delivering China's latest YJ-18 supersonic antiship
cruise missile, the article said.

In the past, China had received antiship cruise missiles from Russia, but now
China is making them at home and fielding them in greater numbers, said Lyle J.
Goldstein, an associate professor in the China Maritime Studies Institute at the
United States Naval War College.

''This missile, and its air-launched cousin, the YJ-12, are major threats to the
U.S. Navy,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''The major increase in speed makes the missile
much harder to intercept.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/china-is-rapidly-adding-coast-guard
-ships-us-navy-says.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Chinese guided missile destroyer Harbin during exercises
with the Russian Navy in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); US NAVY (90%); ARMED FORCES
(90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); SUBMARINES & SUBMERSIBLES
(89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%);
TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); BUDGETS (68%); NUCLEAR
ENERGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (91%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%)

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%);
HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%); MALAYSIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%);
INDONESIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Blocks Yangtze Dam Project, Activists Say

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Mia Li contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 466 words


BEIJING --  The Chinese Ministry of Environmental Protection has issued an order
preventing dam-building on a stretch of the upper Yangtze River, according to
environmental activists, that will result in the scrapping of a proposed
hydroelectric dam near the western metropolis of Chongqing that had been opposed
for years by environmentalists.

The Xiaonanhai Dam would have cost billions of dollars to build and operate, and
it was supported by Bo Xilai, the former Chongqing party chief who was sentenced
to life in prison in 2013 for corruption. The dam would have been Chongqing's
largest infrastructure project.

Environmentalists said the dam would have destroyed a protected area of the
river that had been established by officials as an ecology-friendly counterpoint
to the construction of the Three Gorges Dam, farther downstream and the world's
largest hydropower project. The protected area has been a haven for a wide
variety of fish -- some of which are rare or endangered -- that need access to
rapidly flowing waters.

Sections of the Ministry of Environmental Protection's order were posted on
microblogs this week by environmentalists who had gotten copies of the document.
The order was dated March 30. Zhang Boju, an advocate at Friends of Nature, a
nongovernmental organization that has been a persistent critic of the dam, said
in a telephone interview that he and other environmentalists had posted sections
of the document online and that he was certain they were authentic.

The ministry declined to comment on the order.

Mr. Zhang said the building of the Xiaonanhai Dam would have set a dangerous
precedent because its construction would have meant that the designation of
natural areas as protected zones carried no weight.

''If the Xiaonanhai Dam was built, the entire protection zone would be
destroyed, and the protection-zone system would be rendered meaningless,'' he
said.

While Mr. Bo governed Chongqing, the largest municipal area in China, the
government there worked to try to shrink the protected area along the Yangtze to
remove roadblocks to dam construction. In December 2011, the State Council,
China's cabinet, approved a proposal to shrink the preserve.

It is unclear to what degree the downfall of Mr. Bo contributed to the
ministry's order to cancel dam construction. The murder scandal that led to Mr.
Bo's ouster from the party and imprisonment began in February 2012, when the
police chief of Chongqing fled to a nearby American Consulate to tell diplomats
there that Mr. Bo's wife, Gu Kailai, had killed a British businessman whom the
Bo family had known for years. When Communist Party leaders learned of the
accusations, they ordered the arrests of Mr. Bo and Ms. Gu and put each of them
on trial, though only Ms. Gu was convicted of murder.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/environmental-order-in-china-to-pre
vent-building-of-contested-dam.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Construction of a bridge in Chongqing in 2012. The Xiaonanhai
Dam would have been city's largest infrastructure project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER
PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (93%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (93%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC
CONSTRUCTION (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL
DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%);
CONSERVATION (90%); MURDER (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL
CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%);
NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); PRISONS
(75%); SENTENCING (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ARRESTS (75%); CORRECTIONS (75%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

CITY: CHONGQING, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%)

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (95%); YANGTZE RIVER (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Charleston Set for Weekend of Mourning and Protest

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER and MANNY FERNANDEZ; Alan Blinder reported from North
Charleston, and Manny Fernandez from Houston. Frances Robles contributed
reporting from North Charleston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 929 words


NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. --  In a ritual that has been repeated around the country
after racially charged police killings, this working-class city was preparing
Friday for a weekend of public mourning and angry protest over the death of an
unarmed black man who was shot in the back by a white police officer.

The man, Walter L. Scott, 50, a forklift operator, was pulled over last Saturday
for a broken brake light. He was shown on a bystander's video being shot and
killed as he ran away from the officer, Michael T. Slager, 33, who has been
charged with murder and fired by city officials. Both state and federal
officials are investigating the shooting.

On Friday, the National Bar Association, a predominantly African-American legal
group, called for the firing and the indictment of a black police officer,
Clarence Habersham, who arrived on the scene shortly after the shooting. The
group alleges that he filed a false police report and that any other officers
who filed false reports should face similar punishment.

''In an attempt to escape prosecution and deceive the public, Officer Slager
made false statements to numerous North Charleston police officers regarding the
incident,'' the group said, adding that Officer Habersham ''deliberately left
material facts out of his report.'' The association is the nation's oldest and
largest legal organization of predominantly black lawyers, judges, educators and
law students.

The bar association cited police reports issued hours after the shooting that
described the episode as a ''traffic stop gone wrong.'' And it noted
discrepancies between the Police Department's initial version of events and what
was seen on the video.

''The video shows Officer Habersham standing next to Mr. Scott's body and at
times touching and/or examining it,'' the association said. ''Moments later,
Officer Slager drops an object which appears to be a Taser near Mr. Scott's
body. In his report, Officer Habersham does not describe Officer Slager's
actions, but said that he gave aid to Mr. Scott and tried to give directions to
the scene.'' But the association said there was no evidence on the video that
shows that Officer Habersham, or anyone else, administered CPR to Mr. Scott.

In the brief police report he filed after the shooting, Officer Habersham stated
that he ''attempted to render aid to the victim by applying pressure to the
gunshot wounds'' and that he directed ''the best route for E.M.S. and Fire to
take to get to the victim faster.'' Other officers wrote in their reports that
both first aid and CPR were performed on Mr. Scott before medics arrived.

Passions and tension over the shooting have grown not only among the various
groups -- police officers, city officials, protesters, civil rights leaders, the
victim's relatives and other African-American residents -- but within the groups
as well, as city leaders distanced themselves from comments of a white City
Council member, Bobby Jameson, that were critical of black protesters.

Relatives, friends and strangers gathered at a viewing service for Mr. Scott at
a Charleston funeral chapel on Friday. On Saturday at 11 a.m., a larger crowd is
expected to attend Mr. Scott's funeral at W.O.R.D. Ministries Christian Center,
in nearby Summerville. The funeral is open to the public, according to a
representative of the funeral home, Fielding Home for Funerals.

On Sunday, the Rev. Al Sharpton will preach about Mr. Scott's death at Charity
Missionary Baptist Church in North Charleston, at a service that both Mayor R.
Keith Summey and the police chief, Eddie Driggers, are expected to attend. After
the service, Mr. Sharpton will meet privately with Mr. Scott's family and attend
a vigil, a spokeswoman for Mr. Sharpton said.

In a statement Friday morning, Mr. Sharpton, who spoke last year at the funeral
for Michael Brown, the black teenager shot and killed by a white police officer
in Ferguson, Mo., said there had been no discussion about Mr. Sharpton's
attending the funeral. He disputed a report in The Daily News in New York that
quoted an unidentified person close to Mr. Scott's family saying that the family
did not want Mr. Sharpton at the funeral.

North Charleston's police union, the Fraternal Order of Police, issued a
statement on Thursday that, while describing the shooting of Mr. Scott as
''beyond comprehension,'' criticized protest leaders like Mr. Sharpton, who have
focused national attention on police harassment and excessive force in black
communities, though the statement did not mention him by name.

''Do not allow the professional race agitators to seize this moment to advance
their often self-serving opinions of what is wrong in South Carolina,'' read the
statement from John C. Blackmon, the president of the union, which represents
nearly 700 local, state and federal officers in a three-county area.

On Friday morning, there were isolated protests near the scene of the shooting,
where a few men wore T-shirts reading ''Black Lives Matter'' and ''Stop Killing
Us'' -- two slogans that gained popularity among demonstrators and activists
after police killings in Ferguson and on Staten Island.

''I think folks are probably at a heightened state of just disbelief,'' said Dot
Scott, who lives in North Charleston, serves as the president of the Charleston
branch of the N.A.A.C.P., and is one of several black leaders who have accused
the police of harassing and racially profiling African-Americans. ''People are
angry. They've finally got the eyes of the nation on a situation we've been
dealing with for years.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/north-charleston-prepares-for-weekend-of-mo
urning-and-protest-in-walter-scott-shooting.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mourners on  Friday afternoon  at the Charleston,  S.C., funeral
home where a  viewing was  held for Walter  L. Scott, who  was killed a  week
ago as he  ran away from a  police officer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID
GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRST AID (86%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS
(77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%);
BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); FEDERAL
INVESTIGATIONS (69%); JUDGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BAR ASSOCIATION (56%)

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

BuzzFeed Restores Two Posts Its Editor Had Deleted

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words


After a flurry of criticism online, BuzzFeed on Friday reinstated two posts that
had recently been removed from the site. Ben Smith, the editor in chief, said
that he had overreacted when asking editors to delete them.

One of the posts that was taken down was critical of an advertising campaign for
the cosmetics brand Dove, which advertises on the site. After Gawker reported on
the item's disappearance on Thursday, Mr. Smith posted a note from editors which
suggested that it was removed because it did not fit BuzzFeed's tone or
editorial mission. ''We are trying not to do hot takes,'' Mr. Smith wrote on
Twitter.

But on Friday, the British website Guido Fawkes said that BuzzFeed had recently
removed another post that was critical of the board game Monopoly, shortly after
it entered a deal with Hasbro, the company behind the game. Mr. Smith said in a
note on Friday that he had decided to restore both posts.

''I blew it,'' Mr. Smith wrote in a note to the BuzzFeed staff. ''Twice in the
last couple of months, I've asked editors -- over their better judgment and
without any respect to our standards or process -- to delete recently published
posts from the site.'' Both, he said, involved the same issue: ''my overreaction
to questions we've been wrestling with about the place of personal opinion
pieces on our site.''

He had acted impulsively, he said, but had not removed the posts because of
advertiser pressure. ''I field complaints all the time from companies and
individuals, including advertisers,'' he said, ''and I see it as my job to
shield you from that pressure.''

Reached by email Friday, Mr. Smith said that neither Dove nor Hasbro had
complained about the items that were removed. He declined to comment further.

BuzzFeed's editorial standards, published on the site, say that editorial posts
''should never be deleted for reasons related to their content, or because a
subject or stakeholder has asked you to do so.'' But the standards also specify
that the site does not ''write about ads that are running on BuzzFeed unless
they are genuinely newsworthy.''

The Dove post, which was published on Wednesday, criticized a commercial in
which women were asked to categorize themselves as average or beautiful, part of
a broader campaign for the brand which has focused on self-image. Dove, the post
said, ''wants to tell us how we feel about ourselves. And then fix it for us.
With soap.'' It was deleted and replaced with a sentence that said, ''We pulled
this post because it is not consistent with the tone of BuzzFeed Life,'' the
site's lifestyle section. The post on Monopoly, published in February, was
headlined ''Why Monopoly Is The Worst Game In The World, And What You Should
Play Instead.''

The site was criticized last year after Gawker discovered that it had deleted
thousands of posts without informing readers. At the time Mr. Smith told the
Poynter Institute for Journalism that the posts that were deleted dated to the
beginning of BuzzFeed ''when people were really not thinking of themselves as
doing journalism; they saw themselves as working in a lab.''

Many of the posts, he told Poynter ''were technically broken and some of them
were kind of done as inside jokes.'' Others contained humor that had not aged
well, or were games made in an outdated technical format.

BuzzFeed was founded in 2006 by Jonah Peretti and Kenneth Lerer, two of the
founders of The Huffington Post, as something of an experiment in creating viral
content.

It quickly grew to become a web traffic behemoth and expanded into more
traditional journalism. Mr. Smith, who was a prominent political writer at
Politico, was hired in 2011. He has since built a news organization with its own
corps of foreign and domestic correspondents. It recently snared its first
interview with President Obama.

Last year, it closed a new $50 million investment from the Silicon Valley
venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. The investment valued the company at
the time at approximately $850 million.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/media/buzzfeed-restores-2-posts-its-e
ditor-had-deleted.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An image from YouTube of a Dove cosmetics ad. A post criticizing
the campaign was removed from BuzzFeed, then restored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS (76%);
COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (72%); COSMETICS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; Afghanistan: 13 Civilians Killed in 2 Separate Blasts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 129 words


A suicide car bomber attacked a convoy of American troops in eastern
Afghanistan, killing three Afghan civilians and wounding four on Friday, and in
another eastern province, 10 people were killed when their minivan hit a
roadside bomb, officials said. Also on Friday, the international aid group Save
the Children said that five members of its local staff who had been abducted
several weeks ago were found dead in the southern province of Oruzgan. The
Taliban claimed responsibility for the convoy attack, which took place near the
American military base not far from the airport in Jalalabad, the capital of
Nangarhar Province. No American soldiers were wounded in the bombing of the
convoy, said Hazrat Hussain Mashraqiwal, the spokesman for the provincial police
chief.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/asia/afghanistan-13-civilians-killed-in-
2-separate-blasts.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED
FORCES (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
(88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); TALIBAN (88%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (85%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (85%); POLICE FORCES (85%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (58%)

CITY: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (90%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Falling Import Prices May Slow Rise in Interest Rate

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 79 words


United States import prices fell in March as rising petroleum costs were offset
by declining prices for other goods, a sign of muted inflation that supports the
view the Federal Reserve will probably not raise interest rates in June. The
Labor Department said on Friday that import prices dropped 0.3 percent last
month after a downwardly revised 0.2 percent gain in February. In the 12 months
through March, prices plunged 10.5 percent, the largest drop since September
2009.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/falling-import-prices-in-us-may-slow-
rise-in-interest-rate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICES (95%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); IMPORT PRICES (91%); INTEREST RATES
(90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE
CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); COMMODITIES PRICES (88%); PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts: Sentencing Phase Set in Marathon Trial

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | NEW ENGLAND;
Pg. 13

LENGTH: 126 words


The second phase of the Boston Marathon bombing trial is to begin April 21, the
day after the running of the annual road race. Judge George A. O'Toole Jr. of
Federal District Court said that lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was
convicted Wednesday of all 30 counts against him in the bombing, had requested
extra time to ''resolve outstanding logistical issues with a number of potential
witnesses.'' The start date also avoids court on April 15, the second
anniversary of the 2013 bombings, which killed three and injured 250 more, and
April 20, the date of this year's marathon, the 119th in the city's history. In
this second phase of the trial, the same jury that convicted Mr. Tsarnaev will
decide whether to sentence him to life in prison or death.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/massachusetts-sentencing-phase-set-in-marat
hon-trial.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (91%); MARATHONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); VERDICTS (88%); CORRECTIONS (88%); JURY TRIALS (88%); LAWYERS
(87%); WITNESSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); HISTORY (68%); ANNIVERSARIES
(68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virginia: General Disciplined for Comments

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 133 words


The Air Force says it has reprimanded a vice commander for effectively trying to
restrict military personnel from communicating with members of Congress. The Air
Force inspector general began an investigation into Maj. Gen. James Post after
receiving a tip about comments he made at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada, in
January. General Post said that anyone who passes information to Congress about
the A-10's capabilities is committing treason. The Air Force wants to retire the
1970s-era A-10 Warthog, but Congress has refused to go along with the plan.
General Post told investigators that he was being facetious, but investigators
concluded otherwise. The Air Force said Friday that General Post has been
reassigned to an unspecified job on the staff at the Virginia-based Air Combat
Command.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/virginia-general-disciplined-for-comments.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIR
FORCES (90%); US AIR FORCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

10 California Deputies Put on Leave After Beating

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 488 words


Ten San Bernardino County sheriff's deputies were placed on paid administrative
leave on Friday after a television news camera caught them beating a suspect who
had been fleeing on horseback. The F.B.I. said it was opening a civil rights
investigation into the incident.

Speaking to reporters, Sheriff John McMahon of San Bernardino County said the
deputies used force against the suspect, Francis Pusok, on Thursday after a
high-speed car chase and later a foot pursuit over several miles of ''steep,
rocky, rugged terrain'' as he fled on a horse.

Sheriff McMahon said that an investigation into the deputies' use of force was
continuing, but that after watching the video he believed it to be
''excessive.''

''I assure you that I am disturbed by this video,'' he said. ''I assure you, if
there is criminal wrongdoing on the part of any of our deputy sheriffs or any
policy violations, we will take action.''

Mr. Pusok was treated at a hospital for abrasions and bruises and then sent to
West Valley Detention Center in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., where he was booked
for felony evading, theft of a horse, possession of stolen property and reckless
driving, Sheriff McMahon said.

Two deputies involved in the incident were treated for abrasions, a twisted knee
and a back injury sustained after being struck by the horse, he said, and
several more were dehydrated after the foot pursuit.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was opening a parallel inquiry into
whether Mr. Pusok's civil rights were violated during what it called the
''altercation'' at the end of the chase. It said those results would be sent to
the United States attorney's office for the central district of California and
the Justice Department in Washington to determine if further investigation or
prosecution was warranted.

Sheriff McMahon said two deputies arrived at a home in the unincorporated town
of Apple Valley, Calif., on Thursday to follow up on an identity theft
investigation when they unexpectedly encountered Mr. Pusok, who got in a car and
fled when he saw them. The car later became damaged, and Mr. Pusok stole a horse
to continue his flight from the deputies, who pursued him on foot.

Sheriff McMahon said his office believed that Mr. Pusok, who was on probation
after an earlier prison stint, fled the officers because he thought they were
part of ''a probation sweep'' and did not want to be sent back to jail.

The deputies who initially encountered Mr. Pusok ''were very familiar with this
suspect and very familiar with his criminal history,'' said Sheriff McMahon.

''He made threats to kill a deputy sheriff and in fact shot a puppy in front of
part of his family'' during a previous encounter with law enforcement, Sheriff
McMahon said.

Mr. Pusok's mother, Anne Clemson, told The Los Angeles Times that the deputies'
violent treatment of her son ''was not called for'' and demanded that the
deputies be fired.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/us/10-california-deputies-are-put-on-leave-aft
er-beating.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONTUSIONS (78%);
EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); FELONIES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS
(77%); PROPERTY CRIMES (76%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%);
LITIGATION (73%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME
(73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); BACK DISORDERS &
INJURIES (72%); PRISONS (71%); IDENTITY THEFT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bautista Ends Slump As Blue Jays Beat Orioles

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 665 words


Jose Bautista broke out of an early-season slump Friday by going 3 for 3 and
scoring four runs as the Toronto Blue Jays ruined the Baltimore Orioles' home
opener with a 12-5 victory.

Josh Donaldson and Dioner Navarro each drove in three runs for the Blue Jays,
who took control with a four-run first inning and led by 10-1 in the fourth.

Mark Buehrle (1-0) earned his 200th career win, allowing one run and eight hits
in six innings.

Bautista went 0 for 12 with eight strikeouts during Toronto's opening three-game
series at Yankee Stadium. Against the Orioles, he got a hit in each of his first
three at-bats and added a walk before being replaced. He drove in two runs and
tied his career high in runs scored.

''Slow start individually doesn't matter when your team is winning games,''
Bautista said. ''If we sustain that I'll be happy.''

TIGERS 8, INDIANS 4 Alfredo Simon took a shutout into the sixth in his debut for
Detroit, and Nick Castellanos hit a two-run homer as the visiting Tigers won
their fourth straight to spoil the Indians' home opener in their remodeled
ballpark.

Simon (1-0) allowed three runs and seven hits in five and one-third innings.
Castellanos homered in the fifth off Zach McAllister (0-1), who allowed a
career-high 13 hits.

Carlos Santana drove in two runs for Cleveland.

The Tigers have outscored their opponents, 30-5, to open the season.

PHILLIES 4, NATIONALS 1 Cesar Hernandez had a go-ahead, two-run single in a wild
four-run seventh, and Freddy Galvis had three hits and an R.B.I., leading host
Philadelphia to a victory over Washington.

Michael Taylor homered for the Nationals, the preseason favorites in the N.L.
East who have lost three of four to open the year while scoring just seven runs.

Chase Utley added an R.B.I. for the Phillies, who were helped by two walks and
two hit batters in their rally.

REDS 5, CARDINALS 4 Joey Votto hit two two-run homers -- the strongest
indication yet that he is fully back in form -- and Todd Frazier had a
tiebreaking sacrifice fly, keeping host Cincinnati unbeaten with a victory over
St. Louis.

The Reds are 4-0 for the first time since 2011, when they won their first five.
They have won each game in their final at-bat.

ROCKIES 5, CUBS 1 Colorado tied its best start in franchise history, beating
visiting Chicago behind Troy Tulowitzki's two-run double and Justin Morneau's
solo homer.

The Rockies, off to their first 4-0 start since 1995, benefited from another
stellar performance from their bullpen in relief of a shaky Tyler Matzek.

Christian Bergman (1-0) picked up the win with a perfect fifth inning, and five
Colorado relievers combined to allow just one hit -- a bunt single by Anthony
Rizzo with the shift on -- in five innings.

ASTROS 5, RANGERS 1 Jed Lowrie and Colby Rasmus homered for visiting Houston,
who beat the injury-plagued Rangers to spoil the home debut of Texas Manager
Jeff Banister.

Rangers starter Derek Holland (0-1) left after one inning because of tightness
in left shoulder, and outfielders Shin-Soo Choo and Ryan Rua also made early
exits because of injuries.

The Astros' Collin McHugh (1-0) struck out four and allowed one run over six
innings.

TWINS 6, WHITE SOX 0 Tommy Milone pitched two-hit ball into the eighth inning,
and Minnesota won its first game under Manager Paul Molitor, spoiling Chicago's
home opener.

Joe Mauer reached base four times, with an R.B.I. single and three walks.
Eduardo Escobar doubled and scored twice and Brian Dozier homered.

The White Sox (0-4) matched their worst start since 1995.

MARLINS 10, RAYS 9 Christian Yelich drove in three runs, including a game-ending
R.B.I. single in the bottom of the 10th inning as host Miami beat Tampa Bay for
its first win.

Giancarlo Stanton also had three R.B.I., and Michael Morse drove in two for the
Marlins, who led by 8-1 before the Rays scored seven runs in the seventh to tie
it.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/sports/baseball/blue-jays-beat-orioles-as-jose
-bautista-heats-up.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES
& VENUES (74%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (71%); DETROIT, MI, USA
(55%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA
(50%)

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); OHIO, USA (71%); MICHIGAN, USA (55%);
PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malli Mastan Babu, 40, Acclaimed Summiteer

BYLINE: By HARESH PANDYA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 381 words


Malli Mastan Babu, an Indian mountaineer who won fame as the first South Asian
to scale the highest peak on each of the seven continents, and who had been
missing in the Andes since late March, was found dead on April 3. He was 40.

India's external affairs minister, Sushma Swaraj, announced on Sunday that Mr.
Babu's body had been found in the border region between Argentina and Chile.
With the body was a bag containing a copy of a Hindu scripture, the Bhagavad
Gita, and an Indian flag.

Mr. Babu was known as one of the world's fastest summiteers. In just 172 days,
from Jan. 19 to July 10, 2006, he climbed the world's tallest peaks on seven
continents: Aconcagua in South America, McKinley in North America, Elbrus in
Europe, Kilimanjaro in Africa, Kosciuszko in Australia, Everest in Asia and
Vinson Massif in Antarctica.

In 2008, he trekked from Everest to Kanchenjunga, covering nearly 680 miles of
the world's highest terrain in 75 days. As was the case with most of his
adventures, he did it alone.

Once asked in a radio interview why he preferred to travel alone, he said,
''Simply because it would be difficult for other climbers and trekkers to match
my pace.''

Mr. Babu was born Sept. 3, 1974, into a poor family of fishermen in Gandhi Jana
Sangam, a village in the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. He was the
youngest of five children.

His survivors include his mother, two brothers and two sisters.

Mr. Babu was a graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology in Kharagpur and
the Indian Institute of Management in Kolkata, the city formerly known as
Calcutta. He had worked as a software engineer for three years.

He said his interest in mountaineering was inspired by a statue of a boyhood
hero, Lt. M. Uday Bhaskar Rao, who died at an elevation of more than 26,000 feet
during an Indian Army expedition on Everest in 1985. Lieutenant Rao was a fellow
alumnus of a military school Mr. Babu attended as a youngster. As an
11-year-old, he said, he would stand before the statue, ''awe-struck.''

In Kolkata, Mr. Babu formed an adventure club and organized trekking, skiing,
rock climbing, rafting and meditation courses in the western Himalayas. He also
lectured on leadership and management in India, Kenya, the United Arab Emirates
and the United States.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/09/sports/malli-mastan-babu-who-scaled-the-worlds
-tallest-mountains-dies-at-40.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Malli Mastan Babu, who was  known for his speed, in 2009.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM PANTHAKY/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HIKING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MOUNTAIN
CLIMBING (90%); CLIMBING (89%); ROCK CLIMBING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RELIGIOUS
TEXTS (70%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ARMIES (66%);
MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (61%); RELIGION (55%)

CITY: KOLKATA, WEST BENGAL, INDIA (92%); DELHI, INDIA (58%)

STATE: HIMALAYAS (94%); MOUNT EVEREST (93%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (92%); ANDES
(92%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (79%); MOUNT KOSCIUSZKO (79%);
VINSON MASSIF (79%); ACONCAGUA (79%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (79%); ELLSWORTH
MOUNTAINS (79%); MOUNT ELBRUS (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); ASIA (93%); CHILE (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA
(79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KENYA (79%);
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ANTARCTICA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

11 Books About Obsessive Searches

BYLINE: By MARK ADAMS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 578 words


As the author of ''Turn Right at Machu Picchu,'' about a trek to find the lost
city of the Incas along a relatively unknown route, and ''Meet Me in Atlantis,''
about amateur explorers' passionate attempts to locate the sunken island
metropolis, I'm intimately familiar with travel books that might be categorized
as ''obsessive quests.'' My favorites are those written by authors who undertake
adventures of their own. Here is a selection.

''The Kon-Tiki Expedition,'' Thor Heyerdahl (1948)

A Norwegian sailor sails from Peru across the Pacific on a balsa raft to prove
the truth behind a Polynesian myth. The legitimacy of his findings is debatable,
but the high-seas adventure he weaves from his journey is timeless.

''A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush,'' Eric Newby (1958)

An inexperienced climber quits his job at a London fashion house to drive across
Europe and Central Asia to Afghanistan, where he hopes to ascend a Himalayan
peak. Arguably the funniest book ever written in which the author is falsely
charged with murder.

''Arabian Sands,'' Wilfred Thesiger (1959)

Shortly after World War II, a young Englishman decides to trek across the Empty
Quarter of Arabia; his spare prose captures the vanishing nomadic way of life in
one of the planet's harshest environments.

''The Snow Leopard,'' Peter Matthiessen (1978)

Running away from grief after his young wife dies from cancer, the author climbs
high into the mountains of Nepal seeking both the elusive cat and a Buddhist
shrine. What he finds instead is something close to enlightenment.

''Old Glory,'' Jonathan Raban (1981)

It could have been awful: A cynical Englishman, inspired by Huckleberry Finn,
departs down the Mississippi River searching for the meaning of America. Once he
adjusts to the slow-running current, however, he manages to find the heart in
the heartland.

''In Trouble Again,'' Redmond O'Hanlon (1989)

A woefully unprepared, out-of-shape natural historian sets off for the South
American rain forest to meet the fearsome Yanomami tribe. His arrival is almost
anticlimactic compared to the hilariously bumpy journey.

''Into the Wild,'' Jon Krakauer (1996)

A writer sees a lot of his younger self in the story of Chris McCandless, a
young vagabond who escapes deep into Alaska to live off the land, and tries to
untangle the truth about how he got there.

''Terra Incognita,'' Sara Wheeler (1998)

Part history of polar exploration, part Antarctic travelogue. The author spends
months at the world's least-inviting destination and manages to convey the pull
it has on those who are drawn there.

''Chasing Che,'' Patrick Symmes (2000)

In his attempt to retrace the route Che Guevara follows in his ''Motorcycle
Diaries,'' the author hops on his own two-wheel BMW to track down most of that
book's locations -- and many of its characters -- and somehow manages to improve
on the original.

''The Lost City of Z,'' David Grann (2009)

A celebrated British explorer disappeared in 1925 while searching for a
legendary city in the Amazon jungle. Eighty years later, the author tries to
solve the mystery of the explorer's death, and find an answer to the question:
Was the city of Z real?

''Wild,'' Cheryl Strayed (2012)

The Reese Witherspoon movie adaptation may capture the beauty of the Pacific
Crest Trail, but the book delves many levels deeper into the psychology of a
broken woman who seeks to put her life back together one step at a time (in
too-tight boots, no less).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/travel/11-books-about-obsessive-searches.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); CLIMBING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE
(78%); RELIGION (73%); HISTORY (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); MURDER (66%);
RAIN FORESTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

STATE: HIMALAYAS (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (53%)

COUNTRY: NEPAL (79%); PERU (79%); ASIA (79%); NORWAY (78%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%);
AFGHANISTAN (71%); EUROPE (70%); CENTRAL ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Paris Concert Hall Needs More Construction

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER D. SHEA

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words


The Philharmonie de Paris,  a sleek modern performance complex in the outskirts
of Paris  that opened in January amid much trepidation and controversy,  will
close its main hall this summer to continue construction.

The satirical weekly Le Canard Enchaîné (and later Le Figaro) reported the
closing this week, saying that the main performance space would be shuttered
throughout July and August, pushing several performances of the ''Days Off''
festival into the Cité de la Musique (a smaller venue in the same complex) and
causing bands like the British group Alt-J to cancel plans to play during the
festival. It was also reported that construction crews have been at work in the
hall during the evenings after daytime concerts.

The Philharmonie's spokesman, Philippe Provensal, said in an email that  the
closings were overblown.  He said the ''Days Off'' concerts had never been
scheduled for the Philharmonie's main space. Further, he added, it is typical
for French organizations to close operations in July and August, particularly
shortly after opening a new space. He did not respond to a question about
Alt-J's concert.

The Philharmonie is home to the Orchestre de Paris. Its opening was marked by
major delays and a ballooning budget, and it was clear from the start that the
construction was not completed. The hall's architect, Jean Nouvel, denounced the
venue's managers in the lead-up to its opening in a column in ''Le Monde,''
saying that the opening was premature by as much as nine months. He refused to
attend the opening concert.

But many have praised  the building's modern design and its mix of high- and
low-brow programming. An exhibition dedicated to David Bowie is showing in the
Philharmonie's museum space through May.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/10/new-philharmonie-complex-in-paris-t
o-close-main-space-for-more-construction/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIA BESANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS
(77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Mamma Mia!' to Close After 14-Year Run

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 222 words


''Mamma Mia!,'' the hit musical based on the songs of the Swedish pop group
Abba, will end its 14-year run on Sept. 5. The show, which opened at the Winter
Garden on Oct. 18, 2001, and moved to the Broadhurst Theater in 2013, will close
after 5,765 performances, making it the eighth-longest-running show in Broadway
history, seen by more than 7 million people.

Judy Craymer, the show's creator and global producer, is to announce the closing
after Thursday night's performance. ''I am thrilled that 'Mamma Mia!' has
brought the music of Abba to Broadway,'' Ms. Craymer said in a news release.
''And so grateful to the hundreds of wonderful actors, musicians, stage
managers, crew, front of house staff and the other people of the theater who
have given their professional lives and souls to be part of the 'Mamma Mia!'
family and adventure on Broadway.''

The Broadway show has grossed more than $600 million. For years it steadily took
in nearly $1 million a week at the box office, but sales had declined in the
last two years. Ticket sales, helped by the holiday weekend, totaled $813,160
for the week ending April 5, out of a potential gross of just over $1.1 million.

More typically, the show had been averaging about $500,000 each week.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/09/mamma-mia-to-close-in-september/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAN MARCUS/BONEAU/BRYAN-BROWN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%);
TICKET SALES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Andorra Follows Up on U.S. Inquiry by Cracking Down on BPA

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1601 words


ANDORRA -- In the clubby world of banking here in this tiny Pyrenees
principality, where money comes and goes under only the partial purview of
European regulators, there had long been whispers: Was there something fishy
about one of Andorra's five privately held banks, Banca Privada d'Andorra?

Andorran judiciary officials had also raised questions. Whether for lack of
expertise or energy, their investigations went nowhere.

It took the long arm of American law to finally crack down. Criminal
investigators for the United States Treasury Department last month published a
report accusing BPA, as the bank is known, of laundering hundreds of millions of
dollars on behalf of some of the world's most powerful criminal gangs.

Andorran authorities are now taking action against BPA, including the arrest of
Joan Pau Miquel Prats, the bank's chief executive.

''Building up a legal case over money laundering has its difficulties,'' Gilbert
Saboya Sunyé, Andorra's foreign minister, said in an interview. ''You have to
understand that such investigations are often very dependent on information that
the investigating country doesn't have.''

While some Andorran banking executives are adopting an ''I told you so''
attitude, local depositors whose BPA accounts are now semifrozen are exasperated
with the seemingly free rein given to the bank's management and two brothers,
Higini and Ramon Cierco, who were chairmen of the bank and whose family
controlled it.

''I just can't believe we couldn't stop earlier a bank from handling so much
crime money,'' said Carmen Panadero, who described herself as a housewife.

With the five banks and their combined assets of about 16 billion euros, or $17
billion, being so integral to the economy of Andorra, which has only 80,000
residents, it might not be surprising that the government gained little traction
in past efforts to investigate BPA.

In late 2012, for instance, an Andorran court froze about 200 million euros held
with BPA by Venezuelan clients tied to the regime of Hugo Chávez. Last year,
however, an Andorran judge unblocked the Venezuelan accounts because there was
not conclusive evidence of the alleged money laundering that had prompted the
action.

The BPA scandal is the latest evidence that, under the Obama administration,
''the U.S. has increasingly taken it upon itself to go after white-collar crime,
even where the actors are all overseas,'' said Pat O'Donnell, a partner at
Harris, Wiltshire & Grannis, a Washington law firm. ''I think it also reflects a
U.S. government perspective that overseas regulators aren't doing quite
enough.''

Whether any BPA bank officials go to trial, the severity of the American claims
has forced Andorra's government to take unprecedented measures to ring-fence BPA
from the rest of the financial sector. After setting up an emergency credit line
of up to ?100 million for BPA's corporate clients, the Andorran authorities are
now hoping to sell BPA's legitimate assets -- split from whatever illicit money
it is accused of handling for corrupt Venezuelan government officials, Russian
and Chinese criminal rings, and the Mexican Sinaloa drug cartel.

A spokesman for the United States Treasury Department's crime-fighting unit
could not discuss the next steps. American officials, however, visited Andorra
shortly after publishing their concerns.

For more than a year before the American report, Spain had been investigating
Banco Madrid, the Spanish subsidiary of BPA. The Spanish inquiry by Sepblac, the
agency that fights money laundering, stemmed from earlier arrests of two men in
separate cases.

One is Gao Ping, a Chinese businessman, who is now in a Spanish prison awaiting
trial in a case of fraudulent trade shipments between Spain and China. The other
is Andrey Petrov, a Russian accused of bribing Spanish officials on behalf of
Russian criminal gangs in connection with property transactions.

A spokeswoman for Spain's Economics Ministry said that only the day before the
United States report was published, Sepblac had informed Banco Madrid of the
results of its investigation. But Sepblac's findings have not been made public.

In the wake of the United States Treasury accusations, Banco Madrid declared
bankruptcy last month.

Andorra is not a member of the 28-nation European Union, but it falls under the
supervision of some European regulators. Andorran officials stressed that
Andorra had successfully passed four reviews conducted in recent years by
Moneyval, the anti-money-laundering committee of the Council of Europe.

Like other Andorran banks, BPA had weathered the euro debt crisis, emerging from
it with a ?20.5 million profit in 2013. Its 2011 takeover of Banco Madrid also
made BPA the first Andorran bank to get a Spanish banking license.

''The crisis of 2008 was a sort of blessing for Andorra,'' said Oriol Ribas,
vice chairman of one of the country's other financial institutions, Andbank.
''Many overseas clients came to us because they were disgusted with what their
banks had sold them.''

But in the case of BPA, United States authorities say, some clients came to the
bank for its willingness to look the other way.

Some rival bankers suggested that BPA's aggressive pursuit of clients had, in
fact, long raised concerns within a close-knit financial community, in which a
small number of extended families dominate the banking industry. BPA was
evidently considered something of a black sheep.

It is ''a bank that has long been seen here as having lower moral values,'' Mr.
Ribas said. ''Certainly none of the other banks was looking to merge with
them.''

Xavier Cornella Castel, the chairman of Andorra's banking association, said that
''it's clear that this bank had a level of risk tolerance higher than the rest
of the sector.''

BPA's controlling family, the Ciercos, also owns gas stations, hotels and other
real estate inside and outside of Andorra. Ramon Cierco is a director of F.C.
Barcelona, the soccer club.

The brothers have been ousted, alongside the other members of BPA's board, by
the Andorran government. But they have not been charged, and the American report
did not name any BPA executives as part of its claims of criminal wrongdoing.

In a statement, lawyers for the Ciercos said the brothers had ordered an
internal investigation of the United States Treasury accusations and were
cooperating with the American, Andorran and Spanish authorities. The Ciercos,
their lawyers said, ''are confident that the record will show that they
discharged their duties as directors with diligence and integrity.''

Andorran officials say that BPA was an isolated case of flawed corporate
governance that should not unfairly tarnish its whole banking sector.

''When there is a problem with a bank in a country that only has five, it
creates more noise,'' said Mr. Saboya, the foreign minister.

Still, the BPA scandal is also a particular blow to Andorra because it has hit
the reputation of a country that was not removed until 2009 from a list of
''uncooperative tax havens'' drawn up by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.

Juan Ignacio Sanz Caballero, a professor of banking at Esade, a Spanish business
school, said there was no reason to think that the four other Andorran banks had
welcomed criminal clients. But Mr. Sanz noted that BPA's problems highlighted a
system of regulation and banking supervision ''that is less sophisticated than
in more developed financial centers,'' within a ''very protectionist system.''

Such protectionism dates to the 1950s, when Andorran banks were given a special
status as the financiers of the government and of its nascent hydroelectric
power sector, while limits were set on foreign capital inflows. The idea,
explained Mr. Ribas, the Andbank executive, was to create ''a system where
everything was done to protect the local economy from a foreign takeover.''

As a result of that legacy, Mr. Sanz said, ''there has been no independence
between government and banks in Andorra, when, in fact, all the international
recommendations have increasingly been to have a clear divide from the point of
view of good governance.''

The American intervention might now be forcing that divide.

Andorra's government recently hired consultants from PricewaterhouseCoopers to
comb through BPA's balance sheet. But Andorra's plan to then sell at least part
of BPA could still be derailed by the United States Justice Department and a
possible American fine, especially since BPA is accused of processing hundreds
of millions of dollars through four correspondent banks in the United States.
Washington could also seek extraditions.

In recent years, the United States levied significant fines on Swiss banks for
helping clients evade American taxes. American officials also reached a $8.9
billion settlement last year with BNP Paribas, France's biggest bank, over its
violation of sanctions against Iran, Cuba and Sudan. In 2012, the international
bank HSBC paid $1.9 billion to settle a United States money-laundering case
involving Mexican drugs trafficking.

While this time the United States is targeting a bank with only ?3.3 billion of
assets, Mr. O'Donnell, the Washington lawyer, called the BPA inquiry
''fascinating'' because ''you have alleged underlying crime from all points of
the compass.''

And given American efforts so far to piece together BPA's far-reaching crime
connections, Mr. O'Donnell predicted, ''I would be very surprised if the
Department of Justice went away any time soon and didn't want an American
prosecution or perhaps a negotiated settlement.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/business/international/andorra-follows-up-on-u
s-inquiry-by-cracking-down-on-bpa.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%);
STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES
(78%); EURO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%);
LEGAL SERVICES (76%); ARRESTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TREASURY
DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (72%)

COMPANY: WILTSHIRE & GRANNIS LLP (57%); PAT O'DONNELL & CO LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%);
SIC5082 CONSTRUCTION & MINING (EXCEPT PETROLEUM) MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ANDORRA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Extension Sends Tax Season Into Overtime

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 735 words


April 15, that dreaded date, is less than a week away. So if you haven't filed
your federal income tax return yet out of simple procrastination, it goes
without saying that you should do so as soon as possible.

But what if you had every intention of filing, yet you are missing necessary
information? In that case, you may want to file for an extension.

Some taxpayers expecting a Schedule K-1, for instance, which is used to report
income from partnerships and some other businesses, often receive the form late.
(It's not unusual for them to arrive over the summer.) Or perhaps you suspect
you are missing a Form 1099, for miscellaneous income.

In that case, it is better to file for an automatic extension, said John Petosa,
professor of accounting practice at the Joseph I. Lubin School of Accounting at
Syracuse University. The Internal Revenue Service matches the filings it
receives from businesses with personal returns, and if they do not match up, you
will most likely hear from the agency.

''It's more important to file an accurate return than to hurry up and just
file,'' Professor Petosa said. ''So rather than guess, file an extension.''

If you file for an extension by April 15, you automatically receive a six-month
grace period and have until Oct. 15 to file your return. You do not need to
provide a reason for requesting the extension.

You may also decide to file for an extension if you are already undergoing an
audit. Say your 2012 and 2013 tax returns are being audited. If you file your
2014 return, the I.R.S. will probably include that in the audit, too, Professor
Petosa said. But if you file for an extension, it will not be included -- and
perhaps the audit will be completed in time for you to file the 2014 return in
October.

One downside of filing for an extension is that if you are expecting a refund,
you will not get it until you actually file your tax return.

And if you owe money, filing for an extension does not give you extra time to
actually pay your tax bill. You must do your best to estimate what you will owe
and pay that amount by the April 15 deadline, said Melissa Labant, director of
tax advocacy for the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

(If you are owed a refund, you typically will not owe a federal late-filing
penalty, according to the tax software maker TurboTax, since the penalty is
based on a percentage of the tax due. But that may not be the case with state
returns.)

One problem with waiting until the last minute to file is that if you have any
questions, it is going to be tough to get answers from the I.R.S. The agency's
staff has been significantly reduced because of budget cuts, and callers can
expect long wait times. John Koskinen, the I.R.S. commissioner, told a forum at
the Tax Policy Center this week that as the deadline approaches, six of every 10
people calling the agency are failing to reach live help.

Here are answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about tax filing:

â-  How do I file for an extension?

Submit Form 4868 by April 15. You can file it electronically or mail it to the
I.R.S.

â-  What if I am ready to file, but I owe taxes that I can't afford to pay?

Go ahead and file the return even if you cannot afford to pay the full amount
due, Ms. Labant said. You should pay as much as you can, to help minimize
potential penalties and interest, then contact the I.R.S. to discuss the
situation. ''It's better for you to contact them first,'' she said, rather than
waiting for the agency to contact you.

If your total balance due is less than $50,000, you can apply online for an
installment agreement that allows you to pay the tax bill over time. (Fees apply
for installment plans, however.)

If you cannot see any way to come up with the money, or if paying it would
create a financial hardship, you may seek an ''offer in compromise,'' or an
agreement to pay less than is owed. The I.R.S. has an online questionnaire that
you can use to see if you might qualify.

â-  What if I miss the deadline for filing my return and I did not file for an
extension?

File as soon as possible -- again, to minimize penalties and interest you may
owe.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.

Email: yourmoneyadviser@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/your-money/irs-tax-extension-pros-and-cons.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAX
LAW (89%); AUDITS (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(88%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES
(73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yemen's Despair on Full Display in 'Ruined' City

BYLINE: By FATHI BIN-LAZRQ and KAREEM FAHIM; Fathi Bin-Lazrq reported from Aden,
and Kareem Fahim from Cairo. Saeed al-Batati contributed reporting from Dowaan,
Yemen, and Merna Thomas from Cairo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words


ADEN, Yemen --  Rooftop snipers have emptied the streets of this dusty seaside
city and swelled its hospitals and morgues.

Weeks of fighting between armed groups have left nearly 200 people dead and the
city starved of water, fuel and electricity. Hospitals struggle to obtain
anesthetic and dressings. Barefoot, nervous teenagers with matted hair and guns
mind checkpoints on the treacherous roads. Gun battles sweep across the city
while residents lie low and worry that there is worse suffering to come.

''The war of hunger has not started -- yet,'' said Ali Bamatraf, a grocer with
dwindling stocks, standing among empty food boxes that would not soon be
replaced.

As war engulfs Yemen, no place in the beleaguered country has suffered as
severely as Aden, a southern port city captive to ferocious street fighting for
the better part of a harrowing month. Foreign navies patrol its waters and
warplanes circle above, blockading a city that is steadily crumbling under
reckless fire from tanks and heavy guns.

''Damaged. Ruined,'' said Faris al-Shuaibi, a professor of English literature at
Aden University, searching for the words to describe the beaten-up neighborhood
around him. ''Everything is destroyed.''

The clashes began in mid-March as a feud between forces allied with two members
of Yemen's political elite: southern fighters loyal to President Abdu Rabbu
Mansour Hadi, who had retreated to Aden after being driven from the capital,
against Houthi militiamen and security forces allied with Ali Abdullah Saleh,
Yemen's former leader.

Weeks later, the war has spread and become far more complicated. Saudi Arabia
unleashed an air offensive last month that so far has failed in its primary
goal: to stop the Houthi advance. Saudi officials are threatening a ground
invasion, seeing the hand of Iran, their regional nemesis, behind the Houthis,
whose leaders follow an offshoot of Shiite Islam.

For many residents of Aden, though, each day has only simplified the conflict,
reducing it to an existential fight. After Mr. Hadi and most of his loyal
fighters quit the city, residents dusted off personal weapons and formed their
own units to fight the advance of the Houthis and their allies -- the latest
northern invaders, they say, seeking to dominate the south.

North and South Yemen were separate countries until 1990 and fought a brief
civil war four years later. For decades, southern grievances over ill treatment
by the rulers in the northern capital, Sana, have festered, escalating in recent
years into a movement openly calling for secession.

Professor Shuaibi was among thousands of people protesting peacefully a few
months ago in Aden for an independent state, in a square adorned with pictures
of southerners who had died in wars and at the hands of Mr. Saleh's security
forces.

On Thursday, he was back in the streets with a gun, preparing to join other
residents fighting in the central district of Al Mualla.

The local militias are loosely organized, dominated by young men focused on
securing their own neighborhoods, said Jamal Khulaqi, a 25-year-old
Yemeni-American from Buffalo who said he was helping with relief efforts in the
city. Most lack training and weapons apart from AK-47s.

Their opponents are mostly security men loyal to Mr. Saleh, known for their
repression back when they were in power. Now, as militiamen, residents say, they
are unrestrained and more brutal. ''They are bombing innocent people,
families,'' Professor Shuaibi said.

The Houthis, fighting all over the country, are a smaller part of the force in
Aden, their ranks filled with many teenagers and even some children. Some of the
young Houthis who had been captured seemed filled with religious zeal and said
they had been told they were going to Aden to fight Al Qaeda, the Sunni
extremists the Houthis regard as their principal foe, Professor Shuaibi said.

''There is no Al Qaeda here,'' he said.

The city has been carved up into sectors guarded by fighters with guns slung
over their shoulders, drained by the stresses of war but still full of swagger.
One fighter, Mohamed Saleh Salem, 38, called the local fighters ''ferocious''
and vowed that the Houthis would not advance, while adding that he had not had a
bath in days.

The Houthis and their allies, armed with tanks and other heavy weapons, have
captured several strategic areas, including a coastal road. But their hold on
the city remains shaky, and they are vulnerable to repeated attacks by the local
groups, which are fighting in familiar neighborhoods.

The Houthi forces respond savagely to any assault, Mr. Khulaqi said. ''When
someone shoots at them, they fire on buildings,'' he said as he drove a friend
through the city's checkpoints to catch the only bus still shuttling people out
of Aden and across the country to the Saudi border.

As dangerous as it is to travel outside the city, it has become deadly to stay.
Volunteer medics said that at least 198 people had been killed and nearly 2,000
people injured in the city since March 25. The estimate was probably
conservative: Ambulances have not been able to reach people in neighborhoods
with the heaviest fighting, said Khadeja bin Bourek, a volunteer aid worker, who
said there was also a shortage of medics at government hospitals.

Valerie Pierre, the project coordinator for Doctors Without Borders in Aden,
said an average of 15 to 20 patients, most of them gunshot victims, arrived
every day at a hospital where the group is working and living. The group had
just received its first shipment of medical supplies by boat from the tiny East
African nation of Djibouti, across a narrow strait from Aden, but still had only
a third of the supplies it needed.

Ms. Pierre, a midwife, arrived in Aden in January, finding a ''beautiful city, a
very historic place.'' Now, she and the doctors are sequestered, listening to
gun battles, sometimes distant, sometimes just outside the hospital walls.

''I am full of adrenaline, so I am still running, still motivated,'' she said.
''It is very scary.''

Elsewhere in the city, residents were hauling water in buckets because water
tanks supplying at least four districts had been destroyed or cut off by the
fighting. In many places, electricity was only available a few hours each day.
Only local neighborhood stores were open, and by 7 p.m., the streets were empty,
except for the fighters.

Saudi airstrikes have mostly targeted the outskirts of the city, in an attempt
to cut off the supply lines of the Houthis and their allies. There also appears
to have been shelling from warships, though no one seems to know for sure.

''Aden is almost the only city in Yemen to be attacked by air, sea and land,''
said Nashwan al-Othmani, a resident.

The siege has left little time to think about the political arguments dividing
the country. No one seems to be clamoring for the return of Mr. Hadi, whom the
Saudis have vowed to restore as president.

''There are many who criticize Hadi,'' Mr. Othmani said. ''There are many who
accuse him of bringing the struggle to Aden and then leaving.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/world/middleeast/aden-yemen.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yemeni supporters of a southern separatist movement fought with
Houthi rebels in an Aden neighborhood on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALEH
AL-OBEIDI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6)  MAP (Source: American
Enterprise  Institute's Critical Threats Project) (A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%);
NAVIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GROCERY STORES &
SUPERMARKETS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); LITERATURE
(66%); RELIGION (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Honors for Eddie Kantar, a Top Player and Teacher

BYLINE: By PHILLIP ALDER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BRIDGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 309 words


Eddie Kantar is the American Contract Bridge League's honorary member this year,
and he is surely the most talented player-teacher-writer ever.

He has won two world titles, the 1977 and 1979 Bermuda Bowls. He also has 17
national championships and was voted into the Hall of Fame in 1996. In recent
years, he has played little serious bridge, preferring social games with experts
and his wife, Yvonne.

Several of his books have won awards from the American Bridge Teachers
Association. And his lessons, which combine top-rate instruction with clever
quips, have been very popular for 65 years.

Kantar was a top-ranked table-tennis player who competed in a world
championship, but he says that he did not get close to a medal. He was also very
good at tennis and paddle tennis.

The diagramed deal occurred many years ago in Dallas. The auction finally ground
to a halt in five hearts. Although North's raise to five hearts asked Kantar
(South) to bid six with a diamond control, Kantar felt that his hand did not
warrant going higher.

West led the diamond ace and continued with a second diamond. After ruffing,
Kantar played a heart to dummy's king, which held. What did declarer do next?

It would have been easy to get careless. If South had led a club to his ten and
played a top heart, West would have taken the trick and locked declarer in the
dummy with either a spade or a club. South would have ruffed a black suit to try
to get back to his hand to draw West's last trump, but West would have
overruffed.

Instead, Kantar cashed dummy's spade ace, spade king and club ace before leading
a club to his ten. Then after he played his heart queen, he could ruff whatever
West returned, draw the last trump and claim.

This type of play is called the dentist's coup, in which declarer extracts a
defender's safe-exit cards before giving him the lead.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/11/crosswords/bridge/honors-for-eddie-kantar-a-to
p-player-and-teacher.html

GRAPHIC: DIAGRAM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARD GAMES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS
(78%); WRITERS (78%); TABLE TENNIS (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); ATHLETES (74%); TENNIS
(58%); SPORTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONTRACT BRIDGE LEAGUE (84%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials GREEN, LINDSAY WAGGENER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 20 words


GREEN--Lindsay Waggener. A year since you left us, but you are with us still.
And all the sweet memories. Love, Bill 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials BLUM, ABBEY, YOU ARE IN OUR HEARTS AND OUR THOUGHTS
EVERYDAY. WE MISS YOUR LOVE, YOUR STYLE AND YOUR WIT. YOU WILL ALWAYS BE WITH
US. LOVE WARD, TRIPP AND ROSS. 1

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 27 words


BLUM--Abbey - You are in our hearts and our thoughts everyday. We miss your
love, your style and your wit. You will always be with us. Love Ward, Tripp and
Ross. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SZOR, LEOPOLD (94) BORN APRIL 4

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 158 words


SZOR--Leopold (94) Born April 4, 1921 in Lwow (Poland), died April 8, 2015 in
New York, NY. A survivor of the Holocaust, he managed to escape the notorious
Janowska concentration camp and traveled to Russia where he fought with the
Polish brigade of the Red Army in the liberation of Warsaw. He later emigrated
to New York where he lived for over 60 years. He was successful businessman who
created an international media advertising firm based in Monaco. An avid amateur
playwright, he wrote a number of short pieces set in the time of the Holocaust.
A collection of his plays, entitled The True Messiah, was published in 2010 and
is available online. He is survived by his long-time partner Tove-Lin Dalmau and
by his son Daniel, daughter-in-law Katia, grandsons Henry and Alex and
granddaughter Emily. A graveside service will be held on Sunday, April 12th, for
immediate family at Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla, followed by a reception at
home. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HOLOCAUST (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%);
THEATER (86%); DRAMA LITERATURE (86%); WRITERS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING
AGENCIES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); WARSAW, POLAND (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); POLAND (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SPIRA, JOEL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 55 words


SPIRA--Joel. Alice and Larry Friedland, along with Fred Freund and Lee-Ann
Klein, wish to extend their condolences on the loss of Joel to Ruth and her
daughters Susan, Lily and Juno and her grandchildren Ari, Max and Bailey. We
also want to thank Joel and Ruth for the innumerable pleasant times and
experiences we had together. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SONNENBLICK, JACK

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 63 words


SONNENBLICK--Jack. The Membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf
Club, Boca Raton, Florida announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of
our former President and member Jack Sonnenblick, April 10, 2015 and extend our
sincerest condolences to his wife Dani, daughter Micki Hirsh, brother Arthur and
their family. David Fuente President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SHIELDS, MARGARET MCNEELY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 14 words


SHIELDS--Margaret McNeely, April 5, 2015. Thanks for the memories. Judy Boyd
Terjen 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SEALES, DOROTHY J

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 120 words


SEALES--Dorothy J. Dr. Dottye Seales passed away on March 23, 2015. An educator,
psychologist, activist and world traveler, she was raised in Orlando FL and
moved to New York City as a young lady. Dr. Seales was an Adjunct Professor at
the College of New Rochelle/School of New Resources, and formerly an Associate
Professor and Lecturer at CCNY. She earned her Doctorate in Counseling and
Psychology from Fairleigh Dickerson University and several Master of Science
degrees from CCNY. She was preceded in death by her adoring husband Arthur
(Rick) E. Seales. Survived by extended family and close friends, who love Dottye
and will always remember her warmth, generosity, sharp wit, boundless energy and
sense of style. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SAGER, SUSAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 27 words


SAGER--Susan, of Deal, NJ died Thursday April 9, 2015. Wife of the late Stephen,
mother of Sabrina Sager and Tracey Sager Kandel. Grandmother of Stephen Sager.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POMERANTZ, NAOMI

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 30 words


POMERANTZ--Naomi, 91, died peacefully on April 8. Devoted and loving wife,
mother, grandmother, and great grandmother. Graveside services, Beth David
Cemetery, April 12, 2:00pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEE, KING H.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 83 words


LEE--King H.,died on April 7, 2015 in New York, NY, in the presence of his wife
Shui Ying Chang and sons Tsee Yuan Lee and Tsee Yung Lee, after a valiant battle
against colon cancer. Born October 2, 1941, Guangdong, China. King never stopped
learning and reading, and sacrificed himself for his family, parents, siblings,
even his job. Predeceased by father Jian Ji Li and brother King Kwong Lee, he is
survived by mother Wei Qing Wan and siblings King Luck, King Sing, King Shui,
and Chuen Fong. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLORECTAL CANCER (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (69%); SOUTH CHINA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEAR, DORA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 85 words


LEAR--Dora. It is with deep regret and sorrow that the Officers, Board of
Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club mourn the loss of our
esteemed member, Dora Lear. She and her late husband Dr. Phillip Lear were
members of Fresh Meadow for 55 years. Mrs. Lear was 105 years old. We extend our
sincerest condolences to her daughters Elizabeth Pinsky (husband Larry), Marion
Swaybill, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire family Michael
Lamoretti, President Harvey Kadden, Secretary 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GOVERNALE, LOUIS M.D.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 98 words


GOVERNALE--Louis M.D.,of Garden City, NY, formerly of East Williston, passed
peacefully on April 8, 2015. Beloved husband of Angela. Devoted father of Keith,
his wife Maria, and Pamela. Loving grandfather of Isabella. Dear brother of
Joseph III, Vivian and Richard. Visitation Sunday 2-4pm and 7-9pm at Weigand
Bros Funeral Home, 49 Hillside Ave., Williston Park, NY. Funeral Mass Monday,
11:15am at Saint Aidan's Church, Williston Park, NY. Private cremation to
follow. In lieu of flowers, donations, in Dr. Governale's memory, to The Michael
J. Fox Foun- dation, www.michaeljfox.org. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J FOX (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FINKELSTEIN, MANNY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 110 words


FINKELSTEIN--Manny, 92, April 8, 2015 of Woodmere, NY. Beloved husband of the
late Marilyn; adoring father of Geri and Jerry, Betsy and Alan, Stephen and
Cindy; loving grandfather to Josh, Craig, Carly, Ashley, Ethan and Ross; devoted
brother of Ed and the late Ruthie. A light has gone out in our lives but a new
star has been born in the universe. He now joins the love of his life, his
darling Marilyn. A gifted artist in his own right, he instilled the love of
music, art and literature but his greatest love of all was for his family.
Funeral services will be held at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1450 Broadway in
Hewlett, on Sunday, April 12th at 2pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FACCUITO, EUGENE LOUIS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 108 words


FACCUITO--Eugene Louis. Luigi, innovator of his world famous jazz dance
technique, died in his home in New York City on April 7th. He was 90. Born
Eugene Louis Faccuito, the stage name, "Luigi," was given to him by Gene Kelly.
Luigi performed in film, TV, Broadway and other venues. He became an
internationally lauded teacher who influenced many, from a "Who's Who" in show
business to people in every walk of life. A wake will be held at Vanella's
Chapel, New York City, Saturday, April 11, 2-5pm. He will be buried in
Steubenville, Ohio. In lieu of flowers, contributions are suggested to Luigi's
Jazz Centre Scholarship Fund c/o his school. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); DANCE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ELIAS, BRIAN I

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 56 words


ELIAS--Brian I, 55, passed away on Wednesday, April 8th. Beloved husband to
Susan, father of Eric, brother of Beth Ladd and David Elias, cherished
son-in-law to Mona Baumann. He will be remembered as a wonderful husband/father
and great friend to all. Funeral services will be held at Gutterman's in
Woodbury, NY, April 12th at 11am. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CRYSTAL, ALLAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 330 words


CRYSTAL--Allan. Allan A. Crystal, 85, of Southbury CT, died April 7, 2015, after
a long decline. Mr. Crystal was born on August 11, 1929 in Brooklyn, New York,
the youngest of six children born to Hirsch and Fanny Crystal.

Mr. Crystal obtained a degree in accounting from New York University and
completed Brooklyn Law School at night while working full-time. He then worked
his way up the corporate ladder from an accountant at Railway Express to
Vice-President and Treasurer for Pitney-Bowes, where he retired in 1993. He was
then recruited by Governor Lowell Weicker to serve as Connecticut Commissioner
of Revenue Services, where he successfully implemented the State's first income
tax. For many years he also served in leadership roles in United Way of
Connecticut. Allan and his wife of 60 years, Eleanor, raised three children in
Westport, Connecticut, Francine (now of Boston, MA), Jeffrey (previously of
Naugatuck, CT) and Howard (of Washington, DC). They reveled in the growth of
their grandchildren Josh and Adam Krigman, Jesse and Jake Crystal, and Sheina
and Nate Crystal, along with numerous nieces and nephews. Allan and Ellie
retired to Heritage Village in Southbury, where he served as Vice-President and
Treasurer, and where they lived for 10 years. They loved sailing and later in
retirement in Bluffton, South Carolina, he enjoyed playing tennis and pickle
ball. They more recently returned to Southbury to live at The Watermark. His
funeral will be held Sunday, April 12 at 1pm at Temple B'nai Israel on Main
Street N., Southbury, CT followed by internment at Melchizedek Cemetery,
Waterbury, CT. In lieu of flowers, his family requests donations be made to
Memory Matters (www.memory-matters.org), the Alzheimer's Association
(www.alz.org), or the Tuberous Sclerosis Alliance (www.tsalliance.org). The
Southbury Funeral Home of Munson-Lovetere, 235 Main St. North is in charge of
services. For online condolences visit: www.munsonloveterefuneralhome.com. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN
(89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS
EDUCATION (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); TENNIS (70%);
SPORTS (70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PICKLEBALL (65%); ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE (63%); GENETIC DISEASES (50%)

COMPANY: PITNEY BOWES INC (57%)

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY
MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%);
SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CONNOR, DR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 619 words


CONNOR--Dr. Frances Partridge, Professor Emeritus of Education at Teacher's
College, Columbia University, died on March 28, 2015 at her home in Boca Raton,
FL. She was 95. Dr. Connor was the head of the Department of Special Education
at Teacher's College (TC) for 23 years, from 1966-1989. She was also Director of
the Special Education Research and Demonstration Center, and responsible for a
multi-million dollar grant which allowed Teacher's College to construct the four
story campus building, Thorndike Hall. Under her leadership, TC's Department of
Special Education enrolled the largest number of graduate students in the nation
in the 1980s. Dr. Connor's association with TC began in 1949 with the award of
her Master's degree and subsequently with her Doctorate in 1953. She taught
children with Cerebral Palsy in Suffern, NY and children with physical
disabilities at the New York Rehabilitation Hospital in West Haverstraw, New
York. After serving as a Research Associate for the Department of Education in
Washington DC and as a Research Associate for the New York State Department of
Mental Hygiene, she joined the TC Faculty and rose through the ranks quickly.
She also taught at Hunter College's graduate program for several years.

Dr. Connor was a sought after special education speaker and consultant, giving
hundreds of speeches on educational issues, and consulting on educational
programs throughout the nation and in over 60 countries around the world. Her
sabbatical years were spent teaching as part of intensive graduate teaching
programs in foreign countries. During the memorable year of 1962 she consulted
in over 18 countries around the world and even one weekend left after classes on
Friday, spoke at Oxford University and was back in time to teach Monday classes
at TC. Dr. Connor was politically active in both Albany and Washington D.C.
working to create positive change for disabled children. She served as
Chairperson of Governor Hugh Carey's Committee on the Handicapped and was a
member of the five person committee which helped close the infamous Willowbrook
State School. Her efforts over many years in the 60's and 70's were crucial in
the passage of the national law to make mandatory the education of all
handicapped children. She served for many years on the National Advisory
Committee to the United States Office of Education (now the Department of
Education) and was a member of the Steering Committee of the White House
Conference on the Education of the Handicapped from 1975-1978. She was a member
of the Board of Trustees of Mt. St. Mary College, Newberry, NY from 1970 until
her death. She was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from New
Rochelle College. Her work for the Counsel for Exceptional Children (the largest
professional organization on behalf of children with special needs) led to her
presiding over the group in 1963 and 1964, to her being awarded The Best
Contribution Award, and the J.E. Wallace Wallin Lifetime Achievement Award. She
was also an officer and member of numerous other educational societies. Her
extensive and notable research publications and writings are too numerous to
name. Her contributions in education and advocacy have changed the world, and
she will be remembered fondly by many. Frances Connor was predeceased by her
loving husband of over 50 years, Dr. Leo Connor and two of her three sisters,
Anne and Sybil. She is survived by her sister Katherine McIntyre of New York and
many nieces and nephews. A Mass of the Christian Burial will be celebrated at
9:30 A.M. on Friday, April 24, 2015 at St. Joan of Arc Catholic Church, 501 SW
3rd Ave, Boca Raton, FL 33432. Interment to follow at Boca Raton Mausoleum. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%);
TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%);
COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%);
UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%);
CEREBRAL PALSY (68%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BRAUER, REGINA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 141 words


BRAUER--Regina, 93, died peacefully March 28, 2015, in Westport, CT. Born in
1921 to the late George and Ella Preiss Berkowitz, she was adored by her
children Lisa (Scott McLaughlin) Pontours, France, Amy (Coleman Hoyt) Concord,
MA, and Henry (Callie Madeira) Marblehead, MA; grandchildren Woody (Kate), Sam,
Eleanor, Molly, Benjamin and Elizabeth, and several nieces and nephews.
Predeceased by her husband of 40 years, Earle W. Brauer MD., and her companion
Raymond Armstrong, also her brother Arnold Berke (Marjorie). Children's
librarian at Hunter College Elementary School for many years she will be greatly
missed and remembered as an elegant red head until the end. Abraham L. Green
Funeral Home www.greensfuneralhome. com. Memorial service, Saturday, April 18,
3:00pm at the Westport Woman's Club. Donations to the Westport Public Library.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); LIBRARIANS (88%);
GRANDCHILDREN (72%); LIBRARIES (68%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (68%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES
(67%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (67%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BLOCH, JANICE L.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 99 words


BLOCH--Janice L.,suddenly on April 10, 2015. Adored mother of Melanie Dana Roth
and Caroline Rachel Roth. Beloved daughter of the late Nedra and Gerald Bloch.
Cherished sister of Susan B. Bloch (Robert Koppelman), Amy L. Bloch MD (Greg
Horowitz) and Elizabeth A. Bloch (Jeffrey Rose). Dear aunt to Tess, Maggie,
Emily, Sarah, Annie, Teddy and Graham. Gone too soon, she lives on in those who
love her. Service Sunday, April 12, 2015, 12:45pm, "The Riverside," 76 St. and
Amsterdam. Shiva at the deceased's home, Sunday 5-7pm. Contributions in her
memory may be made to:

www.AutismSpeaks.org 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths REITER, RONALD

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 45 words


REITER--Ronald, died in San Francisco, March 2015 aet 65 Boulevardier,
Connoisseur, Political observer, Satirist, Epicure, Traveler, Raconteur,
Polymath, Scholar, Defender of the defenseless, Defender of honesty, Soulmate to
many, Romantic, Gentle Sprit, Friend -- MR KR

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FORBES, PATRICIA (NEE WALSH) 83

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 142 words


FORBES--Patricia (nee Walsh) 83, of Brooklyn, NY passed away peacefully at home
on Friday, April 10th, 2015. She is predeceased by her husband Raymond C.
Forbes. She is survived by her five loving children Christopher J. Forbes (Kim),
Raymond J. Forbes (Cynthia), Patrick J. Forbes (Bettina), Marie-Regina Sotos
(Peter) and Patricia M. Sarn (Larry) and her eleven grandchildren. Devoted
sister to Irene Whiting, Marie Walsh and Marguerite Walsh. She is now reunited
in heaven with her loving parents Patrick J. and Mary Walsh. She was born on
March 15th, 1932 in Newfoundland, Canada and came to this country, which she
very greatly loved, at age five. She built a beautiful life, centered on family
and traveled the world which she thoroughly enjoyed. A mass will be held in her
honor at St. Patrick's Church in Brooklyn at 10:00am on Monday, April 13th.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); REGINA, SK, CANADA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (70%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR,
CANADA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
