
                               1 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Me and Earl' Wins Big at Sundance Film Festival

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CARPETBAGGER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 374 words


The whimsical ''Me and Earl and the Dying Girl,'' a film that rode a crescendo
of buzz after screening in Park City last month, claimed top prizes at the 2015
Sundance Film Festival awards on Saturday night. It was named the U.S. Dramatic
Grand Jury Prize winner, and also won the U.S. dramatic audience award.

A tearjerker about a teenage boy and his friend, their love for cinema classics
and efforts to buck up a, yes, dying girl, the film drew a minutes-long standing
ovation after its premiere, and set off a bidding war among distributors,
eventually selling to Fox Searchlight.

The winner of the U.S. Grand Jury Prize for documentary was ''The Wolfpack,''
about six brothers, the Angulos, who spent most of their lives locked up at
their father's direction in a Lower East Side public housing apartment, with
films being their lone window to the world.  The director, Crystal Moselle,
happened on the brothers' story after spotting them on the street five years
ago.  ''I stalked these kids on the street one day and here I am,'' Ms. Moselle
told the gathered audience -- which was outfitted pretty much to a person in
sweaters and warm slacks, and lining rows of folding chairs -- after collecting
her award. (The film was picked up by Magnolia Pictures).

In the World Cinema category, grand jury awards went to ''Slow West,'' starring
Michael Fassbender, for best feature, and ''The Russian Woodpecker,'' which
explores the Chernobyl disaster, Ukrainian and Russian history and the current
conflict, for best documentary.

The U.S. audience award for documentary went to ''Meru,'' about three mountain
climbers scaling a perilous Himalayan peak; and the world cinema audience awards
went to the Indian feature ''Umrika,'' about a young man searching for his
brother and starring Suraj Sharma from ''Life of Pi,'' and the British
documentary ''Dark Horse,'' about residents of a Welsh mining town who back a
racehorse.

The Next award, given to those held as independent cinema's future, went to Josh
Mond for his film ''James White,'' which stars Christopher Abbott as an aimless
young man coping, and not, with parental sickness and death.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://carpetbagger.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/top-sundance-prizes-go-to-me-an
d-earl-and-the-dying-girl/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUNG HOON CHUNG/COURTESY SUNDANCE INSTITUTE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); FILM (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS
& EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FILM FESTIVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); DAMAGES (77%); MOUNTAINS (67%); MOUNTAIN
CLIMBING (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (53%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL FASSBENDER (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%)

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); HIMALAYAS (72%); NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (73%); WALES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Primary Strength of the League's Top Defense Weakens, Then Falls Apart

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 764 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  To try to win the Super Bowl, New England quarterback Tom
Brady and the Patriots first fearlessly, then desperately tested the strength of
the Seahawks' strength -- the secondary of the league's No. 1 defense -- the way
few have.

They threw 50 passes, mostly quick and dinky ones meant to be caught before
Seattle's defensive backs could react. They threw away from the All-Pro
cornerback Richard Sherman and toward the lesser-known members of the defensive
backfield, forced onto the field by injuries and New England's surgical
strategy.

The results were scattered, but in the end, it was the Seattle secondary that
was tested, and beaten, allowing the Patriots to erase a 10-point fourth-quarter
deficit on the way to a 28-24 victory.

Entering the fourth quarter, the Patriots trailed by 24-14 and needed yardage
and momentum. And New England got them, picking through Seattle's tired and
depleted defensive backs.

Brady threw two short touchdown passes in the final eight minutes of the game,
including the game-winner against the Seattle reserve cornerback Tharold Simon.

Seattle's secondary arrived with health questions. Safety Earl Thomas (shoulder)
and Sherman, the left cornerback (elbow), were hurt in the N.F.C. championship
game. Safety Kam Chancellor hurt his knee in practice last week. All three
starters were on the injury list before the game.

Sherman might have been further distracted by the impending birth of his son, as
his girlfriend was in Arizona, due at any time. But the Patriots largely ignored
him, preferring to attack the right side of the Seattle defense and cornerback
Byron Maxwell.

They threw to Sherman's side mostly in situations in which a receiver had led
him away from the action, as when linebacker K. J. Wright was beaten by tight
end Rob Gronkowski for a 22-yard second-quarter touchdown. Brady lobbed the ball
to the goal line, Wright was a step behind the play, and Sherman and his fellow
Legion of Boomers were nowhere in the neighborhood to help.

It was lesser-known members of the secondary who had the biggest impact on the
game, good and bad, for the Seahawks.

Cornerback Jeremy Lane intercepted Brady at the goal line near the end of the
first quarter, the game's first momentum-shifting play.

The Patriots had gobbled nearly eight minutes of the quarter with a measured
drive that started at their 32-yard line. But on third-and-6 at the Seattle 10,
Brady hesitated, leaned away from the coming hit of defensive end Michael
Bennett, and threw over the middle toward the goal line.

None of his teammates were there. Lane leapt to intercept the pass, then ran
away until he was tackled on the sideline by Patriots receiver Julian Edelman.
The excitement of the Seahawks and the fans was muted moments later at the sight
of Lane leaving the field on a cart, apparently with a broken arm.

That further tested the depth of Seattle's secondary. Simon entered the game and
was beaten twice on New England's next drive. The first was a third-and-9 play
at Seattle's 35 on which Edelman sprinted away from Simon on a crossing route,
caught a pass and sprinted up the field for a 23-yard gain.

Two plays later, receiver Brandon LaFell ran a quick slant route against Simon,
and Brady found him for an 11-yard touchdown pass.

Brady was 20 of 27 for 177 yards and two touchdowns in the first half, and it
was obvious that the primary matchup in the second half would be Brady against
the Seattle secondary.

It proved a daunting matchup. In their previous 10 games, the Seahawks had
allowed only two passing touchdowns in the second half.

The Patriots did it midway through the fourth quarter, when Brady's 4-yard pass
to Danny Amendola tightened the score to 24-21. And they did it again when
Edelman caught a 3-yard pass against Simon.

But the Patriots had found themselves in a fit of desperation because of what
happened early in the third quarter.

Brady, trailing for the first time and looking for Gronkowski again, was
intercepted on New England's first second-half drive by linebacker Bobby Wagner.
Six plays and 50 yards later, the Seahawks had another touchdown and a 24-14
lead.

Seattle needed a big play from its secondary but never got it. In the end, it
was a little-known New England defensive back -- the reserve Malcolm Butler --
who made the play of the game, intercepting Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson
at the goal line in the final seconds to secure victory.

The Seattle secondary could only stand on the sideline and watch. The hopes of
the Legion of Boom had fizzled.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/primary-strength-of-seahawks-n
o-1-defense-their-secondary-falls-apart.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seahawks strong safety Kam Chancellor, right, and defensive
tackle Tony McDaniel, left, tackling the Patriots' LeGarrette Blount in the
second half. Chancellor hurt his knee in practice last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (91%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (92%); RICHARD SHERMAN (79%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tale of Comebacks Is Brady's to Tell

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL.

Email: powellm@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. -- That was merely insane.

This was a Super Bowl in which narrative lines kept colliding with one another.
Each team kept coming back at the other, daring pass following crazed pinball
runs following savage tackle.

In the end, it was New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady who claimed the
role of that most ambulatory and successful of river boat gamblers, tossing one
brilliant pass after another.

At times in the second half on Sunday night, the Patriots appeared a team spent.
The Patriots' aging quarterback -- Brady is 37, which is to describe someone who
is sprightly in almost any line of work save the savage sport of football --
looked stripped of tricks.

He had been knocked about all night long, and intercepted twice. Michael
Bennett, a whirling wild man of a defensive lineman for Seattle, had gone
horizontal airborne and put his pads into Brady in a crunching collision of
sinew and bone.

Then Brady summoned a final push and his team followed him. With the Patriots
down by 3 points in the fourth quarter, he tossed high, arcing Cool Hand Luke
passes and others that would qualify as major league baseball-quality fastballs.
His march ended with a dart of a throw to Julian Edelman, who had bobbed and
weaved all night and sustained a head hammer of a hit, for a touchdown.

So there's the useful reminder: It's a foolish man who tries to sound Taps for
Brady before the game's final seconds tick out. Brady could have been excused
for asking to encase his right arm in ice at games end. He had thrown 50 passes
and connected on 37 of them.

For his troubles, he was voted the Super Bowl's most valuable player for a third
time.

''We made the plays when we needed to,'' Brady said in what counts as an
exercise in extreme understatement.

This Super Bowl felt at times like a Seattle home game, so many were the
Seahawks fans and blue-green jerseys in the audience.

Minutes before the game started, the video screen flashed the face of Seahawks
defensive back Richard Sherman. The joint erupted. Then the screen flashed the
frowning (of course) face of Patriots Coach Bill Belichick; it was like an image
beamed down from Death Star. The place echoed with boos.

Who is rooting for the Patriots in here? I asked.

A colleague obliged by pointing out the lone Patriots fan. (Note to the literal
minded: There's a slight exaggeration to be divined here).

Although NBC and the N.F.L. did their best to conceal the game in an endless
thicket of commercials, it often felt like a grand heavyweight bout, the ebb and
flow of energy and story lines changing round by round. And until a final,
inexplicable play call at the goal line with seconds left, the Seahawks had
played a brilliant, gutsy game.

Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson, as he is wont to do, waited nearly 20
minutes before completing a pass. He spent much of the first half running this
way and that, ducking under Patriots linebackers and linemen, unable to find an
open man.

The Patriots' secondary was like a Venus fly trap, trapping each receiver in its
sticky embrace.

And yet, with his team trailing by 7 points and the first half less than a
minute from expiring, Wilson pulled a Wilson, which is to say he marched his
team 80 yard downfield in five plays. With Seattle just yards from the end zone,
the entire stadium readied for the field goal unit to trot on to the field.

Instead, the Seahawks and its coach, Pete Carroll, tossed down and went for a
touchdown. Even as my fellow writers mouthed the words ''what a terrible
decision'' -- O.K., I cop a plea; I was one of them -- the Seahawks' dice
tumbled across the board. And Wilson threw a arching pass for a touchdown.

Then there was Marshawn Lynch, the pile-driving running back. Notorious in the
week leading up to the game for his Greta Garbo ''I want to be alone'' act, he
showed why his teammates give him the big love.

He smashed into the line, as often as not giving the impression that he had not
even really begun to run until the first tackler got his arms around him. Then
he'd deke and spin and often carry 300-pound Patriots linemen on his back for
another bloody 3 yards.

Trying to tackle him looked to be a serious drag.

Midway through the third quarter, it was the Patriots that seemed spent, and the
Seahawks swelled with energy. But Brady kept throwing. With the clock ticking
down toward four minutes in the fourth quarter, the Patriots got within sniffing
distance of the goal line, and somehow you knew how this would end.

With a Brady strike of a toss.

Game over? Please. Now it was the turn of Team Hair on Fire -- that would be the
Seahawks.

Wilson and his crew marched raggedly down the field. Receivers stumbled and
Wilson missed a few. Then he tossed a long, arcing Hail Mary of a pass toward
the right corner. The Patriots' defender was right there, he touched the ball,
along with receiver Jermaine Kearse. The ball bounced up in the air, off
Kearse's legs, and hands. And just as Kearse landed on his backside, the ball
plunked into his lap.

O.K., I knew how this narrative ends. The Seahawks were about to snatch another
bone of a win from the jaws of a salivating dog. And then, just like that,
within feet of the end zone, the Seahawks and Carroll, the gambler coach, did
another of their Las Vegas toss-downs.

They inexplicably turned away from Lynch. (The Seahawks' offensive coordinator
said he and Carroll feared if they ran the ball, the clock might run out on the
Seahawks before the team finished its allotted plays). Instead, Russell stepped
back quickly, whipped around and tried to punch through a touchdown pass.

Interception.

''There's really no one to blame but me,'' Carroll said.

True that. Although perhaps simpler to say there was no one better to credit
than old man Brady. He was M.V.P. again, and he could claim fewer wilder paths
to his crown.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/tale-of-comebacks-is-tom-brady
s-to-tell.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Brady, the Patriots' quarterback, after his fourth Super
Bowl victory. (D1)
 Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett hit Patriots quarterback Tom Brady
during the second half. Brady was sacked only once, though. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL
(90%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE
BASEBALL (55%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (94%); RICHARD SHERMAN (79%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

50 Shades of Green

BYLINE: By RACHEL ABRAMS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words


When toys are made for movies, they are usually intended for children.

But with the Valentine's Day weekend premiere of ''Fifty Shades of Grey,'' many
of the tie-ins to the film are for adults only.

The sex toy industry is banking on the hope that the Universal Pictures film
will generate soaring sales, much the way the blockbuster erotic novel of the
same name created thousands of new customers from the female readers who passed
the book around their suburban culs-de-sac.

In anticipation of such keen interest, mainstream retailers are stocking up on
the pleasure industry's blindfolds, whips, handcuffs and masks. Manufacturers
have designed new packaging and products to fit the kinky tone and theme of the
film, which is based on E. L. James's story about a naïve young woman's
introduction to games of sexual bondage.

Even Target, one of the nation's largest retailers, recently began selling an
official ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' ''vibrating love ring,'' an item intended for
wear by men, but not on the finger.

''It is the biggest moment for our industry in popular culture pretty much
ever,'' said Claire Cavanah, a co-founder of Babeland, an adult novelty
retailer. ''We're all sort of preparing for what could be another wave of
toys.''

Ms. James's sexually charged trilogy -- two followed ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' --
became a cultural phenomenon, and turned Ms. James into something of a legend.

She sold the publishing rights to Vintage Books, a division of Random House, and
soon reached even more readers who may never have normally read erotic fiction.

Last year, Vintage Books announced that it had sold 100 million copies of the
series. Ms. James, a middle-aged British mother and former television producer,
was credited with introducing the concept of BDSM (standing for, loosely:
bondage/discipline, domination/submission, sadism/masochism) into the mainstream
vernacular.

She also ignited a huge bidding war in Hollywood. Executives vied for a chance
to pitch Ms. James and her literary agent, Valerie Hoskins, on how best to tell
the story of Anastasia Steele, a virginal 21-year-old student who becomes the
submissive sexual partner to Christian Grey, a successful 27-year-old
businessman.

Universal Studios and Focus Features eventually won, and agreed to pay $5
million for the rights to make the film.

The studio wanted to capitalize on the same readers -- and others -- who sent
sales of adult products skyrocketing after ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' had its
debut as an e-book in 2011. Suddenly, retailers had trouble keeping once-obscure
products in stock. The novel spurred a 7.5 percent jump in sales of sex-themed
products, including toys, videos and books, in 2013, according to a report from
the research firm IBISWorld.

''We were kind of taken by surprise when the book came out,'' Ms. Cavanah said.
''But we're much more prepared for the movie.''

The movie will not be as graphic as the book. Neal Slateford, a co-founder of
Lovehoney, the only company that has the rights to make the official ''Fifty
Shades of Grey'' adult products sold in Target and elsewhere, does not expect
certain toys used in the book's steamiest scenes to appear in the movie.

In an interview, Mr. Slateford said that his brand would not be featured in the
film either, although some of the tamer products themselves could be.

''I think that the movie will reignite sales of the book, which could boost
sales,'' he said.

Adult-toy experts say it's difficult to provide an accurate estimate of sales or
specific items inspired by the book. But they do point to a few things.

The novel includes one particularly graphic scene involving Ben Wa Balls, also
known as Kegel balls, an item that retailers had for years largely promoted as a
sexual health product for women, especially after giving birth.

Sales of the balls immediately spiked. The large sex product manufacturer
California Exotic Novelties, which used to sell 80,000 to 90,000 each year, sold
one million in the six months after the book's debut, according to its president
and chief executive, Susan Colvin.

''There was a worldwide shortage of pleasure balls, literally,'' said Mr.
Slateford, the co-founder of Lovehoney. ''Knowing that those aren't going to be
in the movie, I wouldn't expect to be selling a huge amount of those.''

The sex toy industry is largely private, and not just culturally. Financial data
is difficult to find because so few companies are publicly held.

Some experts, like Sara Ramirez, the associate publisher for retailing for the
adult entertainment trade publication XBIZ, agree that Americans buy somewhere
between $1 billion and $2 billion worth of pleasure products annually. A more
conservative estimate from IBISWorld pegged that number at $610 million in 2013
and projected it to grow to $792 million by 2018.

Since only Lovehoney can officially use the ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' name,
others have been forced to get creative. Pipedream Products, which makes sex
toys and novelties, redesigned some of its packaging with a gray-and-black color
scheme from the movie.

California Exotic Novelties broadened its line of ''Scandal'' restraints when
the movie's trailer came out in July.

And Jimmyjane, known for its vibrators, is taking its first foray into ''soft
goods'' with a new set of fetish kits inspired by the film that include items
like blindfolds and silk ties.

''I would say that every single person has jumped on the bandwagon in terms of
making toys around 'Fifty Shades,' '' Ms. Ramirez, the XBIZ publisher, said.

Babeland has added 20 new items in anticipation of the movie's release on Feb.
13. Lovehoney's ''Grey''-themed vibrator is among the best sellers. California
Exotic Novelties ordered 10 times its normal amount of inventory for the six
months surrounding the film.

Lovehoney products even made their way into Target in December, where its line
of ''Fifty Shades of Grey'' candles, lubricant and blindfolds upset some parents
a few weeks ago at a store where some items were stocked right next to Captain
America toothbrushes.

But while these companies do not want to miss an opportunity to capitalize on
the film, they don't want to overestimate demand, either.

Babeland still has some items left over from when it rushed to increase supplies
in 2012. The company has been a bit more conservative this time around, and says
that the items tied to the movie represent about 5 percent of all new products.

''My personal opinion is that there's going to be a sharp spike and then it's
going to tail off rather quickly,'' said Nick Orlandino, the chief executive of
Pipedream Products.

There are cultural concerns, too. The book may have drawn a niche erotic
practice into the spotlight, but some critics also saw a male protagonist who
pressured his lover in a way BDSM enthusiasts say is antithetical to what should
be a consensual relationship.

Those misconceptions, some say, could also extend to sex toys. And manufacturers
don't want customers with unrealistic expectations to be disappointed with their
products.

''A lot of the ways they describe the toys and the products in the book, E.L.
James didn't get quite right,'' Ms. Colvin said. ''Using kegel balls is not too
much fun, it's actually hard work to do it right.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/media/50-shades-of-green-shops-prepar
e-for-tie-ins-to-fifty-shades-of-grey-film.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, labels for bath oil, one of many product tie-ins to
''Fifty Shades of Grey.'' Above, Anastasia Steele, played by Dakota Johnson, and
Christian Grey, by Jamie Dornan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
UNIVERSAL PICTURES AND FOCUS FEATURES) (B1)
 At the Babeland store in SoHo, merchandise playing to the movie ''Fifty Shades
of Grey.'' The novels were huge hits and likewise introduced new customers to
sex toys. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEVIN YALKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FILM (89%); FICTION
LITERATURE (89%); ADULTS (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES
(78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); LITERATURE (76%); PUBLISHING (76%);
LITERARY AGENTS (76%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); BESTSELLERS (76%); MIDDLE AGED
PERSONS (72%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (70%); PRODUCT
PACKAGING (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (58%)

PERSON: DAKOTA JOHNSON (79%); E L JAMES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Considers Supplying Arms to Kiev Forces

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words


WASHINGTON --  With Russian-backed separatists pressing their attacks in
Ukraine, NATO's military commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, now supports
providing defensive weapons and equipment to Kiev's beleaguered forces, and an
array of administration and military officials appear to be edging toward that
position, American officials said Sunday.

President Obama has made no decisions on providing such lethal assistance. But
after a series of striking reversals that Ukraine's forces have suffered in
recent weeks, the Obama administration is taking a fresh look at the question of
military aid.

Secretary of State John Kerry, who plans to visit Kiev on Thursday, is open to
new discussions about providing lethal assistance, as is Gen. Martin E. Dempsey,
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, officials said. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel, who is leaving his post soon, backs sending defensive weapons to
the Ukrainian forces.

In recent months, Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, has
resisted proposals to provide lethal assistance, several officials said. But one
official who is familiar with her views insisted that Ms. Rice was now prepared
to reconsider the issue.

Fearing that the provision of defensive weapons might tempt President Vladimir
V. Putin of Russia to raise the stakes, the White House has limited American aid
to ''non-lethal'' items, including body armor, night-vision goggles, first aid
kits and engineering equipment.

But the failure of economic sanctions to dissuade Russia from sending heavy
weapons and military personnel to eastern Ukraine is pushing the issue of
defensive weapons back into discussion.

''Although our focus remains on pursuing a solution through diplomatic means, we
are always evaluating other options that will help create space for a negotiated
solution to the crisis,'' said Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the National
Security Council.

Fueling the broader debate over policy is an independent report to be issued
Monday by eight former senior American officials, who urge the United States to
send $3 billion in defensive arms and equipment to Ukraine, including anti-armor
missiles, reconnaissance drones, armored Humvees and radars that can determine
the location of enemy rocket and artillery fire.

Michèle A. Flournoy, a former senior Pentagon official who is a leading
candidate to serve as defense secretary if Hillary Rodham Clinton is elected
president, joined in preparing the report. Others include James G. Stavridis, a
retired admiral who served as the top NATO military commander, and Ivo Daalder,
the ambassador to NATO during Mr. Obama's first term.

''The West needs to bolster deterrence in Ukraine by raising the risks and costs
to Russia of any renewed major offensive,'' the report says. ''That requires
providing direct military assistance -- in far larger amounts than provided to
date and including lethal defensive arms.''

In his State of the Union address last month, Mr. Obama noted that the sanctions
imposed by the United States and its allies had hurt the Russian economy.

But American officials acknowledge that Russia has repeatedly violated an
agreement, reached in Minsk in September. The agreement called for an immediate
cease-fire in Ukraine, the removal of foreign forces and the establishment of
monitoring arrangements to ensure that the border between Ukraine and Russia
would be respected.

In recent weeks, Russia has shipped a large number of heavy weapons to support
the separatists' offensive in eastern Ukraine, including T-80 and T-72 tanks,
multiple-launch rocket systems, artillery and armored personnel carriers,
Western officials say.

Some of the weapons are too sophisticated to be used by hastily trained
separatists, a Western official said. NATO officials estimate that about 1,000
Russian military and intelligence personnel are supporting the separatist
offensive while Ukrainian officials insist that the number is much higher.

Supported by the Russians, the separatists have captured the airport at Donetsk
and are pressing to take Debaltseve, a town that sits aside a critical rail
junction.

All told, the separatists have captured 500 square kilometers -- about 193
square miles -- of additional territory in the past four months, NATO says. The
assessment of some senior Western officials is that the Kremlin's goal is to
replace the Minsk agreement with an accord that would be more favorable to the
Kremlin's interests and would leave the separatists with a more economically
viable enclave.

The administration's deliberations were described by a range of senior Pentagon,
administration and Western officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because they were talking about internal discussions.

A spokesman for General Breedlove declined to comment on his view on providing
defensive weapons, which was disclosed by United States officials privy to
confidential discussions.

''General Breedlove has repeatedly stated he supports the pursuit of a
diplomatic solution as well as considering practical means of support to the
government of Ukraine in its struggle against Russian-backed separatists,'' the
spokesman, Capt. Gregory L. Hicks of the Navy, said. But a Pentagon official
familiar with the views of General Dempsey and Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., the
vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said they believed the issue of
defensive weapons should be reconsidered.

''A comprehensive approach is warranted, and we agree that defensive equipment
and weapons should be part of that discussion.'' the Pentagon official said.

Russian casualties remain an unusually delicate political issue for Mr. Putin,
who has denied that Russian troops have been ordered to fight in Ukraine.

The report by Ms. Flournoy and the other former officials argues that the United
States and its allies should capitalize on this fact to dissuade the Russians
and the separatists from expanding their offensive.

''One of the best ways to deter Russia from supporting the rebels in taking more
territory and stepping up the conflict is to increase the cost that the Russians
or their surrogates would incur,'' Ms. Flournoy said in an interview.

The current stock of Ukrainian anti-armor missiles, the report notes, is at
least two decades old, and most of them are out of commission. So the report
recommends that the United States provide the Ukrainian military with light
anti-armor missiles, which might include Javelin antitank missiles.

''Providing the Ukrainians with something that can stop an armored assault and
that puts at risk Russian or Russian-backed forces that are in armored vehicles,
I think, is the most important aspect of this,'' she added.

The Obama administration has provided radars that can locate the source of
mortars. But the report urges the United States to also provide radars that can
pinpoint the location of longer-range rocket and artillery fire. Enemy rocket
and artillery attacks account for 70 percent of the Ukrainian military's
casualties, the report says.

Ukraine, the report notes, also needs reconnaissance drones, especially since
the Ukrainian military has stopped all flights over eastern Ukraine because of
the separatists' use of antiaircraft missiles supplied by Russia.

The report also urged the United States to provide military communications
equipment that cannot be intercepted by Russian intelligence.

Poland, the Baltic States, Canada and Britain, the report says, might also
provide defensive weapons if the United States takes the lead.

The report was issued jointly by the Atlantic Council, the Brookings Institution
and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. The other officials who prepared it
are Strobe Talbott, who served as deputy secretary of state in the Clinton
administration; Charles F. Wald, a retired Air Force general who served as
deputy commander of the United States European Command; Jan M. Lodal, a former
Pentagon official; and two former ambassadors to Ukraine, John Herbst and Steven
Pifer.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/us-taking-a-fresh-look-at-arming-kiev-fo
rces.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ukrainian soldiers preparing on Sunday to go to the town of
Debaltseve, which came under heavy fire from separatists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANU
BRABO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
(89%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ARMED FORCES
(89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); NATIONAL
SECURITY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (78%); SURVEILLANCE &
RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS
(69%); FIRST AID (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
(56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MARTIN DEMPSEY (79%);
JOHN KERRY (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); SUSAN RICE (72%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (94%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Basking in Seahawks' Success, Not the Spotlight

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1120 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  Amid the frenzy of Super Bowl media day Tuesday, as
thousands of reporters and cameras surrounded the New England Patriots coaches
and players, the dapper owner of the team, Robert K. Kraft, held his own
impromptu news conference.

A day earlier, he had taken the unusual step of publicly demanding an apology
from the N.F.L. if his team was absolved of deflating footballs at the A.F.C.
championship game. For about 15 minutes, Kraft shared the spotlight with his
players and coaches, eager to say more as dozens of reporters pushed and shoved
to hear him speak.

When the Seattle Seahawks entered the arena an hour later, Paul G. Allen was
nowhere to be seen. Though he has owned the Seahawks for 18 years, Allen gives
few interviews, and fans rarely see him beyond the sideline before a game or at
an occasional pep rally.

The Patriots and the Seahawks orbit at opposite ends of the emotional spectrum:
Bill Belichick is a grumpy magician while Pete Carroll is a cerebral and serial
gabber; Tom Brady is a precision artist while Russell Wilson plays with an
ad-lib style.

But there may be no bigger contrast than between the owners of the teams. While
Kraft seems to gravitate to microphones or cameras, Allen seems to go out of his
way to avoid them.

Allen, 62, may be one of the least visible N.F.L. owners, but he remains
committed to the Seahawks, who fell short in their attempt to become the first
team in a decade to win consecutive Super Bowl titles, with a 28-24 loss to the
Patriots on Sunday. Although he may say little publicly, Allen is basking in his
team's success.

''You kind of grow into it, and the more you know the players and coaches, you
can feel the enthusiasm of the fans, you are just as engaged, if not more so,''
Allen said in an interview Saturday on the field at University of Phoenix
Stadium. ''This year was one of those years where we've had some ups and downs
and challenges that were unexpected, but that's part of sports.''

Allen's inner fan is evident. At last year's Super Bowl, which the Seahawks won,
43-8, he sat with General Manager John Schneider, who elbowed him nervously each
time the Seahawks made a good play, as if they could not believe their good
fortune.

At the N.F.C. championship game against the Green Bay Packers two weeks ago,
Allen recounted how he tried to calculate the chances of the Seahawks winning
after they scored on a fake punt for their first points. He did it again before
the team recovered an onside kick that changed the momentum of the game.

''I'm always trying to calculate the mathematical probability of certain
outcomes,'' said Allen, who founded Microsoft along with Bill Gates. ''I even
did it during last year's Super Bowl. We were up by 20-plus points, but there is
a chance of them coming back because they are a high-powered offense. I'm always
doing that; it's just the way my mind works.''

Allen, who wore a Seahawks cap and ski jacket, declined to predict the outcome
of Sunday's game during a half-hour interview Saturday. But it is evident that
his mind works in a multitude of other ways. Though he was happy to discuss the
Seahawks or his other team, the Portland Trail Blazers, he segued from sports to
his love of Jimi Hendrix to his interest in the biochemistry of the brain to
fighting the Ebola virus.

With a fortune worth an estimated $17 billion, Allen has the wherewithal to
think big. In the fall, he committed $100 million to the fight against Ebola.
More than half of the money has been spent on things like protection suits for
health care workers, evacuation units that can be used on planes and cellphones
with preloaded software so doctors can better track the disease.

''What I try to do is see the landscape out there, what is going on and where I
think I can make a difference,'' Allen said. ''The minute that outbreak started,
I just thought there was something different about this outbreak, it seems to be
spreading more rapidly than other outbreaks. And once it really got going, as
you know the momentum of these things, if you don't jump on it, the nightmare
was that we would be looking at millions of cases.''

Although Allen leaves much of the day-to-day business of the Seahawks and the
Trail Blazers to a phalanx of executives and rarely attends owners meetings, he
does follow the issues that affect these sports, including domestic violence.

Rather than endorse or criticize the N.F.L. commissioner directly, Allen spoke
broadly about the issue, which plunged the league into crisis this season. After
video was published showing the former Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice
knocking out his fiancée, Allen said, it was ''important for me to raise my
consciousness.'' He watched movies about domestic violence and spoke to
psychologists about how to deal with the problem.

Without being specific, Allen said he was trying to create a counseling program
for the players and their families that the Seahawks and potentially all teams
could use.

Allen is also searching for ways to minimize and treat concussions, another
plague on the league. That includes developing different helmet designs to
minimize impacts on the brain.

''The game is very intense, so you're never going to have zero concussions, but
then you're never going to have zero concussions in any sport,'' Allen said.
''But this sport is very intense.''

Allen's brain institute in Seattle is taking a far broader view. In addition to
trying to map the genetics of the brain, the scientists there want to tackle the
fundamental science of how the brain works. For good measure, Allen opened a
cell biology institute to determine how cells work. In time, the research could
help scientists understand diseases, develop drugs and determine why some people
get sick and others do not.

''All of these are decadal innovations,'' he said. ''They are not things that
will be ready in five years, but if they make a difference in 10, 20 years from
now, that's what you hope for.''

Of more immediate concern, of course, was how the Seahawks would play on Sunday.
The Patriots, he said, have a Hall of Fame quarterback and coach and a stout
defense that should not be taken for granted.

Allen's caution proved correct, which is why he is unlikely to repeat last
year's celebration party, when he broke out his guitar and jammed with his band.
He now has a custom-built amplifier he ordered with volume controls that go to
12, an homage to the team's fans, who are known as the 12th Man.

''You can't use it all the time, just on important occasions,'' Allen said
Saturday. ''The fans have just been unbelievable, both last year and this year,
and even before, and it will be interesting to see tomorrow.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/owners-of-patriots-and-seahawk
s-are-a-study-in-contrasts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Seahawks' owner, Paul G. Allen, on Saturday. He rarely
attends owners meetings, but he follows issues that affect sports. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: Super Bowl XLIX: New England 28,
Seattle 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%);
AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); STADIUMS
& ARENAS (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); SCHOOL
SPORTS FACILITIES (69%)

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%); NATIONAL
FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (89%); TOM BRADY (79%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

McIlroy Wins Second Dubai Title

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words


Rory McIlroy secured his second Dubai Desert Classic title in six years with a
two-under-par 70 in the final round to win by three strokes in the United Arab
Emirates on Sunday.

McIlroy, a Northern Irishman, shot a 22-under 266 total that matched the lowest
in the history of the European Tour tournament, set by Stephen Gallacher in 2013
and Thomas Bjorn in 2001.

Sweden's Alexander Noren, making a comeback this season from a wrist injury, had
eight birdies in his round of 65 to take second place at 19 under.

â-  Australia's Mathew Goggin won the Web.com Tour's season-opening Panama Claro
Championship, closing with a three-under 67 for a four-stroke victory in Panama
City. Goggin finished at 11-under 269.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/golf/rory-mcilroy-wins-second-dubai-tit
le.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (54%)

COMPANY: WEB.COM INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); SIC7374
COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: RORY MCILROY (92%)

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Barcelona Firmly in Title Chase

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SOCCER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 77 words


Lionel Messi and Neymar kept Barcelona in the hunt for the Spanish La Liga
title.

Barcelona came from behind twice in a 3-2 win over visiting Villarreal to stay 1
point behind the leader Real Madrid.

â-  In England, host Arsenal thrashed Aston Villa, 5-0, for its biggest Premier
League win of the season.

â-  In France, the Ligue 1 leader Lyon drew with host Monaco, 0-0.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/soccer/barcelona-firmly-in-title-chase.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (88%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (88%)

CITY: LYON, FRANCE (67%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (69%); FRANCE (67%); MONACO (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Quarterback Measured Only by Titles Refreshes His Legacy With a 4th

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 827 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  When quarterback Tom Brady first jogged onto the field
before Sunday's Super Bowl, thousands of New England Patriots fans rose from
their seats, burst into applause and then sat down.

But Brady was not in the mood for idle celebrations of his appearance, his sixth
in a Super Bowl, a record for a quarterback.

He waved his arms over his head and gestured for the fans to get back on their
feet and cheer. Brady, 37, continued this unsubtle demonstration until he was
greeted by a more raucous response.

Kickoff was still 90 minutes away.

Long before the game began, Brady knew the stakes and the effect the outcome
would have on the narrative of his career. The bold, lasting impressions of
Brady's story have always been written in the postseason, with early success and
a 3-0 Super Bowl record before he was 28 years old.

But two straight losses in the biggest football game of the year followed, and
Brady was clearly growing weary of the stain that was leaving on his legacy.

Sunday's game unfolded like a microcosm of his Super Bowl experience. At first
he could do no wrong against the Seahawks, and then he could do little right.

Still, as he walked onto the field midway through the final quarter, with the
Patriots trailing by 3 points, the crowd chanted: ''Bra-dy! Bra-dy!''

After a stumbling third quarter in which he looked harried and old, Brady was
suddenly resurrected. Poised in the pocket, he again looked like the carefree
24-year-old who won a Super Bowl in an upset. His 3-yard touchdown pass to
Julian Edelman with 2 minutes 2 seconds remaining in the game -- a classic
connection, with a calm Brady looking one way and then throwing the other --
sealed the Patriots' 28-24 victory over Seattle.

Brady became just the third starting quarterback to win four Super Bowls, after
Terry Bradshaw and Joe Montana.

''It's been a long journey,'' Brady, who was named the game's most valuable
player, said afterward. ''There have been a couple of tough losses in this game.
But we made the plays at the end of this one.''

His coach, Bill Belichick, with whom he shares a 4-2 Super Bowl record and with
whom he will forever be linked, said Sunday's performance was quintessential
Brady.

''Tom does not doubt himself, and he sticks to the plan,'' Belichick said.
''He's a great player, and at any time, he can make great plays.''

That includes moments when his skills appear to have deserted him.

With a visible, defiant determination, Brady cruised through the first half,
completing 20 of 27 passes, with two touchdown throws. But as the second half
began, after Seattle's fearsome defense and its wily coach, Pete Carroll, had a
chance to make adjustments, Brady appeared befuddled. New England ran 11 plays
in the third quarter and picked up one first down, and the Seahawks took their
first lead of the game, 17-14, early in the period.

Worse for the Patriots, the Seahawks made Brady uncomfortable in the pocket -- a
key goal of the Giants' in their two Super Bowl victories over the Patriots. In
a pivotal sequence, Brady was hurried and then hit just after releasing a
second-down pass. On the next play, under duress again, Brady unwisely rushed a
pass over the middle toward tight end Rob Gronkowski.

The ball landed instead in the hands of Seattle middle linebacker Bobby Wagner,
an interception that led to a Seahawks touchdown and a 10-point Seattle lead.

''That wasn't exactly the way we drew it up,'' Brady said of the deficit.
''Throwing a couple of picks didn't help.''

The turnabout that ensued in the fourth quarter was not surprising to those who
have been around Brady the longest.

''I've been coaching for 14 years, and I've never known anyone who has more
mental toughness,'' New England's offensive coordinator, Josh McDaniels, said.
''It was a fitting end for him.''

Late in the game, Brady used the formula that worked so well early on, mixing
runs up the middle with short play-action passes out of a no-huddle offense.

It was an effective strategy, with Seattle's defense struggling to keep up with
the pace and with the quickness of the Patriots' small but shifty receivers.
Brady also benefited from an injury to Seattle's nickel cornerback, Jeremy Lane,
who was replaced by the second-year pro Tharold Simon -- a substitution that did
not go unnoticed by the Patriots' coaching staff.

Simon gave up the first touchdown of the game as Brady threw to receiver Brandon
LaFell, and Simon also had trouble keeping up with the pesky Edelman.

Even when Seattle tied the score and eventually took the lead, the Patriots
stuck to their offensive game plan. And in the aftermath of his fourth Super
Bowl victory, Brady could do something he might only have dreamed of 90 minutes
before Sunday's game: plot a fifth Super Bowl victory.

Asked to assess his legacy, he shook his head. It was too early for that.

''No, not going to do that,'' Brady said. ''I've got a lot of football left.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/tom-brady-refreshes-his-legacy
-with-a-fourth-super-bowl-title.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tom Brady, center, became the third quarterback to win four
Super Bowl titles and was named the game's M.V.P. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W.
LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE
(59%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (93%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hit in Head, a Patriot Stays In, Leaving Questions

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 309 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  After a Super Bowl performance that had people raving about
his toughness while questioning his team's training staff, Julian Edelman of the
New England Patriots is sure to be a hot topic in the coming weeks.

Edelman, who has completed a journey from college quarterback to elite pro
receiver, entered Sunday's game as Tom Brady's favorite target, and it was more
of the same in the Patriots' 28-24 win over Seattle: Edelman, who was targeted
12 times, finished the game with nine receptions for 109 yards. He also scored
the decisive touchdown with a 3-yard catch in the fourth quarter.

His achievement will come with some criticism, however.

Edelman took a vicious helmet-to-helmet hit from Kam Chancellor early in the
fourth quarter, got up and tried to extend the play.

''He made a great catch, took a great hit,'' Brady said. ''It was the play of
the drive.''

Edelman had another reception on the drive, but cameras showed him on the
sideline afterward looking somewhat disoriented, and there was immediately an
online outcry for the team to evaluate him for concussion symptoms.

He did not visibly go through the league's concussion protocol after the hit by
Chancellor, remaining in the game and even going back to return a punt, which
resulted in a fair catch.

Asked after the game about the hit, and whether he should have been evaluated,
Edelman avoided the question.

''We're not allowed to talk about injuries,'' said Edelman, who sat out New
England's final two regular-season games after sustaining a concussion in Week
15.

On what proved to be the winning drive, Edelman, who seemed steadier on his
feet, fooled cornerback Tharold Simon with a spin move at the goal line,
catching a pass and falling into the end zone for a score. The question remains,
however, if he should have been allowed back on the field.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/hit-in-head-patriotsjulian-ede
lman-stays-in-leaving-questions.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New England wide receiver Julian Edelman dodging Seattle's Earl
Thomas.  Edelman caught nine passes for 109 yards and the game-winning score.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CONCUSSIONS (90%); HEAD INJURIES
(88%); BRAIN INJURIES (87%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (92%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lynch Briefly Displays a Midas Touch

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN and MELISSA HOPPERT

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 615 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  The N.F.L. had announced that the roof of University of
Phoenix Stadium would be open for the duration of the Super Bowl on Sunday, and
even though the temperature was forecast to dip into the 50s, nearly every
player was in short sleeves during warm-ups.

The buzz, however, focused not on anyone's arms but instead on Marshawn Lynch's
feet. Lynch, the media-shy Seattle Seahawks running back, was wearing gold
cleats, even though he was reportedly told before the N.F.C. championship game
that he would be ejected if he wore them in a game.

By the time the Super Bowl started, however, Lynch had changed into his
standard-issue cleats, robbing the audience at home of a touch of pizazz. Of
course, it also meant the N.F.L. would let him keep playing.

BEST OF THE BEST? The Patriots' Tom Brady entered Sunday having already won
three championships, so in the week leading to the Super Bowl, many speculated
that Brady might have to be considered the greatest quarterback to play the game
were he to win another title. Terry Bradshaw and Joe Montana are the only
quarterbacks to have won four Super Bowls.

A first-quarter pass, however, raised Brady's interception total in Super Bowls
to three. Later in the first half, he was picked off again. Bradshaw threw four
Super Bowl interceptions, including three in Super Bowl XIV, but Montana was
never picked off with a ring on the line, throwing for 11 touchdowns. So fans of
perfection may always prefer Montana, regardless of how many wins Brady ends up
with.

CINNAMON IN THE AIR When walking into a stadium, one may expect to smell
popcorn, hot dogs and perhaps stale beer. At University of Phoenix Stadium, the
first whiff is cinnamon.

Arizona's own Cinnamon Roasted Almonds and Pecans, to be precise. Kim Stott,
whose parents own the business, was running one such booth. She said the nuts
had been a fan favorite since the stadium opened in 2006. MELISSA HOPPERT

COSTUMES FOR THE BALL Seahawks fans appeared to outnumber Patriots fans in the
Phoenix area all week, but when the announcer asked those in attendance Sunday
to shout for their teams, the New England supporters let it be known they were a
vocal minority.

Seattle fans, for their part, were certainly more creative with their apparel,
donning capes, tutus and wigs. One fan, Steve Merz, was dressed in full
camouflage, from his gloves to his jersey. Even his face was painted.

Asked if he knew the man in disguise, Scott Maysey replied: ''What man? I can't
see him.''

Merz and Maysey have been Seahawks season-ticket holders since 1999. But this
was their first Super Bowl, so they already had four bags of merchandise hours
before the game.

''Lots of people asked me for stuff,'' Merz said. ''But I'm not stupid. I asked
for money upfront.''  MELISSA HOPPERT

SETBACK FOR THE 12TH MAN Dawne and Chris Carlisle, of Puyallup, Wash., about 50
miles south of Seattle, have been Seahawks season-ticket holders for 23 years
and are part of the fan base known as the 12th Man.

So when they got to their seats in Section 411, they promptly set up their 12th
Man flag behind them, a practice allowed at CenturyLink Field in Seattle as long
as the signs do not obstruct anyone's view.

But an usher at University of Phoenix Stadium quickly asked the Carlisles to
take the flag down. They said that they were told signs were not allowed during
Arizona Cardinals games but that the rule would be lifted for the Super Bowl.
The usher said they could discuss the issue with the police. The Carlisles took
the flag down.

''We won't let that deflate our hopes and dreams here,'' Dawne Carlisle said,
chuckling at her choice of words.  MELISSA HOPPERT




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Academy Drum & Bugle Corps of Tempe, Ariz., top, outside
the stadium before the start of Super Bowl XLIX. A young Seahawks fan, above,
sprinting through tackling dummies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK
TIMES
 CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (89%);
COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); RANKINGS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (83%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (79%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Knicks Top Lakers in Meeting of Teams Not Fit for National TV

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; KNICKS 92, LAKERS 80; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words


Just over a week ago, the people in charge of programming at ESPN decided that
Sunday afternoon's contest between the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers was no
longer worthy of a national television audience.

So while the teams played at Madison Square Garden, the network instead aired
the CP3 P.B.A. Invitational, a charity bowling tournament organized by Chris
Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers and held more than three weeks ago at the
Bowl-O-Drome in Torrance, Calif.

It comes down to personal taste, ultimately, whether a taped event featuring
entertainers like Lil Wayne and Nick Cannon bowling alongside current and former
professional athletes was more compelling than the basketball game, which the
Knicks won, 92-80. But on paper, at least, there was not much about the matchup
at the Garden, which took place in front of a tranquil sellout crowd, that was
particularly enticing.

Both teams have been abysmal this year; the Knicks improved to 10-38 on Sunday
while the Lakers fell to 13-35. And many of the biggest names on the teams'
rosters were out with injuries -- the most notable being Kobe Bryant, who had
surgery last week to repair a torn rotator cuff in his right shoulder, an injury
that will force him to miss the rest of the season. Amar'e Stoudemire, who has a
variety of sore body parts, sat out a third straight game and was one of four
Knicks sidelined.

''We should want to embrace these moments right here,'' Knicks forward Carmelo
Anthony said when asked about the lack of buzz around the game. ''We're all
professionals and basketball players.''

Among all the professionals on the court, Anthony was the only star, and it
showed: He scored a game-high 31 points. Carlos Boozer, in his 13th N.B.A.
season, and Jordan Clarkson, a rookie making his fifth start, led the Lakers
with 19 points each.

The reserve guard Jeremy Lin, who became an overnight sensation three years ago
as a member of the Knicks, finished with 4 points and 7 assists.

(The rapper French Montana teamed up with Ronnie Russell, a professional bowler
from Marion, Ind., to take home the big trophy at the bowling tournament.)

''Both teams still have a lot to play for,'' Knicks Coach Derek Fisher said
before the game, a statement that begged for some elaboration. ''You still have
a lot of guys on both rosters that are trying to find out who they are in this
league and where their careers are going to go.''

More interesting than the game on some level were the interpersonal
relationships. The meeting was the clubs' first since Phil Jackson, who won five
of his 11 championships as a coach while with the Lakers, signed on to become
the president of the Knicks last March. One of his first orders of business in
New York was installing a staff heavy with former Lakers.

Fisher, who played under Jackson on each of his five title teams with Los
Angeles, said before Sunday's game that it was less about having former Lakers
around than it was about having ''winners,'' people who had won championships.
The challenge now, Fisher said, is ''how do we kind of put our experience and
our wisdom and our skills and our talents together to help our players be
successful on the court?''

The Lakers over the past decade have used high-profile acquisitions to try to
stay in the trophy hunt -- an approach that has had mixed results. Fisher
pointed out that many teams, like the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Portland
Trail Blazers, had had success building their rosters through the draft and
smart free-agent signings. Such teams, Fisher said, tend to have more stability
and longevity than those that make splashy acquisitions.

Fisher said the Knicks probably needed to be somewhere in the middle of those
two approaches, particularly because of Anthony, who signed a five-year contract
over the summer.

''He's 30 years old,'' Fisher said of Anthony. ''We don't have 10 years to
figure this out.''

Still, he said, the Knicks cannot afford to ''put ourselves in the same
positions we've been in the last few years, where you try and get a bunch of
guys that don't have favorable contracts or don't allow you to plan for the
future.''

Anthony laughed when apprised of Fisher's comments. Like many athletes, he
maintains a lighthearted sensitivity about his age. But he agreed that a measure
of urgency was necessary.

''I'm tired of hearing that I'm old, man -- I don't like hearing that word,''
Anthony said, laughing. ''The time is now. The time is now to start building for
the future. I don't think we can wait, not just for my sake, but in general. The
time is now, and I think we've got to take advantage of that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/basketball/knicks-beat-lakers-in-game-p
ulled-off-national-tv-schedule.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony driving against the Lakers' Ryan
Kelly in the third quarter at Madison Square Garden. Anthony had 31 points to
lead all scorers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY GRUPPUSO/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS (89%);
TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BOWLING (76%); SPORTS INJURIES
(76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (94%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (57%)

PERSON: CARMELO ANTHONY (92%); KOBE BRYANT (57%); LIL WAYNE (54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Not All the Players Want to Jump Ship

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; GLOBAL SOCCER; Pg.

LENGTH: 908 words


LONDON -- When the transfer window shuts at the end of Monday in Europe, the
most meaningful story might well be the player who decided he was happy to
remain loyal and stay with the club he was currently at.

That player is Aston Villa's Fabian Delph. Stories abounded that Liverpool was
ready to make him the kingpin of its midfield once Steven Gerrard departs for
Los Angeles after the season and that Tottenham Hotspur, among others, was ready
to pay him at least twice what he is receiving at Villa.

Delph instead signed a new contract to remain at Villa Park until the summer of
2019.

The decision surprised Paul Lambert, his coach at Villa. It surprised those he
is closest to -- the players with whom he shared a fight against relegation last
season, just as the club is struggling once again this year to stay in the big
money of the Premier League.

During the two transfer windows, stories come early and often about players
moving on. The main window runs from July to the start of September, and it
reopens in January as teams adjust their rosters with deals costing anywhere
from tens of millions of dollars all the way down to nothing.

The biggest move so far took Wilfried Bony from Swansea City to Manchester City
for just over $40 million. Bony will join City's quest to retain the Premier
League title as soon as he is released from national-team duty with Ivory Coast
at the African Cup of Nations.

He will form, together with Sergio Agüero, one of the most prized attacking duos
in the game today.

Chelsea, which leads City by five points, is finishing up a move for
Fiorentina's dashing winger, Juan Cuadrado -- a trade that will beat the
deadline once the Colombian passes a medical examination in London. Typical of
the frenzy of transfer D-Day, Chelsea is working on shipping its Egyptian
winger, Mohamed Salah, to Fiorentina as part of the exchange. Chelsea will also
trade André Schürrle to Wolsfburg of the German Bundesliga to make room for
Douglas Costa, one of the Brazilians at Shakhtar Donetsk. Some reports suggest
Chelsea will also bid for Enner Valencia of Ecuador, the mercurial player who
seems to have been at West Ham United all of five minutes.

In fact, it has been a little over six months since Valencia and Cuadrado caught
the eyes as veritable forces of nature at the World Cup in Brazil.

This time, there won't be a $100 million deal like when Cristiano Ronaldo or
Gareth Bale joined Real Madrid. Their team has traded this month, of course, but
it paid relatively modest amounts to acquire Lucas Silva, yet another Brazilian,
and a 16-year-old Norwegian wunderkind that half a dozen clubs were chasing, the
precocious Martin Odegaard.

Odegaard's time will come, assuming he stays healthy. But for now, Real's plan
is to have him train alongside the superstars but play for its B team under a
coach, Zinédine Zidane, whose move from Juventus to Madrid set a record back in
2001.

Over the past month, as many as a dozen individuals a day were moved between
clubs, sometimes with the players consenting, and other times with them having
very little say.

We talk, these days, of ''player power'' in the sport, but many of the moves
happen because the players are no longer wanted and have been persuaded that
their future lies anywhere but where they were in December.

Not every trade involves a transfer fee. Many are loans for the remainder of
this season, effectively putting players on tryouts at other clubs. Some are
transfers of convenience: Jermain Defoe, the former Tottenham striker who left
London last year to try his luck with Toronto F.C. in Major League Soccer, is
now back in England -- and he scored for Sunderland on Saturday. Defoe exchanged
places with Jozy Altidore, the big New Jersey striker who moved to Toronto.

In this fickle and transient trade, it is a rare player who says, ''Whoa, let me
think about this, I'm doing pretty well where I am.''

Delph appears to that rarity. He announced his decision first to the club's
television channel, then to reporters the next day.

''Financially, I would have been better off leaving on a free,'' he said,
meaning that had he let his contract wind down, he could have become a free
agent a few months from now and been able to negotiate the best salary of his
career at a place of his choosing.

''I'm not money-minded,'' Delph added. ''I live a simple life, love my family,
and I take care of them. This is my club, and if I can play every week and feel
like I'm developing, I'm happy.''

He referred to his teammates as brothers. He said he had a good relationship
with his coach, Lambert, who helped him progress to a spot on the English
national team.

Delph also said he owed the Villa owner, who in 2009 paid around $10 million to
buy him from Leeds United.

''I was a boy,'' Delph recalled. ''I was injured, and the guy who invested money
in me called to say, 'Don't worry, you'll come good.'''

No longer a boy at 25, he remembered that call in 2010 after he suffered a
serious knee injury.

Even though there is speculation that the owner, the American Randy Lerner,
might soon sell the club, the player thinks that now is the time to repay that
trust.

There is suspicion that the club and the player have signed a contract as an
insurance policy and that Delph might yet be sold, to the financial benefit of
both player and club. But how nice it would be if Villa stays up in the Premier
League and Delph stays true?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/soccer/not-all-the-players-want-to-jump
-ship.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SOCCER
(88%)

PERSON: GARETH BALE (79%); CRISTIANO RONALDO (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); NORWAY
(79%); UKRAINE (72%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Yard From Crushing Loss, Patriots Seize Their 4th Title

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; PATRIOTS 28, SEAHAWKS 24; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  The seconds ticked off late in the fourth quarter Sunday,
and how familiar it must have all seemed to Bill Belichick, to Tom Brady, to the
New England Patriots and their fans wondering why, oh why, was this happening
again.

In their last two Super Bowls, the Patriots had lost in improbable fashion,
last-minute defeats fueled by ridiculous passes and absurd catches, and now came
the Seattle Seahawks, driving to the New England 1-yard line.

In a frantic finish, and after a dose of karmic payback, the Patriots survived.
It was New England that became a team for the ages, not Seattle, winning its
fourth Super Bowl title, 28-24, when Malcolm Butler intercepted Russell Wilson's
pass in the end zone with 26 seconds remaining.

''We've had some great teams that haven't won it and I think you've got to just
enjoy the moment,'' Brady said. ''We've been on the other end of this twice
now.''

Butler's catch had the same nauseating effect on the Seahawks and their
supporters as David Tyree's helmet catch here seven years ago or Mario
Manningham's sideline grab three years ago did on the Patriots, who lost those
Super Bowls to the Giants by a total of 7 points.

It spoiled the Seahawks' repeat bid, denying them of dynasty status, and
returned one of the league's most successful franchises to glory. And it came on
a play call whose merits will be debated in barrooms and boardrooms in the
Pacific Northwest for years to come.

Instead of handing the ball off a second straight play to Marshawn Lynch, their
bruising running back who had already scored a touchdown, the Seahawks on second
down elected to pass. Coach Pete Carroll accepted responsibility, but in the
chaos afterward there seemed confusion.

When asked whose decision it was, Wilson deflected the question. The offensive
coordinator, Darrell Bevell, said he was comfortable with the choice but,
considering the result, he would have liked to have called something different.

''We were on the precipice of another championship,'' Carroll said. ''Nobody to
blame but me.''

In toppling Seattle, New England became the first champion to overcome a
10-point deficit in the fourth quarter, a development that was remarkable and
disorienting all at once. As many comebacks as Brady has orchestrated over his
sparkling career, this one has to rank among the most special.

Because it came against the swaggering Seahawks, who boasted the N.F.L.'s best
defense and would tell anyone who asked as much. Because in its last eight
games, all victories, Seattle had outscored its opponents by 83-13 in the fourth
quarter and overtime -- and by 130-26 after halftime -- in a stretch
encompassing its stunner two weeks ago in the N.F.C. championship.

Confronted with daunting circumstances, a 24-14 deficit with 12 minutes 10
seconds left, Brady led the Patriots to touchdowns on consecutive drives. The
second provided the margin of victory, with Brady completing all eight passes,
including a 3-yard toss to Julian Edelman, who had nine receptions for a
team-high 109 yards.

''Considering the fact that I almost had two heart attacks,'' said Edelman,
still wearing his grass-stained jersey, ''it was great.''

So it was, all across the Patriots' empire Sunday night and, particularly, in
all corners of University of Phoenix Stadium. Rob Gronkowski cut short an
interview because he said he needed to go celebrate. Confetti cascaded from
above. In the interview area, Darrelle Revis was chatting with two reporters
from Japan, one of whom was wearing a pink cowboy hat. One asked Revis about the
victory party.

''It's already begun,'' Revis said. ''But you want to come? You can come. But
you have to bring the hat.'' Then the reporter let Revis put it on.

Although they were asked, and although they would not say, the Patriots said
they derived no additional satisfaction -- not in their return to the stadium
where they were denied perfection seven years ago, not after enduring scrutiny,
their image stained, all because of footballs that may or may not have been
intentionally deflated.

For them, for Belichick and for Brady and for defenders everywhere of the
Patriot Way, validation is measured by Super Bowls, and now they have another.

Before the playoffs started, Wilson and Brady sent emails to a mutual friend.
Each quarterback predicted this Super Bowl matchup, and their telepathy made
sense: finishing his third season, Wilson is hewing to the Brady career arc:
midround draft pick, immediate success as a starter, a title by age 25.

The year after Brady won his first championship, New England did not even reach
the playoffs, let alone return to the Super Bowl as Wilson did. Wilson had won
his first 10 games against Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks, but Brady, even
throwing two interceptions, dazzled, completing 37 of 50 passes for 328 yards
and firing touchdowns to four receivers in winning his third Most Valuable
Player award. He joined Joe Montana, his boyhood idol, and Terry Bradshaw as the
only quarterbacks to win four championships, all of Brady's coming with
Belichick.

''I'm a big Joe Montana fan -- I love him to death, I thought he was the best
and everything,'' Edelman said, but, ''Tom Brady came out here, he's been to six
Super Bowls, he's won four with the salary cap. It's hard to argue against
that.''

All week the Seahawks treated queries about Brady's brilliance and LeGarrette
Blount's brawn and Gronkowski's gronkness, about the Patriots' wacky
receiver-ineligible formations and chameleonic offense -- 40 rushes one game, 14
the next -- and flicked them away like cigarette ash. Not out of arrogance, or
disrespect, but the declaration, as stated earlier in the week by linebacker
Bobby Wagner that ''we do what we do and we do it very good.''

Confusing offenses is not the Seahawks' style. They just line up in their
three-deep coverage, with their thumping secondary, and try to impose their
will. Usually successful, the Seahawks were not in the first half. Countering
Seattle's pass-rush, the Patriots ran quick passes, screens and pick plays, and
they ran them so well that on their second possession Brady guided New England
to the Seattle 10, on a drive that consumed nearly eight minutes.

Chased by Michael Bennett from the left side, Brady made a miserable red-zone
decision -- throwing nowhere near a receiver, and right into the hands of Jeremy
Lane at the goal line. The interception prevented one touchdown, but it
indirectly produced another.

On his return, Lane, the Seahawks' nickel cornerback, sustained an arm injury.
Tharold Simon replaced him, and on the Patriots' next possession Brady exposed
him. First with a 24-yard pass to Edelman, zipping across the middle, and then,
two plays later, with a perfect slant to Brandon LaFell, whose 11-yard touchdown
put New England ahead, 7-0.

For the Seahawks, their offensive malaise -- three series, one first down --
evoked the first 58 minutes of their last game, the N.F.C. championship victory
against the Packers. Nothing Seattle tried, from Lynch's interior running to
dropbacks by Wilson that were thwarted by the Patriots' superb downfield
coverage, seemed to work.

Until Wilson found a matchup he liked and exploited it, connecting deep down the
right sideline with Chris Matthews, whose onside kick recovery two weeks ago
proved he had excellent hands. Matthews reached over Kyle Arrington and fell
backward while hauling in his first career catch, a 44-yarder that set up
Lynch's 3-yard touchdown run with 2:16 left in the first half.

That was far too much time on the clock for Brady, who dissected the Seahawks as
if slowly pulling off a Band-Aid -- with short passes to Shane Vereen -- before
yanking it off with a 22-yard touchdown fade to Gronkowski with 31 seconds
remaining.

But that was also far too much time for Wilson, who has developed a reputation
for clutch passing himself. He drove the Seahawks 80 yards in 29 seconds, a
series keyed by a 23-yard pass to Ricardo Lockette and 10-yard personal foul on
Arrington. With the ball at the New England 11 and six seconds left before
halftime, Carroll had a choice: attempt a field goal or run one final play.

Nothing about the Seahawks' aggressive personality suggested they would play it
safe, and Wilson whipped a pass on the outside to the 6-foot-5 Matthews, who
exploited his 6-inch height advantage over Logan Ryan, for an 11-yard touchdown
that evened the score at 14-14 heading into halftime.

The Seahawks, masters of the second half and the fourth quarter, were in the
middle of reeling off 17 straight points. They were in control until they were
not -- a feeling New England knew all too well, and returned when Seattle took
over with 2:02 to play at its own 20.

Three plays after Wilson opened the drive by throwing a 31-yard pass to Lynch
down the left sideline, Jermaine Kearse made a catch to rival Tyree's on this
same field in 2008 -- defended by Butler, Kearse had the ball bounce off both
thighs and his lower arm before he corralled it at the New England 5.

''I didn't have any doubt,'' receiver Doug Baldwin said. ''At that time, you
didn't think there was anyone on the sideline who didn't think we'd score.''

After a 4-yard run by Lynch, the Seahawks lined up in a three-receiver set.
Based on the formation, Butler said he recognized before the snap that Seattle
was running a play intended to beat man-to-man coverage. It forced the
cornerbacks to line up tight, Butler said.

As Carroll explained it, he did not want to waste a running play against New
England's goal-line defense -- he wanted to save that for third and fourth
downs, if necessary.

Split out wide were Kearse and Lockette, who stood a few yards behind him and a
step to his right. Even though Wilson's head was not moving, Butler read his
eyes, which were scanning in that direction.

The play was designed, Carroll said, for Kearse to shield his defender, allowing
the trailing receiver, Lockette, to pop open.

''When they made the call, I didn't question it,'' said Wilson, who finished 12
of 21 for 247 yards. He added: ''We thought we had them. I thought it was going
to be a touchdown when I threw it. When I let it go, I thought it was going to
be game over.''

It was -- just not as Wilson expected.

''It's going to kill me,'' Seattle linebacker Bruce Irvin said. ''I think I'm
about to just go lock myself in my room for about two weeks. This one hurt
because we had it. We had it.''

The Seahawks will recover. They are too young, too resilient and too talented.
But they also lost in perhaps the cruelest way possible, to a team that once
specialized in crushing defeats but no more.

The Patriots are winners again. The Patriots are Super Bowl champions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/patriots-win-super-bowl-xlix-d
efeating-seahawks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An interception by Malcolm Butler (21) in the final seconds
sealed New England's 28-24 win over Seattle in Super Bowl XLIX. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROB CARR/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski scoring on a 22-yard pass from Tom Brady in
the second quarter, as New England took a 14-7 lead. Brady threw for 328 yards
and four touchdowns in the victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (D7) GRAPHICS: Super Bowl XLIX: New England 28, Seattle 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS
(89%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (84%); NEW YORK
GIANTS (54%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (93%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (74%); WEST USA
(58%); NORTHWEST USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Greece, Bank Trouble Looms Again as New Government Takes Shape

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS JR.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1262 words


In January 2013, as Cypriot banks faced collapse, Jens Weidmann, Germany's
powerful representative at the European Central Bank, made it clear how unhappy
he was with the Cyprus bank bailout.

It was not the E.C.B.'s job to ''fund the gap of any bank runs,'' Mr. Weidmann
told the central bank's governing council, according to confidential minutes of
the meeting, citing both the Cyprus rescue and the Greek bank bailout in 2012.

As depositors yank their savings from Greek banks, the question is being asked
if the E.C.B. would bail them out again. The question gained urgency late last
week as the new Greek government of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras abruptly cut
off talks with the country's lenders.

On Wednesday, the E.C.B. will meet to decide whether it should approve a move by
Greece's central bank to provide emergency loans to some of the country's
largest banks. Such short-term financing, which is more expensive than
traditional loans, is provided only as a last resort, when banks are bleeding
deposits and cannot obtain funds from their usual lenders.

And while Greece's banks are in far better shape than they were two years ago,
the fear that Mr. Tsipras' government could be even more radical than advertised
has prompted a mini bank run, with bankers and analysts estimating that as much
as 14 billion euros has been withdrawn from the banks in the last month.

Bankers say that these outflows accelerated late last week following aggressive
anti-Europe comments by new government ministers.

''People are not so much afraid of the banks,'' said Gikas Hardouvelis, who was,
until last week, Greece's finance minister. ''They are afraid that the Syriza
government has no economic plan,'' he said, referring to the party that Mr.
Tsipras leads.

On Saturday, one of the hard-line members of the E.C.B.'s governing council, the
Finnish central banker Erkki Liikanen, said if Greece did not reach a deal with
its creditors by the end of February, the central bank would stop financing
Greek lenders.

A day earlier, Greek bond yields spiked above 11 percent, and bank stocks --
which have lost nearly half their value in the past week -- continued to sink.
Standard & Poor's, the rating agency, warned that Greek banks were losing
deposits rapidly and would have difficulty raising cash.

Over the weekend, Yanis Varoufakis, the government's firebrand finance minister,
said it was halting discussions with the ''committee of technocrats'' that have
been coming to Greece since 2010 to oversee the government's austerity measures.

But he also made clear that Greece would maintain broader debt discussions with
its primary creditors: Europe, the E.C.B. and the International Monetary Fund.
Greece must make 20 billion euros in debt payments to these entities in 2015,
according to an analysis by Brean Capital, an investment firm.

''We never said we would not talk to our partners or that we would default,''
Mr. Varoufakis said in an interview.

During his seven-month run as finance minister, Mr. Hardouvelis helped secure
Greece's first budget surplus (excluding interest payments) in decades. The
harsh austerity measures that delivered this result, however, led to his
government's stinging electoral defeat.

He says that the best chance for the new government to make inroads with Europe
is to not focus on debt levels but to push instead for more fiscal leeway to
jump-start the economy.

But he also said that Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank,
would not look kindly upon the Tsipras government's confrontational attitude
toward its creditors, among which Europe's central bank ranks as one of the
largest.

Recently, Mr. Draghi has appeared to have secured victory at Mr. Weidmann's
expense with his plan for the European Central Bank to buy a huge amount of the
bonds of eurozone governments (otherwise known as quantitative easing). He may
not be willing to pick another fight with the recalcitrant German over a second
rescue of Greek banks.

''There is a danger that the E.C.B. will not allow the funding,'' Mr.
Hardouvelis warned, while acknowledging what an extreme step this would be.
''It's politics. Mr. Draghi is being pushed by Germany on Q.E., so cutting
funding for Greece is a way for him to gain points with Germany.''

Indeed, E.C.B. watchers say that the central bank has learned from its
experience in Cyprus, where it bailed out the island's second-largest lender
despite evidence that the bank was bust, which would be a violation of the
E.C.B. charter.

The minutes from governing council meetings during the Cyprus crisis repeatedly
show how frustrated Mr. Draghi became with having to keep Cyprus banks afloat
while the Cyprus government resisted signing up for a rescue program.

Now, Mr. Draghi is faced with the prospect of history repeating itself as Mr.
Tsipras' decision to break off talks with Greece's creditors will prevent much
needed cash from being disbursed, while also jeopardizing the health of the
country's banks.

In such a situation Mr. Draghi will have to confront the thorny question posed
by Mr. Weidmann: Is it really the E.C.B.'s responsibility to keep Greek banks --
or any of the eurozone banks -- afloat in the face of a defiantly noncooperative
government?

Accordingly, the bank is now weighing a decision to curtail the time period when
troubled banks can tap these last-ditch loans, called emergency liquidity
assistance. Such a step would put more pressure on a stubborn government to
reach an agreement with its creditors and prevent a banking collapse.

In 2012, when many feared Greece would be forced to abandon the euro, Greek
banks were wholly dependent for their survival on emergency loans, which reached
a peak of about 160 billion euros -- roughly the size of household and corporate
deposits in the country now.

Since then, the banks' finances have improved considerably and they have been
able to tap cheaper funds from abroad, obviating their need for emergency funds.
Greek banks' loan books have also been scrubbed as part of the recent stress
tests by the E.C.B. They have benefited as well from a modest economic recovery.
After eking out growth of 0.6 percent last year, the Greek economy had been
expected to expand by nearly 2.9 percent this year.

Recent history has shown, however, how quickly economic activity in Greece can
screech to a halt in a time of duress when bank accounts are emptied and
consumers stop spending.

Three of the largest four banks have requested emergency support from the Greek
central bank: Euro Bank, Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank.

There has been no official disclosure about how much emergency funding Greek
banks have asked for and received from their central bank. But bankers in Athens
say that if deposits continue to shrink, the banks will need at least 100
billion euros in last-resort loans -- all of which would have to be approved by
the E.C.B.

Limiting emergency funds to Greek banks would be a radical measure for the
E.C.B. to take given the prospect of bank failures and the potential for
contagion through Europe. Capital controls would surely follow and the chances
of Greece defaulting on its debts would increase markedly.

For that reason, any decision by the E.C.B. to curtail emergency funding access
would require a two-thirds majority vote. So, while Mr. Weidmann may well want
to cut off Greece, he will need the support of a large number of his peers --
not least Mr. Draghi -- to get the job done.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/as-new-government-takes-shape-in-greece-e
-c-b-again-considers-aiding-its-banks/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Closed businesses in Athens. The European Central Bank will meet
this week to discuss emergency loans for some Greek banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUISA
GOULIAMAKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK
FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY
(89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE
AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EURO (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS
(74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BONDS (72%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (96%); CYPRUS (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES
(93%); GERMANY (92%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

ISIS Tactics Questioned as Hostages Dwindle

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND; Reporting was contributed by Anne Barnard from Beirut,
Lebanon; Karam Shoumali from Istanbul; Michael S. Schmidt from Washington; and
Martin Fackler from Tokyo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1250 words


AMMAN, Jordan -- The extremists of the Islamic State managed to parlay their
Japanese and Jordanian hostages into 12 days of worldwide publicity. But other
than depleting their supply of foreign hostages, did they really accomplish
anything?

Analysts who study terrorist groups were skeptical, and many said the militants'
tactics had backfired badly, particularly in Jordan. The extremists apparently
killed two Japanese men, but failed to achieve either of their professed goals:
$200 million in ransom, and the release of a female Iraqi suicide bomber from
death row in Jordan.

Their threat to kill a captive Jordanian air force pilot (and their failure to
produce evidence that he was alive) did not achieve the intended effect of
undermining support for Jordan's role in the international coalition bombing the
Islamic State. Now even skeptical Jordanians have begun rallying around their
government's position and denouncing the extremists.

That shift comes as the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has nearly
run out of Western or other foreign hostages, as fewer aid workers and
journalists dare to enter Syrian territory. Last August, when the American-led
bombing campaign began, the group held at least 23 Western hostages; now they
are believed to have four hostages viewed as prominent internationally,
including two Westerners. The extremists continue to hold an untold number of
Syrians.

Over the weekend, the group released a video showing the apparent beheading of
the journalist Kenji Goto, who was captured when he went to Syria last October
in a bid to find Haruna Yukawa, a Japanese adventurer who disappeared there in
August. A video showing a still image of Mr. Yukawa beheaded was released by the
group on Jan. 24.

Beginning on Jan. 20, Mr. Goto was forced by his captors to plead for his life,
directing those entreaties at Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Similarly heart-rending
messages were sent from his wife and mother in his final days.

In Mr. Goto's apparent last moments, the Islamic State's executioner, known as
Jihadi John for his British-accented English, who appears in many of the
beheading videos, taunted Mr. Abe: ''This knife will not only slaughter Kenji,
but will also carry on and cause carnage wherever your people are found.''

Mr. Abe responded that Japan ''will cooperate with the international community
and make the terrorists pay the price.'' He added, ''I'm outraged by the
despicable terrorist act, and I will never forgive the terrorists.''

Jordanian officials were more circumspect, as their pilot remains at the
extremists' whim. Jordan's offer to trade him for the suicide bomber,  Sajida
al-Rishawi, remains on the table.

But Jordanian society underwent a sea change in its attitude toward the
coalition last week, as the fate of the pilot, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh,
transfixed the country and its powerful tribes. Even many Jordanians who at the
beginning of the week said the hostage crisis showed they were involved in
someone else's war seemed to change their minds, especially after the horrible
images of Mr. Goto's killing emerged.

''From Day 1 of Jordan joining the coalition against ISIS, part of our people
believed it's not our war,'' said Oraib al-Rantawi, director of the Al-Quds
Center for Political Studies here. ''Another part felt that sooner or later it
will be, so it's better to fight them in the backyard of another country than in
our own bedrooms.''

''Moaz is in every bedroom in Jordan now,'' said Naif Laymoun, a member of
Jordan's Parliament who is from Lieutenant Kasasbeh's hometown, Karak. ''We are
not going to let anyone exploit this issue to turn us against the government.''

Mr. Amoun added, ''In the last couple of days, the treatment of the pilot
backfired against ISIS. Instead of dividing Jordan, Jordanians are more united
behind their government.''

Ora Szekely, a political scientist at Clark University in Massachusetts who
studies extremist groups like ISIS, said that nonstate actors like the Islamic
State ''are much less coherent and cohesive than they want us to think they
are.''

Since the extremists seemed to have no coherent strategy in how they handled the
Japanese and Jordanian hostages, their most likely goal was public relations --
and it was a flop, she said. ''There is a certain amount of making this up as
they go along.''

''Killing the second Japanese was a big mistake and they got nothing for it,''
said Clark McCauley, a psychology professor at Bryn Mawr College who studies
political radicalization. ''These people are in many ways their own worst
enemies. You just have to give them time and space and their extremity will
alienate their own base.''

Hassan Abu Hanieh, an Amman-based political analyst who follows extreme Islamist
groups, cautioned that the Islamic State still has the pilot -- assuming he is
alive -- and may well use his fate to try to shift Jordanian public opinion.
Jordan is one of four Arab countries participating in airstrikes against ISIS.

While ISIS cares little about public opinion in Japan -- or Britain or the
United States, two other countries whose nationals have been beheaded -- Jordan
is a different matter. ''It has goals for expansion into Jordan, and when ISIS
realized this is a losing game on their end, they stopped the game and killed
the Japanese, but not Lieutenant Kasasbeh,'' Mr. Hanieh said.

Other than the Jordanian pilot, ISIS is known to be holding two Western
hostages: the British journalist John Cantlie, who has made a series of
videotaped speeches on behalf of ISIS, and an American female aid worker, whose
identity is being kept confidential. Another female aid worker from an
undisclosed country is also being held. In addition, three staff workers for the
International Committee of the Red Cross disappeared in October 2013, although
no information has been released about their identities or who abducted them.

The Islamic State reportedly has been paid millions of dollars in ransom for its
hostages, particularly in the past six months, making hostage-taking an
important form of financing.

As one journalist working along the border between Turkey and Syria put it
recently, ''Journalists in Syria are seen as walking bags of money.''
Unsurprisingly, most journalists and foreign aid workers are now avoiding Syria
entirely -- raising fears that the extremists would begin taking hostages
elsewhere.

''The F.B.I. has recently obtained credible information indicating members of an
ISIL-affiliated group are tasked with kidnapping journalists in the region and
returning them to Syria,'' American law enforcement officials warned journalists
in an October bulletin. ''Members of this group might try to mask their
affiliation with ISIL to gain access to journalists.''

Many journalists working in the area are well aware of the risks. ''ISIS has a
network of agents roaming the areas that mostly attract journalists, near the
border,'' said Zaher Said, a Syrian who works for Western journalists in the
Gaziantep area of southern Turkey.

''They disguise themselves as drivers or fixers offering to help journalists
work in the south of Turkey, in order to establish good ties with them for a
future plan of kidnapping them to the other side of the border,'' said Mr. Said.

Most experienced journalists were aware of the risks in Turkey, and so far none
had been kidnapped there. ''It is not only ISIS and its network that poses a
risk, but also self-motivated bounty hunters,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/middleeast/isis-tactics-questioned-as-ho
stages-dwindle.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jordanian Christians prayed for the return of First Lt. Moaz
al-Kasasbeh, an air force pilot captured by the Islamic State. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NASSER NASSER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ISLAMIC STATE
IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MILITARY
OPERATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); AIR FORCES (75%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (75%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (68%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%)

COUNTRY: JORDAN (97%); SYRIA (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Putin Resumes His War

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 550 words


The fighting in eastern Ukraine has flared up again, putting an end to any myth
about the cease-fire that was supposed to be in force since September.

Though the Russian economy is staggering under the twinned onslaught of low oil
prices and sanctions -- or, conceivably, as a result of that onslaught --
President Vladimir Putin has sharply cranked up his direct support for the
rebels in the provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk, while continuing to baldly deny
it and to blame all the violence on the United States.

Meanwhile, Ukraine is broke, and without the military means to move against the
Russian-backed rebels. Most of the victims are civilians who struggle with
hunger and dislocation in the rubble of the combat zones and die in the constant
exchanges of shells and rockets.

The eruption of fighting in recent weeks, which was not supposed to happen until
spring, has given new force to pleas to the Obama administration to give Ukraine
the means to resist Mr. Putin -- in money and in arms.

Certainly the United States and Europe should increase their aid to Ukraine and
explore ways to expand existing sanctions against Russia. NATO's commander, Gen.
Philip Breedlove, is said to support providing weapons and equipment to Kiev.
And Secretary of State John Kerry is said to be open to discussing the idea. But
lethal assistance could open a dangerous new chapter in the struggle -- a
chapter Mr. Putin would quite possibly welcome, as it would ''confirm'' his
propaganda claims of Western aggression.

So far, President Obama has cautiously pledged to help Ukraine in every way
''short of military confrontation.'' Yet with sanctions and diplomacy making no
headway against Russian aggression, it is imperative that the United States and
its allies take a new look at what would bring Russia to a serious negotiation.

The first question is, to negotiate what? Along with denying the direct
involvement of his troops in eastern Ukraine, Mr. Putin has not made clear what
he is trying to achieve. Russian officials have suggested that Moscow has no
interest in annexing eastern Ukraine, the way it grabbed Crimea, but rather
seeks a Ukrainian federation in which the pro-Russian provinces would have
relative autonomy, along with assurances that Ukraine will not move to join
NATO.

There is definitely potential for negotiations there. Yet the latest rebel
attacks have focused on Mariupol, an important port on the Black Sea, and on
expanding the rebels' control to areas that would give their self-proclaimed
''republics'' greater military and economic cohesion. And that speaks to
long-term rebel occupation.

Tempting as it is to focus on punishing Mr. Putin, the greater objective must be
to end the fighting so that Ukraine can finally undertake the arduous task of
reforming and reviving its economy. Toward that end, the West must make clear to
Mr. Putin that if a federation is his goal, the United States and its allies
will actively use their good offices with Kiev to seek a workable arrangement.

But if the evidence continues to accumulate that Mr. Putin and the rebels are
carving out a permanent rebel-held enclave in eastern Ukraine, à la
Transdniestria, Abkhazia or South Ossetia, he must know that the United States
and Europe will be compelled to increase the cost.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/mr-putin-resumes-his-war-in-ukraine.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%);
REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); PRICES (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); ECONOMIC
STIMULUS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Long-Run Cop-Out

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 807 words


On Monday, President Obama will call for a significant increase in spending,
reversing the harsh cuts of the past few years. He won't get all he's asking
for, but it's a move in the right direction. And it also marks a welcome shift
in the discourse. Maybe Washington is starting to get over its narrow-minded,
irresponsible obsession with long-run problems and will finally take on the hard
issue of short-run gratification instead.

O.K., I'm being flip to get your attention. I am, however, quite serious. It's
often said that the problem with policy makers is that they're too focused on
the next election, that they look for short-term fixes while ignoring the long
run. But the story of economic policy and discourse these past five years has
been exactly the opposite.

Think about it: Faced with mass unemployment and the enormous waste it entails,
for years the Beltway elite devoted almost all their energy not to promoting
recovery, but to Bowles-Simpsonism -- to devising ''grand bargains'' that would
address the supposedly urgent problem of how we'll pay for Social Security and
Medicare a couple of decades from now.

And this bizarre long-termism isn't just an American phenomenon. Try to talk
about the damage wrought by European austerity policies, and you're all too
likely to encounter lectures to the effect that what we really need to discuss
is long-term structural reform. Try to discuss Japan's effort to break out of
its decades-long deflationary trap, and you're sure to encounter claims that
monetary and fiscal policy are sideshows, and that deregulation and other
structural changes are what's important.

Am I saying that the long run doesn't matter? Of course not, although some forms
of long-termism don't make sense even on their own terms. Think about the notion
that ''entitlement reform'' is an urgent priority. It's true that many
projections suggest that our major social insurance programs will face financial
difficulties in the future (although the dramatic slowing of increases in health
costs makes even that proposition uncertain). If so, at some point we may need
to cut benefits. But why, exactly, is it crucial that we deal with the threat of
future benefits cuts by locking in plans to cut future benefits?

Anyway, even where the long-term issues are real, it's truly strange that they
have so often taken center stage in recent years. We are, after all, still
living through the aftermath of a once-in-three-generations financial crisis.
America seems, finally, to be recovering -- but Bowles-Simpsonism had its
greatest influence precisely when the United States economy was still mired in a
deep slump. Europe has hardly recovered at all, and there's overwhelming
evidence that austerity policies are the main reason for that ongoing disaster.
So why the urge to change the subject to structural reform? The answer, I'd
suggest, is intellectual laziness and lack of moral courage.

About laziness: Many people know what John Maynard Keynes said about the long
run, but far fewer are aware of the context. Here's what he really said: ''But
this long run is a misleading guide to current affairs. In the long run we are
all dead. Economists set themselves too easy, too useless a task if in
tempestuous seasons they can only tell us that when the storm is long past the
ocean is flat again.'' Quite. All too often, or so it seems to me, people who
insist that questions of austerity and stimulus are unimportant are actually
trying to avoid hard thinking about the nature of the economic disaster that has
overtaken so much of the world.

And they're also trying to avoid taking a stand that will expose them to attack.
Discussions of short-run fiscal and monetary policy are politically charged.
Oppose austerity and support monetary expansion and you'll be lambasted by the
right; do the reverse and you'll be criticized and maybe ridiculed by the left.
I understand why it's tempting to dismiss the whole debate and declare that the
really important issues involve the long run. But while people who say that kind
of thing like to pose as brave and responsible, they're actually ducking the
hard stuff -- which is to say, being craven and irresponsible.

Which brings me back to the president's new budget.

It goes without saying that Mr. Obama's fiscal proposals, like everything he
does, will be attacked by Republicans. He's also, however, sure to face
criticism from self-proclaimed centrists accusing him of irresponsibly
abandoning the fight against long-term budget deficits.

So it's important to understand who's really irresponsible here. In today's
economic and political environment, long-termism is a cop-out, a dodge, a way to
avoid sticking your neck out. And it's refreshing to see signs that Mr. Obama is
willing to break with the long-termers and focus on the here and now.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/paul-krugman-the-long-run-cop-out.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%);
ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); DEFLATION (68%);
DEREGULATION (67%); MEDICARE (65%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Breaking Barriers With Europe's Moguls-to-Be

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1251 words


MADRID -- When Jordan Casey took to the stage to present his technology
business, he jumped onto the platform rather than walking up the access ramp.

Entrepreneurial energy? Yes, but also adolescent enthusiasm.

Mr. Casey, keynote speaker at a conference here this past week on European youth
in business, turned 15 in November. He has often been reported to be Europe's
youngest chief executive, a status that among other honors has won him
invitations to meet European Union economic officials in Brussels.

''I feel I've got a head start,'' Mr. Casey told the audience here, a group of
200 or so teenage achievers, some of them intent on breaking through what many
consider European obstacles to business. ''In 10 years, I will be 25 and I will
already have 13 years of experience working in the industry, so that is kind of
cool.''

Potential hurdles to the young and business-minded that were discussed during
the three-day conference were a rigid education system in many of the European
Union's 28 countries; a cultural aversion to risk-taking in some parts of the
region; and a stagnant economy in which youth unemployment is a pressing social
problem. The role of speakers like Mr. Casey was to provide can-do pep talks.

''I don't know if I'm still Europe's youngest chief executive, but I certainly
feel I've got a head start,'' Mr. Casey said later in an interview. ''I can't be
doing as much work as I like to, because I sort of have to go to school as well,
play football and be a kid.''

Mr. Casey, from Waterford, Ireland, is a software developer.

He started computer programming when he was 9. He then developed a game called
Alien Ball vs. Humans that topped the charts in the Apple Store in Ireland. In
2012, he registered his first company, Casey Games, with a staff of two ''who
also didn't find it easy to work because of all the school exams,'' he said.
Since then, he has launched two business apps, one for teachers and another for
event organizers, while continuing to attend high school in Waterford.

Notably, one prospect the precocious entrepreneur does not find enticing is
attending college.

''I really don't see what university could teach me that I can't learn for free
immediately,'' he said. ''There are a lot of skills that you can learn yourself
and just by using the Internet.''

In the United States, the lore of the tech industry has its many teen
touchstones -- whether Steve Jobs founding Apple in his parents' garage at 19,
or the Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg starting his first software-based
company while still in high school.

But in Europe, young people with the brains and DNA to build businesses from an
early age do not often see or seize the opportunities the way Jordan Casey has
-- or the way Nick D'Aloisio did.

Mr. D'Aloisio was still a 17-year-old British student in 2013 when he sold his
news-reading app, Summly, to Yahoo for what some reports said was as much as $30
million.

One of the young Spanish entrepreneurs addressing the conference, Luis Iván
Cuende, 19, argued that Spain's oppressively high youth unemployment -- 52
percent at the end of 2014 -- is ''because of the enormous gap between our rigid
and theoretical education system and the labor market, which means you come out
of many years at school without a clue about the outside world.''

Mr. Cuende, who started programing on his own when he was 12, complained in an
interview that Spain's education system was run by ''people stuck in the past.''
He recalled that the technology course he took in high school in Oviedo, was
given by ''a teacher who knew nothing about computing and was about to retire.''

Mr. Cuende plans to roll out next month Stampery, an online copyright
certification system that will use technology similar to that of the Bitcoin
payment system. ''What I most enjoy is just to develop a product,'' Mr. Cuende
said.

But he acknowledged a missed opportunity. He still keeps on his phone a one-line
text message -- ''you should come work with us'' -- that he received in November
2013 from Jan Koum, the Ukrainian-born American who was a co-founder of
WhatsApp, a mobile messaging application.

The company was acquired by Facebook a few months later. ''I turned down his
offer, but since his company then got sold for $19 billion and every employee
held some options, it's a bit painful to think about that decision,'' Mr. Cuende
said.

Endesa, a Spanish utility, was among the sponsors of the Madrid conference.
Federico Fea, the company's chief innovation officer, said he wanted to start
recruiting to his team employees ''just based on talent,'' independent of age or
whether they have a college education.

Endesa employs 10,500 people in Spain, a majority of whom are from 45 to 54
years old. Given the high unemployment in Spain and the region generally --
nearly 10 percent for the European Union over all -- ''Europe needs to become
more flexible in its approach to the labor market,'' Mr. Fea said.

The American tech sector has started thinking likewise. In some parts of Google,
for instance, as many as 14 percent of employees do not have college degrees.

Mr. Fea said that in terms of promoting entrepreneurship, though, Europe's
biggest hurdle was not structural but instead ''our incredible fear of
failure,'' particularly in southern countries like Spain and Italy. In the
United States, he said, ''you're nobody until you have failed once or twice.''

The European Union is not a monolith, of course. So entrepreneurial attitudes
and opportunities vary.

Eiso Kant, a 24-year-old Dutch entrepreneur -- a veteran, by the conference's
standards -- has settled in Madrid. He initially came to study at its IE
University, but then started Tyba, an online job recruitment platform focused on
start-up companies. ''The Netherlands is a country where entrepreneurship has
always been promoted, while in Spain it has only now started to become a
celebrated endeavor,'' Mr. Kant said, on the conference's sidelines.

Aya Jaff, a 19-year-old, Iraqi-born German, set up an association to teach
coding to young people, while herself completing a degree in computer sciences.

''I don't think that being able to code should make you drop out of college,
especially in a conservative place like Germany,'' she said. ''I believe higher
education can teach you other important things, like that making money isn't all
that matters.''

For Mr. Casey, the Irish programmer, it does not seem that the money matters all
that much -- so far, at least.

About 50,000 units of the Alien Ball, which he said were generally priced at
$0.99 each, were downloaded, but in terms of his actual earnings, ''I really
don't know the exact figures.''

Mr. Casey's views on education, as well as his passion for technology, were not
initially endorsed by his parents, who are both accountants. In fact, Mr. Casey
tricked his parents into buying his first laptop, when he was 12. He sent them a
letter purporting to come from Apple that highlighted the benefits of a laptop
for children's progress.

Mr. Casey's parents, however, are now firmly behind their son's business
ventures, acting as company directors because he is too young to be held legally
accountable. They also take turns traveling with him to events like the Madrid
conference.

''I used to think university was essential to succeed,'' his mother, Louise,
said. ''But since Jordan has gone on this path, I've come to recognize that
there really are different ways to get to where you want to be.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/31/business/international/europes-young-entrepren
eurs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jordan Casey, 15, was interviewed for television during a break
at a conference in Madrid on youth in business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS LUJAN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS
(90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%);
UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS
(75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL
TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%);
TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (67%); SOCIETAL
ISSUES (67%); ACADEMIC TESTING (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED
STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Snow, but Don't Expect a Shutdown

BYLINE: By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS; Dan Glaun and Ashley Southall contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 511 words


Mayor Bill de Blasio warned New Yorkers on Sunday that more snow was expected in
the city overnight, but he said officials were prepared to handle the storm and
schools were expected to open on Monday morning.

The latest forecast called for 2 to 5 inches of snow by Monday morning, with up
to 7 inches possible, Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference on Sunday.

The snowstorm comes less than a week after much of the city shut down for a
storm that brought significantly less snow than predicted.

The mayor said he would watch the forecast overnight and make a final decision
about schools early Monday. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's trains
and buses will run on Monday, he said, noting that commuters should take mass
transit if possible because roads could be dangerous.

''Based on what we know now, school will be open, M.T.A. will be running pretty
smoothly,'' the mayor said. ''You will experience delays; people should give
themselves extra time and should act carefully.''

Mr. de Blasio cautioned that snow could be unpredictable, as the city learned
last week. Asked whether he felt sheepish for holding another briefing on a
snowstorm a week later, Mr. de Blasio said he did not.

''I make decisions for a living. That's what the people sent me here to do,'' he
said. ''We take the information we have; we make the best decision we can with
it. I will always err on the side of safety.''

City and state officials were criticized last week for bringing the city to a
halt when less than 10 inches of snow fell, much less than the two or three feet
predicted. The subway system was shut down because of a snow forecast for the
first time in its 110-year history.

On Sunday, the transportation authority said it planned to run a regular weekday
schedule on Monday. Riders should expect weather-related delays on buses and
subways, ''especially on some express routes as we reposition trains that were
stored underground tonight,'' the authority said in a statement.

After Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced last Monday that the subway system would
shut down, Mr. de Blasio said he found out about the decision around the same
time it was being announced to the public.

Asked on Sunday whether he had since spoken to the governor about not being
consulted, Mr. de Blasio said: ''We've made the point clearly to the state that
we think we can do a little better next time, and we think we have to learn from
this situation what different options we may have in that kind of situation, and
I think it's been a productive conversation.''

Meteorologists have had to defend their forecasts. On Sunday, Bruce Terry, a
meteorologist for the National Weather Service, said the latest storm was moving
to the Northeast from the Midwest, calling it a ''modest snowstorm.''

The Weather Service was not being more cautious now, he said, noting that parts
of Long Island, not far from the city, did receive more than a foot and a half
of snow last week.

''There is always uncertainty in snowstorms,'' he said. ''We aren't perfect --
that's for sure.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/snow-is-forecast-but-mayor-de-blasio-
says-new-york-city-wont-shut-down.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); SEVERE WINTER WEATHER (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%);
WEATHER (89%); METEOROLOGY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); TRAINS (74%);
MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); COMMUTING (69%); GOVERNORS
(69%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bold Addition to Paris Skyline Gets Art to Match

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words


PARIS --  When it opened in October, the Louis Vuitton Foundation museum was
such an audacious addition to the landscape here that all eyes were on the
architecture and its creator, Frank Gehry. At the time, it seemed that the art
on view -- from the foundation's collection -- was little more than an
afterthought, and few details were disclosed about future programs. But it turns
out that Suzanne Pagé, the foundation's artistic director, was secretly working
on an exhibition of modern masterpieces to open in April with loans from
institutions around the world including Edvard Munch's ''The Scream,'' Matisse's
''Dance'' and Léger's ''Three Women (Le Grand Déjeuner).''

A lyrical confection of glass, concrete, timber and steel set on the western
edge of the Bois de Boulogne, the building was the most radical design since I.
M. Pei's 26-year-old glass pyramid in the courtyard of the Louvre. Critics
called the new building a sailboat, a crystal palace, a spaceship, even a whale.

''We wanted the emphasis to be on the architecture first,'' said Ms. Pagé, a
former director of the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville in Paris.

When the $143 million building opened, many in the art world voiced
disappointment that the inaugural installation included only a peek into the
holdings amassed by Bernard Arnault, the chairman and chief executive of LVMH
Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the luxury goods conglomerate, who is a fiercely
private collector. The exhibition included a mixed bag of canvases by Gerhard
Richter and Ellsworth Kelly, and sculptures by Thomas Schütte and Isa Genzken,
Christian Boltanski and Pierre Huyghe. (Some of the stronger works were
commissioned from Mr. Kelly, Olafur Eliasson and Taryn Simon.)

Now the foundation will be a place to see some of the touchstones of modern art.
''The Scream'' is on loan from the Munch Museum in Oslo; Matisse's ''Dance,''
not seen in Paris for 15 years, is on loan from the State Hermitage Museum in
St. Petersburg; Léger's ''Three Women'' is from the Museum of Modern Art in New
York.

The building will also showcase works including Rothko's ''No. 46 (Black, Ocher,
Red Over Red),'' from the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. Also
reported to be in the show is Brancusi's ''Endless Column, Version 1,'' from
MoMA. Crafted from carved oak, it is the first fully developed example of that
celebrated sculpture. Picasso's ''Woman With Yellow Hair,'' belonging to the
Guggenheim Museum in New York, is also said to be arriving here, according to
museum sources.

''The foundation indeed aims to be contemporary,'' Ms. Pagé said. ''But it
doesn't want to ignore the history of art, as it is seen in these major works of
the 20th century, which continue to be a vital reference for artists today.''

The exhibition, ''Les Clefs d'une Passion'' (''The Keys to a Passion''), will be
on view through July 6. Two weeks after it opens, another selection of works
from the foundation will be installed in the rest of the galleries by
contemporary masters including Warhol, Gilbert & George, Richard Prince and
Douglas Gordon.

These presentations, Ms. Pagé hopes, will dispel questions by skeptical art
lovers who at first wondered whether the new building was just a rich man's toy;
a 21st-century example of corporate branding, or if it would, over time, have
the heft to become an integral part of Parisian cultural life.

''I think it's something very important,'' said Henri Loyrette, an art historian
and the former director of the Louvre. ''When I first saw it I thought more
about the beautiful architecture than anything else. But on a second visit I
realize there's a lot more to it than that. They have been clever in the way you
first discover the building and then progressively, over time, see different
things.''

In a city where places to see art are, for the most part, government funded, the
foundation is a rare example for Paris of a more typically American-style
institution, similar to private museums for contemporary art opened by the Brant
Foundation in Greenwich, Conn.; the Broad Foundation in Los Angeles; or the
Rubell Family Collection in Miami.

Its novelty has aroused considerable curiosity here. Most days, lines snake
around the building hours before it opens, and on weekends as many as 8,000
people a day, predominantly Parisians, have visited the city's newest arts
center.

Jean-Paul Claverie, a special adviser to Mr. Arnault who had worked under Jack
Lang in the French Ministry of Culture, recalled being so bowled over by the
Guggenheim Bilbao, which Mr. Gehry designed in the Basque region of Spain, that
he convinced Mr. Arnault to go see it. ''I knew it would have an impact on
him,'' Mr. Claverie recalled the other day, over lunch in the dining room of the
foundation, where lamps in the shape of articulated fish, designed by Mr. Gehry,
floated overhead. That visit, Mr. Claverie said, convinced Mr. Arnault to hire
Mr. Gehry to design his foundation building.

While the architecture has been the big draw, the art is soon to be an equal
partner. ''When a building is first finished, curators generally want time to
figure out how to use it,'' Mr. Gehry said by phone from Los Angeles. ''Every
time I've designed a museum, the curators have always wanted to open it empty,
but I've always insisted they put some art in it.''

Mr. Gehry said he had spent hours with Ms. Pagé studying the collection so the
building's 11 galleries -- some with vertiginous ceilings -- and roof terraces
could show off the art to its best advantage.

''We have a constant dialogue about art; it's not fashion,'' Ms. Pagé said on a
recent trip to New York, sipping tea at the Pierre Hotel after spending the day
scouring galleries in Chelsea and catching up on museum exhibitions, including
Leonard A. Lauder's collection of Cubist art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
which she said was ''fantastique.''

''Mr. Arnault wants to create a very serious place,'' Ms. Pagé added. Since his
wife, Hélène Mercier, is a serious pianist, he also has a passion for
performance. ''Not just music, but poetry, too,'' Ms. Pagé said. ''Very few
places in Paris have poetry.'' So far in the 350-seat auditorium they have held
concerts by the pianist Lang Lang and the band Kraftwerk, an installation by the
German artist Florian Hecker and a poetry series organized by the writer Jérôme
Game. Georgy Tchaidze, the 25-year-old Russian pianist, performed here on
Friday.

This is not Mr. Arnault's first public foray in the art world. In 1999, he
bought Phillips, the auction house, which he merged with Simon de Pury and
Daniella Luxembourg, two renowned dealers. The arrangement lasted only until
2002. Realizing that trying to compete with the auction giants Sotheby's and
Christie's was a losing battle, he sold his stake to Mr. de Pury and Ms.
Luxembourg. (None of the principals are still involved; Phillips is now owned by
the Mercury Group, a Russian luxury goods company.)

While Mr. Arnault lost millions of dollars in Phillips, it did not dampen his
enthusiasm or interest in art. Currently on view at the foundation is an
exhibition of work by Mr. Eliasson, the Danish-Icelandic artist perhaps best
known to New Yorkers for the four waterfalls he created in New York Harbor in
2008. For the LVMH site-specific installation, he created a space where viewers
are enveloped in light and their own mirrored, dreamy reflections, set beside a
pool of water on the building's lower level, or grotto, as they call it.

With ''The Keys to a Passion,'' Ms. Pagé said that she hopes the public will see
that the foundation is more than a showcase for contemporary art but also a
place to learn about the historic figures inspiring art today. ''Both are
important,'' she said. ''You have to be very curious about what's happening
everywhere around the world, whether it's in Sharjah or New York or Paris.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/design/the-louis-vuitton-foundation-in-pa
ris-will-display-modern-masterpieces.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fernand Léger's ''Three Women (Le Grand Déjeuner)'' (1921-22).
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY, NEW YORK/ADAGP,
PARIS) (C1)
 Edvard Munch's ''The Scream,'' circa 1910. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUNCH MUSEUM) (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING
(78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BOAT
BUILDING (68%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (79%); SAINT
PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORWAY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard-Charging Uber Tries Olive Branch

BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words


Travis Kalanick did not build Uber into a global force by playing nice.

Mr. Kalanick, the chief executive of Uber, a ride-hailing service, aggressively
pushed the start-up into new markets, taking combative stances toward regulators
and the powerful taxi industry -- and the news media.

But Mr. Kalanick and his team have begun to trade the art of Sun Tzu for a
full-throated charm offensive.

In January, Mr. Kalanick delivered a speech in Munich filled with talk about
compromising with regulators he once sparred with, wanting to ''make 2015 the
year where we establish partnerships with new European cities.'' The company
also released two rosy, data-heavy reports about the service's advantages on
cities, drivers and communities. And on Friday, in an uncommon display of
humility, Uber pledged to strengthen its user data privacy practices,
acknowledging that ''we haven't always gotten it right.''

The striking reversal in tone comes at a crucial time for Uber, which once
somewhat prided itself on its antagonistic attitude. The company is now valued
by investors at over $40 billion after the most recent round of financing,
largely on the promise of rapid growth. To build a business worthy of that
valuation, though, the company must prove to investors that it can continue its
breakneck pace of expansion in markets abroad at the same rate it has
domestically.

And to reach those targets, the company will almost certainly need better
relations with governments around the world.

''A company like Uber, whose culture is defined by its willingness to go up
against the established regulatory regime, is going to run into this problem of
perception sooner or later,'' said Derek van Bever, a director of the Forum for
Growth and Innovation at Harvard Business School.

One large part of Uber's new strategy is to let the data do the talking.

In August, the company hired David Plouffe, the longtime confidant of President
Obama, as Uber's senior vice president for policy and strategy. Mr. Plouffe
leaned heavily on data to aim messages at voters during Mr. Obama's campaign,
and has already begun to use much the same strategy at Uber.

Uber's research team approached Professor Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist
who previously was Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser, to conduct a joint survey
of more than 600 of the company's drivers.

''I told Uber that I would take this on as long as I had full discretion over
the content of the report,'' Professor Krueger said. ''They agreed.''

The study found that of the 20 markets surveyed, the average driver wages were
higher than taxi and limousine driver wage estimates from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Uber added close to 40,000 drivers to its ranks in the United States
in December, the report said, and nearly 80 percent of its drivers were happy
driving for the company.

Mr. Plouffe was eager to trumpet the study's claims.

''Uber is growing every month, and is becoming a bigger part of not just cities
and transportation systems, but of the whole economy,'' he said in a recent
interview. ''We're likely to be one of the biggest job-producing companies for
the economy over the coming years.''

In another joint study, with Mothers Against Drunk Driving, an advocacy group
otherwise known as MADD, Mr. Plouffe promoted Uber's potential influence on
drunken driving in states in which it operates. The study found that about four
of five respondents said they were less likely to drive themselves home after a
night of drinking because of ride-hailing applications like Uber.

''When David came on, he was very passionate and deep in this issue and wants to
dig into this even more,'' said Amy George, senior vice president for marketing
at MADD. She said Mr. Plouffe wanted to examine Uber's impact on rural markets
as well, where there are often higher incidences of drunken driving than in
urban markets.

It will most likely take more than a couple of reports, though, to change the
company's overall reputation.

Inside the company, some employees say, morale was low late last year, after
BuzzFeed News reported that a senior Uber executive had suggested that the
company commission ''opposition research'' on reporters. Competitors like Lyft
seized on the news, and Uber was left publicly playing defense.

As scrutiny intensified, even Capitol Hill piled on. Senator Al Franken,
Democrat of Minnesota, questioned Uber's privacy practices after it was reported
that an Uber employee had gained access to the ride history of a BuzzFeed
journalist.

Uber followed up with a privacy audit, conducted by an outside law firm, and a
commitment to improve its practices.

Employees inside Uber, and several people with ties to Uber, all of whom spoke
only on the condition of anonymity to protect their connection to the company,
expressed concern that the negative attention could hurt employee recruiting and
retention.

''It's not fun for Uber's employees, who are bright and mostly wonderful, to
have to keep explaining to their friends why they work for'' an organization
that would act that way, one person close to the company said.

Some also noted that Uber had partnerships with image-conscious companies like
Spotify, United Airlines and Starbucks, and that future partnerships could be at
risk if its reputation did not improve.

Mr. Kalanick seems to be getting the message. As he indicated in Munich, by
working with, instead of against, regulators in Europe and the Asia Pacific
region, the company stands a much better chance of sustaining its rapid
expansion.

''Unless they examine the costs as well as the rewards of this kind of reflexive
pugnacious stance, they run the risk of having the carpet pulled out from
underneath them, regardless of the quality of their service,'' Mr. van Bever,
the Harvard Business School professor, said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/hard-charging-uber-tries-olive-branch
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Travis Kalanick, chief of Uber, last month in Munich. He spoke
about compromising with regulators he once sparred with. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBIAS
HASE/DPA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(77%); FINANCING ROUNDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); STATISTICS (74%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY
(69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (62%); US PRESIDENTS
(61%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); RANKINGS (60%)

PERSON: TRAVIS KALANICK (93%); BARACK OBAMA (64%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Monday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 717 words


10 A.M. (AMC) GROUNDHOG DAY (1993) Once more, with feeling: A smug Pittsburgh
weatherman (Bill Murray, above) is condemned to relive one day in Punxsutawney,
Pa., until he gets it right. Andie MacDowell plays the woman of his dreams;
Stephen Tobolowsky is the most annoying guy in town. Or is he? Writing in The
New York Times, Caryn James called Mr. Murray ''the screen's most likable
cynic.'' The movie repeats at 12:30, 3 and 5:30 p.m.

5:15 P.M. (MoreMax) LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE (2006) Abigail Breslin, right, received
an Oscar nomination for her portrayal of the unlikely 7-year-old princess Olive
Hoover in this comedy about a family of misfits determined to get her to a
beauty pageant, using a dilapidated Volkswagen bus. Alan Arkin won the best
supporting actor Oscar as the heroin-using grandfather who helps put Olive's
talent routine over the top. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis called this
film from Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris ''a tale about genuine faith and
manufactured glory that unwinds in the American Southwest, but more rightly
takes place at the terminus of the American dream, where families are one bad
break away from bankruptcy.''

8 P.M. (Food Network) KIDS BAKING CHAMPIONSHIP Duff Goldman and Valerie
Bertinelli put eight bakers ages 10 to 13 through challenges intended to test
their technique and originality. The winner gets bakeware, a profile in Food
Network Magazine, a confection featured at Mr. Goldman's Charm City Cakes and
$10,000.

8:30 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson (in a BMW M6 Gran Coupe),
Richard Hammond (a Bentley Continental GT V8) and James May (a Nissan GT-R)
encounter crocodile-infested rivers, an open cast mine, the world's longest
truck and 4,000 cows as they race across the Northern Territory of Australia.
Kiefer Sutherland is the star in a reasonably priced car.

9 P.M. (CW) JANE THE VIRGIN Jane (Gina Rodriguez, left) moves to the next level,
careerwise, thanks to Rogelio (Jaime Camil). Rafael (Justin Baldoni) worries
about the connection of Sin Rostro to his hotel and the safety of his family.
And Petra (Yael Grobglas) learns the ugly truth about someone close to her.

9 P.M. (Fox Business) STRANGE INHERITANCE Jamie Colby looks at some bizarre
objects bequeathed to family members, starting with a fake 1913 Liberty nickel
that might actually be the real thing and, at 9:30, guns used by Bonnie Parker
and Clyde Barrow in their final shootout.

10 P.M. (NBC) STATE OF AFFAIRS Charlie (Katherine Heigl) and Lucas (Adam
Kaufman) join the F.B.I. manhunt for an Ar Rissalah terrorist who escaped into
the woods of West Virginia. President Payton (Alfre Woodard) protects the
C.I.A.'s Operation Bellerophon in a deal with the media that could expose her
own secrets on national television. And Nick (Chris McKenna) and Fatah (Farshad
Farahat) prepare for the arrival of the world's most dangerous man, Sheikh Hakam
(Yousuf Azami).

10 P.M. (13), 11 P.M. (49) A PATH APPEARS In the second episode of this
three-part ''Independent Lens'' presentation, Nicholas Kristof, a columnist for
The New York Times; Sheryl WuDunn, his wife and a former business editor at The
Times; and celebrity activists including Jennifer Garner, Alfre Woodard and Eva
Longoria explore the collision of gender inequality and poverty in West
Virginia, Haiti and Colombia.

What's Streaming Now

SEVEN WONDERS OF THE WORLD (1956) In this spectacle-travelogue filmed in
wide-screen Cinerama, the adventurer Lowell Thomas flits around the globe in
Smasher, a converted B-25, stopping first at the only original wonder still in
existence -- the Pyramid of Cheops (and the Sphinx) at Giza, Egypt -- before
sweeping off to a live volcano in East Africa, under the bridges of New York
City and over Rio de Janeiro, the Parthenon in Athens and Angel Falls in South
America. ''Anyone with a tendency to airsickness is hereby warned to beware,''
Bosley Crowther wrote in The Times. ''For this hodgepodge of scenic observations
in color is not only caught in large part from the air, but the screen images
also are so often tilted at radical angles, as the camera planes bank over the
places being viewed, that the customer is likely to find himself clutching for
seat straps and feeling a distinct discomfort of vertigo.'' (fandor.com) KATHRYN
SHATTUCK




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/tv-schedule.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA PICTURES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (77%); FILM (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(69%); HEROIN (53%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); SURFACE MINING (50%)

PERSON: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (79%); KATHERINE HEIGL (55%)

STATE: SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (67%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Tourism Record Is Set, New York City Sees Surge in Chinese Visitors

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 711 words


Mayor Bill de Blasio may have diverged from his predecessor's path several times
in his first year in office, but when it comes to tourists, he has embraced
Michael R. Bloomberg's rallying cry: Keep them coming.

Mr. de Blasio increased the city's spending on tourism promotion in 2014 and is
considering doing so again this year, said Alicia Glen, a deputy mayor. City
officials are expected to announce on Monday that the official count of visitors
to the city last year was 56.4 million, up from the previous peak of 54.3
million in 2013.

The influx of tourists has been growing steadily since the recession ended,
consistently surpassing the goals set by city officials. The impact of tourism
on the city's economy has been increasing too, but not as fast as projected.

NYC & Company, the city's tourism promotion agency, estimated that tourism
spurred $61.3 billion in economic activity last year, far from the pace needed
to reach its goal of $70 billion annually in 2015. Much of the discrepancy can
be explained by shifts in the global economy, said Fred Dixon, the chief
executive of NYC & Company.

A weak American dollar had drawn hordes of shoppers from Brazil and other
countries where tariffs make goods more expensive. Brazilians, who make up the
third-largest contingent of foreign tourists, had developed a reputation for
filling suitcases with purchases of clothing and everyday items.

Now, with the dollar's rebound diluting some of the buying power of foreign
currencies, city officials are banking on drawing more visitors from less-tapped
sources, especially China.

City officials estimate that more than 740,000 visitors came from China in 2014,
almost five times as many as in 2009. China passed France last year to move into
fourth place as a source of foreign tourists, behind Britain, Canada and Brazil,
tourism officials said.

Already, the Chinese are the largest contingent of foreign visitors to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, said Emily Rafferty, president of the museum and
chairwoman of NYC & Company's board of directors. ''They're definitely the No. 1
visitors to us and we predict it's growing,'' she said.

A recent rule change that will extend visas for citizens of China to 10 years
from just one should fuel a continued surge of tourism, Mr. Dixon said.

So far, Mr. Dixon said, the bulk of the Chinese visitors have come in groups
that sweep through New York and a few other American cities in rapid succession.
But a new group of wealthier Chinese tourists, who spend considerably more on
luxuries, is emerging, he said.

The Chinese tourism target of the future ''is going to be the higher-spending,
longer-staying, upper-middle-class and luxury market,'' Mr. Dixon said. In
contrast to Brazilian visitors, he said, the Chinese tend to shop for more
expensive items, like watches, to take home as gifts.

Ms. Glen said that diversifying the sources of tourism as a hedge against
economic slumps in particular countries or regions is one aim of the de Blasio
administration. ''We don't want to be too reliant on any specific place,'' she
said.

NYC & Company is nearing the end of a five-year contract with the city, which
supplies about one-third of its funding. The rest comes from the hotels,
museums, restaurants and other businesses that make up its membership.

Ms. Glen said the city gave NYC & Company an additional $1 million last year, on
top of its base allocation of about $12 million. She said city officials were
still discussing how much additional money to give the agency in the coming
year.

To enhance New York's all-American allure, NYC & Company selected Taylor Swift,
the music star, as the city's unofficial -- and unpaid -- ambassador last fall,
a choice that went over as well with some New Yorkers as Mr. de Blasio's use of
a knife and fork to eat pizza.

''The thinking behind choosing Taylor was igniting a new conversation,'' Mr.
Dixon said.

He added, ''She ignited a lot of conversation.''

Plus, he said, Ms. Swift, who moved to the city last year, performed her new
song ''Welcome to New York'' on national television from Times Square on New
Year's Eve. The dividends from having ''the biggest pop star of the moment'' do
that will be rolling -- and flying -- in for years to come, he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/as-tourism-record-is-set-new-york-cit
y-awaits-more-chinese-visitors.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The TKTS bleachers north of Times Square remain a popular
destination for visitors to the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN HAGEN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TOURISM
(90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CULTURE
DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RECESSION (77%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS
BUREAUS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); LUXURY GOODS (70%);
GLOBALIZATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); CHINA (94%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Reprise on Melbourne's Stage, Djokovic Leaves Murray Crushed

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1275 words


MELBOURNE, Australia --  Huffing and stretching with full-throttle effort,
ripping forehands from inside the baseline, Andy Murray for quite some time
seemed to be a player on a mission to impose a new ending for himself at the
Australian Open.

But Novak Djokovic had other ideas, and a cooler head, and in the critical
phases of their latest big match in Melbourne, the scene was familiar as
Djokovic kept collecting games and momentum and Murray kept berating both
himself and the tennis fates.

Djokovic's 7-6 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-0 victory, which seemed so difficult in the
beginning but ended so easily, gave him a fifth Australian Open singles title
and an eighth Grand Slam singles title.

While Djokovic is now 5-0 in finals at Melbourne Park, Murray is 0-4. He has
beaten Djokovic in other places for other major trophies, but on the hardcourts
here, he has been unable to control big rallies or his own emotions well enough
to make the difference.

''I don't think you can really quantify what that pressure does to someone,''
Jim Courier, the former No. 1 and current United States Davis Cup captain, told
Australian television. ''I think it's really hard to understand unless you've
been in that caldron. Murray is a guy who wears it on his sleeve. Some may love
it. Some may hate it, but he lets you know what he's feeling.''

Despite Murray's often-inspired play earlier in the tournament and in the first
two sets of the final, it was difficult not to interpret Sunday's gesticulations
and running monologue as regression -- the kind of distraction he tended to
avoid when Ivan Lendl, his former coach, was sitting stone-faced behind his
sunglasses in the players' box. With Lendl in his corner, Murray won the 2012
Olympic gold medal in singles, the 2012 United States Open and Wimbledon in
2013.

But his convincing run back to the final here as the No. 6 seed with his new
coach, Amélie Mauresmo, put him firmly back in the mix at the top, and that top
does look very familiar.

When the ATP rankings are updated on Monday, it will be Djokovic at No. 1,
followed by Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Murray.

The other three men all have had extended runs at No. 1. Federer has a record 17
major singles titles; Nadal has 14; and Djokovic now has eight, tied for eighth
on the career list with Andre Agassi, Jimmy Connors, Lendl, Ken Rosewall and
Fred Perry. Murray has two major singles titles and a career-high ranking of No.
2.

Rosewall was one of several members of Australian tennis royalty in attendance
Sunday night in Rod Laver Arena, along with Laver himself and Roy Emerson, the
only man to have won more titles at this tournament than Djokovic.

Emerson won his six before 1968, when the Open era began and the Grand Slam
tournaments became accessible to professionals as well as amateurs. Emerson
handed Djokovic the Norman Brookes Challenge Cup at the victory ceremony on
Sunday night.

''There's the baby,'' Djokovic said affectionately when it was placed in front
of him later at a news conference.

The trophy must indeed feel like part of the family after his five victories,
with the first four coming in 2008, '11, '12 and '13. But he said that what
really gave this latest victory meaning was his marriage to Jelena Ristic, whom
he wedded last year, and the birth of their son, Stefan.

''I think it has deeper meaning, more intrinsic value now to my life because I'm
a father and a husband,'' Djokovic said of the title.

This final, played on a cool and blustery summer evening, was intense from the
first rally as Murray and Djokovic, men with similar games and similar defensive
skills, tested each other in a series of long athletic exchanges.

It was often breathtaking in both senses of the term. The first set required 72
minutes; the second 80, partly because two protesters managed to enter the court
before being removed by security.

But early in that second set, Djokovic began losing his balance during some
rallies, falling in the first game and pitching forward again in the second.

After Murray won the second set, Djokovic's problems continued. Murray broke him
in the opening game of the third and then held serve at love to take a 2-0 lead
when Djokovic barely moved for two shots he would normally have chased.

''Two and a half hours for two sets has taken a toll on our bodies, both of
us,'' Djokovic told an Australian TV station. ''I was trying not to show him,
because you don't want to show your opponents you are going through some tough
physical moments. But I did.''

Djokovic said the problem was in his legs. ''Just my thighs, my quads,'' he
said. ''After playing two hours and something, I didn't feel I have the strength
in my thighs.''

He said he did not ask for medical assistance because he did not feel he had a
specific injury. ''I didn't have any cramps,'' he said. ''I just felt weakness
at that stage.''

Djokovic has experienced similar problems before, struggling to remain upright
in a match in Shanghai against Juan Martín del Potro in 2013. But Djokovic's
powers of quick recovery have been a major factor in his continuing success.
Down by 0-2 in the third set Sunday, he won his next service game at love.

''Don't worry about him,'' Murray said to himself on court, an apparent
reference to Djokovic's physical issues. ''He does it all the time.''

But Murray did continue to worry. In the next game he lost his serve and his
scoreboard advantage. After Djokovic held to go up, 3-2, Murray sat in his chair
during the changeover and swore repeatedly.

He managed to get to 3-3 and get a break point in the subsequent game, but he
did not convert. After losing his own serve to go down, 3-5, he chucked his
racket. ''So many times,'' he said. ''How do you do it to yourself?''

Murray was asked later if he thought Djokovic's manifestations of physical
distress were deliberate.

''I would hope that wouldn't be the case,'' he said.

Djokovic said he did not notice that he had distracted Murray. But perhaps he
was too busy sweeping through the end of the match, winning nine straight games
as what had looked like a classic final tailed off into a deflating,
ill-tempered rout.

''The third set was frustrating, because I got a bit distracted when he, like,
fell on the ground after a couple of shots,'' Murray said, adding: ''That's what
I'm most disappointed about. Not so much the fourth set because I think,
especially at the end of it, he was just going for everything. But the third set
was more frustrating for me.''

But Murray is no rookie. At 27, he has a wealth of major tournament experience,
and he acknowledged that he should have concentrated on his own end of the
court.

''He absolutely collapsed,'' Pat Cash, the former Wimbledon champion from
Australia, said in a radio interview. ''You like to put a rose tint on this, but
he's melted down. He's been disappointing. I'm disappointed for him.''

Djokovic, who attacked Murray's second serve effectively, certainly played a
role. The match was reminiscent of the 2013 final, which also started with two
hard-fought sets before Djokovic broke it open and won, 6-7 (2), 7-6 (3), 6-3,
6-2.

Djokovic said he took strength during his difficult moments Sunday by thinking
about that match.

''I had that in the back of my mind,'' he said.

Now he has another good memory in Melbourne to give him staying power. He was
soon delivering a speech at the Australian Open staff party, leading the
traditional chant of ''Aussie, Aussie, Aussie, Oi, Oi, Oi.''

Such festivities on the final Sunday have become routine for Djokovic, but final
Sundays in Melbourne for Murray remain much more somber occasions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/tennis/novak-djokovic-defeats-andy-murr
ay-to-win-australian-open.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Novak Djokovic, above, after defeating Andy Murray, left, in
the final. Djokovic won his fifth Australian Open title, the most in the Open
era, while Murray lost his fourth final there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY
BROWNBILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BARBARA WALTON/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS
(89%); RANKINGS (87%); OLYMPICS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%);
STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%)

PERSON: ANDY MURRAY (93%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (92%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%); ROGER
FEDERER (58%)

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (92%)

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (96%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Super Bowl Commercials Go for Heart, Not Just Funny Bone and Jugular

BYLINE: By EMILY STEEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1290 words


The game plan for the advertising blitz during Super Bowl XLIX was simple: Go
straight for the heart.

Many of the commercials during NBC's national broadcast of Sunday's game sought
to tug at viewers' heart strings rather than make them burst out laughing. The
offerings were not devoid of the usual mix of celebrities, animals and slapstick
comedy, but ads celebrating fatherhood, happiness over hatred and public
proclamations of love dominated.

''Finally, a more serious Super Bowl with a high dose of humanity on display,''
said Adam Tucker, president of WPP's Ogilvy & Mather advertising in New York.

[Video: New 2015 Commerical - #RealStrength Ad | Dove Men+Care Watch on
YouTube.]

A number of advertisers essentially rebranded Super Bowl Sunday into another
celebration of Father's Day. A spot for Unilever's Dove Men + Care depicted a
series of children, from toddlers to adults, calling out ''Dad'' and ''Daddy''
from a highchair, monkey bars and the dance floor at a wedding reception. ''What
makes a man stronger?'' the ad asked. ''Showing that he cares.'' Ads for the
automakers Nissan and Toyota also lauded fatherhood.

Mothers were not left out. A commercial for McDonald's opened with a cashier
telling a customer that instead of handing over money for his hash browns and
coffee, he could pay by calling his mother and telling her he loved her. The
spot kicked off a promotion at the fast-food chain, which will randomly select
customers to ''Pay With Lovin' '' rather than cash or credit starting Monday
through Valentine's Day.

A commercial for Coca-Cola sought to transform online hate into Internet
happiness. The 60-second spot featured a montage of ugly online comments
magically transformed into positive missives after a technician accidentally
spills a bottle of Coke onto an Internet server. At one point, a middle
schoolboy's face lights up after watching a social media post change from
saying, ''No one Likes U,'' into a message reading, ''There's no one like U.''

A Budweiser ad featured a touching story about friendship, with the Clydesdale
horses helping rescue a lost puppy and return it to its home. It was posted
online in the days before the game, drawing more than 42 million online views
before kickoff, the most of any Super Bowl advertiser, according to measurement
firm iSpot.tv.

[Video: 2015 Budweiser Super Bowl Commercial ''Lost Dog'' | Budweiser #BestBuds
Watch on YouTube.]

''More and more, brands are thinking very seriously about the role they play in
life,'' said Jim Stengel, a business consultant who previously worked as chief
marketing officer at Procter & Gamble. ''Call it purpose, ideals, mission,
whatever, but it is a sweeping force in marketing departments and agencies.''

Serious issues were also addressed, most prominently with the first commercial
addressing domestic violence and sexual assault to be broadcast during a Super
Bowl. In the ad for the advocacy group No More, a woman pretends to order pizza
while on the phone with a 911 operator in an attempt to secretly signal her
location and the presence of her abuser. The N.F.L., which faced several
domestic abuse scandals this season, donated 30 seconds of commercial time for
the ad.

A spot for Procter & Gamble's Always feminine products, meanwhile, pleased
feminists with its attempt to address the lack in confidence that often comes
after girls go through puberty. The ad showed how the phrase ''Like a girl'' is
often transformed into an insult after puberty, and featured girls doing
physical things like running fast ''like a girl.''

[Video: Always #LikeAGirl - Super Bowl XLIX Watch on YouTube.]

Several marketing executives said that they thought more carefully about their
depiction of women in Super Bowl ads, given the controversies. Still, an ad for
Carl's Jr., the fast-food chain, that was posted online but shown only during
local broadcasts of the game, was criticized for its depiction of a scantily
clad woman hungry for a burger.

Some commercials ran the risk of seeming too morbid. In a Nationwide insurance
ad, a boy says he will never learn to ride a bike, get ''cooties,'' learn to
fly, travel the world or get married because he died from a preventable
accident. The brand was trying to call attention to its ''Make Safe Happen''
program about increasing safety at home, but it seemed to strike the wrong chord
with people trying to have a good time at Super Bowl parties. Viewers were quick
to complain online.

[Video: Make Safe Happen - Nationwide 2015 Super Bowl Commercial Watch on
YouTube.]

Not all the ads were tear-jerkers. Candy and snack brands went for laughs. A
commercial for Snickers generated attention online before the game for spoofing
''The Brady Bunch.'' One for Skittles, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser,
transported viewers into a small town where everyone has giant biceps because
they arm-wrestle to settle disputes over the candy. Skittles are a favorite of
the Seattle Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch, who was seen snacking on them
during the game.

Fifteen of the advertisers were first-timers, the most since the burst of the
dot-com bubble at the turn of the century. Several of the ads caused viewers to
question whether the spots were real. Those rookie advertisers included Loctite,
a super glue brand whose ad featured a lineup of awkward dancers, and the
toenail fungus treatment Jublia. Another newcomer, the smartphone accessory
maker Mophie, scored some laughs with an ad that depicted an apocalyptic-like
world, created because God's phone battery died.

An ad for Fiat drew kudos. It showed a blue pill falling out of the hands of an
Italian man and tumbling across rooftops, down a pipe, across tables at a cafe
until it falls into the fuel tank of a Fiat 500. The pitch: that the car becomes
''bigger, more powerful and ready for action.''

T-Mobile scored chuckles and online buzz with its commercial featuring Kim
Kardashian making a mock-impassioned pitch about how the mounds and mounds of
unused data that wireless companies take from consumers every month could be
used to see her makeup, vacations and outfits. ''Please, help save the data,''
she implores.

[Video: #KimsDataStash | T-Mobile Commercial Watch on YouTube.]

Other celebrity sightings occurred in spots for Kia, which starred the actor
Pierce Brosnan, and Nationwide, which had the comedian Mindy Kaling. BMW showed
a clip from a 1994 broadcast in which the journalists Katie Couric and Bryant
Gumbel had a hard time understanding the Internet. (Ms. Couric asked whether the
@ symbol stood for the words about or around.) The ad jumps 21 years into the
future, showing Ms. Couric and Mr. Gumbel trying to wrap their heads around the
BMW all-electric i3 vehicle.

Commercial time in the broadcast went for a record $4.5 million for 30 seconds
this year, with dozens of advertisers paying for the chance to capture the
attention of the more than 110 million people expected to watch the game. Most
advertisers have prepared complementary digital and social media promotions to
try to extend the reach of their ads.

But the advertisers will vie for attention from a band of outside marketers who
did not pay for Super Bowl time but are trying to ambush the competition. One is
Newcastle beer, which recruited dozens of marketers to pitch in for a Super Bowl
spot that will be shown online and in local markets during the game.

The other is the automaker Volvo, which decided not to buy a Super Bowl spot
this year. Instead, the brand has begun an ''interception'' campaign and is
encouraging viewers to tweet the name of someone who matters to them with the
tag #volvointerception when they see any car commercial during the game for the
chance to win a new Volvo.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/super-bowl-commercials-go-for-heart-n
ot-just-funny-bone-and-jugular.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ads for snacks tended to be more lighthearted. This Snickers
commercial made fun of ''The Brady Bunch'' television series.
 A Budweiser ad in which the Clydesdale horses helped rescue a puppy and take it
home was a favorite even before the game.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); MARKETING
& ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); HOLIDAYS &
OBSERVANCES (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); CHILDREN (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); MARKETING
CAMPAIGNS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%);
FAST FOOD (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); HORSES (71%); WEDDINGS
& ENGAGEMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG
(66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%); INTERNET & WWW (62%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (84%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); PROCTER &
GAMBLE CO (50%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (84%); WPP (LSE) (84%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT)
(56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); KO
(NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS
AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING
CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (84%); SIC7311
ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%);
NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN
SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE
MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%);
NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS
& CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING
(50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841
SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY
PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Testing Reach of Europe's Privacy Rules

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 831 words


Dan Shefet doesn't want you to Google his name.

A Danish lawyer who has lived in Paris for 30 years, Mr. Shefet has been accused
online of professional malpractice, fraud and even having connections to the
Serbian mafia -- accusations he strongly denies.

''It's been nightmarish. It's affected my entire family,'' Mr. Shefet, 60, said
at his somewhat cluttered office in central Paris. ''As a lawyer, I live and die
by my reputation.''

So in 2013, Mr. Shefet asked Google to take down links to the defamatory
material. The search engine complied, but only on its French site, meaning
anyone outside France could still see the items in question.

Then last year, after Europe's highest court ruled that anyone with connections
to Europe could ask that links about themselves be removed from search results,
Mr. Shefet took a different approach.

He sued Google's French unit -- citing the so-called right-to-be-forgotten
decision -- and asked a Paris court to force the company to remove the links not
just in France but in all of the company's global search engine domains.

And he won -- perhaps setting a precedent that the European ruling should apply
far more broadly than originally understood.

In the judgment for Mr. Shefet, the French judge relied on a specific point of
the recent privacy ruling that said a company's local subsidiary could be held
liable for the activities of its parent. The judge ordered Google's French
subsidiary to pay daily fines of roughly $1,100 until links to the defamatory
content were removed from all searches worldwide.

''Google put up a hell of a fight. But they lost,'' Mr. Shefet said. ''Now if
Google doesn't comply, they will be fined.''

Google says it has already removed the defamatory links from its search results
in Europe, and it argues that the Paris court's decision does not specifically
demand that the company's non-European domains must comply with the judgment.
Although Google is being fined, no payments have been made.

Still, Mr. Shefet's case has raised a central question about Europe's data
protections rules: How far can the Continent impose its own strict privacy laws
on sites that operate outside Europe, including those of Google, Microsoft and
Facebook?

The ability for Europe to enforce the region's privacy rules beyond its borders
will be a major part of a report soon to be published by a committee set up by
Google. The report, expected to be released by mid-February, will counsel the
company on how to handle Europe's right-to-be-forgotten standard. The company
has complied with roughly 40 percent of the 760,000 link-removal requests that
it has received over the last eight months, according to the company's latest
transparency report.

The advisory group includes Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, who has been
a vocal opponent of the European privacy decision, as well as a number of
leading data protection academics.

But after holding a number of public meetings across Europe, the committee
remains divided over whether Google should impose the right-to-be-forgotten
decision on all of its global search results, according to several people with
direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
report had yet to be completed.

Despite the differing views, however, the majority of the group is expected to
recommend that Europe's standard should only apply within the 28-country bloc,
according to one of the people. That would support Google's efforts to limit the
privacy decision so that its search results outside the European Union would
remain unaffected.

''It's our strong view that there needs to be some way of limiting the concept
because it is a European concept,'' Google's top lawyer, David Drummond, told an
audience in Brussels in January, referring to the right-to-be-forgotten ruling.
''We've had a basic approach. We've followed it; on this question we've made
removals Europewide, but not beyond.''

Google's position has put it at odds with many of Europe's privacy watchdogs,
which are concerned that people -- both inside and outside Europe -- can
sidestep the region's stringent privacy rules simply by using a non-European web
address. While links on European sites like Google.fr and Google.de may be
removed, for example, other domains like Google.com would not be affected.

Already, European regulators have issued guidelines calling on Google to apply
the right-to-be-forgotten ruling to its entire search empire.

And as people like Mr. Shefet increasingly take Google and others to court to
force them to remove links from global search results, the battle over whether
people have the right to be forgotten online is set to intensify.

''The European court's judgment will have profound consequences,'' said Mr.
Shefet, who now advises others on how to demand that links to content be removed
worldwide. ''The floodgates have opened.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/questions-for-europes-right-to-be-forgo
tten/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan Shefet in his office in Paris. He has pushed Google to
remove links to material about him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIA BESANA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LIBEL &
SLANDER (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); RIGHT TO BE FORGOTTEN (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS
(78%); JUDGES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%);
SUPREME COURTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY &
PRIVACY (64%); APPEALS (54%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); FACEBOOK INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); DENMARK (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Robert Pirie, Lawyer Behind Lucrative Mergers, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 787 words


Robert S Pirie, a combative corporate lawyer when the risky but lucrative field
of mergers and acquisitions was emerging and later a prominent investment banker
on Wall Street, died on Jan. 15 in Manhattan. He was 80.

His death, at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, followed a
stroke, his son, John, said.

A Harvard-educated bibliophile, Mr. Pirie was also active in Democratic politics
and maintained a large and widely noted library of thousands of books, many of
them rare copies that have been put on exhibition.

He had been involved in mergers and acquisitions while practicing at Gaston,
Snow, Motley & Holt in Boston in the early 1970s when he joined forces in a
hostile takeover with Joseph Flom, a founder of the powerful New York firm
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.

Mr. Flom invited him to join the firm, but Mr. Pirie was reluctant to leave
Boston. So Mr. Flom suggested that he become a partner but remain in Boston to
open a branch of Skadden, Arps there. To complete the plan, the firm
successfully petitioned the Massachusetts Bar Association to overturn a rule
that had kept out-of-state firms from establishing local offices under their own
name.

With Mr. Flom as a legal mentor, Mr. Pirie developed into an aggressive
mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer, spending much of his time in New York. In his
book ''Skadden: Power, Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire'' (1993), Lincoln
Caplan described Mr. Pirie as ''an iconoclast.''

Mr. Caplan wrote: ''A lawyer who worked with him said, 'He bulls his way through
everything in a larger-than-life way, and he knows he's doing it. He affects a
kind of entitlement, with a confidence and a flair that enable him to pull it
off.' ''

Mr. Pirie was a partner at the firm from 1973 until 1982, when he was named
president and chief executive of Rothschild Inc., the New York investment
banking arm of the Rothschild family. Among the deals he was involved in at
Rothschild were the media mogul Robert Maxwell's takeover of the publishing
company Macmillan and James Goldsmith's of the paper giant Crown Zellerbach.

''Bob Pirie is a man with green fingers who knows how to make money,'' David de
Rothschild, head of the Rothschild bank in Paris, said at the time.

Mr. Pirie later became senior managing director of Bear Stearns & Company and
vice chairman of investment banking at SG Cowen Securities. He also advised
opponents of the vast expansion plans proposed by New York University's
president, John Sexton, in recent years.

A nephew of Adlai E. Stevenson, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1952 and
1956, Mr. Pirie enlisted as deputy campaign manager for Senator Eugene J.
McCarthy's campaign for president in 1968 and as chief fund-raiser for Senator
Harold E. Hughes, Democrat of Iowa, when the senator flirted with a White House
bid in 1972. That work earned Mr. Pirie a distinction he cherished: his
inclusion on President Richard M. Nixon's so-called enemies list.

Robert Pirie -- the initial ''S'' appears on his birth certificate although he
had no middle name -- was born in Chicago on May 8, 1934, a member of the
Carson, Pirie, Scott department store family. He was a graduate of the Buckley
School in New York, the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut, Harvard College and
Harvard Law School.

His marriage to Deirdre Howard ended in divorce in 2000. In addition to his son,
he is survived by a daughter, Sophie Clifton; a sister, Joan Leclerc; and four
grandchildren. He lived in Manhattan.

Mr. Pirie was drawn to Elizabethan authors as an undergraduate and began
collecting books while serving in the Army in Germany in the late 1950s. There,
scouring the alleys of old Hanau, he found a rare 17th-century work by John
Donne.

His private library grew to include thousands of volumes, which he made
available to librarians and scholars. He specialized in 16th- and 17th-century
English literature and provided many of the exhibits for the 400th-anniversary
Donne exhibition at the Grolier Club in Manhattan in 1972.

His collection included books from Charles I's library; autographed letters by
Francis Bacon, Thomas Hobbes, John Dryden, John Locke and the diarist John
Evelyn; Jean-Baptiste Colbert's copy of Sir Thomas More's ''Workes'';
Shakespeare's Second Folio, bound for the son-in-law of the publisher; one of
three known copies of Bacon's ''Essays'' of 1597; a presentation copy of Ben
Jonson's ''Workes'' to Elizabeth of Bohemia; and a presentation copy of Isaac
Newton's ''Opticks'' to the astronomer Edmond Halley.

Mr. Pirie once said that though he was advised to get a law degree, ''I'd never
intended to practice law.''

''I wanted to become the rare book curator at Harvard,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/business/robert-pirie-corporate-lawyer-dies-at
-80.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert S Pirie in 1982.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); MAJOR US LAW
FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES
(89%); MERGERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%);
BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS
(76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%);
PUBLISHING (71%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (69%); PETITIONS (67%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (61%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (94%); ROTHSCHILD INC (63%); BEAR
STEARNS & CO INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS BAR ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%);
SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

$100 Million Penthouse Gets 95% Tax Cut

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1216 words


The penthouse at One57, which offers panoramic views from 1,000 feet above 57th
Street, recently sold for a record-setting $100.5 million.

But it is not the price that has grabbed the attention of housing advocates,
policy analysts, developers and city officials. Rather, it is one of
peculiarities of New York real estate: a billionaire's lair that comes with an
incentive that cuts this year's property tax bill by 95 percent, or an estimated
$360,000.

That has turned the six-bedroom, 11,000-square-foot duplex into a prime example
for an intensifying debate over the future of a housing program known as 421-a.
It offers generous property tax abatements for as long as 25 years to encourage
construction, or in some cases, to generate apartments affordable to poor and
moderate-income tenants.

At a City Council hearing last week, critics derided the 421-a program as an
expensive boondoggle, a giveaway to developers building luxury housing in a city
where the poor and the middle class often find themselves priced out of the
market.

''It's time for 421-a to go away,'' said Maritza Silver-Farrell of the housing
coalition Real Affordability for All. ''We are being forced to subsidize luxury
developers who build apartments the vast majority of New York City residents
cannot ever afford.''

But the city's developers contend that it is nearly impossible to build rental
housing in New York today without the tax breaks, given the high costs of land
and construction, as well as high property taxes. Without the incentives, they
say it is easier and more profitable to build condominiums.

''You're not going to generate more housing production,'' Steven Spinola,
president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said, ''by giving fewer tax
breaks and asking for more affordable housing.''

The debate about an otherwise arcane area of housing policy has taken on a sense
of urgency because the 421-a program, which began 44 years ago, is up for
renewal by the State Legislature in June. Mayor Bill de Blasio plans to plunge
into the debate in Albany as he seeks every lever to make good on his pledge to
build 80,000 units of housing affordable to low-, moderate- and middle-income
tenants.

In the coming weeks, the de Blasio administration will unveil its own proposals
for 421-a, rent regulations and other housing programs that require legislative
action.

Although the administration has signaled that it will not approve anything that
does not generate more affordable housing, it is trying to walk a fine line
between the housing advocates, who largely support his administration, and the
powerful real estate industry, which could stop building if it feels the demands
are too onerous.

Deputy Mayor Alicia Glen has met with developers, bankers and low-income housing
advocates, but it has encouraged all parties to avoid negotiating the terms of
the deal in the press, until she unveils the administration's entire housing
plan.

At the hearing last week, Vicki Been, the city's housing commissioner, did
little to illuminate the city's strategy on 421-a: ''Our approach to possible
reforms has been to examine the various aspects of the policy that could be
tweaked or changed to better achieve our goal.''

According to city records, about 150,000 apartments got the 421-a tax exemptions
in the fiscal year 2013, at a cost of $1.06 billion in forgiven taxes. The tax
abatement, which starts with a steep, 95 percent discount on property taxes,
slowly decreases over time until the tax hits full rate.

But only 12,748 of the 150,000 apartments were earmarked for low- and
moderate-income tenants, making it a costly way of creating more affordable
housing, according to the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development,
an advocacy group. ''This program should be ended because it's a relic that
gives away billions in tax dollars and gets almost nothing in return,'' said
Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the advocacy group. ''But if it can't be
ended, then it must be fixed with a bottom-line level of public benefit that
delivers enough housing that is truly affordable and located in the local
community.''

Originally intended to stimulate construction, the 421-a program was enacted in
1971, when the city was in a severe economic and fiscal slump.

But as the city recovered and construction boomed in the 1980s, the program was
modified several times.

In its current form, it requires developers with projects in Manhattan, between
14th and 96th Streets, and in other high-demand neighborhoods around the city to
set aside 20 percent of their apartments for low- and moderate-income tenants.

But in neighborhoods with lower demand, projects could qualify for the tax break
without having to subsidize units.

Critics today, including members of the de Blasio administration and some
developers, say that the current program often stimulates luxury housing more
than affordable units.

Also, critics say, developers often ''double-dipped,'' seeking and receiving
421-a benefits, tax-free financing and other housing benefits without producing
additional affordable apartments.

Antonio Reynoso, a city councilman from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said the 421-a
program generated some affordable housing, but also spurred gentrification and
displacement in his Brooklyn neighborhood, once a working-class area. The number
of Latinos has fallen sharply in the past decade, he said.

''Affordable housing is not being built fast enough to offset the losses,'' Mr.
Reynoso said. ''There's no need for an incentive in Williamsburg. Why give it
away?''

But peak land prices have soared to nearly $500 per square foot in New York, and
real estate taxes on multifamily buildings now account for more than 30 percent
of the buildings' gross revenues, said Mr. Spinola of the real estate board.

''We expect 421-a will be modified and put forward as part of the mayor's
overall housing plan,'' Mr. Spinola said. ''But you can't build rental housing
in New York without some version of 421-a.''

Some developers say they are willing to include more affordable units within
their projects, but they want to know: What will we get in return?

The de Blasio administration wants to simplify and revise the 421-a program so
that only projects that set aside affordable units will qualify for a tax
exemption, according to executives who have spoken to city officials. The life
of the tax exemption may be extended to 30 years, as a compromise with
developers, the executives said..

The administration would do away with the complicated formulas and require 20
percent of a project's units be affordable in neighborhoods outside Manhattan,
and as much as 30 percent in Manhattan and on the Queens and Brooklyn
waterfront.

Mr. Dulchin and the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development offered
their own set of fixes: Developers must make 20 percent of a project's
apartments affordable for families making less than $35,000 a year. In some
neighborhoods, a developer would be required to subsidize more units, possibly
at higher income levels.

The affordable apartments should remain so forever, not the 10 or 20 years
currently required. And no developer should be permitted to get multiple housing
subsidies for the same affordable units, Mr. Dulchin said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/in-program-to-spur-affordable-housing
-100-million-penthouse-gets-95-tax-cut.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters at a City Council hearing last week demanded an end
to a tax incentive they say produces little affordable housing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX
INCENTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE
(89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
(89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION
COSTS (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%);
RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); MAYORS (73%);
WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CITY LIFE (72%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

N.B.A. Game of the Week: Clippers at Cavaliers

BYLINE: By JONAH BROMWICH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 714 words


Every week, The New York Times will choose one essential game to watch,
highlighting hot teams, winning and losing streaks and statistical intrigue in
the N.B.A.

Los Angeles Clippers at Cleveland, Thursday, 8 p.m. Eastern, TNT

Maybe impatience got the better of sports commentators with the Cleveland
Cavaliers this season. In October, the focus was on process, as observers noted
that chemistry takes time to build. And then, when the Cavaliers looked
disappointing, the criticism started. As early as November, The Washington Post
ran an article with the headline ''LeBron James is one of four things wrong with
the Cavaliers.'' And as late as the middle of last month, ESPN continued the
trend, with a piece proclaiming that the ''Reeling Cavaliers'' were ''way off
course.''

The day after the second article ran, Cleveland shifted into gear. The team has
won 10 games in a row since Jan. 15 and has beaten tough opponents like the
Clippers, the Bulls, the Thunder and the Trail Blazers. Even with James missing
against Portland, the Cavs found a way to win, mostly on the back of 55 points
from Kyrie Irving.

So were the critics simply wrong, too impatient to let a promising team find its
groove? Not really. The Cavaliers made several moves recently that paved the way
for their sudden success. They traded Dion Waiters to the Thunder in a
three-team deal that sent the Knicks' Iman Shumpert and J. R. Smith to
Cleveland. And they acquired the big man Timofey Mozgov from Denver in exchange
for draft picks.

Though he is not a well-known player, Mozgov has been a particularly solid
addition for the Cavs. Mozgov is averaging 10 points and 8 rebounds a game
during the current winning streak, but his biggest contributions have been on
defense. Since he started suiting up for Cleveland, the team's defensive
efficiency has improved noticeably, partly because of Mozgov's contributions and
partly because his work ethic inspires his teammates to do more on that side of
the ball.

The new additions have helped, but there is no ignoring the fact that the
Cavaliers' stars have begun to improve their play as well. James looked a step
slow in the beginning of the season, whether because of recurring injuries or
lack of familiarity with new teammates, but in recent games he has been
performing at an M.V.P. level. And even Kevin Love, who may have been disparaged
more than any other player through the Cavaliers' low points, has picked up his
game. Interestingly, during the streak, James's usage rate -- a statistic that
uses shots, free throws and turnovers to estimate what percentage of a team's
possessions a player used while he was on the floor -- has gone up
significantly, while Love's has declined slightly. That suggests that James has
been more assertive recently and, perhaps, that Love is responding well to his
teammate's dominance.

The Cavs' sudden improvement is a reminder to those who would dismiss any team
with half a season still to go. As of last week, the Clippers had won three
games in a row against bad teams. Since then, they have added decisive wins
against four of the five opponents they have faced, including a 105-85 thrashing
of the San Antonio Spurs on Saturday night.

The Clippers are playing far better on defense than they have for most of the
season. They have held their opponents to less than 100 points in five of their
last eight games and held the Nets, Jazz and Spurs to less than 90. The
Clippers' big three -- Chris Paul, Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan -- have been
terrific during the streak. And the team is getting some help off the bench from
players like Jamal Crawford, who scored 23 points, including 21 in the fourth
quarter, to help the Clippers come back against Denver.

But despite their recent victories, the Clippers still have major issues with
depth. That is something that also used to be a problem for the Cavaliers, but
it is an obstacle that Cleveland may have surpassed with its recent roster
reconfiguration. When the two teams played each other last, on Jan. 16,
Cleveland was able to overcome the Clippers with only eight players active. They
may not be quite so lucky on Thursday, but given the way the Cavs have been
playing, Los Angeles will have to double down on defense to avoid another loss.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/basketball/nba-game-of-the-week-clipper
s-at-cavaliers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); TRENDS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (57%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (94%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (94%); NATIONAL
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (55%); NEW YORK
NICKERBOCKERS (54%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (79%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Even Ordinary Pros Have Supernal Skills

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words


MELBOURNE, Australia --  I am an awesome tennis player. Seriously. You should
see my one-handed backhand. It usually goes over the net.

And my serve? If a guy has a poor backhand, I can sometimes hit it there. Free
points, baby, which on rare occasions balance out my double faults.

So it was something of a shock when I rallied here with Steve Johnson, an
American player ranked 38th in the world, who made his way to the third round of
the Australian Open.

Johnson, 25, has been on tour for two and a half years, having won the N.C.A.A.
men's singles championship two years running while playing for Southern
California. His father, a coach, had him hitting tennis balls from age 2 and
entered Johnson in his first tournament when he was 5.

Johnson is decidedly in pro tennis's third tier -- below Novak Djokovic, Roger
Federer, Andy Murray and Rafael Nadal, and then Stan Wawrinka, Tomas Berdych,
Kei Nishikori, Milos Raonic and a few others.

It turns out, however, that Johnson is really, really good. Johnson and I both
had tennis rackets, and we hit the same fuzzy ball. But those were the only
things that we shared.

When Johnson hit a forehand, his body swung around like a top, and his arm ended
up wrapped around his neck. He was nice enough to hit the ball to me -- we were
rallying, after all -- but it came over so fast and with so much spin that I
could barely get it back.

And then he served.

The first dozen hit the corners of the service box, all aces. I could not come
close to touching them. So I asked if, um, he could please hit the ball, like,
to me. Sure, he said, and I barely got out of the way before the next one nearly
took off my head. On the next ball, I used my racket mostly as a shield. After a
few more, I mostly got over my fear and tried to poke the ball back onto the
court.

Several landed on Johnson's side, arcing their way out of the sky like lawn
darts. Had he wished to crush them, he could have done so easily. He was polite
enough not to, even saying each time, ''Hey, that landed in!''

Thanks.

In the aftermath of this drubbing, I still managed to persuade myself that I
was, indeed, an awesome tennis player. It's just that the world's top players
are engaged in a different sport.

It wasn't always this way.

Three decades ago, I attended Trinity School in New York City -- the same high
school as John, Mark and Patrick McEnroe. I didn't really know the McEnroe boys,
but I knew some of their tennis teammates and occasionally played against them.
Those guys beat me, but I could win points and occasionally even games. We
played the same sport.

Since then, the gap between the average club player and the professionals has
grown into a chasm.

I called Patrick McEnroe to ask when the pros had turned into different beings.

''This hit me a couple of years ago, when I was switching to the synthetic
strings the players use now, and I realized that the harder I swung at the ball,
the more likely it was to go in,'' he said. ''The more torque you get, the more
spin, and that spin keeps the ball in the court.''

But winding up like a major league pitcher for each strike of the ball is
exhausting, he said.

''It's hard on the body to do that if you're not training every day,'' McEnroe
said. ''Even if they could technically do it, a decent club player is going to
get hurt just trying.''

It's the kind of game Johnson has played since junior high.

''You were born to be able to do this, or you weren't -- it's that simple,''
Johnson said with an apologetic shrug after our court time ended.

Even for Johnson, the physical demands of the modern game are intimidating. He
managed to win the first set against Nishikori in a third-round match but ran
out of gas, losing, 6-7 (7), 6-1, 6-2, 6-3.

''The physicality of the game has become crazy,'' said Johnson, who sometimes
watches old tennis matches and dreams about what he might have been able to
accomplish then with the skills and the fitness he has now.

Justin Gimelstob, a former player and commentator and a coach, said in an
interview here that he was awed by the sheer athleticism of today's players.

''I strongly believe that the sport is at the highest level ever,'' he said,
''and those playing professional tennis now are not just the best professional
tennis athletes ever, they are among the best athletes in the world of any
kind.''

The differences are not just about athleticism. After two weeks of player news
conferences, you begin to wonder whether these people were born on this planet.
Federer speaks three languages fluently, easily moving from English to French to
Swiss German.

Djokovic speaks four languages and is said to be learning Mandarin. After one of
his news conferences, he cheerfully exchanged a few basic greetings in Mandarin
with a Chinese reporter, who giggled.

''There's no question that Federer set a new standard for the top players, and
all the other guys are trying to keep up with him now in that regard,'' McEnroe
said. ''Thanks to our teachers at Trinity, I've always been able to speak
passable French. But nothing like these guys.''

Johnson said he was concentrated on improving his fitness, not his communication
skills.

''I'm still working on English,'' he said jokingly. ''My Spanish? No es bueno.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/tennis/even-ordinary-pros-have-supernal
-skills.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Johnson in a loss to Kei Nishikori at the Australian Open.
''You were born to be able to do this, or you weren't,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MADE NAGI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%);
SPORTS AWARDS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (75%)

PERSON: ANDY MURRAY (79%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (58%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%); ROGER
FEDERER (58%)

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%)

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Liberated Kobani, Kurds Take Pride Despite the Devastation

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Karam Shoumali contributed reporting from Kobani, and
Eric Schmitt from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1394 words


KOBANI, Syria --  Lasheen Abdulla steered her white minivan through the streets
of her hometown, past the charred husks of bombed cars, the shattered
storefronts, the unexploded mortar shells. Across the gray of destruction were
streaks of color: the purple sheets hung to hide the Kurdish snipers who, for
months, defended this city from the extremists of the Islamic State.

She pointed to the spots where her city's martyrs fell -- five over there, near
the bullet-pocked wall of a girls school, six at a heap of rubble that used to
be an open-air vegetable market. In recent days, the ruins have yielded corpses
of Kurdish fighters, their heads severed. Even children's dolls were found
decapitated, a symbol, Ms. Abdulla said, of the cruelty of their enemy.

''When you see your hometown destroyed like this, you feel destroyed from
within,'' said Ms. Abdulla, 43, who remained in Kobani for the entire siege. She
has washed many bodies of Kurdish fighters for burial, and said she had three in
the house where she was staying.

The devastation of this city, wrought by the Islamic State siege and the
American-led air campaign that ultimately expelled the militants, is so thorough
that it manages to feel unreal, like a movie set.

Even so, now that the city has been liberated, pride in victory outweighs grief
over the losses for the Kurds who live here. Even as the battle unfolded with
its outcome uncertain, Kobani took on mythic status -- Kurds called it their
Stalingrad -- as a place from which the Kurds hoped to carve a homeland from the
turmoil of the Middle East.

''All I can feel now is happiness because of this victory,'' said Anwar Jarmesh,
33, who lost two brothers in the fighting. He had escaped to Turkey at the
height of the conflict but returned to make his own contribution: washing the
bodies of fighters. ''We don't care about money or buildings, only victory. We
were not broken by ISIS.''

The battle for Kobani, a border outpost that abuts Turkey, began in September.
Almost by accident, the city, of little obvious strategic value to the
American-led coalition, took on outsize importance as the signature test of
President Obama's strategy for defeating the Islamic State, also known as ISIS
or ISIL: American air power combined with local forces on the ground.

More than 700 airstrikes from the American-led coalition pounded this city for
nearly five months -- more than in any other place in Syria or Iraq, where the
Islamic State controls a vast territory that straddles the border between the
two countries.

American officials said Kobani became important to them only because it became
important to the Islamic State, which rushed reinforcements to the city --
providing a steady stream of targets for coalition fighter pilots -- and used
the battle as a recruiting pitch for foreign jihadists.

In a statement released Friday, the Islamic State acknowledged its retreat from
Kobani, saying it was ''because of the bombardment and because some of the
brothers were killed.''

The message continued: ''They flattened the land with their rockets, so we were
forced to retreat. Then those rats advanced.''

Secretary of State John Kerry said on Saturday that the Islamic State had ''said
all along that Kobani was a real symbolic and strategic objective. They said so
themselves; they defined it as such. So pushing them out of there is a big
deal.''

Nearly 400 Kurdish fighters died in Kobani, local officials said, but the
Islamic State took more losses, more than 1,000 fighters, many of them jihadists
from abroad, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring
group.

The body of one of those fighters arrived at the city's border gate with Turkey
on Friday afternoon, in a brown coffin on the back of a white truck.

A Kurdish man lifted the lid of the coffin and unzipped the body bag to show a
bearded man dressed in camouflage. A Kurdish officer said the dead man was a
Turk who had been living in Germany, and the body was being delivered to his
relatives, who live in Konya, a conservative Turkish city.

''He came here to behead our people,'' the Kurdish officer, Ismet Hassan, said
to reporters as photographers and fighters snapped pictures of the body.

At a traffic circle here on a Friday, a Kurdish fighter stood and looked around,
as gunfire and shelling from combat in nearby villages could be heard.

''Barbarians,'' said the man, Zagros Mohammed, who used to be a house painter in
a quiet village outside Kobani, as he pointed to a hospital destroyed by an
Islamic State car bomb.

Still, he said, ''regardless of all of this, we are victorious and they are on
the run.''

Despite the destruction and the dangers of unexploded bombs and booby-trapped
buildings, there were small signs that Kobani was awakening. Down the street and
around the corner from the traffic circle, a handful of children played in a
doorway. Their aunt, Fayhaa Hamza, was watching them and said she and the
children had returned a few weeks ago, and she wanted to thank Mr. Obama for
helping to liberate her city.

''ISIS has been attacking Syrians everywhere,'' she said, ''and it was only the
Kurds who could defeat them.''

A constellation of Kurdish forces, backed by American air power, defended
Kobani. Many of them were local Syrian Kurds, but some were Turkish Kurds with
the Kurdistan Worker's Party, or P.K.K., who have waged an insurgency against
the Turkish state for decades. Iraqi Kurdish forces, known as pesh merga, were
also dispatched here, and on Friday a truck full of Iraqis drove through the
main streets. Kurds also came from Europe, including Sweden and Germany, to
fight in Kobani.

Even some Syrian Arabs, with the moderate Free Syrian Army, which rose in 2011
after a peaceful uprising against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria turned
violent, joined the fight.

''There is no difference between Arabs and Kurds,'' said a Free Syrian Army
fighter who declined to give his name because his family lives in the Islamic
State-controlled city of Manbij in Syria.

The scenes of destruction in Kobani provide a haunting panorama of what may lie
ahead, as the war against the Islamic State unfolds in other places, especially
in Iraq. There, in cities like Mosul and Falluja, where the Islamic State is
entrenched, a campaign to oust the extremists will likely be more difficult, and
perhaps more destructive.

Acknowledging this, Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon spokesman, said of the
victory in Kobani: ''Nobody's doing touchdown dances here. This is going to be
long and hard.''

From the start, the battle for Kobani put the Turks in an awkward position. The
Syrian Kurdish group that was the dominant fighting force is an offshoot of the
P.K.K., an avowed enemy of Turkey. As the battle raged at its doorstep, Turkey
refused entreaties from the United States and other Western allies to intervene
directly against the Islamic State.

Turkey did take in nearly 200,000 people fleeing the fighting in Kobani, and
even as the city was being liberated, the refugee crisis was taking on a sense
of permanence. In recent days, Turkey opened its largest refugee camp, in Suruc,
a border town near Kobani.

Local Turkish authorities enticed a group of journalists on Friday to tour the
new camp by promising them that afterward they would facilitate entry to Kobani
for the afternoon.

So far, there are about 4,000 refugees from Kobani in the camp, a number that
will soon swell to 35,000, highlighting the reality that despite the liberation
of the city it could be a long time before its residents can return.

''Soon it will be filled up, and it will be the biggest refugee camp in
Turkey,'' said the camp's director, Mehmet Han Ozdemir.

Regardless of how long it takes to repopulate Kobani, the Kurds say they will
never again accept dominion by outsiders -- neither the Arabs of Syria, who
treated them as second-class citizens, nor the Turks, who ruled them during the
days of the Ottoman Empire. There are already plans to open a school in Kobani,
where lessons will be taught in the Kurdish language, something that had long
been prohibited.

Standing just inside the gate that separates Kobani from Turkey, Mohammed
Jarada, a fighter guarding the post, savored the recent victory and shrugged off
the costs.

''This means that the Kurds exist,'' he said. ''We exist.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/asia/in-liberated-kobani-pride-despite-t
he-devastation.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The battered eastern part of Kobani on Friday. Besieged Kurds
called the city, recently reclaimed from Islamic State militants, their
Stalingrad. Musa, left, a 25-year-old Kurdish marksman, sat amid the rubble.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BULENT KILIC/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A4)
 A wardrobe revealed in a shattered building. The ruins have yielded corpses of
Kurdish fighters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A7) MAP: The fight for
Kobani grew in  importance for Washington. (A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%);
RELIGION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE
(77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL
BORDERS (67%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Departing From Country's Pacifism, Japanese Premier Vows Revenge for Killings

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Sayama,
Japan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1285 words


TOKYO --  When Islamic State militants posted a video over the weekend showing
the grisly killing of a Japanese journalist, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe reacted
with outrage, promising ''to make the terrorists pay the price.''

Such vows of retribution may be common in the West when leaders face extremist
violence, but they have been unheard of in confrontation-averse Japan -- until
now. The prime minister's call for revenge after the killings of the journalist,
Kenji Goto, and another hostage, Haruna Yukawa, raised eyebrows even in the
military establishment, adding to a growing awareness here that the crisis could
be a watershed for this long pacifist country.

''Japan has not seen this Western-style expression in its diplomacy before,''
Akihisa Nagashima, a former vice minister of defense, wrote on Twitter. ''Does
he intend to give Japan the capability to back up his words?''

As the 12-day hostage crisis came to a grim conclusion with the killing of Mr.
Goto, the world has suddenly begun to look like a much more dangerous place to a
peaceful and prosperous nation that had long seen itself as immune to the sorts
of violence faced by the United States and its Western allies.

Some described a level of shock not unlike that experienced by the Americans
after the 2001 terrorist attacks, or the French after last month's assault on
the newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the murders in a kosher supermarket.

''This is 9/11 for Japan,'' said Kunihiko Miyake, a former high-ranking Japanese
diplomat who has advised Mr. Abe on foreign affairs. ''It is time for Japan to
stop daydreaming that its good will and noble intentions would be enough to
shield it from the dangerous world out there. Americans have faced this harsh
reality, the French have faced it, and now we are, too.''

The crisis also comes at a crucial moment in Japan's modern history. Since
taking office two years ago, Mr. Abe, a strong-willed conservative, has tried to
push his nation into shedding the passive brand of pacifism that it repentantly
embraced after defeat in World War II, and playing a more active role in world
events. Analysts and former diplomats say the stark savagery of the killings
will be an important test of how ready Japan really is to step onto the global
stage.

The question, analysts and diplomats say, is whether the trauma of the killings
will drain Japan's will to seek a higher international profile, or stiffen its
resolve.

This new challenge came in the form of two videos released within a week of each
other, both by the Islamic State, whose militants control large parts of Syria
and Iraq. The first video, posted online last weekend, showed the decapitated
body of Mr. Yukawa, 42, an adventurer who was captured last August by the
Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. The second video, which surfaced over
the weekend, showed the doomed journalist, Mr. Goto, 47, stoically kneeling as
his dagger-wielding executioner criticizes Japan for joining the American-led
coalition against the Islamic State.

He then menacingly warns that no Japanese are safe anywhere in the world.

''Let the nightmare for Japan begin,'' the masked militant proclaims before
reaching down to kill Mr. Goto.

Japan reacted with an outpouring of fury and sorrow at the death of Mr. Goto, a
respected journalist who was a veteran of war zones. Local television stations
showed clips from his reports from places like Syria and Iraq, where he often
reported on the plight of children and noncombatants. It was also noted that
Japan was not even involved in the United States-led bombing campaign against
the Islamic State, but its citizens were taken hostage and killed in the same
cruel manner as those from other countries.

''I feel a deep despair that I've never felt before and an unfocused anger,''
Taku Nishimae, a filmmaker who began an online campaign to free Mr. Goto by
holding up a placard saying ''I am Kenji,'' told Kyodo News.

For now at least, such anger appears to have given Japan the resolve to reject
the Islamic State's threats, and to support Mr. Abe's efforts to raise Japan's
profile in the Middle East.

At the same time, many Japanese also appeared ready to adapt to this new reality
by discussing ways to reduce their nation's vulnerability. On Japan's Sunday
morning political debate programs, politicians seemed to compete with one
another in offering proposals to increase security, by such steps as more
screening of foreigners entering the country, creating an overseas spy agency or
writing new legislation to give Japan's tightly constrained military more
freedom to act overseas to protect the more than 1.5 million Japanese who live
abroad.

''I don't see any sign of the Japanese people wanting to back down; to the
contrary, they are quite angry,'' said Ichiro Fujisaki, a former Japanese
ambassador to the United States. ''It's actually surprising the extent to which
people are united in standing against the terrorist group.''

Other analysts agree that the Japanese public seems to be rallying around its
leaders in a time of crisis. They added, however, that as the shock wears off,
there will be more questioning of how Mr. Abe's government handled the crisis.
In particular, they expect growing attention on how much responsibility Mr. Abe
should bear for creating the crisis in the first place.

''The debate starts from now,'' said Fumiaki Kubo, a political expert at the
University of Tokyo. ''Opinions were divided before the hostage crisis, but they
may prove even more divided after it.''

Critics on the left are already starting to fault Mr. Abe for provoking the
Islamic State two weeks ago when he offered $200 million in nonlethal aid to
countries that were confronting the group. In its initial ransom demand, the
Islamic State made a point of demanding the same sum, $200 million, and later
criticizing Mr. Abe for what it called his ''reckless decision to take part in
an unwinnable war'' waged by the United States-led coalition against the
militant group.

This has already been enough to renew fears among many Japanese that Mr. Abe's
efforts to raise Japan's profile could end up entangling the country in distant
wars. These concerns were apparent on Sunday in interviews with citizens on
their views of Japan's response to the hostage crisis.

Hiroyuki Hamada, 61, an engineer who lives in a Tokyo suburb, said he was
opposed to getting any more deeply involved in the United States-led effort
against the Islamic State.

''I fear we will just fall into an unending cycle of violence begetting
violence,'' Mr. Hamada said.

But there have also been strong popular shows of support for Mr. Abe and his
efforts to make Japan a more global partner of the United States, on whom it
still relies for its defense. In coming weeks, Mr. Abe will seek legislative
changes to expand the role of the military; for instance, by allowing it to go
to the aid of a friendly nation under attack, something it cannot now legally
do. But Mr. Abe has also carefully insisted that he still wants to restrict
Japan to a largely nonmilitary role

''No country is completely safe from terrorism,'' Mr. Abe told Parliament last
week. ''How do we cut the influence of ISIL, and put a stop to extremism? Japan
must play its part in achieving this.''

He has also emphasized that the $200 million in aid he offered two weeks ago was
solely for humanitarian purposes. On Sunday, Mr. Abe proclaimed that he wanted
to increase Japan's nonlethal aid to countries opposing the Islamic State.

''The cruelty of the Islamic State has made Japan see a harsh new reality,''
said Mr. Kubo of the University of Tokyo. ''We now realize we face the same
dangers as other countries do.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/departing-from-countrys-pacifism-japanes
e-premier-vows-revenge-for-killings.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe  promised ''to make the terrorists
pay the price.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT
(89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (88%); RELIGION (78%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%);
DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); 2015
CHARLIE HEBDO SHOOTINGS (73%); HISTORY (66%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

A Secret of Success: 'All You Need Is Love'

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GLOBAL MANAGER; Pg.

LENGTH: 897 words


Jean-Claude Biver is head of the watch division of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis
Vuitton and interim chief executive of TAG Heuer, a watchmaker owned by LVMH.

Q. Do you remember the first time you became a manager?

A. Well, being a manager, that's not really important. Nowadays everybody is
managing something: My secretary manages, my son manages a football team. More
important, I think, is when you become an entrepreneur, because when you put in
your own money to start something, that's when you start worrying about how
you're going to pay other people's salaries. I've never met a manager who said
to me, ''I couldn't sleep on the 29th of January because I didn't know how to
pay the salaries.'' When you are an entrepreneur, things are different.

Q. So when was that for you?

A. It was in 1981, when I bought the watch brand Blancpain with my friend
Jacques Piguet, for 24,000 Swiss francs [about $12,400 at the time]. I remember
the first day we were sitting, the two of us, in a room, saying, ''Now that we
have bought this old brand, without assets, no contracts, no collection, no
people, no factory, how are we going to proceed in order to give birth again to
this brand which had gone out of business 20 years before?''

Q. How difficult was it to make the jump?

A. The decision was easy to make because I got a lot of trust and help. And if
you get both, what else can you ask for?

Q. What type of leader are you?

A. I'm a consensus one. I'm driven by respect. Of course, in every leader's life
there is a moment when he's alone and he must decide. If he does it all the
time, that's called being a dictator. But if he's doing it from time to time,
he's just a leader who sometimes brings input. People who have worked with me
have learned to trust this type of fast decision-making.

Q. Many of your executives have gone on to become leaders of companies. How do
you groom your executives for senior management?

A. I still remember when I first heard the Beatles song ''All You Need Is
Love.'' This song has become a bit of my religion. Beyond its message of love,
it also says, ''There is nothing you can do that can't be done.'' I think this
gives you an incredible horizon of positive thinking, and that's what I tell my
managers when they think they face an obstacle.

It's also important for me to treat people according to my ''religion.'' I will
share all my experience and success, but also my misfortune, errors and doubts.
That sharing, you don't need to give back, but if you do, you will become even
richer, because you become richer by sharing than by receiving. Some people may
think this is a sign of weakness, but so what? You are a human being and you
have the right to make errors.

Secondly, I forgive every mistake you make professionally, provided you don't
make it twice. Make a mistake, don't be shy, and make them all in a row, as many
as you can -- many mistakes will make you wiser and bring you closer to
perfection and success, which is where I want you to go.

Q. What if it's a big mistake?

A. That's why I tell people, ''Who is the C.E.O.? I, who will endorse the
mistake. Me. And who will endorse the success? You.''

I see myself as a father, here to endorse the mistakes of my team and never to
take credit for their success. If you speak like this to a young junior and you
actually do it, he will start after a few months to become more relaxed, more
secure and confident. He will reach an internal harmony and become more active,
because he's no longer afraid of making mistakes.

Q. Have you made a lot of mistakes?

A. Yes, of course. But I was privileged because I always had good people with me
and I asked for help and advice, which probably protected me from big mistakes.
The more you ask, the fewer mistakes you might make. I think it's important to
have doubts. I tell my people, ''If you don't wake up before the alarm, you have
a problem, because your professional doubts should wake you up.'' If you have
doubts, start sharing and others will soon start sharing theirs with you. And as
everybody shares, you're getting a team working together.

Q. So what do you look for in your senior managers?

A. Honesty!

Q. How do you determine that?

A. I'm lucky. I'm usually wrong in 20, 30 percent of the cases when I judge
others, and that's a lot. But my best friend, who is a doctor, is wrong 70
percent of the time. The few people he's hired, he's almost always been wrong,
so now he asks me to see them before. [Laughs.] So I think I have good
instincts, and I believe in my instincts, and that's been very important
throughout my career. And I've fought for my instincts. I've learned to trust
myself; I make business decisions with four instruments: One is my head, one is
my heart, the third is my gut feeling, and the fourth is my enthusiasm on the
spot. I'm capable of deciding very quickly if I feel it's right. Let's just do
it.

Q. So what would you tell a young entrepreneur today?

A. ''All you need is love.'' If you have passion for your job, you can achieve
anything, and there is ''nothing you can do, that can't be done.''' That's what
I would say, and I would add, ''Please don't push away your doubt. Start to love
your doubts and start to believe in your gut feelings.''

And last but not least, ''Never hire someone who is inferior to you. Only hire
people who are better than you.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/international/a-secret-of-success-all
-you-need-is-love.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES
(90%); FINE WATCHES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%);
BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (94%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (94%); LVMH (BIT) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (94%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Running for High Office Without Higher Education

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg.

LENGTH: 658 words


WASHINGTON -- Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin has buzz. He has impressed
conservative activists in Des Moines and is the front-runner for likely
Republican Iowa caucus-goers, according to a Bloomberg Politics-Des Moines
Register poll published over the weekend.

Supporters say Mr. Walker, who is 47, has more diverse qualifications than the
other Republicans: a non-Washington Republican who has won tough contests in a
blue state, has taken on labor unions, and appeals to Christian conservatives
and the business constituency.

There is one credential that he doesn't have: a post-high school education.

America hasn't elected a president without a college degree since Harry S.
Truman.

Privately, some strategists in both parties suspect that this could become
troublesome for voters, a little in the nominating process but more so in a
general election, particularly in battleground upscale suburban areas. If this
seems illogical -- it does -- try raising the issue at the next kaffeeklatsch or
cocktail party; you're likely to be surprised by the responses.

Americans celebrate higher education. More than 40 percent of voters have a
college degree; only three countries -- Canada, Israel and Japan -- have a more
educated electorate. College graduates, on average, earn in excess of 50 percent
more in a lifetime in America than nongraduates.

All members of the Senate have higher degrees, as do all but 19 members of the
House of Representatives: 15 Republicans and four Democrats. The only other
governor without a college degree is Gary Herbert of Utah.

Mr. Walker attended Marquette University for more than three years. He dropped
out to take a job. He's about a year short of a degree and has raised the
possibility of completing it while governor.

Actually, there is one other major potential candidate for president who doesn't
have a college degree: Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky. He never
completed his undergraduate degree at Baylor University, but he scored so high
on his medical school entrance exams that he was admitted to the Duke University
School of Medicine, where he completed his training as an ophthalmologist.

Some of the great American successes are men and women without college degrees:
Bill Gates of Microsoft, Steven P. Jobs of Apple and Larry Ellison of Oracle.
The same goes for leading entertainers such as Clint Eastwood, Julia Roberts and
George Clooney. Add to the list of distinguished nongraduates Walter Cronkite,
who was a longtime anchor for ''CBS Evening News,'' and today's leading
anchorman Brian Williams.

Ted Turner, who revolutionized broadcast journalism when he started the Cable
News Network, revels in telling how he was kicked out of Brown University for
hosting a woman in his room. The university had the good sense to give him an
honorary degree years later.

The question of Mr. Walker's missing diploma has arisen occasionally in
Wisconsin. Opponents have asserted that there is something untoward about his
dropping out of Marquette. He then authorized the university to release the
records as proof that there was no hidden story behind his departure. Mr. Walker
has said that a college education isn't a ''base requirement'' for high office.
The Walker camp had no comment for this column.

History might help Mr. Walker. There have been 12 presidents without college
degrees, starting with George Washington and 10 others, including Abraham
Lincoln.

More than a century ago, a Princeton academic, Woodrow Wilson, who later became
president, raised a question about the 16th president: ''Would Lincoln have been
a better instrument for the country's good if he had been put through the
processes of one of our modern colleges?''

Historians have resoundingly rejected Wilson's point; Lincoln is widely
considered the greatest American president. His predecessor, James Buchanan, had
a college degree (rather rare in those days), but is considered one of the
worst.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/politics/running-for-high-office-without-hi
gher-education.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CONSERVATISM
(90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS
(89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%);
HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES
(73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAMS (70%); ACADEMIC TESTING
(70%); JOURNALISM (63%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%);
LABOR UNIONS (56%); SUBURBS (53%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(51%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (89%); GARY HERBERT (57%); RAND PAUL (57%); BILL GATES
(54%); STEVEN JOBS (50%); JULIA ROBERTS (50%); GEORGE CLOONEY (50%); LAWRENCE J
ELLISON (50%)

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Japan and Its Territorial Claims

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 844 words


Re ''The shape of Japan to come'' (Review, Jan. 17) by Alexis Dudden: Japan
values the postwar international order, and its position on territory is firmly
based on international law. This stance has been consistently held by all past
administrations as well as the present one. To characterize the Japanese
government's territorial claims as ''expansionist,'' ''revanchist'' and examples
of ''revisionism'' is completely baseless.

It is absurd to suggest that the Japanese government ''dismisses as partial the
terms of the 1951 San Francisco Peace Treaty.'' The Senkaku Islands were not
included in the territories which Japan renounced under the treaty. They were
placed under the administration of the United States as part of the Japanese
Nansei Islands. The article's suggestion that resources might be the reason
behind Japan's claim ignores the fact that it was China that suddenly began to
make its territorial claims on the Senkaku Islands in the 1970s, only after a
United Nations report indicated the potential existence of oil reserves in the
area. Until then, China had not contested Japan's sovereignty for over 70 years.

That both Takeshima and the Northern Territories are inherent territories of
Japan is well documented. A United States National Archives document shows that
Takeshima was confirmed as part of Japan. United States government documents
also confirm that the Northern Territories are a part of Japan's territory and
are not included in the Kuril Islands, all rights, title and claims to which
Japan renounced under the 1951 peace treaty.

Sumio Kusaka,  New York

The writer is the consul general  of Japan.

Professor Dudden is wrong to argue that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's stance on
territorial issues is ''expansionist.'' The 2014 map she references makes no new
territorial claims beyond the three existing disputes.

And while she is correct that Japan could access a vast area of fisheries and
seabed resources if the disputes were resolved in its favor, Ms. Dudden misses
the vital point that Japan would have to definitively prove these land features
are ''islands,'' not ''rocks,'' something hotly debated by legal scholars. The
professor also fails to credit Japan's ability to successfully conclude various
fishery and resource agreements with its neighbors despite the disputes.

Finally, Ms. Dudden misinterprets the constitutional revisions debated by Mr.
Abe's party. While Article 102 states that citizens must honor the Constitution,
there is no suggestion of negative implications for their rights or citizenship
should they fail to do so. Likewise, Paragraph 3 of Article 9 does not include
''obligations'' for citizens to defend Japan's territories, seas and skies;
instead, it is the state's obligation ''in cooperation with the people.''

While Ms. Dudden has a right to be critical of Mr. Abe, her disdain promotes an
inaccurate view of both the prime minister and Japan.

Jeffrey W. Hornung,  Honolulu

The writer is an associate professor  at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security
Studies.

The future of Japan, as the world's third-largest economy and a major
contributor to both the United Nations and several international development
agencies, is unquestionably of importance to global peace and stability. While
Ms. Dudden's attention to the topic is praiseworthy, I found certain aspects of
her article disquieting.

First, to attach an implicit meaning of ''expansionism'' or an attempt to
circumvent history to the word ryodo is a distortion of the word, which simply
means ''territory.'' The Diaoyu/Tiaoyutai/Senkaku islands have been under
Japanese administration since January 1895; in November 2013, China declared an
Air Defense Identification Zone that included them, as well as an island claimed
by both China and South Korea. How then to claim it is Japan that has
expansionist ambitions?

Second, the Japanese government has indeed argued its claims to disputed
territories in conformity with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea. While Ms. Dudden is correct that UNCLOS does not determine sovereignty over
land, it does provide a means to address these issues: the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. The reason that these claims have never come
before ITLOS is that Japan's neighbors have chosen not to take them there.
Contrast this with the Philippines, which brought exactly such a case against
China over the islands disputed between them, and reports that Vietnam is about
to file a similar case.

Finally, Japan's Constitution, written for it by the United States after World
War II, has never been amended. A debate about the wisdom of doing so is now
taking place, in which the Japanese people, not Prime Minister Abe, will have
the final say. There is a huge difference between a country having the right to
defend itself against aggression and having the intent to aggress others, which
Ms. Dudden seems to ignore.

June Teufel Dreyer  Coral Gables, Fla.

The writer is a professor of political  science at the University of Miami.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/japan-and-its-territorial-claims.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); PEACE PROCESS
(89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGREEMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PRIME
MINISTERS (71%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (71%); ARCHIVE
COLLECTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Italian Premier Gains Leverage on Reform

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg.

LENGTH: 884 words


Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy is stronger after his country's weekend
presidential election. Mr. Renzi has consolidated his dominant position by
persuading the electoral college, made up mainly of members of the Italian
Parliament, to choose Sergio Mattarella as president against the wishes of his
quasi-partner, the former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.

The weekend's maneuvering probably allows Mr. Renzi to accelerate reforms of the
economy, the political system and the judiciary. He mustn't waste the chance as
Italy is living on borrowed time.

Mr. Renzi, the leader of the center-left Democrats, has been relying on an
uneasy pact with Mr. Berlusconi, the much-diminished leader of the center-right
Forza Italia, since gaining power last year. The two are not in a formal
coalition. But Mr. Berlusconi has been supporting Mr. Renzi on many key issues.

The Italian prime minister has needed his rival's support partly because he does
not have enough votes in the Senate, the country's upper house, to push through
an essential constitutional change -- the removal of the Senate's power to bring
down governments. That is important because the current system makes it hard to
govern the country without elaborate deals.

Mr. Renzi also needed Mr. Berlusconi's help because many members of Parliament
from his party were chosen when a predecessor was leader. They are more left
wing than  he is and could not be relied upon to support various reforms,
especially those that aim to liberalize the economy.

One downside, however, of Mr. Renzi's alliance with Mr. Berlusconi is that it
has infuriated his left wing. They view it as a pact with the devil -- partly
because Mr. Berlusconi beat them in three elections and partly because of his
poor ethics, including a tax fraud conviction.

By nominating Mr. Mattarella as president, a largely ceremonial post, Mr. Renzi
simultaneously united his own party and divided Berlusconi's. In the process, he
reinforced his authority.

Although Mr. Mattarella is a center-left politician, he has kudos with the
Democrats' left wing because he resigned from a government in 1990 when it
passed legislation favorable to Berlusconi's media interests. That's also why
the media tycoon didn't want him.

Mr. Berlusconi seems to have hoped that Mr. Renzi would fail to secure Mr.
Mattarella's election if enough dissident Democrats objected in Saturday's
secret ballot. In the end, the Democrats united.

Even worse for the aging tycoon, many of his own members of Parliament supported
the new president. They are frustrated because Mr. Berlusconi is more interested
in sorting out his own legal and business problems than providing a dynamic
vision to take the center-right back into power.

There is one potential blemish on Mr. Renzi's victory. He still needs Mr.
Berlusconi to push through legislation, especially to finalize the Senate
reform. If the pact between the two men is irreparably damaged, the prime
minister could yet rue his Machiavellian maneuvers.

But this is probably not so, as he still has Mr. Berlusconi over a barrel. He is
able both to cause damage to his quasi-ally's media interests and to help him
with his legal problems.

So how will Mr. Renzi use his strengthened authority? The government is
promising to accelerate reform with new measures to improve the country's weak
educational system and make the civil service more efficient. It also says it
will focus more on implementing existing reforms and complete the constitutional
measures.

Mr. Renzi's record on reform has been mixed. In his first months as prime
minister, he was criticized for announcing plans but doing little to implement
them. He ignored many recommendations of a review on how to rein in public
spending because they might give him political problems.

Mr. Renzi also gave low-income voters a cash giveaway, a move that looked like a
thinly disguised bribe. And his eye-catching reform of the labor market was
diluted: It didn't apply to either existing contracts or the public sector.

After years of stagnation and recession, the Italian economy should grow again
this year. But that won't owe much to the government's own efforts.

The European Central Bank's quantitative easing program, which will involve
purchasing huge amounts of government bonds, has already bolstered Italian
export potential by driving down the value of the euro and cutting the state's
interest rate bill on its vast debt. The plunge in the oil price has also been a
boon for the Italian economy.

But this boost will be only temporary. It is vital that Mr. Renzi uses the
breathing space to press on with reform as Italy suffers from three big economic
ills: high unemployment, virtually no growth and government debt that is nearly
140 percent of gross domestic product.

With the E.C.B. spraying so much liquidity into the market, bond investors are
not concerned about any of this. But there are risks on the horizon: in the
short run, the possibility that Greece will blow up, causing contagion to Italy,
and longer term, the possibility that the rest of the eurozone recovers and
interest rates have to rise, making Italy's debt unsustainable.

Mr. Renzi must not waste the opportunity afforded by his big victory.

Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/international/italian-premier-gains-l
everage-on-reform.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS
(90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING
(78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ETHICS (76%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX FRAUD (62%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: MATTEO RENZI (92%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (79%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hostage's Apparent Beheading by ISIS Stirs Outrage in Japan

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and ROD NORDLAND.

Martin Fackler reported from Tokyo and Rod Nordland from Amman, Jordan. Mohammad
Ghannam contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1020 words


TOKYO -- Japan reacted with sorrow and outrage on Sunday to the posting by the
Islamic State of a video purporting to show the grisly killing of the journalist
Kenji Goto, bringing an end to a hostage standoff that has horrified this
usually tranquil nation.

Gripped by anger and disbelief, Japan has so far shown support for the strong
line taken by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who did not meet the hostage takers'
initial demands on Jan. 20 for a $200 million ransom, pledging not to yield to
terrorism. Mr. Abe strongly condemned the murder claim made in the video
released early Sunday, saying Japan ''will cooperate with the international
community and make the terrorists pay the price.''

''I'm outraged by the despicable terrorist act, and I will never forgive the
terrorists,'' Mr. Abe told reporters on Sunday at the prime minister's office in
Tokyo.

For now, the Japanese public seems to be united in grief and a desire to show
support for Mr. Abe and other leaders. However, political analysts have said
that as the shock wears off, there will be more questioning of how Mr. Abe's
government handled the crisis, which began with the appearance online of a video
from the militant group threatening the lives of two Japanese hostages, Mr. Goto
and Haruna Yukawa. In that first video, the group called the country's pledge of
$200 million to help shore up the government of Iraq and to assist refugees in
Turkey, Syria and Lebanon a ''foolish decision'' and called for a ransom of the
same amount.

The group dropped the ransom demand after releasing a video online days later
showing the decapitated body of Mr. Yukawa, a 42-year-old adventurer. The
militants changed tack, offering to swap Mr. Goto for Sajida al-Rishawi, an
Iraqi woman on death row in Jordan for a deadly bombing there 10 years ago. This
seemed to offer hope that a way would be found to secure Mr. Goto's release.

Those hopes came crashing down over the weekend, when another video appeared
showing Mr. Goto kneeling in an orange jumpsuit in what appeared to be a dry
riverbed. Next to him stood a masked militant who spoke while waving a knife,
which he then apparently used to cut off Mr. Goto's head.

While the video had yet to be confirmed as authentic on Sunday, the top
government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said the
government had no reason to believe it was not real. He said Japan had had no
contact with the militants, suggesting that the nation was relying almost
entirely on Jordan to handle the fate of the hostages. During the 10-day hostage
standoff, Japan said it was trying to establish communication with the militants
via local tribal and religious leaders, but apparently to no avail.

The gruesome images helped feed an outpouring of sympathy for Mr. Goto, 47, a
veteran journalist who entered Islamic State-held territory in Syria in late
October in a doomed effort to rescue Mr. Yukawa, who had been captured in
August, according to Mr. Goto's mother. Local television stations showed clips
from Mr. Goto's reports out of Syria, Iraq and other conflict zones, where he
often reported on the plight of children and other noncombatants.

''My son's final act was to go to Syria to help a fellow Japanese,'' Mr. Goto's
mother, Junko Ishido, said Sunday. ''Please understand his kindness and
courage.''

President Obama issued a statement in which he said the United States ''condemns
the heinous murder'' of Mr. Goto, whom he described as a courageous journalist.
Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the United States National Security
Council, said the American authorities were working to confirm the authenticity
of the video, and called for the release of all remaining hostages.

In a brief statement Sunday on the official Jordanian news agency, Petra, a
government spokesman, Mohammad Momani, said that Jordan spared no effort to try
to save the Japanese hostage's life and was in continuous contact with the
government of Japan during the negotiations.

Petra quoted Mr. Momani as saying, ''The group has rejected all attempts made by
the concerned authorities to secure the release of the Japanese hostage.''

The video of Mr. Goto's killing came two days after a new deadline set by the
group expired, and the Jordanian government did not give in to its demand that
Ms. Rishawi be freed.

Left unclear by the video, which was posted on a Twitter account associated with
the Islamic State's media organization, Al Furqan, was the fate of a Jordanian
pilot, whom the extremists also threatened to kill if Jordan did not release Ms.
Rishawi.

Jordan had agreed to release Ms. Rishawi only if the extremists provided proof
that the pilot, First Lt. Moaz al- Kasasbeh, was still alive. He was shot down
over Syria on Dec. 24 during airstrikes on the Islamic State.

While there was widespread support in Jordan for a swap, officials insisted that
they wanted their pilot released as well, or at least wanted to see evidence
that he was still alive before they would release Ms. Rishawi, who was convicted
for her role in a series of bombings of hotels in Amman that killed at least 57
people in 2005. Mr. Momani's statement also said that officials were continuing
their efforts to free the pilot.

In the latest 67-second video from the militants, a black-masked extremist, who
appeared to be the man known as Jihadi John because of his British-accented
English, blamed Mr. Abe for Mr. Goto's fate.

''To the Japanese government,'' the man said, ''you, like your foolish allies in
the satanic coalition, have yet to understand that we by Allah's grace are the
Islamic caliphate, with authority and power. An entire army thirsty for your
blood.''

There has already been some criticism in Japan that Mr. Abe provoked the crisis
by offering nonmilitary aid to countries battling the Islamic State, also known
as ISIS or ISIL, but Mr. Abe vowed not to back away from his pledges.

''We will increase our humanitarian aid, including food and medical support,''
he said Sunday. ''Japan will resolutely fulfill its responsibility to the
international community in the fight against terrorism.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/asia/japanese-hostage-beheading.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE
LEVANT (89%); RELIGION (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); WRITERS (77%);
TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICS (71%); REFUGEES (65%); MURDER
(58%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); JORDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (79%);
TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not Exactly Brilliant, but at Least the Colors Are

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 669 words


Given the agonizing over air pressure that has racked the N.F.L. in recent
weeks, it was appropriate that the halftime entertainment at Super Bowl XLIX was
Katy Perry, a queen of our deflated pop times.

Ms. Perry is a Technicolor cipher, a singer who takes on the shapes and tones
she is given with aplomb and cheer but maybe not wit. That hasn't hampered her
success -- her ''Teenage Dream'' of 2010 (Capitol) was the first album by a
female artist to land five songs atop the Billboard Hot 100, and her 2013 album
''Prism'' had two thunderous hits. Ms. Perry is a pop perennial, one of the few
left.

And the Super Bowl halftime show is a massive stage, one that requires the sort
of pop stars that aren't being minted regularly anymore, ones with wide
cross-demographic appeal. In this environment, Ms. Perry will do.

During her 12 or so minutes on the University of Phoenix Stadium field on
Sunday, she held her own, navigating a handful of her smashes and three wardrobe
changes in a performance that resisted bad mood, spanning all of Ms. Perry's
modes: the triumphant ''Roar,'' the spooky ''Dark Horse'' (sadly without the
rapper Juicy J), the chipper ''California Gurls,'' the beacon of pure uplift
''Firework.''

Ms. Perry generally doesn't move much onstage, so she was presented in a series
of setups that masked that fact -- atop a pseudo-tessellated mechanical lion,
among a sea of dancing chess pieces and attached to a shooting star hoisted high
above the field.

And she was gifted with guest artists who provided her with strategic cover.
Take ''I Kissed a Girl,'' a dim song about experimenting with bisexuality that
was Ms. Perry's first Billboard Hot 100 chart topper, in 2008. She sang it in
duet with Lenny Kravitz, who opened the song, presumably to help the subject
matter go down more easily for unprepared, unforgiving viewers.

After about a minute of shouty singing and guitar angst, Mr. Kravitz was gone,
leaving barely a mark, having been on stage largely to soften that song and to
reassure those who still require the sight of a guitar, even one not plugged
into anything.

Ms. Perry benefited far more from her second guest, the rapper Missy Elliott,
long out of the spotlight but still easily the most modern-sounding artist on
the stage. She ran a speed course through three hits -- ''Get Ur Freak On,''
''Work It,'' ''Lose Control'' -- and easily doubled the energy onstage.

At one point, Ms. Perry tried to dance next to Ms. Elliott, to get some
refracted shine, but she was lost amid the jumpsuit-clad backup dancers marching
in military lock step. Ms. Elliott herself was casually tough, and even slipped
into a grin on a couple of occasions.

All in all, this was a halftime show that was notably unafraid of the feminine;
in that regard, it was on par with the Beyoncé spectacular of two years ago
(although vocally and performance-wise, Ms. Perry is no Beyoncé).

With that Beyoncé show, this performance helped bring a definitive end to the
several-year drought filled with dad rock that followed the 2004 Janet
Jackson-Justin Timberlake wardrobe debacle: Paul McCartney, the Rolling Stones,
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers, Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, the Who.
In that stretch, only Prince approached something like youth, or raunch, or joy.

Since then, the halftime show has skewed younger and more colorful. But it is
now running up against the limits of the marketplace. Last year, the slightly
underfed Bruno Mars was the main attraction, a reflection of the utter dearth of
viable contemporary male pop stars. Assuming that Mr. Timberlake would not be
asked back, and that someone like Justin Bieber would be too much of a wild
card, there may be no male singers in pop ready to step on this stage.

So let the female reign continue. Sign up Taylor Swift -- nemesis of Ms. Perry,
and the most competitive person in pop -- for 2016, and don't even worry about
whichever teams are warring it out on the field before and after her. She'll be
the victor.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/katy-perry-a-pop-champion-of-h
er-times-at-the-super-bowl.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katy Perry riding atop a mechanical lion while performing
''Roar'' during the halftime show at the Super Bowl on Sunday.
 During the show, which included fireworks, Ms. Perry did a duet with Lenny
Kravitz and danced with Missy Elliott, who performed some of her own hits.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%);
MUSIC (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); MAMMALS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); DANCE
(71%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (67%)

PERSON: KATY PERRY (93%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

France Offers Support, but No Debt Relief, to Greece

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words


PARIS --  French officials said Sunday they would support the new Greek
government's efforts to get the country back on its feet after five years of
crushing austerity, but warned that there would be no write-down of Greece's
debt and pressed Athens to continue with reforms that are still needed to help
mend the country's economy.

''France is more than prepared to support Greece,'' Michel Sapin, the French
finance minister, said during a news conference after a two-day visit by Yanis
Varoufakis, his new Greek counterpart. ''Greece needs time to put things to
work,'' he said. But he added, there was ''no question'' of forgiving Greek
debt.

Mr. Varoufakis was beginning the first of a series of visits to European
capitals this week after the leftist Syriza party won power in elections last
month in a populist backlash against austerity. He said that although Athens was
''desperate'' for money, it would not seek a 7 billion euro installment on its
240 billion euro international bailout package because that would require the
nation to adhere to austerity terms.

Economists say Greece needs the money to cover looming funding needs and debt
obligations, and to help a recovery after the economy contracted around 25
percent in five years.

''We have resembled drug addicts craving the next dose. What this government is
all about is ending the addiction,'' Mr. Varoufakis said, adding it was time to
go ''cold turkey.''

President Barack Obama, in his first remarks on the situation since the Syriza
government came to power, cast doubt on the soundness of Europe's austerity
policies during an interview with CNN that aired on Sunday.

''You cannot keep squeezing countries that are in the midst of a depression,''
he said of Greece. ''At some point, there has to be a growth strategy in order
to pay off their debts and eliminate some of their deficits.''

Mr. Obama added: ''More broadly I'm concerned about growth in Europe. Fiscal
prudence is important, structural reforms are necessary in many of these
countries. But what we've learnt in the U.S. experience is that the best way to
reduce deficits and restore fiscal soundness is to grow.''

Mr. Obama said that he hoped Greece would remain within the eurozone. But he
added that Greece still needed to tackle essential reforms, including improving
tax collection, which he said was ''famously terrible.'' He added, ''In order
for Greece to compete in the world markets, they had to initiate a series of
changes.''

Mr. Varoufakis said Greece aimed to agree on a new deal with creditors by May --
just before some ?6 billion in obligations to the European Central Bank and
other creditors come due, he said. Athens also expected the E.C.B. to continue
supporting Greek banks with a financial lifeline as Greece works on a new rescue
deal with its partners through May.

In an interview with The New York Times on Thursday, Mr. Varoufakis played down
worries over Greek banks, despite indications that billions of euros have been
withdrawn amid uncertainty over the election.

Mr. Varoufakis said Greece would issue a detailed proposal within six weeks for
reducing its debt burden. Greece's bailout program is supposed to expire on Feb.
28.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France, who also met with Mr. Varoufakis, said:
''Everyone understands that the punitive policies of austerity can no longer be
a project for the European Union.'' He added: ''We must continue to convince
others that our ideas, which are also defended by President François Hollande,
are indispensable'' for Europe to escape ''weak growth and unemployment that is
dramatically too high.''

On Sunday, Mr. Varoufakis said he planned to visit Berlin and Frankfurt this
week to press Greece's case with German officials, many of whom are incensed at
the country's withdrawal from austerity. On Saturday, Chancellor Angela Merkel
of Germany reiterated that Greece would not receive any debt cancellation from
its partners.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/international/france-offers-support-b
ut-no-debt-relief-to-greece.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); BAILOUTS (78%);
LIBERALISM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%);
ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY
(66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%);
PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (89%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (96%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN
UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egypt Deports Australian Journalist Jailed With 2 Al Jazeera Colleagues

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


CAIRO --  The Egyptian authorities have deported an Australian television
journalist jailed for more than a year on politicized charges about the content
of his work.

The Australian, Peter Greste, is one of three journalists for Al Jazeera's
English-language affiliate jailed on allegations of reporting false news in a
conspiracy with the Muslim Brotherhood to destabilize the country. The other
two, along with at least nine other journalists, remain in prison.

Egypt has a long history of jailing critical or dissenting Egyptian journalists.
But its authorities have generally left correspondents who work for
international news organizations alone. Mr. Greste had left the BBC to join Al
Jazeera's English-language network shortly before his arrest.

His incarceration sent a tremor of anxiety through the international news media
here, and some Egyptian journalists said privately that it appeared intended to
convey a warning.

Many analysts viewed the case as an attempt to punish Qatar, which owns Al
Jazeera. Qatar nurtured close ties to President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim
Brotherhood before he was ousted in a 2013 military takeover by the current
president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Al Jazeera's Arabic networks, most notably a
dedicated Egyptian channel, provided consistently sympathetic coverage of the
Brotherhood and caustic coverage of Mr. Sisi's takeover.

A recent decision by Qatar to shut down Al Jazeera's Egyptian channel may have
helped clear the way for Mr. Greste's release. The decision was part of a
reconciliation meeting between Qatar and Egypt brokered by Saudi Arabia, and
observers close to the Egyptian authorities immediately began speculating about
a possible release of the Al Jazeera journalists. Yet Egypt did not disclose its
specific reasons for the release or its timing.

The official state news agency said Mr. Sisi had approved the release under a
decree he issued a few months ago giving himself the power to deport convicted
prisoners who are citizens of other nations. (With no Parliament at the moment,
Mr. Sisi rules by decree.)

Another of the jailed Al Jazeera journalists, Mohamed Fadel Fahmy, is a dual
citizen of Egypt and Canada who previously worked as a producer for CNN. He has
also worked as a reporting assistant for The New York Times, The Los Angeles
Times and other publications. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, Egyptian
officials said they expected that he would soon be deported to Canada. But he is
expected to give up his Egyptian citizenship to obtain his release.

''Egyptian citizenship vs. freedom: take your pick?'' Mr. Fahmy wrote from his
detention in a message posted on Twitter.

The third jailed Al Jazeera journalist, Baher Mohamed, previously worked for the
Japanese media company Asahi Shimbun. He is an Egyptian citizen, so he has no
recourse under the new law allowing deportation.

All three were arrested at the end of 2013 on the same charges of conspiring
with the Brotherhood to spread false news, and prosecutors presented no public
evidence to support the accusations before the journalists were convicted. Mr.
Greste and Mr. Fahmy were each sentenced to seven years in prison, and Mr.
Mohamed was given 10 years because a used bullet casing was found in his
possession. His lawyer said he had picked it up at the scene of a protest.

Egypt has faced heavy criticism from Western leaders, rights groups and the
international media over the case, and Mr. Sisi has suggested that deporting the
foreigners might have been a preferable way to handle their sentencing from the
start.

The Egyptian law allowing the deportation of the foreigners stipulates that they
face prison or trial in their home country, but neither Australia nor Canada is
likely to uphold the convictions.

By 5 p.m. on Sunday, Mr. Greste had boarded a plane for Cyprus, the first stop
on his return to Australia, according to news reports. ''He left to his
country,'' said Badr Abdelatty, an Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman.

''Hard to believe, but YES,'' Andrew Greste, Peter's brother, wrote on Twitter.
Peter Greste ''is a free man.''

The Committee to Protect Journalists, an independent nonprofit group, said that
as of December there were at least 12 journalists in jail in Egypt. Except for
Mr. Greste and Mr. Fahmy, the rest appear to be Egyptian citizens. Most are
linked to Islamist news outlets critical of the current government.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/africa/egypt-releases-and-deportsal-jaze
era-journalist-from-australia.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Greste was freed after  more than a year in prison.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ELFIQI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%);
DEPORTATION (89%); MILITARY RULE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRISONS (78%);
APPROVALS (78%); MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (69%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS:
PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI (79%); MOHAMMED MORSI (78%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hackers Use Old Web Lure to Help Assad

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words


WASHINGTON -- To the young Syrian rebel fighter, the Skype message in early
December 2013 appeared to come from a woman in Lebanon, named Iman Almasri,
interested in his cause. Her picture, in a small icon alongside her name, showed
a fair-skinned 20-something in a black head covering, wearing sunglasses.

They chatted online for nearly two hours, seemingly united in their opposition
to the rule of Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian leader still in power after a civil
war that has taken more than 200,000 lives. Eventually saying she worked ''in a
programing company in Beirut,'' the woman asked the fighter whether he was
talking from his computer or his smartphone. He sent her a photo of himself and
asked for another of her in return. She sent one immediately, apologizing that
it was a few years old.

''Angel like,'' he responded. ''You drive me crazy.''

What the fighter did not know was that buried in the code of the second photo
was a particularly potent piece of malware that copied files from his computer,
including tactical battle plans and troves of information about him, his friends
and fellow fighters. The woman was not a friendly chat partner, but a pro-Assad
hacker -- the photos all appear to have been plucked from the web.

The Syrian conflict has been marked by a very active, if only sporadically
visible, cyberbattle that has engulfed all sides, one that is less dramatic than
the barrel bombs, snipers and chemical weapons -- but perhaps just as effective.
The United States had deeply penetrated the web and phone systems in Syria a
year before the Arab Spring uprisings spread throughout the country. And once it
began, Mr. Assad's digital warriors have been out in force, looking for any
advantage that could keep him in power.

In this case, the fighter had fallen for the oldest scam on the Internet, one
that helped Mr. Assad's allies. The chat is drawn from a new study by the
intelligence-gathering division of FireEye, a computer security firm, which has
delved into the hidden corners of the Syrian conflict -- one in which even a
low-tech fighting force has figured out a way to use cyberespionage to its
advantage. FireEye researchers found a collection of chats and documents while
researching malware hidden in PDF documents, which are commonly used to share
letters, books or other images. That quickly took them to the servers where the
stolen data was stored.

Like the hackers who the United States says were working for North Korea when
they attacked Sony Pictures in November, the assailants aiding Mr. Assad's
forces in this case took steps to hide their true identities.

The report says the pro-Assad hackers stole large caches of critical documents
revealing the Syrian opposition's strategy, tactical battle plans, supply
requirements and data about the forces themselves -- which could be used to
track them down. But it is not evident how or whether this battlefield
information was used.

''You've got a conflict with a lot of young, male fighters who keep their
contacts and their operations on phones in their back pockets,'' said one senior
American intelligence official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss espionage matters. ''And it's clear Assad's forces have the capability
to drain all that out.''

Mr. Assad was also the victim of cyberattacks, but of a far more advanced
nature.

A National Security Agency document dated June 2010, written by the agency's
chief of ''Access and Target Development,'' describes how the shipment of
''computer network devices (servers, routers, etc.) being delivered to our
targets throughout the world are intercepted'' by the agency. The document,
published recently by Der Spiegel, the German magazine, came from the huge trove
taken by Edward J. Snowden; this one shows a photograph of N.S.A. workers
slicing open a box of equipment from Cisco Systems, a major manufacturer of
network equipment.

After being opened, electronic ''beacon implants'' were placed in the circuitry.
One set of devices was ''bound for the Syrian Telecommunications Establishment
to be used as part of their Internet backbone,'' the document reveals. To the
delight of American intelligence agencies, they soon discovered they had access
to the country's cellphone network -- enabling American officials to figure out
who was calling whom, and from where.

Such interceptions are still highly classified; the United States government has
never discussed its access to the Assad communications network. But the FireEye
report, which will be released on Monday, makes it clear that such ''network
exploitation'' is now a routine part of even the most low-tech if brutal civil
wars, and available to those operating on a shoestring budget.

And that is a new development. The theft of the rebel battle plans stands in
contrast to the cybervandalism carried out in recent years by the Syrian
Electronic Army, which American intelligence officials suspect is actually
Iranian, and has conducted strikes against targets in the United States,
including the website of The New York Times. But mostly these have been
denial-of-service attacks, which are annoying but not potential game-changers on
the battlefield.

Exactly who conducted the hacking on behalf of Mr. Assad's forces remains a
mystery, as does whether the stolen data was ever used by the Syrian military.
One of the authors of the report, Nart Villeneuve, a threat intelligence analyst
for the company, said that it was likely that the hackers were based in Lebanon
-- which would be the only true statement in the chat with the Syrian fighter.
They used a computer server in Germany, where FireEye found many of their chats
in unprotected directories. A handful of the targets of the Syrian operation
were contacted in recent months by FireEye researchers. ''They really didn't
understand what had happened,'' Mr. Villeneuve said. ''They didn't know their
computers and phones had been compromised.''

But if information was forwarded to Mr. Assad's forces, it would have provided
his troops or their allies with important intelligence and a critical
battlefield advantage, according to analysts and Syrian military specialists.

''This activity, which takes place in the heat of a conflict, provides
actionable military intelligence for an immediate battlefield advantage,'' the
FireEye report concluded. ''It provides the type of insight that can thwart a
vital supply route, reveal a planned ambush, and identify and track key
individuals.''

By mid-2013, according to the information that FireEye recovered, 10 rebel
groups fighting Mr. Assad's regime were planning a major operation intended to
reclaim from Syrian government forces a key portion of territory along a
strategic north-south highway linking Damascus, the capital, with Jordan.

The plans called for retaking the town of Khirbet Ghazaleh, a strategic gateway
to the major city of Daraa. In May 2013, Syrian troops had seized control of the
town near the highway.

''The Assad regime's biggest vulnerabilities over the last year have been in
south Syria, so disrupting that operation would be key to the regime fending off
an attack on Damascus from the south -- the traditional route for invading
armies,'' said Andrew J. Tabler, a Syria specialist at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. Mr. Tabler said he was not aware of the stolen
information.

According to FireEye, which merged last year with the Mandiant Corporation, the
company that has tracked Unit 61398, the Chinese Army's hacking operation, the
rebels shared photocopied battle plans, and in red ballpoint pen added defensive
embankments, storing their plans electronically as pictures taken with their
cellphones. They prepared for a battle involving 700 to 800 men, who were
divided into groups to launch separate attacks, including an ambush. They used
Google Earth to map their defensive lines and communicate grid coordinates.

They mapped locations for reserve fighters, staging areas and support personnel;
settled on a field operations area; and planned supply routes for their forces,
according to FireEye. Commanders received stern instructions not to make any
''individual'' decisions without approval from rebel superiors.

The battle details that the security service recovered are impressive. The
rebels, who are not identified, would begin the attack with 120-millimeter
mortar fire, followed by an assault against key Syrian Army locations. They drew
up lists of men from each unit, with names, birth dates and other identifying
information. But they stored them on their phones and laptops, and they were
vulnerable to slightly customized versions of commercially available malware.

''It's the democratization of intelligence,'' said Laura Galante, a former
Defense Intelligence Agency analyst who now works for FireEye and oversaw the
Syria work. ''We in the private sector can see some of this, and adversaries can
steal it in a wholesale way and understand the full picture of an operation.''

And perhaps they can even stop an operation. The retaking of Khirbet Ghazaleh
never materialized, Syria analysts say. It is unclear whether Syrian authorities
thwarted the plot before it could be carried out, or if the rebels aborted the
plan, perhaps suspecting the hacking or for some other reason.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/middleeast/hackers-use-old-web-lure-to-a
id-assad.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: Chatting With Hackers: To gain access to information on  the
devices of Syrian opposition  members, hackers posed as  women on Skype,
identified the  types of devices the targets were  using and sent photos laden
with  malware. Below are excerpts from  a chat between a target and a
nonexistent woman, ''Iman.'' (Source: FireEye Threat Intelligence) (A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); SYRIAN CRISIS (90%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE
(89%); COMPUTER CRIME (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); SELFIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%);
INTERNET & WWW (76%); SMARTPHONES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (73%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Law Favoring Cuban Arrivals Is Challenged

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words


MIAMI --  In the wake of President Obama's move to rekindle diplomatic ties with
Cuba, Cuban-American legislators in Washington and local officials in Florida
are calling for reconsideration of a once-sacrosanct element of American foreign
policy -- the 1966 law that gives Cubans broader protections than any other
immigrants arriving in the United States.

Critics of the law, joined by the hard-line Cuban-American congressional
delegation, say it is being abused by recent waves of Cuban arrivals who
regularly travel back and forth between Cuba and the United States as economic,
not political, refugees.

Written during the height of tensions with the Soviet Union, the Cuban
Adjustment Act was meant to offer safe haven for Cuban refugees fleeing
oppression from their Communist government. The law allows all Cubans who reach
the United States, legally or illegally, to become permanent residents in a year
and a day. Five years later, they can become United States citizens.

The law is still popular with most Cubans in Florida. But influential
Cuban-American politicians argue that the moves to normalize relations undercut
the rationale for the law -- that it protected refugees from an outlaw
government at a time they did not have the option of returning home.

Critics also say the law is being abused by criminals who take advantage of it
to ferry money between Cuba and the United States, and then flee to Cuba rather
than risk arrest.

Representative Carlos Curbelo, a newly elected Republican Cuban-American from
Florida, said he would draft legislation to make it more difficult for Cubans
who come seeking jobs, and not protection from the Castro government, to avail
themselves of the law.

''The president's actions on Cuba have severely undermined the law because he
has essentially recognized the Cuban government as legitimate,'' Mr. Curbelo
said. He added, ''The United States has offered one of the most generous
immigration laws perhaps in history, and certainly that is being abused
systematically.''

His reservations are shared by other Cuban-Americans in Congress, including
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, and Senator Robert Menendez,
Democrat of New Jersey. But, reflecting the delicacy of the issue among Cubans,
the others have not detailed any corrective action.

Their concerns are also shared by the Miami-Dade County Commission in Florida,
which recently voted unanimously to ask Congress to revise the law.

''I think the law should be eliminated,'' Bruno Barreiro, the commissioner who
sponsored the resolution, said the week before the vote. ''How can someone claim
to be politically persecuted, have a special path to residency and citizenship,
and a year and a day after being here travel back to Cuba?''

The commissioners' position reflects a divide between many recent and older
immigrants from Cuba. Many earlier immigrants say the law should only protect
Cubans fleeing political oppression. Newer immigrants, who benefit most from the
law, are more likely to support its blanket application to all Cuban immigrants.
But the Cubans who have been here longest have the most political clout.

For now, the law stands, and Obama administration officials say they do not
intend to weaken it. Nor are there plans to modify a 1995 immigration policy
that allows the United States Coast Guard to return to Cuba the Cubans it stops
at sea, unless they claim political persecution. Under this ''wet feet, dry
feet'' approach, those who make it to American soil can avail themselves of the
Cuban Adjustment Act.

Fear that the policy would change after President Obama's announcement led to a
surge in Cubans jumping on boats and rafts headed for Florida in the past month.
The numbers have begun to decline since the government emphasized that no change
was imminent.

''A change in policy is not being considered,'' said Alejandro Mayorkas, deputy
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, who attributed the rumors of a
policy change to smugglers trying to drum up business.

Because it is a law, Congress can repeal the adjustment act, but not easily. It
can do so only after the president has determined that a ''democratically
elected government in Cuba is in power.''

The law also remains a matter of contention between American and Cuban
officials. During recent negotiations in Havana, a Cuban official said the law
tempted Cubans to risk their lives at sea, enriched smugglers and siphoned away
Cuban professionals.

American officials shrugged off the complaints. ''We explained to the Cuban
government that our government is completely committed to upholding the Cuban
Adjustment Act,'' said Alex Lee, the State Department official who was in charge
of the migration-related portion of the talks.

But immigration analysts said the law had become increasingly difficult to
defend because it so clearly favored Cubans over other would-be immigrants
facing repression and oppression in their home countries.

''At a time when we are working so hard to send back Central Americans who are
fleeing levels of persecution at least similar to what happens in Cuba, that
double standard will definitely be looked at,'' said Marc R. Rosenblum, an
immigration expert for the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research
group.

With the possibility of an immigration debate in Congress this year, the law is
now an easier target for Republicans eager to crack down on immigration, and for
lawmakers from agricultural states who want the economic embargo lifted to
facilitate exports to Cuba. A bipartisan group of senators introduced a bill on
Thursday to lift all travel restrictions to Cuba.

''The law is an outlier,'' said Guillermo J. Grenier, a sociologist at Florida
International University. ''It just hangs out there begging to be hit like a
piñata.''

Cuban immigration to the United States continues to grow, with 20,000 Cubans a
year arriving legally with visas. Thousands more reached the United States in
the past year by the Mexican border, by plane or by sea.

And in 2014, nearly 40,000 Cubans received tourist visas, many of them valid for
five years. That number climbed steeply after President Raúl Castro relaxed
Cuba's exit permit rules. It is unclear how many of those visitors will choose
to stay permanently, immigration analysts say. Supporters of the 1966 law say
that as long as the Cuban government detains and harasses dissidents and the
United States maintains its embargo, the law is justified.

Some in Congress, like Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, the ranking
Democrat on the immigration subcommittee, said the solution was to broaden
protections for other immigrants, not reduce them for Cubans.

''I'm not suggesting we put Cubans in jail,'' she said. ''I'm suggesting we
should also have a more generous policy for other people freeing oppression.''

Many in South Florida, like Francisco José Hernández, a 1960s exile and the
president of the Cuban American National Foundation, which works to foster
democracy in Cuba, said the economic and political success of Cuban-Americans
was based in large part on the law.

''To renounce it,'' he said, ''doesn't make sense.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/law-favoring-cuba-arrivals-is-challenged.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A boat carrying 24 Cubans south of Key West, Fla., on Jan. 1.
They were sent back. Representative Carlos Curbelo, Republican of Florida, said
the move to restore diplomatic ties had undermined a law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNITED
STATES COAST GUARD
 JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUNTY
GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%);
LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (73%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (59%)

PERSON: CARLOS CURBELO (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MARCO RUBIO (57%); BOB
MENENDEZ (54%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 42 words


A picture caption in some editions on Thursday with an article about Maria
Sharapova's victory in the semifinals of the Australian Open misspelled the
given name of her opponent. As the article correctly noted, she is Ekaterina
Makarova, not Ekatarina.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: MARIA SHARAPOVA (71%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


The On Tennis column on Friday, about the one-sided rivalry between Serena
Williams and Maria Sharapova, who met in the Australian Open final, misstated,
in some copies, the round in which Williams defeated Madison Keys. It was a
semifinal match, not a quarterfinal.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (90%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (73%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words


A picture in some editions on Friday with an article about earnings at
ConocoPhillips and Occidental Petroleum was published in error. The photograph
showed pumps near Long Beach, Calif., that are owned by the California Resources
Corporation, not by Occidental Petroleum.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); CALIFORNIA RESOURCES CORP (91%); OCCIDENTAL
PETROLEUM CORP (58%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%); CRC (NYSE) (91%); OXY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS
DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS211111
CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321
NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%);
NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325130
SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (58%);
SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


An article on Wednesday about a speech by President Obama on the last day of his
state visit to India in which he urged the nation to do more to protect human
rights and fight climate change misspelled the surname of an Indian author who
criticized the speech. He is Chetan Bhagat, not Bhagwat. And because of an
editing error, a picture caption with the article misstated the day of the
speech in some editions. It was Tuesday, not Wednesday.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Christie Returns to Good Old London; London Says, 'Who?'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 481 words


LONDON --  Presidential politics can be a humbling business. Local renown is
revealed, uneasily, to be just that: It translates poorly onto a bigger stage,
allowing a man accustomed to instant, cellphone-picture-frenzied celebrity on
the boardwalks of the New Jersey shore to stroll in awkward anonymity through a
packed stadium in London.

So it went here on Sunday for Chris Christie, a big shot momentarily bereft of
an audience, in a city he professes to adore and visit frequently.

''Who?'' asked Graham Upson, a 55-year-old soccer fan inside the frigid Emirates
Stadium on Sunday, seeming blissfully unaware of Mr. Christie's presence in the
stands, not to mention his very existence.

New Jersey? Brash governor? Presidential hopeful? Mr. Upson, dressed in a blue
down jacket with a red knit cap over his heard, stared back blankly. ''I've been
to New York a few times,'' he offered.

Inside, where the lines for beer (and, consequently, bathrooms) snaked across
the hallways, slight inebriation did little to focus the British mind on the
governor of New Jersey.

''I've vaguely heard of him,'' said Michael Rabbett, 67, as he sipped red wine
from a plastic cup (''wine beer,'' he noted). He paused to let the name roll
around in his head. ''He's in the background of my head. But not really,'' he
concluded.

Alerted to Mr. Christie's reputation for voluble candor as well as his party
affiliation, Mr. Rabbett asked his own question. ''Has he told that lady from
Alaska to shut up?''

No, he was informed. Mr. Christie had not tried to silence the former governor
of Alaska, Sarah Palin. ''Well why not?'' he inquired.

It was an unfamiliar sensation for Mr. Christie, a likely Republican
presidential candidate in 2016, who has traveled to London on a three-day trade
mission, the kind of jaunt intended to build his credibility as a potential
commander in chief.

Back in the United States, he may be loved or loathed, but he is the object of
firmly held views, shaped by years of YouTube clips, shouting matches and
memorable zingers.

London, he said, was a beloved getaway for him and his wife, Mary Pat.

''It's one of our more favorite places to come, so we are very familiar with
this city as tourists,'' the governor said during an impromptu news conference
on a street outside the stadium, where Arsenal handily defeated Aston Villa.

Mr. Christie said he was unbothered by his low profile in the financial capital
of Europe.

''I don't think I have to worry about that,'' he said. ''I'm not running for
anything in the United Kingdom anytime soon.''

At long last, a man (and they were almost all men here) emerged from the throngs
who registered faint recognition of Mr. Christie, sort of.

It turned out he had already been queried by a different reporter, asking the
same question.

''You want to know,'' he interrupted, ''if I know who Senator Christie is,
right?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/a-low-profile-for-gov-chris-christie-
of-new-jersey-at-arsenal-game-in-london.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Christie, center left, at a soccer match in London on
Sunday.  He told reporters London was one of his favorite getaways. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%);
POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PHOTO &
VIDEO SHARING (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%);
SPORTS FANS (71%); SOCCER (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); BEER & ALE
(67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (93%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Magazine Teaches Children Financial Lessons

BYLINE: By SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words


Jean Chatzky, the financial editor of NBC's ''Today'' show, has made a career
sharing personal finance tips with adults. Now, she is trying to reach a much
younger audience.

Last month, Ms. Chatzky and Time for Kids, a division of Time Inc., introduced a
magazine intended to teach financial literacy to fourth, fifth and sixth
graders. The PwC Charitable Foundation, which was started by the giant financial
consulting firm PwC, is backing the publication.

''Kids are very interested in money,'' Ms. Chatzky said. ''What we're trying to
get across to them is money is a tool that they need to know how to manage to
succeed in life.''

The magazine, called Your $, will be distributed monthly during the school year
to roughly two million students in schools nationwide. Each four-page issue will
cover an aspect of finance, like budgeting, investing and taxes.

The January issue, for instance, used the story of Jeff Xie, who won $75,000
last year in the Jeopardy Teen Tournament, as a starting point for a discussion
on managing money and saving for college. February's issue includes a feature on
digital currency like Bitcoin. (''What do you call money you can't see, touch or
deposit in a bank? It sounds like the start of a joke. But it's Bitcoin.'') The
March issue will focus on identity theft.

A magazine like Your $ is part of a broader effort to educate children about
money, said Nan J. Morrison, the chief executive of the Council for Economic
Education.

In particular, big banks and consulting companies have become involved in
financial literacy efforts, in part because teaching children about money is an
easy way to buff their brands. Among others involved in financial literacy
programs for children and teenagers are Capital One, H&R Block, T. Rowe Price
and Wells Fargo.

''There's a long list of corporations in the financial services industry who are
in this space,'' Ms. Morrison said. ''People sensed a renewed need during the
last financial crisis, and the barriers to entry are low.''

Your $ is more Highlights than Money magazine. Each issue has an ''Ask Jean''
section, where Ms. Chatzky, who has written nine books on personal finance,
answers basic questions about money. Bright colors and pictures flood its pages.

''Some of these topics might be considered dry, so the trick is to make it
really visually appealing for kids,'' said Nellie Gonzalez, the editor of Time
for Kids.

Underwriting the Time for Kids money magazine is part of PwC's Earn Your Future
program, a five-year, $160 million commitment -- $60 million in cash and $100
million worth of volunteer work -- to teach children financial skills.

Mitch Roschelle, a partner at PwC and a trustee of the PwC Charitable
Foundation, called the program, which started in 2012, a way for PwC employees
to make an impact by sharing their financial knowledge. The magazine was an
extension of the financial literacy curriculum PwC had developed for classrooms.

Some specialists question whether school is the best place to teach financial
literacy, contending that economic values should be taught at home. But Ms.
Chatzky, a mother of two, said the key was repetition.

''You can talk about things in school, but it has to be brought home,'' she
said. ''I think a dialogue about finances should be an ongoing dialogue
throughout your life.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/new-magazine-teaches-children-financi
al-lessons.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); DIGITAL CURRENCY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING
& FINANCE (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (73%); CHARITIES (71%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); VOLUNTEERS (71%);
EXECUTIVES (69%); IDENTITY THEFT (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); TIME INC (84%); H & R BLOCK INC (53%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); TIME (NYSE) (84%); HRB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES
OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%);
SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS541213 TAX
PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cement Makers in Asset Sale

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 252 words


The European cement makers Lafarge and Holcim agreed on Sunday to sell assets to
CRH plc, an Irish manufacturer of building materials, for about $7.3 billion to
help pave the way for their own merger.

The deal is meant to help Lafarge, which is based in Paris, and Holcim, which
has headquarters near Zurich, satisfy requirements by antitrust officials.
Together, the two would create the world's biggest maker of cement, with
combined sales of $44 billion in 2013.

The two companies had needed to sell assets that generated about $5.6 billion in
revenue to assuage government regulators.

Lafarge and Holcim's proposed combination has already won approval from the
European Union's competition arm, provided they sell businesses in more than six
countries in the region.

They expect the transaction to be completed by June 30.

Sunday's deal is the biggest by CRH, which was formed in 1970 by the merger of
two Irish building materials makers, Cement Ltd. and Roadstone Ltd.

It is based in Dublin and manufactures products like concrete and asphalt and
runs do-it-yourself construction-supply stores.

The company prevailed in an auction that included several private equity firms,
according to media reports.

CRH said in a statement that it planned to finance the deal by using cash on
hand, taking on additional debt and selling new shares. It added that more
information on the transaction would be announced soon.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/cement-makers-holcim-and-lafarge-to-sell-
assets-to-crh-of-ireland-for-7-3-billion/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMENT MFG (93%); MERGERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (90%);
DIVESTITURES (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); CEMENT & CONCRETE
PRODUCTION (78%); JOINT VENTURES  MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); ANTITRUST &
TRADE LAW (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (51%)

COMPANY: LAFARGE SA (95%); CRH PLC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: LG (PAR) (95%); CRH (NYSE) (93%); CRH (LSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327420 GYPSUM PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX
CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (95%);
NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (95%); NAICS212311
DIMENSION STONE MINING & QUARRYING (95%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (95%);
NAICS444190 OTHER BUILDING MATERIAL DEALERS (93%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER
BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (93%)

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Media Titans at Play in Politics and News

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR.

Email: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words


When Mitt Romney announced on Friday that he would not seek the Republican
presidential nomination for a third time, he cited the desire to ''give other
leaders in the party'' a chance to win the White House. He did not mention the
public mugging he had received from Rupert Murdoch, the media titan who had
called him ''a terrible candidate'' and whose Wall Street Journal had suggested
that his run in 2012 had been ''a calamity.''

There are a lot of reasons that the third time did not prove to be a charm for
Mr. Romney's presidential ambitions, but Mr. Murdoch's public rebuke sure didn't
help.

Having tried and failed to get his hands on Time Warner, Mr. Murdoch is back to
king-making. As the man who controls both the Fox News Channel and The Journal,
he doesn't exactly have to attend a precinct caucus to exercise political
influence.

He's clearly enjoying life as a mogul and newspaper titan, enough to invite
others to the party.

Is there a price for lifetime happiness for generous but bored, public spirited
multibillionaire? Mike Bloomberg can easily afford NY Times -- Rupert Murdoch
(@rupertmurdoch) January 24, 2015

(New York magazine had earlier reported, based on not very much, that Mr.
Bloomberg might try to buy the newspaper.)

Only two people in the world could have this conversation, whether in public or
private: Both are New York media owners, both with more money than many
sovereign republics and both huge fans of the news and the organizations that
trade in it.

Rupert Murdoch has a big national newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, and though
Michael Bloomberg does not, they are otherwise similarly situated overlords. And
so Mr. Murdoch's entreaty to his friend Mr. Bloomberg: C'mon in, the water is
fine.

I don't think The New York Times is for sale, but it is a telling sentiment, a
conversation among kings about what possessions are truly precious to the man,
or men, with everything.

Even if The Times were for sale, how would it benefit Mr. Murdoch to have a
rival paper in the hands of an equally moneyed media baron? It wouldn't, but it
is in Mr. Murdoch's nature to stir the pot and create mischief.

He's mostly just having his version of fun, all the while tweaking a competitor,
which is another hobby.

Mr. Bloomberg had his own version of fun running the City of New York for three
terms. Now that he is on the other side of that, he did not take long to realize
that he was not going to sit in the back seat of the huge data and media company
he built while others drove.

I don't know Mr. Bloomberg or Mr. Murdoch personally, but I have covered them
enough to know that they share a few hobbies. They both enjoy gossip, are
inveterate news hounds and love to involve themselves in all aspects of the
production of the news. They also like to wield broad influence on how that news
unfolds.

True, Mr. Bloomberg was educated as an engineer and is the ultimate rationalist
whereas Mr. Murdoch came up in the bare-knuckled world of tabloids and relies on
his gut. But neither seems particularly interested in money in the way that only
the fabulously rich can be uninterested in money, and they both love winning.

Beyond business and politics -- which are, after all, about winning -- neither
appears animated by much else.

As business reporters, we tend to overanalyze the titans among us, because,
well, they aren't like us.

Watching Mr. Murdoch, who controls and owns big chunks of a movie studio, a
cable news channel and newspaper and television properties all over the world,
and Mr. Bloomberg, who owns a worldwide terminal and data business, along with
various media assets, it's easy to guess that the empire-building is all part of
one, huge unified plan.

But in some respects, they remind me of other newspaper owners in various sized
towns that I have covered -- men with an immense appetite for power who want
nothing so much as to be in the middle of things. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Murdoch
just have many more zeros behind their net worth, and global empires to match.

To project might, few things are as effective as owning big, throbbing media
properties. Since returning to his company, Mr. Bloomberg, 72, has dedicated a
large amount of money to remaking his media operations, including a reorganized
website unveiled last week. By all reports, he has spent time tinkering with
even the most minute aspects of the redesign, despite that being a tiny part of
his company.

Mr. Murdoch vastly overpaid for The Journal, and continues to support the
money-losing New York Post. When News Corporation split two years ago, he
protected his beloved newspaper assets in a well-funded new company. He is, by
all accounts, highly involved with his papers and finds no detail too small to
merit his interests.

These are extremely successful businessmen who spend many hours on noneconomic
parts of their businesses. They do so for two reasons: because they can, and
because it is fun.

Even those of us who aren't billionaires could tell you as much -- creating
media content is a diverting activity that rarely resembles actual work.

At 83, Mr. Murdoch has seen a few presidential elections come and go, and,
through Fox News and The Journal, has had a hand in influencing most of them.
But that won't be true forever, which may explain his antipathy at the prospect
of Mr. Romney's taking another shot at the White House. (And it's not just the
Republicans: On Sunday, he tweeted: ''Guess what! Joe Biden actively preparing
to run against Hillary. Maybe others like Kerry.'') An Australian by birth who
became an American citizen, he recently said in an email to my colleagues Amy
Chozick and Michael Barbaro that he made no apologies for his interest in United
States politics.

''I am deeply interested in the future of our country, and I enjoy meeting with
potential candidates of both parties,'' he wrote to them, responding to an
inquiry about his political activity. ''I am keen to hear their views, whether
it's on tax reform, immigration or defense and foreign policy.''

And they will be pretty keen to hear his. Other presidential hopefuls will be
stopping by to see Mr. Bloomberg, who is seen as a centrist and is among those
perennially mentioned as a possible candidate.

Executives at Bloomberg say that all of the investments in media are about
driving traffic to the terminal business, but I don't buy it. The company did
not hire Mark Halperin and John Heilemann, longtime political reporters, at a
reported cost of $1 million each to operate in the confines of some financial
terminal. It is a classic influence play, a way to gain stature and currency.

And while everyone around Mr. Murdoch -- family, investors and senior executives
-- was against buying The Journal at the precise moment that newspapers seemed
most embattled, he went ahead and did it anyway. Because he wanted to, and
because he could.

In ''Citizen Kane,'' Charles Foster Kane is notified by his adviser and legal
guardian Walter Parks Thatcher that he is losing a great deal of money on his
newspapers. ''You're right, Mr. Thatcher,'' he responds. ''I did lose a million
dollars last year. I expect to lose a million dollars this year. I expect to
lose a million dollars next year. You know, Mr. Thatcher, at the rate of a
million dollars a year, I'll have to close this place in ... 60 years.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/media/media-titans-bloomberg-and-murd
och-at-play-in-politics-and-news.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rupert Murdoch, left, and Michael Bloomberg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008
(91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (72%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Plans for Deficit and Taxes Are Detailed on Eve of Budget Proposal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1406 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama will propose a 10-year budget on Monday that
stabilizes the federal deficit but does not seek balance, instead focusing on
policies to address income inequality as he adds nearly $6 trillion to the debt.

The budget -- $4 trillion for the 2016 fiscal year -- would hit corporations
that park profits overseas, raise taxes on the richest of the rich and increase
the incomes of the middle class through new spending and tax credits. Mr. Obama
will challenge the newly elected Republican Congress to answer his emphasis on
wage stagnation, according to congressional aides briefed on the details.

The central question that Mr. Obama's budget will pose to Congress is this:
Should Washington worry about what may be the defining economic issue of the era
-- the widening gap between the rich and everyone else -- or should policy
makers primarily seek to address a mountain of debt that the White House hopes
to control but only marginally reduce as a share of the economy?

The president's budget, thicker than a phone book in multiple volumes, will be
just the starting point for that discussion with Congress, representing his
aspirations, not the final word. Criticism of Mr. Obama's intentions arrived
even before the budget was presented.

''We're six years into the Obama economic policies, and he's proposing more of
the same, more tax increases that kill investment and jobs, and policies which
are hardly aspirational,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin,
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, in an interview this weekend.

Mr. Obama's spending-and-taxes plan foresees a $474 billion deficit, which would
be 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product, a level most economists see as
manageable, according to budget documents obtained by The New York Times. The
deficit number would creep up each year, to $687 billion by 2025. But measured
against the economy, the deficit would remain stable.

The debt, while growing every year, would creep down to 73.3 percent of the
gross domestic product in 2025 from 75 percent this year and next. Those levels
are higher than at any time in the nation's history except for World War II and
its immediate aftermath.

Those numbers alone will divide Congress on priorities for the last two years of
Mr. Obama's presidency. Republicans in Congress will seek to balance the budget
in 10 years, also adding to the debt over that time. But if a surplus can be
shown by the middle of next decade, the debt would start to decline, not only
relative to the economy but in real dollars.

Mr. Ryan, in an extended interview, said Republicans were likely to show some
caution in their debt-reduction confrontations and look for common ground with
Mr. Obama on an overhaul of the business tax code and on international trade
agreements.

Republicans will put forward ideas for controlling the main drivers of the
deficit -- Social Security and health care programs that are expanding with an
aging population -- and will propose a budget that does balance. But, Mr. Ryan
indicated, they are not likely to force a showdown on entitlements.

''It's hard to imagine the president is going to want to work with Congress on
entitlement reform. He's been stifling it all along,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''I see
that as an issue that's going to require a new president.''

The debate will focus instead on policies that can lift middle-class incomes,
which have stagnated with a globalized labor force, technology and
mechanization.

''The president will make the point that we need strong job growth,'' said
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House
Budget Committee. ''We need to invest in our economic future, and that means
education, science, research and infrastructure.''

''I actually see us having a great debate in the next few years,'' he added.

Mr. Obama's budget will kick off that debate with particular tax proposals.
Among those proposals will be a 19 percent minimum tax rate on American
corporate profits that are kept overseas.

The president will also propose a one-time 14 percent tax rate for companies
that bring profits home from overseas, with much of the proceeds going to fund
infrastructure, like roads, bridges and airports. But that ''repatriation
holiday'' would have to be part of a broader overhaul of the business tax code,
the budget will stress. The president will reiterate his call for a business
income tax overhaul that lowers the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 28
percent, and 25 percent for manufacturers.

Mr. Ryan, the House's lead tax policy writer, embraced that idea as long as it
was part of ''properly constructed tax reform.'' He pointed to the proposal as
one of several areas where bipartisan agreement is possible.

''It has to be part of a conversion to a permanent system,'' he said. ''One time
doesn't work.''

The president will also propose $105 million for ''trade adjustment assistance''
-- aid to workers dislocated by free trade deals. That provision, opposed by
many Republicans as wasteful, is an olive branch to member of Mr. Obama's own
Democratic Party. Most of them have opposed giving him fast-track
trade-negotiating powers as he seeks to conclude a broad trade agreement with
economic partners on the Pacific Rim, from Chile and Peru to Japan and Vietnam.

Republicans want to work with Mr. Obama on that, but other parts of his budget
are sure to be rejected.

For the first time, the budget will lay out in detail the cost of his proposal
to make two years of community college free. In the first fiscal year, which
will begin in October, it would be a modest $41 million, but the cost would
climb to $951 million by 2017 and $2.4 billion by 2018 as more students took
advantage of the program, according to a congressional budget aide briefed on
the numbers.

Mr. Ryan said Republicans had a more modest higher education agenda. They could
work with the Obama administration on efforts to make university costs more
transparent and the payoffs of each college degree more clear.

''The idea of opening a marketplace where people see what things cost and see
the results'' is a good one, Mr. Ryan said, embracing in theory an effort the
Obama administration has already begun, with great difficulty. ''It's a sector
that's used to having automatic rate increases without having to compete for
business.''

Mr. Ryan said he also agreed with Mr. Obama that access to the earned income
credit -- a tax credit to raise the incomes of low-wage workers -- should be
expanded to childless adults, not just parents.

''I want to focus on steps that are achievable, and that's among them,'' he
said.

But Mr. Ryan stopped short of the kind of direct wage subsidy that Mr. Obama has
proposed with his $500 ''second-earner'' tax credit, which would go to families
with two working parents to help defray child care and other costs.

He also opposed ''envy economics,'' a hit on Mr. Obama's proposals to curb tax
breaks on huge individual retirement accounts, to raise the capital gains tax
and to tax inheritances based on the value of assets when they were purchased,
not based on their value when the owner died.

But even as Mr. Ryan criticized proposals that could be viewed as pitting class
against class, he acknowledged a reality that many Republicans have long
avoided: The rich are getting much richer. Republicans once held that liberal
economic policies would stifle ''the job creators.'' Now, Mr. Ryan said, the
creators are doing well. Others are not.

''The Obamanomics that we're practicing now have exacerbated inequality,'' he
said. ''They've exacerbated stagnation. They're made things worse.''

Mr. Ryan continued: ''The wealthy are doing really well. They're practicing
trickle-down economics now.''

Simply acknowledging that is an important step, said Pete Wehner, a domestic
policy adviser to President George W. Bush. Middle-class incomes have stagnated
in the face of globalization, technological changes, and rising health care and
higher education costs.

''Republicans have had almost nothing to say about it,'' Mr. Wehner said,
encouraging Congress to meet the president's proposals with their own. ''The
real issue is social and economic mobility, how people can move up the ladder.
Sometimes conservatives deny a problem exists because by acknowledging the
premise they fear it will lead them to policies they can't accept.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/obama-budget-to-seek-to-stabilize-deficit-a
nd-address-income-inequality.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan,  Republican of Wisconsin, said
President Obama was ''proposing  more of the same.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN
WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS
(90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAXES
& TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY
(90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX
INCREASES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE
(78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); HISTORY (73%); TAX CREDITS
(71%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PAUL RYAN (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 595 words


The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly
auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on
Tuesday.

At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding
three-month bill was 0.01 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.05
percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.02 percent.

These tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TUESDAY

Long Beach, Calif., Unified School District, $180 million of general obligation
bonds. Competitive.

New York System of Higher Education, $60.8 million of revenue bonds.
Competitive.

Pennsylvania, $1 billion of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

Virginia Public School Authority, $458.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

Wisconsin, $279.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK

Beavercreek, Ohio, Community School District, $67.8 million of debt securities.
Ross, Sinclaire & Associates.

Beaverton, Ore., School District, $80 million of debt securities. Piper Jaffray.

Camas, Wash., School District, $53.8 million of general obligation and
refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.

Cherokee County, Ga., School System, $109 million of general obligation bonds.
Citigroup Global Markets.

Citizens Energy, $155.8 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.

East Bay Municipal Utility District, $70 million of debt securities. Siebert
Brandford Shank.

Foothill/Eastern Transportation Corridor Agency, $77.6 million of revenue and
refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.

Forsyth County, Ga., Water and Sewage Authority, $75 million of revenue and
refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.

Gilroy, Calif., Unified School District, $66 million of debt securities. George
K. Baum.

Jackson County, Mo., Reorganized School District, $71.9 million of general
obligation bonds. George K. Baum.

Katy, Tex., Independent School District, $209.5 million of debt securities. J.P.
Morgan Securities.

Long Beach, Calif., Unified School District, $90 million of general obligation
bonds. RBC Capital Markets.

Los Angeles, Calif., Department of Airports, $499.4 million of revenue and
refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley and J.P. Morgan Securities.

Louisiana Community Development Authority, $78 million of refinancing bonds.
Stephens Inc.

Maine Housing Authority, $66 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global
Markets.

Mississippi, $694.6 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities, RBC
Capital Markets, Raymond James & Associates and Bank of America.

Omaha, Neb., Public Power District, $109.9 million of debt securities. RBC
Capital Markets.

Oregon, $152 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.

Palm Beach, Fla., School District, $224.5 million of debt securities. J.P.
Morgan Securities.

Rockford, Ill., School District, $57.8 million of debt securities. Stifel,
Nicolaus.

Round Rock, Tex., Independent School District, $150.6 million of debt
securities. RBC Capital Markets and Citigroup Global Markets.

Southern California Public Power Authority, $111.6 million of revenue bonds.
Wells Fargo Securities.

Tampa Bay Regional Water Supply Authority, $167 million of refinancing bonds.
Citigroup Global Markets.

Trinity Health Credit Group, $955 million of debt securities. Bank of America.

University of Colorado Hospital, $265 million of revenue and refinancing bonds.
Citigroup Global Markets.

Wylie, Tex., Independent School District, 273.3 million of debt securities.
Hutchinson, Shockey, Erley.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/treasury-auctions-set-for-the-week-of
-feb-2.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%);
AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT
FINANCING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS
(89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS &
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); WATER
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%);
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%);
UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); STEPHENS INC
(63%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); RBC DOMINION
SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES
INC (52%); TRINITY HEALTH (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); PJC (NYSE) (55%);
BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT
BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, &
FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES
ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120
SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%);
NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES
(53%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%); SIC8062 GENERAL
MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES,
CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (51%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA,
USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mobile Version of Outlook

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 447 words


SEATTLE -- It's easy to overlook the following of a product like Outlook,
Microsoft's email program, if you haven't spent any time working in a large
company.

Sure, Gmail has its converts, and many millennials shun email entirely for
iMessage, Snapchat and other alternatives. But the world still has plenty of
power email users and, for them, Outlook is as comforting and familiar as a pair
of fleece pajamas.

This is why Microsoft's release on Thursday of the first real Outlook for mobile
devices, including iPads, iPhones and their Android variants, is a milestone.
For Microsoft, it underscores how far the company has come from the days when it
tried to use its Office suite of applications, of which Outlook is a member, to
hurt Apple and Google Android devices by not making the software available on
them.

Eventually, the company figured out it was only hurting Office's profile among
mobile users by doing this, and finally made amends by releasing iPhone, iPad
and Android versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint last year.

On Thursday, Microsoft will announce that there have been 80 million downloads
total of Office applications for iPhone and iPad since March of last year and
250,000 downloads of its Office Android apps.

In a phone interview, Julia White, general manager of the Office product
management team, said iOS and Android versions of Outlook were among her group's
most frequently requested products.

Microsoft has had crude iOS and Android versions of its email program available
for some time. The app, called OWA for Outlook Web Access, is in fact little
more than a gussied-up Web site made to look like an app. It lacks the
performance and features of a native email app.

Now, finally Outlook is a real mobile app. The product is based on the code of
an email start-up, Accompli, that Microsoft acquired in early December.
Although it isn't clear yet how much Microsoft has changed Accompli's product,
the fact that Microsoft is releasing an Outlook app based on the software barely
two months later is a sign of how quickly the pace has picked up at Microsoft.
Satya Nadella, the company's new chief executive, has made speed a priority at
the company.

People can download the Outlook mobile app  free. Microsoft is aiming to get
users, especially business customers, to upgrade to Office 365, a subscription
service.

For some professionals, the arrival of Outlook on tablets and mobile phones will
give them one less reason to use a traditional computer running Windows. That's
not great for Microsoft, but at least they'll be using Office.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/microsoft-brings-outlook-to-iphone-othe
r-mobile-devices/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Microsoft released its first real mobile app for Outlook email
on  Thursday. Crude versions had been available for some time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%);
MOBILE DEVICES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%);
COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (75%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (67%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: SATYA NADELLA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reddit Details Data Requests

BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 417 words


Reddit, the hugely popular Internet message board, released its first
transparency report Thursday afternoon, giving its 174 million regular visitors
a closer look into how often outside agencies request user information.

Releasing transparency reports, which detail the number of requests for user
data from government agencies, has become commonplace for Internet companies in
Silicon Valley. Pioneered by Google four years ago, transparency reports have
been issued by other major companies like Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft and Yahoo
in recent years.

Reddit, by comparison, has received far fewer requests for data on its users
than those major companies. Reddit received only 55 requests for user data in
2014, according to the report. That is dwarfed by the roughly 32,000 requests
Google received in the first six months of that year, and the nearly 35,000 that
Facebook received over the same six-month period.

And unlike Facebook and others, Reddit has never once received a National
Security Letter, an order issued under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act
for user information. Until only recently, tech companies were not allowed to
disclose that they had even received these sorts of government requests, which
officials say are in the interest of national security.

The relatively small number of requests for data is most likely because of
Reddit's stance on collecting user information, which is fairly limited. New
Reddit users are required only to give an email address and password when
signing up for the service. The company stores user Internet Protocol addresses,
which can help identify a particular device used to connect to the Internet, for
up to 90 days before getting rid of them entirely.

That is in stark contrast to Google or Facebook, which retain highly personal
details about users' lives and activities, mostly to target advertising.

The company did, however, receive more than 200 content removal requests from
outside companies, according to the report, most of which were on grounds of
copyright or trademark infringement.

The report did not specify what type of content removal was requested. But
Reddit said it complied with fewer than half the requests, because the content
often was not posted directly to Reddit.

''Because links do not generally infringe copyright, we exercise extra scrutiny
in assessing takedowns for links,'' the company said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/reddits-issues-first-transparency-repor
t/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%);
INTERNET & WWW (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NETWORK
PROTOCOLS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); ESPIONAGE (68%); TRADEMARKS (64%);
TRADEMARK LAW (62%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (62%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Another Super Weekend for 'American Sniper'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 369 words


LOS ANGELES -- Even the Super Bowl couldn't crowd out Clint Eastwood's
''American Sniper,'' which again topped the domestic movie box office, with an
estimated $31.9 million in sales during its sixth weekend in theaters and third
weekend in wide release. The strong haul -- a record for any film during Super
Bowl weekend, if the estimates hold -- pushed total domestic sales for the
reality-based Iraq war story to about $249 million.

According to Deadline.com, the film's weekend performance beats ''Hannah Montana
and Miley Cyrus: Best of Both Worlds Concert,'' which posted about $31.1 million
in sales, a prior record, during the 2008 Super Bowl weekend. The overall box
office rose about 20 percent from the same weekend last year, to about $103
million from $86.1 million, the Rentrak reporting service said.

''American Sniper'' is still climbing in the Top 10 best-sellers among movies
released last year; while the numbers and rankings are close, and in flux, it
places just behind a handful of fantasy and animated hits led by ''The Hunger
Games: Mockingjay Part 1,'' which picked up $545,000 in weekend sales, for a
domestic total of $335.1 million since its Nov. 21 release by Lionsgate.

In its third weekend, ''Paddington,'' a fuzzy bear adventure released by the
Weinstein Company, placed second with an estimated $8.505 million in weekend
sales, for a total of $50.5 million to date. That may have edged aside
Paramount's ''Project Almanac,'' a newly released time-travel tale that posted
$8.5 million in sales -- but only if the closely matched estimates hold up when
actual Sunday sales are finally counted.

Another new release, ''Black or White,'' from Relativity Media, ranked fourth
with $6.5 million in sales; it was a modest opening for a film that was directed
by Mike Binder and starred both Kevin Costner and Octavia Spencer, in a story of
racial conflict and conciliation. In its second weekend, ''The Boy Next Door,''
a steamy thriller from Universal Pictures, with Jennifer Lopez in a leading
role, placed fifth, with about $6.1 million in sales, for a total of $24.7
million since opening.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/even-on-super-bowl-weekend-american
-sniper-wins/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE
DATES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); ANIMATION
(72%); RANKINGS (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); ETHNIC
CONFLICTS (70%); RACE & RACISM (62%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110
MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: OCTAVIA SPENCER (79%); CLINT EASTWOOD (73%); MILEY CYRUS (72%); JENNIFER
LOPEZ (50%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreams of Flight, National Pride and Love à la Bollywood

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 465 words


About flying and freedom (and, of course, love), the Bollywood movie
''Hawaizaada,'' directed by Vibhu Virender Puri, spins legend into more legend.
The year is 1895, and the setting is Bombay. The story concerns a quest by two
Indians to build an airplane and to show the British rulers of India -- ''A
monkey can't make a machine!'' one says -- what their subjects can do.

But first Mr. Puri takes a long detour into romance. Our hero, Shivy Talpade
(Ayushmann Khurrana), a freethinker and fourth-form dropout, falls in love with
an actress, Sitara (Pallavi Sharda). They meet onstage, playing the classic
lovers Shakuntala and Dushyanta. (Shivy, drunk and no actor, has been shoved
into the scene.) It's love at first you-know-what, but also a mismatch. Sitara
harshly sums it up: ''You're a blue blood, and I'm a harlot.''

Mr. Puri's film is so laden with symbols -- Christian imagery is everywhere --
and resonances (Hindu myths and scriptures) that it's sometimes hard to read.
But an Indian nationalist message comes through clearly, and it's an inclusive
one. When Shivy and his mentor, Subbaraya Shastry (Mithun Chakraborty), need
money to continue their experiments in flying, which are based on Vedic numbers
and principles, Shivy's old pals contribute money they'd been saving to go on
hajj.

A real man named Shivkar Talpade is said to have flown an unmanned plane in 1895
-- fueled by mercury! -- but ''Hawaizaada'' has no claims on documentary
reality. Its storytelling is solidly in the Bollywood tradition, upping the ante
everywhere and allowing Shivy some truly remarkable achievements. And the world
it places him in is gloriously artificial: steampunk crossed with ''Chitty
Chitty Bang Bang.'' Shastry and Shivy's lab is in a beached galleon cluttered
with Rube Goldberg-type contraptions. (Science here is a matter of pinging,
whizzing balls and steam, and furrowed-brow chitchat about Vedic numbers.)

For all that, though, ''Hawaizaada'' often fails to soar. Mr. Puri works hard,
but the strain shows and so do the movie's seams. And Mr. Khurrana, who rides
the line between ingratiating and annoying, has trouble carrying the movie. He's
an actor trying to give a movie-star performance, which is what this fantasy
needs: a star with enough power and buoyancy to make it float.

Hawaizaada

Opened on Friday

Directed by Vibhu Virender Puri; written by Mr. Puri and Saurabh R. Bhave;
director of photography, Savita Singh; edited by Shan Mohammed; music by Monty
Sharma; produced by Rajesh Banga, Vishal Gurnani and Mr. Puri; released by
Reliance Entertainment. In Hindi, with English subtitles. Running time: 2 hours
33 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Ayushmann Khurrana (Shivy Talpade), Mithun Chakraborty (Subbaraya Shastry)
and Pallavi Sharda (Sitara).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/movies/hawaizaada-depicts-indian-aviation-pion
eers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ayushmann Khurrana as an inventor in ''Hawaizaada.'' (PHOTOGRAPH
BY RELIANCE ENTERTAINMENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY
FILMS (78%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (72%); RELIGION (66%); HAJJ (50%)

CITY: MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (88%)

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (88%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The 'Pay What You Want' Experiment at Synagogues

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1618 words


WEST BLOOMFIELD, Mich. -- For more than four decades, Temple Kol Ami financed
its operations as most American synagogues do: it charged annual dues.

But as the synagogue here approached its 50th anniversary, leaders started
noticing some troubling trends. The recession, which hit Michigan hard, had cost
many of its members jobs and income. Younger adults seemed less interested in
affiliating with institutions. And worshipers were increasingly uncomfortable
with facing set payments to join a community of faith.

So three years ago, the congregation -- with some trepidation -- took a dramatic
step. It eliminated mandatory dues and instead began sending its members an
annual letter describing the synagogue's costs, and asking them to pledge
whatever they could.

With that move, Temple Kol Ami joined a striking new trend in American Jewish
life. In what amounts to the first systematic rethinking of synagogue financing
in a century, about 30 Reform, Conservative and independent synagogues across
the United States have eliminated mandatory dues -- all but a handful of them in
the past five years.

''The dues system has fallen out of alignment with the zeitgeist,'' said Rabbi
Dan Judson, an expert on the history of the financing of American synagogues who
teaches at Hebrew College Rabbinical School in Massachusetts.

''People want to feel that whatever they want to give to a religious community
should be valued as a gift,'' he said. ''They don't want to feel like they're
giving money and still it's not good enough.''

The move away from mandatory dues is in part an acknowledgment that many Jewish
communal organizations are suffering the effects of growing secularization,
declining affection for institutions, a dispersal of Jewish philanthropy and an
end to the era in which membership in a congregation was seen as a social
obligation.

Most synagogues have held on to the dues tradition, but the leaderships of the
Reform and Conservative movements have acknowledged questions about its
sustainability, and on Monday the UJA-Federation of New York, a philanthropic
organization, released the first comprehensive study of voluntary pledging.

''It's a very small percentage of the total synagogues in the country, but this
clearly is picking up steam,'' said Eric S. Goldstein, the federation's chief
executive.

Mandatory dues, which have been common in synagogues for about a century, are
typically calculated using a tiered system of rates based on family size and
member age, or a ''fair share'' system, in which members are asked to pay 1 to
2.5 percent of their income.

Synagogues do not turn away people who cannot pay, but generally do require
those members who cannot afford the full dues to appeal for an abatement.

''Some people were opting to leave the congregation rather than be embarrassed
by coming to the executive director and saying, 'I just can't afford it this
year,' '' said Rabbi Norman T. Roman of Temple Kol Ami.

The synagogues that have eliminated mandatory dues are geographically diverse --
from New York and New Jersey to Mississippi and California -- but they share
some traits: most are small or medium-size, have long-serving rabbis and strong
lay leadership. None are Orthodox. Among the Orthodox, synagogue membership
remains high, and dues are still considered an obligation, not a form of
discretionary spending.

The shift to voluntary pledging brings a variety of challenges and cultural
adjustments. According to congregations that have made the shift, it introduces
unpredictability to budgeting, because each year members decide anew how much
they will give. It also forces synagogues to focus more heavily on keeping
members engaged and to fully disclose, and justify, their spending to
congregants.

One large urban congregation, Congregation Emanu-El in San Francisco, found the
system to be problematic, and returned to mandatory dues after a 13-year
experiment with voluntary pledging.

''A system that was designed to be more fair didn't seem to be that way because
we had people with very similar uses of the temple, and very similar means,
paying very dissimilar amounts,'' said Emanu-El's executive director, David
Goldman. Mr. Goldman said the sense of transparency, fairness and stability
returned when madatory dues were restored. However, he acknowledged, ''I can't
believe anyone thinks that x years from now, a dues model is the wave of the
future -- it doesn't seem like a very modern concept, and we discuss alternative
structures all the time.'' But most of the congregations that have moved to
voluntary pledging say it has been a success. On average, according to the
UJA-Federation report, they have reported a 4 percent growth in both members and
revenues, even as many congregations are declining on both fronts.

Rabbi Rick Jacobs, the president of the Union for Reform Judaism, which
represents 862 Reform congregations, said voluntary pledging is appealing not
just for financial reasons, but also because it can shift the way synagogues are
perceived.

''The bond that holds the Jewish people to one another is not primarily and
fundamentally a financial arrangement, and when we suggest that it might be, it
undermines everything we stand for,'' he said.

He also noted that with an increasing number of interfaith families joining
Reform congregations, mandatory dues had become harder to explain.

''If you come from a church background, the idea that there's a dues bill that
comes in the mail, telling you what your obligation is to a faith community --
it's very odd, and off-putting, and it doesn't agree with core religious
teachings,'' he said.

Churches depend heavily on voluntary contributions collected at worship
services. But Judaism forbids the handling of money on the Sabbath, so
synagogues do not seek donations during worship, and must find other ways to pay
clergy and staff salaries and fund their buildings and programs.

Mandatory dues replaced an early American Jewish practice of financing
congregations by selling or renting seats in synagogues -- a practice adapted
from early American churches, which rented or sold pews to raise money. That
practice was ultimately rejected, by churches and synagogues, as elitist, but in
recent years, some Jews have argued that mandatory dues raise similar issues.

Scott Roseman, a lay leader at Temple Beth El in Aptos, Calif., described the
requirement that congregants with lower incomes explain their financial need to
a synagogue official as ''a super embarrassing process targeted to those with
less.'' Rabbi Alexis Berk of Touro Synagogue in New Orleans called it ''the
shame route.''

''This generation of Jews doesn't find it inspiring to be told what their
obligation is, what their burden should be and how guilty they should feel if
they don't do that,'' Rabbi Berk said.

Both Mr. Roseman's synagogue and Rabbi Berk's switched to voluntary pledging,
and have not looked back.

''We've been amazed by the increase,'' she said.

The voluntary system relies on transparency. The synagogues send an annual
letter to members describing the average cost per family of synagogue operations
-- ranging from $1,500 to $2,900 -- and asking them to pay what they can. Many
members pay less than that ''sustaining amount,'' so the success of the system
depends on the willingness of some to give more, and many synagogues recognize
the more generous donors with anything from a mention in a newsletter to a
barbecue at the rabbi's house.

Robert H. Carver, a business professor who serves as a lay leader at Temple
Israel in Sharon, Mass., said the switch has helped his congregation retain
members and has stabilized its finances. But, he said, there may be longer-term
risks, as older members who typically pay above the sustaining level move away
or die, and are replaced by younger families who pay less.

Several new congregations have been established using voluntary pledging as a
philosophy. Rabbi Michael Wasserman of The New Shul in Scottsdale, Ariz., said
his congregation had sought ''to redefine membership as something you can't
buy.''

And for Temple Kol Ami, the Michigan synagogue, voluntary pledging has become a
marketing tool. West Bloomfield, where the synagogue is, has a high
concentration of Jewish residents and Jewish institutions, and Kol Ami is
between two larger Reform congregations. On its website, under a section called
''Why Wait to Affiliate?'' it says, ''We're the only local temple with no annual
dues.''

Making the change was not easy. Kol Ami's rabbi was apprehensive enough that he
asked a few generous members to serve as backup -- to promise to donate money to
make up any deficit if the voluntary pledge system failed. Dave Gold, 75, was
among those who agreed to do so; the backup was not necessary, but he still
gives more than is asked.

''I give a lot more because the synagogue needs it,'' said Mr. Gold, who made
money with a paving company. ''When we joined 40 years ago, and had young kids,
we couldn't do it, but now we're in a position, thank goodness, where I can do
it and I feel that I should. You've got to help out your own people because
nobody else will.''

For the many congregants who have been hurt by the downturn in the Michigan
economy, the change in the payment policy has made continued membership
possible.

''I wouldn't be a member at Kol Ami if it weren't for this program,'' said Gail
Greenberg, 51, who pledges less than the sustaining amount, but volunteers at
the synagogue.

''My husband is in and out of work, so it's a matter of paying dues or paying
bills,'' she said. ''The gift I've been given is to be able to be a full member,
give what I can and utilize my skills.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/the-pay-what-you-want-experiment-at-synagog
ues.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For Rabbi Norman T. Roman, above, and Temple Kol Ami in West
Bloomfield, Mich., left, voluntary pledging has become a marketing tool. The
synagogue boasts that it is ''the only local temple with no annual dues.'' (A8)
 Max Gorman looked over his prayer verses before a service on Friday at Temple
Kol Ami. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION
(78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CHARITIES (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS
(73%); SEMINARIES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); ADULTS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fire at a Brooklyn Warehouse Puts Private Lives on Display

BYLINE: By VIVIAN YEE; Reporting was contributed by David W. Dunlap, Emma G.
Fitzsimmons, Dan Glaun, J. David Goodman, Benjamin Mueller, Andrew Renneisen and
Nate Schweber.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1253 words


No lives were lost in the huge fire that gutted a storage building on the
Brooklyn waterfront over the weekend. But the flames put plenty of lives on
display as the crumpling warehouse belched up its contents: decades' worth of
charred medical records, court transcripts, lawyers' letters, sonograms, bank
checks and more.

''They're like treasure maps, but with people's personal information all over
them,'' Spencer Bergen, 24, said of the half-charred scraps that he said he had
seen strewn around the Williamsburg neighborhood as far inland as Berry Street,
several blocks from the warehouse.

New York City sent disaster recovery contractors, equipped with nets, shovels
and protective boots, to try to collect the debris. But still, beachcombers
sifted freely through the trove of documents, picking their way through remnants
of the days when many records were on paper and the city government was one of
the few takers for north Brooklyn's waterfront land.

Compared with the large -- and increasingly commonplace -- online breaches of
personal information at corporations like Home Depot, Target and Sony, the
potential damage from stray scraps of paper may seem slight. Still, a glance at
a rocky jetty just south of the warehouse revealed a scattering of records
stamped ''confidential,'' a health insurance form with a person's Social
Security number, a urinalysis report complete with a patient's name and copies
of checks featuring bank account numbers.

''If you wanted to steal an identity, I'm sure if you looked at that piece of
paper, you'd find a medical record,'' said Sherry Hanson, 50, one of the many
curious onlookers who clambered down the rocks at the edge of Bushwick Inlet
Park to get a closer look at the heaps of paper on Sunday.

Among the government agencies that said they had housed records in the
CitiStorage warehouse at 5 North 11th Street were the state court system, and
the city's Administration for Children's Services and the Health and Hospitals
Corporation. Several local hospitals had stored medical records there as well.
CitiStorage said the building, with 1.1 million cubic feet of storage, also held
documents from law and financial services firms.

Reached on Sunday, the hospitals and city agencies sought to play down the
possibility that reams of sensitive information had been thrown to the wind. At
the same time, however, they said it was too early to know what types of
documents had been lost.

The warehouse disgorged so many papers that they clogged the water-intake system
of one of the fireboats aiming high-powered jets of water into the smoldering,
ice-covered building, trying to smother flames that were still flaring up on
Sunday. The current carried more papers to shore, luring people who paged
through some documents, photographed others and kept more than a few as
souvenirs.

''What if this was all diaries, instead of personal information? Love letters?''
mused Loretta Rae, 38, who lives nearby. ''If it was diaries,'' she joked, ''I'd
definitely be down there reading it.''

Munirih Quinlan, 29, who works at a hospital, examined slides of what appeared
to be an X-ray that had landed on a rock.

''This is crazy,'' she said, recalling her training in recognizing Medicare
fraud stemming from identity theft. ''If you post anything,'' she advised
others, ''make sure it doesn't have people's personal information on it.''

The city learned firsthand the dangers of storing important documents in
waterfront buildings when storm surges from Hurricane Sandy ravaged two Police
Department storage facilities in Red Hook and Greenpoint in October 2012. The
department is still struggling to determine the extent of the damage to the
Greenpoint building, which contained thousands of pieces of evidence.

Despite plans to move evidence away from the vulnerable Brooklyn waterfront
buildings, however, the department has yet to do so, and the blaze over the
weekend raised questions about how slowly the city was digitizing or otherwise
protecting its records.

What types of records were stored in the CitiStorage warehouse or how many were
damaged or dispersed remained a matter of confusion on Sunday evening. The state
court system and the Administration for Children's Services said they had been
in the process of removing files from the building, making it unclear what still
remained there, while the Health and Hospitals Corporation said it kept vital
patient records in electronic form and that its operations would be unaffected.

Some members of the Greater New York Hospital Association -- which includes
Mount Sinai Health System, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, North Shore-Long
Island Jewish Health System and NYU Langone Medical Center -- kept records at
CitiStorage, said Brian Conway, a spokesman for the association, but it was not
clear which, if any, were involved.

About the possibility that confidential patient information might have been
disclosed on a large scale as the wind scattered unburned records, Mr. Conway
said, ''There's no reason to believe that's a possibility.''

Yet in one indication of the city's concern, the disaster recovery contractors,
in their neon yellow jackets, sealed off the entrance to the rocky jetty with
yellow caution tape early Sunday and began to scoop documents out of the water
with nets and shovels.

''We're just here to clean up the debris,'' said one of the workers, adding that
he did not have permission to explain further.

At a news conference on Sunday afternoon, the fire commissioner, Daniel A.
Nigro, said the blaze was expected to continue smoldering for days as the paper
inside continued to feed the flames.

The fire, which reached seven alarms, began around 6:20 a.m. on Saturday. But
firefighters had also been called there two hours earlier for a smaller fire in
the same location, which they found had been contained by the building's
sprinkler system. The firefighters then shut down the sprinklers to prevent
further water damage to the paper records, and because sprinkler heads must be
replaced after discharging water.

By the time the second emergency call came in, the sprinklers were offline, and
the blaze was already large enough to draw scores of firefighters.

''It's a building full of fuel,'' Mr. Nigro said. ''Once it got started, it was
difficult to extinguish, especially under the extraordinarily rough conditions
for the firefighters, with the extreme cold and strong winds.''

He said the department had interviewed three warehouse employees, but
investigators had not been able to enter the building and were not close to
determining the fire's cause. Marshals were investigating whether the first fire
had rekindled or a second fire started independently, and whether the fire had
been deliberately set or sparked accidentally.

In Williamsburg, where luxury high-rises have rapidly replaced the old factories
and warehouses and residents fear the 11-acre site where the CitiStorage
building sits is next, it was not hard to find people who believed the fire's
cause was obvious.

Less than two blocks downwind from the smoldering waterfront, the cafe
MatchaBar, on Wythe Avenue, reopened on Sunday; the acrid, ashy smoke had kept
it closed the day before. Among the artists, musicians and writers gathered
there was Lisa Markuson, 28, a blue-haired poet, who perched by the window with
a Smith Corona typewriter, offering free haikus to customers.

Her ode to the fire:

we're all pretty sure

that this was no accident

smoke clouds our vision




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/large-warehouse-fire-continues-to-bur
n-in-brooklyn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York City sent recovery contractors, equipped with nets and
shovels, to try to collect the debris from the blaze. The fire commissioner said
the blaze was expected to continue smoldering for days as the paper continued to
feed the flames. Slide show: nytimes.com/nyregion. (A14)
 Bruno, with his owner, Chris Zglejc, took an interest in a stack  of documents
near the site of the fire in Williamsburg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERAL WAREHOUSING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%);
MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS (74%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CHILDREN
(71%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); CITIES (69%); TRANSCRIPTS (57%); CHILD WELFARE (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Devils' Backup Goalies, Every Start Is an Audition

BYLINE: By JOE LEMIRE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 959 words


NEWARK -- Before the Devils' rookie goaltender, Keith Kinkaid, made his first
career start on Dec. 9, he was too excited to sleep. He had been fortunate
enough to learn of his starting assignment on the morning of the game against
the Chicago Blackhawks, so he was not awake all night, but he was robbed of his
traditional pregame nap.

''I don't really need the nap,'' he said, adding with a smile, ''but napping's
pretty much my favorite.''

A first start is especially memorable -- Kinkaid stopped 37 of 39 Chicago shots
before losing in a shootout -- but each start for a Devils backup is precious
and rare. The starter, Cory Schneider, whom the club signed to a seven-year, $42
million extension last summer, set a franchise record by starting the first 20
games of the season and has started a league-leading 43 times, leaving a
combined seven games for Kinkaid (six starts) and the veteran backup Scott
Clemmensen (one).

Kinkaid and Clemmensen have alternated between the Devils, where one or the
other backs up Schneider and inevitably sits for weeks at a time, and the team's
American Hockey League affiliate in Albany, where they get regular playing time
to stay sharp. The two have already changed places four times, like ships
crossing in the night -- or, more accurately, like cars passing on Interstate
87.

''The drive down is exciting,'' Kinkaid said of the trip from Albany to Newark.
''The drive back is not as fun.''

Kinkaid, 25, grew up in Farmingville, N.Y., on Long Island, where his father is
a longtime Islanders season-ticket holder. He starred at Union College in
Schenectady, N.Y., and has been Albany's primary goaltender the past three
seasons. Now he is in the N.H.L., which is new enough, but he is also a backup
for the first time in his career.

''It's the same game-day routine,'' he said. ''You've just got to practice hard
every day because you could go two weeks, three weeks without a start. You've
got to make the most of each start. You've got to work on the little things --
you've got a lot of time to do that.''

Clemmensen, 37, has more experience in the matter, especially having backed up
the Devils superstar Martin Brodeur in the early 2000s. In 2006-7, for instance,
Clemmensen was with the Devils all season but drew only four starts, the last of
them not until Game 82. One tip he has gleaned over the years is to prepare by
watching video of a recent start.

''I need to watch myself play a game in order to get that feeling again,''
Clemmensen said by phone from Albany.

Even then, Clemmensen said, it can take a period to shake off the rust. Adding
pressure is the realization that each start is an audition -- not only so that
current coaches have confidence for future starts but also to attract future
opportunities. Season statistics can be skewed by one bad start -- backups
reside in the domain of small samples.

''You're always trying to further your career,'' said Clemmensen, who has been
playing in the final year of a contract for 11 of his 14 professional seasons.
''As a backup, you know you're not going to get a lot of exposure. Teams aren't
going to know a lot about you except for what your numbers look like come the
end of the year.''

A few other teams have their backup goaltenders keep track of face-offs or
turnovers during games, but with the Devils, their main value is as a resource
for teammates. Between shifts, skaters will often ask for insights gleaned from
the backup's stationary vantage point. Now and again, the coach summons the
backup goalie into action.

''I think that's the hardest part -- going from sitting still for an hour and a
half to jumping into an N.H.L. game is one of the tougher things to do in
sports, I think,'' Schneider said, noting that the transition allowed for ''no
warm-ups, no nothing.''

Schneider is on pace to start 72 of the team's 82 games, a prodigious workload
that only five other goalies have matched in the last five seasons, including
the Rangers' Henrik Lundqvist and Brodeur, both in the 2009-10 season. Schneider
can relate to Kinkaid and Clemmensen, however: As a rookie, he joined the
Vancouver Canucks when Roberto Luongo was entrenched as the starter.

There is a limited number of starting goalie positions, and even in this poor
Devils season, Schneider, 28, has largely been a bright spot. He has not been at
his absolute best -- he has ranked in the top five in save percentage in two
previous seasons -- but his save rate this year still places him in the top
third of the league.

After Schneider split time with Luongo in Vancouver and with Brodeur last
season, this is the first year in which he is an unquestioned starter. As such,
Schneider said he hoped he would start at least 55, if not as many as 70 games,
this season, either of which would help him breeze past his previous high of 43
starts. Schneider said he had ''felt stronger'' of late than he had earlier in
the season.

''Cory's our No. 1 goaltender, but at the same time he can't play every night,
especially the way the schedule is,'' said Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' general
manager and interim coach, alluding to five sets of back-to-back games in five
weeks. ''Keith has been broken in, I think, the way he should. Maybe we could
have used him a little more in the beginning of the season.''

Eric Tulsky, a hockey analyst who has worked for several teams, published a
study on the Philadelphia Flyers blog Broad Street Hockey suggesting that
goalies should almost never start back-to-back games, because on average, tired
goalies had a save percentage one point worse than a rested goalie in the same
situation.

Schneider's pace may slow as the season progresses, and his backups may then go
from full-time bystanders to can't-sleep starters.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/hockey/for-devils-backup-goalies-every-
start-is-an-audition.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Devils  rookie goalie  Keith Kinkaid,  against the
Islanders last  month, has  started only  five games this  season. He  often
switches  places with  Scott Clemmensen  at the  team's American  Hockey  League
affiliate  to stay  sharp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Devils' Backup Goalies, Every Start Is an Audition

BYLINE: By JOE LEMIRE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 959 words


NEWARK -- Before the Devils' rookie goaltender, Keith Kinkaid, made his first
career start on Dec. 9, he was too excited to sleep. He had been fortunate
enough to learn of his starting assignment on the morning of the game against
the Chicago Blackhawks, so he was not awake all night, but he was robbed of his
traditional pregame nap.

''I don't really need the nap,'' he said, adding with a smile, ''but napping's
pretty much my favorite.''

A first start is especially memorable -- Kinkaid stopped 37 of 39 Chicago shots
before losing in a shootout -- but each start for a Devils backup is precious
and rare. The starter, Cory Schneider, whom the club signed to a seven-year, $42
million extension last summer, set a franchise record by starting the first 20
games of the season and has started a league-leading 43 times, leaving a
combined seven games for Kinkaid (six starts) and the veteran backup Scott
Clemmensen (one).

Kinkaid and Clemmensen have alternated between the Devils, where one or the
other backs up Schneider and inevitably sits for weeks at a time, and the team's
American Hockey League affiliate in Albany, where they get regular playing time
to stay sharp. The two have already changed places four times, like ships
crossing in the night -- or, more accurately, like cars passing on Interstate
87.

''The drive down is exciting,'' Kinkaid said of the trip from Albany to Newark.
''The drive back is not as fun.''

Kinkaid, 25, grew up in Farmingville, N.Y., on Long Island, where his father is
a longtime Islanders season-ticket holder. He starred at Union College in
Schenectady, N.Y., and has been Albany's primary goaltender the past three
seasons. Now he is in the N.H.L., which is new enough, but he is also a backup
for the first time in his career.

''It's the same game-day routine,'' he said. ''You've just got to practice hard
every day because you could go two weeks, three weeks without a start. You've
got to make the most of each start. You've got to work on the little things --
you've got a lot of time to do that.''

Clemmensen, 37, has more experience in the matter, especially having backed up
the Devils superstar Martin Brodeur in the early 2000s. In 2006-7, for instance,
Clemmensen was with the Devils all season but drew only four starts, the last of
them not until Game 82. One tip he has gleaned over the years is to prepare by
watching video of a recent start.

''I need to watch myself play a game in order to get that feeling again,''
Clemmensen said by phone from Albany.

Even then, Clemmensen said, it can take a period to shake off the rust. Adding
pressure is the realization that each start is an audition -- not only so that
current coaches have confidence for future starts but also to attract future
opportunities. Season statistics can be skewed by one bad start -- backups
reside in the domain of small samples.

''You're always trying to further your career,'' said Clemmensen, who has been
playing in the final year of a contract for 11 of his 14 professional seasons.
''As a backup, you know you're not going to get a lot of exposure. Teams aren't
going to know a lot about you except for what your numbers look like come the
end of the year.''

A few other teams have their backup goaltenders keep track of face-offs or
turnovers during games, but with the Devils, their main value is as a resource
for teammates. Between shifts, skaters will often ask for insights gleaned from
the backup's stationary vantage point. Now and again, the coach summons the
backup goalie into action.

''I think that's the hardest part -- going from sitting still for an hour and a
half to jumping into an N.H.L. game is one of the tougher things to do in
sports, I think,'' Schneider said, noting that the transition allowed for ''no
warm-ups, no nothing.''

Schneider is on pace to start 72 of the team's 82 games, a prodigious workload
that only five other goalies have matched in the last five seasons, including
the Rangers' Henrik Lundqvist and Brodeur, both in the 2009-10 season. Schneider
can relate to Kinkaid and Clemmensen, however: As a rookie, he joined the
Vancouver Canucks when Roberto Luongo was entrenched as the starter.

There is a limited number of starting goalie positions, and even in this poor
Devils season, Schneider, 28, has largely been a bright spot. He has not been at
his absolute best -- he has ranked in the top five in save percentage in two
previous seasons -- but his save rate this year still places him in the top
third of the league.

After Schneider split time with Luongo in Vancouver and with Brodeur last
season, this is the first year in which he is an unquestioned starter. As such,
Schneider said he hoped he would start at least 55, if not as many as 70 games,
this season, either of which would help him breeze past his previous high of 43
starts. Schneider said he had ''felt stronger'' of late than he had earlier in
the season.

''Cory's our No. 1 goaltender, but at the same time he can't play every night,
especially the way the schedule is,'' said Lou Lamoriello, the Devils' general
manager and interim coach, alluding to five sets of back-to-back games in five
weeks. ''Keith has been broken in, I think, the way he should. Maybe we could
have used him a little more in the beginning of the season.''

Eric Tulsky, a hockey analyst who has worked for several teams, published a
study on the Philadelphia Flyers blog Broad Street Hockey suggesting that
goalies should almost never start back-to-back games, because on average, tired
goalies had a save percentage one point worse than a rested goalie in the same
situation.

Schneider's pace may slow as the season progresses, and his backups may then go
from full-time bystanders to can't-sleep starters.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/hockey/for-devils-backup-goalies-every-
start-is-an-audition.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Devils  rookie goalie  Keith Kinkaid,  against the
Islanders last  month, has  started only  five games this  season. He  often
switches  places with  Scott Clemmensen  at the  team's American  Hockey  League
affiliate  to stay  sharp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS (58%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bach, Filtered Through Balanchine and Robbins

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words


Does art get any better than this? There were many moments when it was easy to
ask that question during the performance of George Balanchine's ''Concerto
Barocco'' (1941) on Thursday night at New York City Ballet.

Over the decades, ''Concerto Barocco,'' choreographed to Bach's double violin
concerto in D minor, has converted many people to ballet, indeed to
choreography. Balanchine's work for two solo ballerinas, one male partner, and a
corps de ballet of eight women is a masterpiece of design: You absorb its
overall architecture in terms of rhythm, of changing geometries and of drama
beyond words and narrative.

It has received some superb performances in the last year, but Thursday's took
it to its greatest height in many seasons. Teresa Reichlen and Sara Mearns
matched each other in spacious exuberance and brio in the leading roles. Ms.
Reichlen, partnered by Ask la Cour, broke through in January to new layers of
physical boldness and freedom; this performance came the evening after her
remarkable debut in the ballerina role of ''Chaconne,'' Balanchine's Gluck
ballet, in which she and Adrian Danchig-Waring (a new high for him) grasped both
the empyrean lyricism of the opening Blessed Spirit pas de deux and the
rapturous exultance of the final celebration.

Ms. Reichlen and Ms. Mearns, dissimilar in build, gorgeously complementary in
style, dance together like sisters: Their duets were vibrant with the joy of
dance as music-making. In this they matched their violinists, Arturo Delmoni and
Kurt Nikkanen; Daniels Capps's conducting was an important source of life
throughout.

In the second of the ballet's three movements, Ms. Reichlen, partnered by Mr. la
Cour, charged her long phrases with subtle gradations of dynamics. When one
series of to-and-fro arching lifts ends with an arrival on one point, she
phrased this like a soft diminuendo into an almighty hush; in the thrilling
horizontal line of supported pirouettes, each one opening into a high sideways
leg extension, her rapid alternation of spinning fluency and ample proclamation
was a marvel of contrasts.

Ms. Mearns -- the most authoritative, Romantically dramatic and glamorous
ballerina in the United States -- seized on one solo diagonal of jumps as if it
were the most jubilant moment in all her repertory. And the corps of eight --
which never leaves the stage -- matched the elegant cut and thrust of Bach's
orchestral writing. Sara Adams, Likolani Brown, Alina Dronova, Meagan Mann,
Jenelle Manzi, Kristen Segin, Gretchen Smith and Lydia Wellington were
steadfastly immersed, dancing with exhilarating expansiveness.

''Barocco'' was the first item in a double bill of Bach ballets; the other was
Jerome Robbins's ''The Goldberg Variations,'' returning to City Ballet repertory
for the first time since 2008. It's easy, especially after the perfect
construction of ''Barocco,'' to find fault with Robbins's 1971 work. It frames
itself with a historical ancient-and-modern concept (or gimmick) that's never
quite convincing: The ballet begins with a couple in baroque dress, switches to
an ensemble in modern dancewear, then to an ensemble in semibaroque attire,
before closing with the original couple, now in modern dancewear.

More than that, Robbins's response to this long score never feels like one
organic piece; and several of its sections flag in invention and energy.
Although the choreographic rightness of ''Barocco'' is an illusion -- Bach
certainly never envisaged anything like Balanchine's physicality -- it's a
persuasive one. By contrast, at no point does ''Goldberg'' feel musically
inevitable.

Even so, Robbins keeps recapturing attention with a daring experimentalism. You
think the baroque/modern historical games of ''Goldberg'' are going to cripple
the work with pretentiousness, but the opposite happens. It's amazing how often
it gives us the sense of being in the dance laboratory with Robbins, trying out
ideas.

Though Robbins employs Balanchine's dance language, he often pointedly rebels
against Balanchine's orthodoxies. Here men partner men; women partner women; the
two sexes share the space as equal workmates; Robbins uses the body supine on
the floor, ordinary pedestrian movement and commonplace acrobatics (cartwheels,
for example), all of which refresh ballet. There are, meanwhile, many passages
of pure-dance felicity that ride happily on Bach's energy. Robbins makes
''Goldberg'' feel not like one piece but many, as if he were walking us through
a vast building, opening doors and windows as he passes.

Rightly, Thursday's greatest single ovation went to the pianist, Cameron Grant,
for whom Bach's 85-minute score is a tour de force. Some of its most
breathtaking cascades occur after over an hour of playing.

In Part 1, two of the company's male corps dancers, Daniel Applebaum and Joseph
Gordon, and two male soloists, Anthony Huxley and Taylor Stanley, make memorably
individual impressions. (For the eminently talented Mr. Gordon, this follows a
brilliant debut on Jan. 25 in the third movement of Balanchine's ''Symphony in
C''; his polish, elevation, and physical luster are remarkable.) Mr. Huxley, a
beautiful classical stylist who has often seemed too guarded in the past, has
been finding a new forthrightness. His frank incisiveness here was startling.

Sterling Hyltin, Maria Kowroski and Tiler Peck lead Part 2 with the refinement
of style that makes them beloved ballerinas. Even those who have greater
reservations than I about ''Goldberg'' have often been grateful for what it
discloses about its performers. There's a largeness of spirit in ''Goldberg''
that transcends its many shortcomings.

New York City Ballet season runs through March 1, with this double bill in
repertory through Saturday at the David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center;
212-496-0600, nycballet.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/dance/new-york-city-ballet-double-bill-at
-lincoln-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York City Ballet: Sara Mearns, foreground left, and Teresa
Reichlen, foreground right, with fellow members of this company in ''Concerto
Barocco,'' at the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA
MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%);
CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC (77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sex, Fear and Loving: A Conversation

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 736 words



To the Editor:

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz (''Searching for Sex,'' Sunday Review, Jan. 25) keenly
observes how our deepest fears permeate sex.

Sex is fraught with anxiety; while it is a necessary outlet for demanding lives,
it can also raise expectations of intimacy from one's sexual partner, generating
even greater anxiety. With increasingly mobile lives, busy professionals do not
wish to be obstructed by committed relationships.

It is not sex that is declining; rather, sex within committed relationships is
declining, while risky and unprotected sex with multiple partners is on the
rise. Aided by apps like Tinder and Grindr, young professionals tend to think of
sex without a relationship as a ''hookup,'' not sex.

Such nomenclature is important, because the impulse to have sex in a hookup
means that they often don't bother with a condom.

It is a shame, because these young people, by depriving themselves of oases of
intimacy, compassion and trust that relationships nourish, are also denying
themselves buffers to their insecurities.

SHAIFALI SANDHYA

Chicago


The writer is a clinical psychologist, a couples therapist and an associate
professor at Adler University.

To the Editor:

As neither an expert on sex nor a psychologist but rather a millennial who often
finds myself Googling my insecurities, I find Seth Stephens-Davidowitz's
conclusion that ''maybe if we worried less about sex, we'd have more of it''
entirely refreshing.

Too often when sex is discussed in our society, it becomes more of a
conversation about gender roles than anything else; women are seen as less
sexually driven or as having more insecurities, but not surprisingly, that
appears not to be the case.

Sex is a primal urge that somehow society has taken as its own creation and
warped. The article demonstrates that sex organs and practices are more commonly
explored through Internet searches than other concerns by both men and women.

Perhaps these conversations would benefit us if more people stepped out from
behind the computer screen. Women and men both have insecurities that prevent
them from sexual exploration and affect their self-perception. Honest
conversations about sex are the first step to achieving equality between the
sexes.

LINDY SOFFER

Chesterfield, Mo.

To the Editor:

Members of my World War II ''greatest generation'' were not desperately
''searching for sex,'' which at that time was called ''making love.'' And
incidentally, love had everything to do with ''it.''

Many of us believed that family and other platonic loves and affections were the
relationships most essential to the human condition, and some of us are deeply
troubled that these relationships have been steadily devalued by the culture's
obsession with the sexual kind, which undergird so many seemingly intractable
social problems.

Family and other platonic relationships need at least equal time and attention!

BETTE DEWING

New York

To the Editor:

Seth Stephens-Davidowitz's introduction is catchy: Most of us are ''confused by
sex'' in one way or another. But the random data he provides explain far less
about sex than they do about his own biases and curiosities.

His puzzlement about condom purchase versus condom use data, for instance, is
myopic: Condoms are offered free of charge by health centers, universities and
other institutions, so it would stand to reason that the numbers bought would be
lower. And how exactly does the fact that men Google questions about their
genitalia enlighten us about sex?

As someone who wishes that we discussed sex as freely as we discuss violence in
this country, I was pleased to see the article. Reading it, however, helped me
understand why so many consumers think that the topic of sex is unfit for a
reputable news outlet.

MARA GOTTLIEB

Fairfield, Conn.


The writer is an adjunct professor of social work at N.Y.U. and Smith College.

To the Editor:

How is it possible that Seth Stephens-Davidowitz amassed all this data about
straight men and straight women, with a slight nod to gay men, and didn't even
mention lesbians? Are lesbians simply not worth consideration?

Perhaps lesbians do not make up that large a percentage of the population, but
then neither do the other minority groups that merit the attention you give
them.

I am baffled that The New York Times could publish something so exclusionary in
its scope of study.

JESSICA LEADER

Washington




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/sex-fear-and-loving-a-conversation.htm
l

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (73%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (71%);
PSYCHOLOGY (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); COUPLE COUNSELING (66%); GENDER
EQUALITY (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(51%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reducing the Influence of Political Donations

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words



To the Editor:

Your Jan. 25 editorial ''The Growing Shadow of Political Money'' appropriately
castigates Congress and government agencies for failing to deal with political
''dark money'' that threatens our democracy. However, there is substantial
progress on another front.

Many leading American public companies recognize the risks that can accompany
secret political spending and are adopting political disclosure and
accountability policies. In recent years, more than 130 companies have decided
to allow sunlight on their political spending by adopting a model disclosure
resolution developed by the Center for Political Accountability.

The 2014 CPA-Zicklin Index, a benchmarking study of the top 300 companies in the
S. & P. 500, reported that 60 percent are disclosing voluntarily at least some
political spending made to candidates, parties and political committees. Almost
half have opened up about payments made to trade associations, and a third about
payments to ''social welfare'' organizations.

That leading public companies are standing up for transparency and
accountability marks a breakthrough. It brings sunshine at a time of government
gridlock.

BRUCE F. FREED

President

Center for Political Accountability

Washington

To the Editor:

Political spending has reached record levels because government has penetrated
every aspect of our lives. It would be irrational for anyone to commit such
substantial resources to elections if government taxation, social policy and
regulation did not drive business profitability and personal well-being.

As every new program is based on the premise that someone else -- the
successful, smokers, oil companies, doctors, out-of-state visitors -- should pay
for what we each think is right and good, it only makes sense that those
targeted would try to defend themselves by contributing to the election of
sympathetic representatives.

No corruption need be suspected. The solution to record political spending is a
less pervasive government.

PETER COFFEY

Madison, Conn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/reducing-the-influence-of-political-do
nations.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS
(78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ACCOUNTING (76%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(73%); BENCHMARKING (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Live, From the Nursing Home

BYLINE: By BERT STRATTON.

Bert Stratton is the author of the blog Klezmer Guy: Real Music and Real Estate.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 739 words


CLEVELAND HEIGHTS, Ohio -- DONALD HALL, 86, a former poet laureate, probably
captured the general mood when he wrote that nursing homes are ''old-folks
storage bins'' and ''for-profit-making expiration dormitories.'' He wants to die
in his farmhouse in New Hampshire.

But I think that sounds pretty lonely. I wouldn't mind going into a nursing home
and not coming out. In due time, thank you. I'm 64.

My band, Yiddishe Cup, has been playing nursing homes regularly for decades.
Last week, we got our first request for ''Brown Eyed Girl.'' The resident who
asked for it was a stroke victim. ''I never smoked and worked out regularly,''
he said.

My musician friends and I generally focus on Tin Pan Alley tunes, like ''Pennies
from Heaven,'' ''All of Me'' and ''On the Sunny Side of the Street,'' all from
the '30s. (I play clarinet and harmonica.) Last week, at Stone Gardens Assisted
Living Residence in suburban Cleveland, we threw in the 1972 hit ''Garden
Party.'' Our guitarist announced, ''We're playing Ricky Nelson's 'Garden Party'
live at the Garden!'' Like Madison Square Garden. The baby boomer -- the ''Brown
Eyed Girl'' fan -- got the joke.

My mother lived at Stone Gardens in the early 2000s. She liked her stay there.
She could go to art classes, religious services, exercise classes and political
discussion groups. (One nursing home had outings to strip clubs. A resident, now
deceased, told me that.) My mother rarely complained about the ''home.'' Her one
gripe was with the kosher food, so I took her periodically to Rally's for
cheeseburgers.

We used to play a lot of Jewish music (mostly traditional Yiddish and Hebrew
songs) for her and her cohort back then. Now we go with 50-50 American/Jewish.
Last week we added ''Drift Away'' -- ''Give me the beat, boys, and free my soul,
I wanna get lost in your rock and roll and drift away.''

I first bought nursing home insurance at age 50 in 2000. That was when I put my
mother in the home and realized she wasn't coming out. (She died four years
later in her bedroom. I was at her side.) I have kept up my yearly premiums ever
since. After all, the Department of Health and Human Services reports that about
70 percent of people over 65 will need some type of long-term care during their
lives.

My mother was in Suite 105 -- a comfortable one bedroom. Now my elderly cousin
Shony is in 105.

When I go to nursing homes, I'm the ambassador from the kingdom of youth. The
residents are friendly but somewhat alien. Some don't know what is going on
outside. I report on the weather. I say: ''Where are you going tonight? Come see
us. It's going to be standing room only!''

Violet, 98, likes our peppy songs, such as ''Bye, Bye, Blackbird.'' Al, a
retired lawyer and Navy veteran, requests ''Deep Purple.'' Another resident
volunteers to sing a Yiddish song with us.

Who are you going to sing with if you live by yourself? Are you going to sing
duets with your caregiver?

I may not be old yet, but 60-something is definitely a preview. At a Taco Bell
recently, a high school boy plopped his book bag at my table, then his body in
the seat next to me. Had I unwittingly sat at the cool-kid table in some
floating school cafeteria? There were plenty of open seats in the restaurant. I
realized I was invisible to the boy. I was old. ''Whatever,'' he said, placing
his burrito wrapper two inches from me.

I thought about saying, ''Young man, you are rude.'' But ''young man'' and
''rude'' wouldn't cut it, and I wasn't young enough for ''Dude!'' As I left, I
said, ''Thanks for sharing your lunch break with me.'' He smiled. I think he
smiled. Maybe he smirked. I can't read young people anymore.

Jim Guttmann, a jazz and klezmer musician from Boston who has toured the world,
said his biggest thrill was playing nursing homes. Nursing home residents
appreciated him the most.

I once read snippets of prose between songs at a nursing-home gig, where an old
man in a wheelchair interrupted me: ''Play music or sit down!'' I was heckled, I
was flustered, and I said, ''I'll sit down when you stand up!'' That quieted him
-- and everybody else. I was rude. I was young then (50-something).

After many nursing home gigs, residents come up to the musicians and say: ''You
fellas sounded great. Thanks so much for the show. I knew your mother.'' That
last one gets my attention.

I'm number 105, my mom's room. Baby boomers, take a number -- and pay your
premiums.





URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/live-from-the-nursing-home.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOÃO FAZENDA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING HOMES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE
(90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); MUSIC (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM
(86%); POETRY (78%); WRITERS (78%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (78%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (75%); POP & ROCK (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); STROKES (69%); BABY
BOOMERS (64%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (64%); RELIGION (63%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Drill Along the East Coast

BYLINE: By MARTIN O'MALLEY.

Martin O'Malley, a Democrat, was the governor of Maryland from 2007 until last
month.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 800 words


BALTIMORE -- THE Obama administration's whiplash decision last week to allow oil
and gas companies to drill along a wide area of the Atlantic Coast is a big
mistake.

The facts support a ban on offshore drilling not only in the wilds of Alaska --
as the administration has announced -- but also along our densely populated,
economically vibrant and environmentally diverse Eastern Seaboard.

The BP Deepwater Horizon disaster should remind us that the benefits of drilling
do not outweigh the threat to local economies, public health and the environment
when an inevitable spill occurs. The spill, occurring off the Louisiana coast
less than five years ago, devastated the Gulf of Mexico region -- most likely
costing over $100 billion in lost economic activity and restoration expenses,
disrupting or destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs and causing long-term
damage to 3,000 miles of fragile wetlands and beaches. Experts estimate that
only 5 percent of the 4.2 million barrels of oil spilled in the gulf was removed
during the cleanup; even today, oil from the spill is still appearing on the
white sand beaches of the Florida Panhandle.

To allow drilling off the Atlantic Coast is to willfully forget Deepwater's
awful lesson even as the economic, environmental and public health consequences
continue to reverberate in communities along the gulf. If a disaster of
Deepwater's scale occurred off the Chesapeake Bay, it would stretch from
Richmond to Atlantic City, with states and communities with no say in drilling
decisions bearing the consequences. The 50-mile buffer the administration has
proposed would be irrelevant. And unlike the gulf, the Chesapeake is a tidal
estuary, meaning that oil would remain in the environment for decades.

Furthermore, we shouldn't be so quick to embrace offshore exploration at a time
when climate change is likely to cause increasingly powerful hurricanes, like
Sandy in 2012. If a single hurricane has the power to damage or destroy more
than 650,000 homes in its path, we should consider what might become of an oil
rig.

Even in normal conditions, claims that safety has improved significantly in
recent years should not be taken seriously. As recently as last fall, two people
were killed in separate explosions off the Louisiana coast while working on
offshore oil and natural gas facilities.

Oil prices are at record lows. The United States is the world's top natural gas
producer and third greatest producer of crude oil. There is simply no compelling
economic or security reason to expose the communities of the Atlantic Coast to
the threats offshore drilling presents.

Moreover, offshore drilling fails to promote what must be our country's foremost
energy policy objectives: achieving long-term energy security, creating
sustainable jobs, supporting the development of new energy technologies and
fighting climate change.

To be sure, the Obama administration has made laudable and hard-fought progress
toward these goals. But we must quicken the pace forward, rather than accept a
step back. Today, we rank 13th out of the 16 largest economies for energy
efficiency. China is the world leader in clean energy investment, attracting
$53.3 billion in 2013 --  more than 30 percent more than the United States.

At a time when both Democrats and Republicans agree that creating jobs should be
our top priority, we are forgoing at least 2.7 million of them through our
inability to enact a clean energy investment strategy. Even though 2014 was the
hottest year on record, renewable-energy businesses still aren't even competing
on a level playing field with fossil-fuel companies, which enjoy more than $4
billion in guaranteed federal subsidies each year.

We must make better choices for a more secure and independent energy future. In
Maryland, over just eight years, we increased renewable-generation capacity by
57 percent, became a hub for new clean-tech businesses and jobs, and cut
emissions by 10 percent. Clear goals, accountability and consistent choices
drove better results.

As a nation, we must pursue the imperatives of accelerating cutting-edge
clean-energy research, taking away the subsidies that give the advantage to the
oil companies of the past over the renewable businesses of the future,
modernizing our energy grid, and letting the market drive further innovation by
limiting carbon emissions, among other measures.

Clean, inexhaustible sources of energy represent the biggest business
opportunity in at least a century. The threat of climate change is real and
immediate.  Expanding offshore drilling is irreconcilable with the realities of
climate science and irrelevant, at best, to taking advantage of the vast
economic opportunities clean energy presents. We must move firmly toward a clean
energy future.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/dont-drill-along-the-east-coast.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); OFFSHORE
OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL
EXTRACTION (89%); BEACHES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION
(78%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS
(78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL
SPILL (76%); WETLANDS (76%); WEATHER (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY
(73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (54%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF
MEXICO (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); VIRGINIA, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Bronx, New Life for an Old Prison

BYLINE: By JESSE WEGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 889 words


The seven-story, faded-brick building at 1511 Fulton Avenue -- across from
Crotona Park in the Claremont section of the Bronx -- has no distinct
personality, which may help explain why it has been reincarnated so many times
over the past century.

It began life in 1907 as an Episcopal church house. By the 1920s, the area was
heavily Jewish, and the building became a Young Men's Hebrew Association, with a
synagogue on the ground floor. In the 1950s, it was a nursing home. Later it
operated as a drug treatment center.

Each time, the building's new use tracked the shifting demographics and needs of
New York City.

Today it sits vacant. If local residents think of it at all, they probably
remember it not as a house of worship, but for its service of a different sort
of penitent: For nearly four decades, it was the Fulton Correctional Facility, a
minimum-security prison that housed up to 900 inmates on work release.

The state closed the prison four years ago, one of 13 facilities the
administration of Gov. Andrew Cuomo has shut down in the wake of a major drop in
the state's inmate population, from nearly 73,000 in 1999 to 54,000 in 2012.

But last week the building at 1511 Fulton began its latest transformation, this
time into a community re-entry center that will provide temporary housing and
job training to New Yorkers returning from prison.

On Jan. 28, the city signed over the building's deed to the Osborne Association,
an 82-year-old prison reform group that will operate the center after extensive
renovations, thanks mainly to a $6 million grant from a state fund established
for communities where prisons have closed.

Elizabeth Gaynes, Osborne's executive director, has been the driving force
behind the re-entry center. At a ceremonial handover of the building's keys on
Thursday, she thanked state officials for the opportunity. New York's
corrections department, Ms. Gaynes said, has ''generally behaved like proud
parents who are marrying off their child to someone of a different religion.''

It will take some work to make 1511 Fulton look like a place that people aren't
forced at gunpoint to live in. Gray cinderblock walls, low ceilings and dim,
scuffed hallways ring the floors. The cells -- some no more than eight feet
square -- are bare but for barred, dirt-caked windows and metal toilets bolted
to the walls.

As the country's 40-year incarceration boom has leveled off, states have
struggled with what to do with abandoned prisons. Some have been converted into
hotels, others into homeless shelters, a cemetery, a summer camp and a movie
studio. But 1511 Fulton is the first to become a multipurpose re-entry center,
Ms. Gaynes said.

In addition to initial housing and job assistance for 60 to 70 former inmates,
the center plans to host a range of businesses to help replace jobs lost when
the prison shut its doors -- including catering and furniture-refurbishing
companies and, on the roof, an apiary.

That can only help in the Bronx, which has the highest unemployment rate in the
state. The district that includes Fulton also has one of the highest
concentrations of public housing in New York City. Many inmates have family in
that housing, but they cannot move there, because New York law almost always
prevents people with a criminal record from living in public housing.

On the other hand, a familiarity with former prisoners may have made it easier
to win community acceptance of the center. Unlike in Brooklyn, where a new
parole center in the Gowanus neighborhood has generated heated opposition, there
was virtually none to the Fulton center proposal. ''It's what I love about the
Bronx,'' Ms. Gaynes said in an interview. ''They don't act like we're importing
Martians. They understand that if people get the right assistance, they can be
assets to the community.''

After the key ceremony, Stanley Richards stood hunched by a wall in a suit and
tie, remembering his days as an involuntary resident of 1511 Fulton.

''You see I'm sweating?'' Mr. Richards said. ''My gut is going up and down. When
I walked in that door, I remembered when I first walked in that door, not
knowing if I was coming back out.''

Following a robbery conviction, he served four and a half years at an upstate
prison before being transferred to Fulton's work-release program in 1991. He
found a $5-an-hour job as a telemarketer, selling timeshares on Fire Island. The
office was in Manhattan, so he left the prison every morning at seven and was
due back by six. He slept in a cell with seven other inmates.

Now 54, Mr. Richards is married with four children, and is a senior vice
president at the Fortune Society, which helps former prisoners adapt to the
outside world. But it was a close call: Mr. Richards nearly missed out on the
work-release program, which was decimated by the Pataki administration after his
release. Today it operates at less than 10 percent of its peak in the early
1990s. Mr. Richards said that for him, as for the thousands of prisoners
returning each year, success ultimately depends on having a job and a place to
live.

''If they don't think anything's possible for them, they're going to act like
that,'' he said. ''If they see potential, they're going to act like that. So
this opening is a step in helping people realize you can have a second chance.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/in-the-bronx-new-life-for-an-old-priso
n.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRECTIONS (89%); RELIGION
(76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE
FACILITIES (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%);
HOMELESS SHELTERS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); MOVIE
INDUSTRY (62%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES
(55%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Economy, Past and Future

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 665 words


The data necessary to assess the economy's performance last year and help
project its path for this year is now coming in. One point stands out from all
the rest: For all the talk about accelerating growth, the economy grew last year
at a rate of 2.4 percent, basically in line with growth over the past several
years.

That moderate pace is not inherently unsatisfactory. The problem is that modest
growth has never been enough to overcome the damage of the Great Recession and,
from there, to reach new levels in terms of output, employment and wages.

Set against those benchmarks, progress remains painfully slow, while headwinds
that a stronger economy could withstand become setbacks. Recently, for example,
corporate earnings and growth more broadly have been hit by the stronger dollar
and global weakness, which reduce foreign demand for American products and, in
the process, threaten domestic investment and hiring. Gone are the days when the
American economy was the engine pulling weaker economies along.

The slow pace of progress is also on display in the job market. Even with recent
job gains, estimates of the time it will take for the job market to return to
full health range from more than a year to more than two years, assuming no
economic backsliding in the meantime.

And even then, more jobs will not necessarily mean higher wages. The latest
government report on employers' labor costs showed that nearly six years into
the current economic recovery, wage growth, adjusted for inflation, remained
tepid. If wages were tracking productivity growth, as would be expected in a
healthy economy, they would be rising at a far stronger pace.

Of course, lower oil prices and lower overall inflation increase purchasing
power, which explains the recent upsurges in consumer sentiment and consumer
spending. That increase, however, is akin to a temporary tax cut. The extent to
which it will lead to sustained stronger growth, if any, remains to be seen. For
now, recent bolstered spending probably reflects consumers taking advantage of
lower prices at the pump to indulge pent-up demand after years of belt
tightening. To support elevated consumption on an ongoing basis, the savings
rate, still low by historical standards, would have to fall lower still, an
unlikely occurrence so soon after a debt binge.

The economy, in short, is still wounded, and the route to recovery runs through
government. Direct policies could raise wages in the near term, including the
minimum wage. Policies can also change norms that keep wages depressed.
Currently, for example, corporate executives are fighting to delay a new rule
under the Dodd-Frank law to require companies to disclose the ratio of a chief
executive's pay to the median pay of the company's employees. The information
could expose indefensible disparities and lead to higher employee pay. Still
other policies could set the stage for healthy growth in the longer term,
including immigration reform, infrastructure spending and education initiatives.

All such policies, however, require bipartisan congressional action or forceful
regulation, which are in short supply. On its own, the Obama administration has
advanced helpful policies to make home buying more affordable. It also will soon
issue regulations to increase worker eligibility for overtime pay, which has
been badly eroded over decades of congressional neglect of labor standards.

The Federal Reserve, for its part, has said it will put off interest rate
increases until clearer signs of growth emerge. That is wise, though it is
increasingly clear that the Fed's efforts to revive the economy can, at best,
maintain the economy at its current pace, not speed it up. That is not an
argument to end those policies. It is a reminder that the members of Congress,
and particularly the Republican majority, could do much more to help if they
only would act to advance the broad interests of the public rather than the
narrow interests of their party.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/the-economy-past-and-future.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE
(89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICES
(89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%);
PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MINIMUM
WAGE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%);
PRODUCTIVITY (70%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); OIL & GAS
PRICES (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); TAX LAW (62%); MINIMUM
WAGE LAWS (60%); IMMIGRATION LAW (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); US DODD FRANK ACT
(50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Future Segregated by Science?

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words


Let me say up front: I'm not a science guy.

I have always loved science, but I have always loved the arts -- drawing,
painting and, yes, writing -- more.

My deepest foray into science came in high school when I won my way to the
international science fair. (Don't get too excited; that sounds more impressive
than it was.) It was 1988, and I had produced a project about why the ''Star
Wars'' missile defense system wouldn't work. My project was a beautiful
monstrosity made of stained and varnished plywood, with an insert for a diorama
of missiles flying, lasers blasting and a midair explosion, and a cutout with
space for a small television and a VCR (yes, I'm that old).

I won the district fair -- in part, I suspect, because the judges' pool was
heavily populated by members of the military -- even though I had violated one
of the cardinal rules of science fairs: I hadn't actually done an experiment.
Mine was a fancy research project -- like a 3-D opinion piece. But it didn't
matter. The airline lost the whole project when I flew to the international
science fair, so I never got to compete.

Although my science dreams were dashed, I still loved science. And I've long
been surrounded by science people. My ex-wife was a physics major. My oldest
child is a biology major, and when my twins enter college next year, one wants
to major in physics and the other in a scientific field to be determined.

But their interests defy a distressing disparity: Few women and minorities are
getting STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) degrees,
although STEM jobs are multiplying and pay more than many other careers.

This raises the question: Will our future be highly delineated by who does and
who doesn't have a science education (and the resulting higher salary), making
for even more entrenched economic inequality by race and gender?

According to : ''STEM job creation over the next 10 years will outpace non-STEM
jobs significantly, growing 17 percent, as compared to 9.8 percent for non-STEM
positions.''

And yet, the group says, we are not producing enough STEM graduates; other
countries are moving ahead of us.

When you look at women and minorities, the situation is even more bleak.

Let's start with high school. Last year, a Georgia Tech researcher analyzed
which students took the Advanced Placement exam in computer science in 2013. The
researcher, Barbara Ericson, found that in three states no women took it, in
eight states no Hispanics did and in 11 states no blacks did. (In Mississippi
only one person -- not female, black or Hispanic, by the way -- took the test
that year. Oh, Mississippi.)

Now, on to college, where the disparities remain bleak.

The Associated Press said in 2011 that ''the percentage of African-Americans
earning STEM degrees has fallen during the last decade'' and that this was very
likely a result of ''a complex equation of self-doubt, stereotypes,
discouragement and economics -- and sometimes just wrong perceptions of what
math and science are all about.''

It continued: ''Black people are 12 percent of the United States population and
11 percent of all students beyond high school. In 2009, they received just 7
percent of all STEM bachelor's degrees, 4 percent of master's degrees and 2
percent of Ph.D.s, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.''

It doesn't get better in the workplace. In a 2013 editorial, The New York Times
pointed out: ''Women make up nearly half the work force but have just 26 percent
of science, technology, engineering or math jobs, according to the Census
Bureau. Blacks make up 11 percent of the work force but just 6 percent of such
jobs and Hispanics make up nearly 15 percent of the work force but hold 7
percent of those positions.''

Even when minority students do get STEM degrees, there seems to be a
disproportionate barrier to their finding work in those fields. ''Top
universities turn out black and Hispanic computer science and computer
engineering graduates at twice the rate that leading technology companies hire
them,'' an October analysis by USA Today found.

Furthermore, the paper reported in December: ''In 2014, leading technology
companies released data showing they vastly underemploy African-Americans and
Hispanics. Those groups make up 5 percent of the companies' work force, compared
to 14 percent nationally.''

No matter what strides we make -- or don't -- in the march toward racial and
gender equality in this country, is this an area in which the future will feel
more stratified, and in which the inequalities, particularly economic ones, will
mount? Is science education a new area of our segregation?

I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter, or e-mail me at
chblow@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/charles-blow-a-future-segregated-by-sc
ience.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: Working in the Field: Scientists and engineers employed in a
science and engineering occupation in  2013, by race and sex. (Source: National
Science Foundation,  National Center for Science  and Engineering Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STEM
EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (86%); WOMEN (86%);
TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); STUDENTS
& STUDENT LIFE (77%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS
(75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%);
COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); JOB CREATION (67%);
EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Margaret Bloy Graham, 94, 'Harry the Dirty Dog' Illustrator

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 411 words


Margaret Bloy Graham, a picture-book illustrator best known for ''Harry the
Dirty Dog,'' a cautionary ablutionary tale from 1956 that remains a staple of
childhood, died on Jan. 22 in Belmont, Mass. She was 94.

Her death was confirmed by Doris Hagen, a longtime friend.

With text by Gene Zion, Ms. Graham's husband at the time, ''Harry the Dirty
Dog'' is aimed at 3-to-6-year-olds. It tells the story of a white dog so averse
to baths that he buries his scrub brush in the backyard and lights out for grimy
territory, playing in a construction site, sliding down a coal chute and so on.

The trouble with Harry, once he comes home, is that he has become blackly
unrecognizable to his own family. At long last, he disinters the brush and
submits to a bath, and order is restored. Reviewers praised both Mr. Zion's text
and Ms. Graham's illustrations, which, like all her work, were notable for their
whimsy and delicacy.

HarperCollins Publishers released a 50th-anniversary edition of the book in
2006.

Ms. Graham and Mr. Zion, who married in 1948, also collaborated on three Harry
sequels: ''No Roses for Harry'' (1958), ''Harry and the Lady Next Door'' (1960)
and ''Harry by the Sea'' (1965). Their marriage ended in divorce in the late
1960s, and their creative partnership ended with it.

The couple's non-Harry collaborations include ''Really Spring,'' named a best
illustrated book of 1956 by The New York Times Book Review, and ''All Falling
Down'' (1951), a Caldecott Honor Book, as the runners-up for the Caldecott
Medal, presented annually by the American Library Association to the best
illustrated book of the year, are known.

Ms. Graham had a second Caldecott Honor Book the next year: ''The Storm Book''
(1952), written by Charlotte Zolotow.

The daughter of Malcolm Graham and the former Florence Bloy, Ms. Graham was born
in Toronto on Nov. 2, 1920. She began studying art as a child; after earning a
bachelor's degree in art history from the University of Toronto, she started her
career as a commercial artist in New York.

Her second marriage, to Oliver Wendell Holmes (no relation to the former Supreme
Court justice, Ms. Hagen said), also ended in divorce. No immediate family
members survive.

Ms. Graham also illustrated ''The Pack Rat's Day: And Other Poems'' (1974), by
Jack Prelutsky; ''What If?'' (1987), by Else Holmelund Minarik; and a series she
wrote herself about a dog name Benjy, beginning in 1971 with ''Benjy and the
Barking Bird.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/books/margaret-bloy-graham-harry-the-dirty-dog
-illustrator-dies-at-94.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margaret Bloy Graham with  her best-known illustrated book,
first published in 1956.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
MARRIAGE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%);
CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (73%); FAMILY (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%);
ART HISTORY (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (55%); AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (55%);
SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Job Filled With Forecasts That's Unpredictable by Nature

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS.

Email: swarns@nytimes.com Twitter: @rachelswarns

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE WORKING LIFE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 888 words


The meteorologist Steven DiMartino signed off Twitter at 11 p.m. last Monday,
warning his followers that ''intense heavy snow is approaching.'' After 20 hours
of blizzard-tracking for clients who pay him to predict how the weather will
affect their travel, families and businesses, he finally took a nap in his
chair.

New York City, he thought, was about to get hit hard.

Four hours later, Mr. DiMartino shook himself awake and turned to his MacBook
Pro. He stared at the satellite imagery. He refreshed the screen. Then he
refreshed it again. There was no denying it: His forecast had been way, way off.

The realization, he said, hit him like ''a sucker punch.''

''It's kind of like you're alone in the world,'' Mr. DiMartino, 35, said of that
sobering moment. ''It's kind of like you against nature and nature won.''

Of course, Mr. DiMartino wasn't alone. He had plenty of company, including Al
Roker of NBC's ''Today'' show, who had predicted that the New York region would
be ''devastated'' by a blizzard. The meteorologists at the National Weather
Service had forecast as late as 10 p.m. last Monday that 20 to 30 inches of snow
would fall in the city.

Mark W. Wysocki, New York State's climatologist, knew exactly what was coming
when he clicked on his iPad on Tuesday morning. New York City wouldn't take a
pounding, as had been forecast. But the weathermen would.

''We get shot,'' Mr. Wysocki said, anticipating complaints from New Yorkers
irritated that their city had been shut down because of ... less than 10 inches
of snow? ''The messenger gets shot.''

As we brace for yet another snowstorm, it feels like the perfect time to
consider the meteorologist: the job, the science and our insatiable hunger for
certainty.

First, the job. Many of us love to watch TV weather forecasters at work. Who
wouldn't? They summon high-tech satellite imagery and surface maps, analyze
swirling clouds and multicolored atlases, and bring us the highs and lows that
materialize like magic on our screens. They seem so reassuring, so expert.

But many lack any formal education in meteorology.

The American Meteorological Society, the professional organization in the field,
has 1,091 members who work in broadcasting. Of those, about 50 percent have
bachelor's degrees in the atmospheric sciences, said Tom Champoux, a spokesman
for the society. Mr. Roker, for instance, has a bachelor's degree in
communications.

Of course, even meteorologists with formal education in the subject sometimes
get it wrong. (National Weather Service experts, please take a bow here.)

Which brings us to the issues of science and certainty. Despite newfangled
technology and powerful computer models, there is still considerable uncertainty
in weather forecasts, a fact that is rarely emphasized or heeded enough.

During the recent non-blizzard, for instance, two computer models offered
different forecasts: The European model predicted heavy snow for the city. The
American model predicted less. Guess which one most meteorologists went with
this time?

This kind of uncertainty can be hard for people to stomach. After all, the
success of our meteorologists' working lives often affects our own.

Our political leaders count on forecasts to help decide whether to shut down
schools and subways, bridges and tunnels. And we ordinary folk want our
existential questions answered, too: Will we get to work tomorrow? Or will we be
trapped with stir-crazy kids for a snow day?

In the 21st century, in this age of technology, shouldn't we be able to say for
sure?

The answer is no.

''The public's perception is that we are whiz kids,'' said Mr. Wysocki, who is
also a senior lecturer in meteorology at Cornell University and once worked as a
television weatherman. ''What they don't realize is that these tools narrow down
the uncertainty; they don't eliminate the uncertainty.''

''What we have now,'' he explained, ''is a big disconnect with that public
perception and what we can deliver.''

For meteorologists and atmospheric scientists, whose median annual pay stood at
$89,260 in 2012, that often means high expectations, high stress and some hefty
helpings of criticism from government officials and others, whether they work in
television, in government, in academia or in the private sector.

''It's constant, huge pressure,'' said Mr. DiMartino, who owns his own business,
NY NJ PA Weather.

Gary Szatkowski, a National Weather Service forecaster based in Mount Holly,
N.J., felt so guilty about the errant predictions in last week's non-blizzard
that he apologized to public officials on social media.

''You made a lot of tough decisions expecting us to get it right, and we
didn't,'' Mr. Szatkowski posted on Twitter.

I'm not sure, though, that apologies are what we need. What we need is for
meteorologists to be much more open and explicit about the challenges of their
jobs and the limitations of their forecasts.

And we need to understand that when it comes to the weather, the only certainty
we can count on is some uncertainty.

The Times has asked Mark W. Wysocki, the New York State climatologist and a
senior lecturer in meteorology at Cornell University, to answer a selection of
readers' questions about meteorology on the City Room blog. Post your questions
there and Mr. Wysocki will reply to some of them on Feb. 2.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/a-job-of-forecasts-unpredictable-by-n
ature.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); METEOROLOGY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%);
CLIMATOLOGY (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blues and Hip-Hop Meet at the Hands of a Power Guitarist

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words


Feedback erupted time and again as Jack White headlined Madison Square Garden on
Friday night. It was no accident; Mr. White's music hangs on the edge of
overload, and the feedback only proves it. The occasional electronic screeches
were part of his joyful assault; so were the quivering whoop in his voice and
the way his guitar solos rushed way up high and stayed there, to zoom around or
wriggle and wail. And so was the flat-out bashing of the band's drummer, Daru
Jones, who often stood up to provide extra wallop.

But every so often, with the stage lights down as the crowd screamed its
applause, Mr. White and the band would quickly switch to acoustic instruments
and the music would stay rowdy but turn folksy, leaning toward country and
skiffle. Suddenly what had been a stomping, guitar-drenched blues-rock band
happened to feature a fiddle or a mandolin (played by Lillie Mae Rische) and a
pedal-steel guitar (Fats Kaplin). Mr. White has made it his business to hot-wire
the connections between roots-music styles and arena impact, and in shows like
the one he put on at Madison Square Garden, he has found an exact alchemy of
strategy and wildness.

He played most of the songs on his 2014 album, ''Lazaretto'' (Third
Man/Columbia), along with songs from his previous groups, the White Stripes and
the Raconteurs. They harked back to an arena-rock past; Led Zeppelin looms
behind Mr. White's androgynous wail, his cranked-up guitar riffs and Mr. Jones's
cymbal crashes. And Mr. White isn't shy about playing the blues-rock archetypes
of lovelorn suitor and swaggering rock stud; ''Any boy with a microphone can
tell you what he loves the most,'' he sang as he opened the concert with the
White Stripes' ''Dead Leaves and the Dirty Ground.'' But he has other things on
his mind, too, like history, literary allusions and modern technology; ''Three
Women,'' his update of Blind Willie McTell's ''Three Women Blues,'' mentions a
digital photograph. There's a thinker behind the manic howl.

A music-history assertion -- that hip-hop is the heir to deep blues -- was part
of the Madison Square Garden show. As Mr. White began ''Ball and Biscuit,'' a
volcanic slow blues, he announced that he had recently visited Mississippi and
that ''the mud on my shoes, that was probably packed on Robert Johnson's grave,
is still on the bottom of my shoes right now as they walk through Madison Square
Garden.'' He added, ''The Furious Five, Kurtis Blow, Run-DMC are no different
from Robert Johnson and Charley Patton and Blind Willie McTell,'' and called for
applause for New York hip-hop.

Then, as he sang a rap-tinged rocker, ''That Black Bat Licorice,'' Mr. White
suddenly brought out the Queens-born rapper Q-Tip, from A Tribe Called Quest,
who shouted along in Mr. White's song before the band backed Q-Tip and Mr. White
rapping A Tribe Called Quest's ''Excursions.'' Even as he reignites the old
roles of rock belter and guitar hero, champions hand-played music and pumps out
vinyl for his label, Third Man Records, Mr. White refuses to be just a
throwback. The concert's audio was livestreamed by Pandora.

Mr. White also chose the opening act: Run the Jewels, the hip-hop duo of El-P
from New York and Killer Mike from Atlanta. Their songs constantly jump-cut
between testosterone-fueled bluster and vehement anti-authority politics,
bristling with confrontational spirit. Midset, they were briefly joined by Zack
de la Rocha from Rage Against the Machine; Boots, who produced much of the
''Beyoncé'' album, also joined them to play some hard-rock guitar. Mr. White's
fans gave Q-Tip a roaring welcome. But facing the prospect of new hip-hop, many
chose to skip the opening act; apparently they prefer the throwback.

Jack White continues his tour Tuesday at McCasland Fieldhouse at the University
of Oklahoma; jackwhiteiii.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/music/jack-white-links-hip-hop-and-blues-
at-madison-square-garden.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack White  performing, center, at Madison Square Garden, where
he played most of the songs from his 2014 album, ''Lazaretto,'' and also shared
the stage with the rapper Q-Tip, from A Tribe Called Quest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBRU
YILDIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); HIP HOP
CULTURE (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%);
GARDENING (78%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ukraine Fighting Rages: 'Just a Horror Living Here'

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1050 words


DEBALTSEVE, Ukraine --  Ukrainian soldiers rattled along the snowy streets here
in armored personnel carriers with the hatches battened down, their helmeted
heads safely below plates of steel.

A few drunks staggered along the sidewalks, oblivious to the booms of artillery
echoing through town.

Stray dogs scurried about, and in another sign that nobody ventures above ground
for anything but pressing business, the carcass of one dog lay uncollected,
frozen in the middle of a street.

For more than a week, this unremarkable small town in eastern Ukraine has been
almost surrounded by attacking rebels. And because enveloping maneuvers are
common in this nine-month war, there is even a phrase for it: ''falling into a
kettle.''

Debaltseve in the kettle is a glum place. ''It's just a horror living here,''
said one woman in a crowd of mothers clutching children and packed bags made of
plastic at a bus stop, waiting for a ride out.

After seizing a strategic airport outside Donetsk a week ago, the Russian-backed
rebels have turned their sights on this town, valuable for its railroad
switching yards, which they will need to revive the economy in areas under their
control.

As fighting rages on in places like Debaltseve, the prospects for peace in
Ukraine look dim.

A new round of cease-fire talks among Ukraine, Russia, the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe and separatists broke down Saturday evening,
dashing hopes of a diplomatic breakthrough.

Ukraine's representative, former President Leonid D. Kuchma, said Sunday that
disagreement arose over a rebel demand that any new cease-fire line should
reflect gains from an offensive that began last month, rather than the line
established under a Sept. 5 agreement in Minsk, Belarus.

In Europe, too, hopes for diplomacy are fading. ''Russian separatists no longer
accept Minsk agreement,'' Carl Bildt, the former foreign minister of Sweden,
wrote on Twitter. ''And behind them is Moscow.''

It is towns like Debaltseve that have seen the worst of the fighting.

Rebels have hemmed in the town on three sides and are trying to close the
remaining gap, or the mouth of the kettle -- an exposed, 31-mile stretch of
highway across the open steppe that is being defended by Ukrainian troops.

The stakes are high for the defense of Debaltseve. If the rebels seize the road,
something that seems possible at any moment, thousands of Ukrainian soldiers and
civilians could be trapped in an area exposed to surrounding artillery. Already,
the death toll is steadily rising; on Saturday, artillery killed 12 people here.

The road is both the only means for civilians to evacuate and the only supply
route for the army.

''We have closed the kettle,'' the main rebel leader, Aleksandr V. Zakharchenko,
told Russian television Friday, making clear his intention to cut off and then
capture Debaltseve.

''Anybody who leaves this kettle will be in the interlocking field of fire of
our artillery,'' Mr. Zakharchenko added, referring to the shelling of the road.
''From today, the road is under fire.''

The authorities are scrambling to evacuate residents in minibuses, but their
numbers are inadequate; each departing vehicle leaves hundreds of women and
children behind at the bus stop. When this happens, they trudge back to a dank
basement in a train station in which they have been sheltering since the siege
began.

After nearly two weeks living in a basement without electricity, Ludmilla L.
Ulyanenko, a retired nurse, decided to risk the road out on Saturday morning --
only to find that all seats on a bus were taken.

After missing one bus, she stood on the sidewalk, pursing her lips in worry.
''This whole situation reminds me of the sinking of the Titanic,'' she said,
gesturing at the women standing about, some crying. ''They also stood around
waiting for lifeboats, and there weren't enough.''

''You don't happen to know when the next bus will come?'' she asked.

By Sunday, the road out had become all but impassable. Artillery hit two buses
packed with evacuees, wounding four people, including two children. A car with
volunteer aid workers was also struck on the road. In the town, a Grad rocket
sprayed a group waiting for buses with shrapnel, wounding eight.

Ukrainians have taken to calling Debaltseve a second battle of Ilovaisk, an
event sometimes called the ''Ilovaisk kettle,'' after the disastrous envelopment
of that city last summer by Russian-backed rebels and, Western officials say, by
regular Russian Army troops.

Today, critics have attacked the military leadership for stumbling into another
near encirclement.

The missteps were as much political as military, Semen Semenchenko, a member of
Parliament and paramilitary leader, said in an interview, a day before he
suffered a concussion in fighting in Debaltseve.

The Ukrainian Army neglected to reinforce the road because the plan was to trust
the cease-fire, he said.

In particular, a combined European, Russian and Ukrainian military monitoring
group, jointly led by a Russian general, had been regularly traveling the road,
ostensibly diminishing the chances of an attack on it.

As it turned out, when the fighting started in Debaltseve in late January, the
Russian general simply stopped making the trip, staying behind at a barracks for
peacekeeping officials.

''The general staff had a political strategy'' of trying to bolster the
cease-fire, not a military strategy to defend the town, Mr. Semenchenko said.
Not enough attention was paid to the flanks, he said, leaving the road exposed.

The Ministry of Emergency Situations in Ukraine says it is doing all it can to
diminish the risks to civilians. The ministry said 956 people, including 161
children, were evacuated from Thursday to Saturday. The prewar population was
about 10,000.

At the bus stop, all attention was focused on the battle for the road and the
journey ahead for those waiting for minibuses out. ''They shoot the buses,'' one
woman said, yelling.

Spread out along tiny checkpoints of concrete bunkers along the 31 miles of
road, Ukrainian soldiers can do nothing now but brace for assaults -- even as
the minibuses of evacuees bump slowly past.

''In the mist, you cannot see the enemy,'' Mr. Semenchenko said. ''You just hear
the incoming rockets.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/rebels-set-sights-on-small-eastern-ukrai
ne-town.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Civilians on Sunday fleeing the nearly surrounded Ukrainian town
of Debaltseve. Rebel fighters  are trying to seal off the town by seizing a
stretch of highway defended by Ukrainian troops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANU
BRABO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAPS: Debaltseve is valuable for its
railroad switching yards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT
(90%); AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR
(78%); DOGS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (54%)

CITY: MINSK, BELARUS (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BELARUS (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wisconsin's Treasurer Wants to Cut Needless Workers, Starting With Himself

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1054 words


MADISON, Wis. --  Last Wednesday, in the grand Beaux-Arts Capitol here, throngs
of lawmakers and tourists milled around upstairs. Matt Adamczyk, the newly
elected state treasurer, however, was in his basement office -- alone.

Just a week earlier, there were two other employees in the office, but Mr.
Adamczyk had them fired, explaining that they were a waste of taxpayer money and
no longer needed. Laptops and telephones were scattered around a table, remnants
from a time when the treasurer's office was much busier.

Next on Mr. Adamczyk's to-do list: Get rid of his own job.

In what may be the ultimate expression of many Republicans' desire to whittle
down government to the bone, Mr. Adamczyk ran for treasurer on the promise to
eliminate the position during his one and only term in office.

Despite its impressive name, the Office of the State Treasurer is virtually
powerless. Most of its duties have gradually been transferred to other state
agencies, like the Department of Revenue. One of the treasurer's few remaining
responsibilities is to help supervise a little-known agency called the Board of
Commissioners of Public Lands.

Mr. Adamczyk was elected by a toothpick-thin margin in November, winning with
just 49 percent of the vote.

He was sworn in on Jan. 5, and has wasted little time in beginning to fulfill
his campaign promises to cut what he sees as waste.

''I'm a big believer in efficiency,'' said Mr. Adamczyk, 36, round-faced and
garrulous. ''I've always just thought that this office doesn't really have any
duties left.''

Getting rid of his own job would require a constitutional amendment, a measure
that technically could not happen until 2017, assuming the Legislature approved
it, Mr. Adamczyk said.

But in his first few weeks in office, he has searched for what he calls
egregious government waste, and tried to stamp it out.

Eliminating his employees' jobs has saved hundreds of thousands of dollars, he
said. Then there is the smaller stuff: an unused printer sits ready to be
returned. Laptop cases that belong to no one were stacked on a wooden table. He
spent one day recently on the phone with Verizon trying to determine why his
office had more active cellphone contracts than it did employees.

During a tour of his office, Mr. Adamczyk pointed out examples of how his
predecessors, in his opinion, frittered away taxpayers' dollars.

Opening a large cardboard box, he pulled out tiny blue plastic piggy banks with
the department's name printed on the side. ''Do we need these?'' he asked. ''No,
we don't.''

Mr. Adamczyk held up a new iPhone, still sealed in plastic. ''This was a
'floater' phone,'' he said. ''No one ever used it. It cost $58 a month. You
almost can't make this stuff up.''

There is plenty of bipartisan support for abolishing the treasurer's office. But
some of Mr. Adamczyk's recent efforts to root out waste have caused many people,
including some fellow Republicans, to question whether his motives go beyond
penny pinching.

Mr. Adamczyk has garnered attention by targeting Tia Nelson, a state official
who heads the agency that he helps supervise, the Board of Commissioners of
Public Lands. Ms. Nelson is the daughter of Gaylord Nelson, a former governor
and United States senator best known for creating Earth Day.

The small agency manages some public lands, mostly in northern Wisconsin,
oversees a trust that makes loans to towns and provides money to school
libraries.

Mr. Adamczyk is one of three elected officials on the board. The others are
Secretary of State Doug La Follette, a Democrat, and Attorney General Brad
Schimel, a Republican.

According to public records, Mr. Adamczyk has repeatedly asked how the agency
spends money. Additionally, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported that he
tried to force Ms. Nelson to remove her name from the agency's letterhead but
was overruled by the other board members.

Even the agency's newspaper subscriptions have not gone unnoticed by Mr.
Adamczyk. The public lands office subscribes to several newspapers, including
The Wisconsin State Journal, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, The Wall Street
Journal and The New York Times. Mr. Adamczyk told Ms. Nelson that she should
discontinue her subscription to The Times.

''I am beyond disappointed in this expense,'' he wrote in an email to Ms.
Nelson, adding, ''this is simply a want and NOT A NEED.''

He also objected to a brief mention of global warming on the agency's website.
In an email dated Dec. 23, he wrote to Ms. Nelson, ''On the BCPL website, there
is a sentence that states: 'Global climate change is no longer debatable as a
threat to ecosystems.' Why is the BCPL concerned with discussing the hot button
issue of 'global climate change.' ''

In an interview, Mr. Adamczyk criticized Ms. Nelson -- who has spent much of her
career working on environmental policy issues -- for testifying before a
Congressional committee on global warming in 2009.

Jack Voight, a Republican and the state treasurer from 1995 to 2007, called Mr.
Adamczyk's efforts against Ms. Nelson ''a politically motivated witch hunt.''

''She did a great job when I was there, and I think she has continued to do a
great job,'' Mr. Voight said. ''She has never exhibited any political leanings
whatsoever in that office.''

When asked to comment, Ms. Nelson pointed to the agency's track record.

''The history of Wisconsin's Board of Commissioners of Public Lands is a rare
and enviable story of government success, unique in this country. Ours is the
oldest state agency and one of the smallest, yet, with bipartisan support -- a
staff of 10 and not a penny of taxpayer money, we serve the people of Wisconsin
at an operational efficiency unmatched in the private sector.''

Raised in the Milwaukee area, Mr. Adamczyk said he was politically active from a
young age, relishing his first participation in a presidential election when he
cast a vote for Bob Dole in 1996.

After graduating from the University of Wisconsin in 2000, he worked in the
Capitol for two members of the state Assembly.

The office of state treasurer caught his eye years ago, he said, because it was
so notorious among lawmakers for its lack of power.

Though he has not yet figured out a way to do so, Mr. Adamczyk has vowed to
return 25 percent of his $69,936 salary to the state.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/wisconsins-treasurer-wants-to-cut-needless-
workers-starting-with-himself.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Adamczyk, a Republican, was sworn in as Wisconsin's state
treasurer  on Jan. 5. He ran on a platform to cut government waste, including
his job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HOFFMAN/THE MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE
AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE)
(57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Turmoil, The New Republic Re-emerges on Newsstands

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words


The New Republic is a small magazine that set off a big commotion.

Late last year the magazine's owner, Chris Hughes, decided to replace Franklin
Foer, a former top editor whom Mr. Hughes had lured back to run the magazine in
2012. When word got out, Mr. Foer resigned and was followed by a dozen outraged
staff employees and dozens more contributing editors.

In the weeks that followed, the magazine, which has a relatively small print
circulation of about 45,000 and three million readers online, became a symbol
for a much bigger fear in journalism -- that the web, with its speed, its
appetites and even its money, would help bring an end to a certain kind of
thoughtful, collegial writing; that words for their own sake, not merely as
temptations for advertisers or social media algorithms, were a thing of the
past.

At the magazine's new offices in Union Square in New York last week, Gabriel
Snyder, who replaced Mr. Foer, said he had stopped reading the coverage about
his first issue, which will come out Monday. He was trying to ignore online
chatter suggesting that his choice of a cover article, about the complex history
The New Republic has with issues of race, was a cynical move mandated by Mr.
Hughes and a P.R. team. Word of the cover had leaked nearly instantly, along
with the idea that the article was some kind of tactical strike against the
former staff.

Mr. Snyder said the idea that the cover had been decided by committee was ''pure
fiction'' and added, speaking generally, that while he respects those who chose
to leave the magazine along with Mr. Foer, ''there's a line that you cross
between disagreement and actually actively trying to see its end, its demise.''

He did not specify who he thought had circulated the cover, but the animosity
from those who left the magazine still burns hot and bright.

''Merits of the story aside, it is hard to evaluate the decision to publish it
outside of Chris Hughes's desire to justify his mismanagement and ineptitude,''
Jonathan Chait, one of the contributing editors who left, said in an interview.
Asked what Mr. Hughes could do to win him and others back, Mr. Chait answered:
''If the magazine turns out to be as good as the one that Chris Hughes
destroyed, sure, that would be great.''

Mr. Snyder and a team of newly hired employees and freshly promoted staff
members given bonuses to take on extra duties plan to rebuild the magazine
around what he is calling ''fixations.'' These will be four to six topic areas,
like climate change, that are anchored by long articles but will be surrounded
by smaller pieces, videos and graphics.

Though many talented journalists left, he said, he now has the opportunity to
start with something of a blank slate, and build a modern newsroom in which
there is little distinction between print and digital.

His first issue, which comes just weeks after he took the job, includes articles
on maternity, climate change and disillusionment with the progressive president
of Uruguay. But Mr. Snyder cautioned that he had not yet decided on the specific
fixations, and that some might be dictated by the journalists he will continue
to hire.

Guy Vidra, the magazine's chief executive, who had been cast as one of the
villains of the recent turmoil, acknowledged in an interview that he speaks a
different language from some of the former staff members, and that his word
choices alienated some.

To him, journalism remains ''content.'' The vehicles for delivering journalism
are ''products.'' The New Republic's history is a ''competitive advantage'' to
be ''leveraged.''

But he said that the issue of phraseology aside, the idea that the magazine had
to decide between its heritage and its future online ''is a completely false
choice.''

He has a three-year strategy, he said, based on cultivating a loyal and engaged
audience rather than a large one. He said the magazine would target ''an
emerging generation of leaders'' between 25 and 45 who are ''urban, educated,
affluent and diverse.'' He feels there are tens of millions of people who fit
the bill, and who are very attractive to advertisers.

''Historically The New Republic spoke to a very influential but very narrow
sliver of our society,'' he said. ''And we are determined to broaden
ourselves.''

He plans to spend 2015 rebuilding and shifting the culture of the magazine, and
2016 in carrying out plans to bring in new products, such as audio versions of
stories for commuters, and create more partnerships with other platforms and
brands.

Mr. Hughes, who made hundreds of millions of dollars as a founder of Facebook,
says he too thinks in terms of years for the transition, but he declined to
specify a timeline (though the magazine has signed a 10-year lease on its new
offices, sleekly designed by the firm that did Mr. Hughes's own apartment).
''One of the key things is trying to create a culture of innovation around
here,'' he said. ''But that takes time. There's no shot clock.''

''From a financial perspective I want it to be sustainable,'' he added, ''and
thrive as a business. The more it thrives as a business the more journalism we
can do, and the more impact we can have.'' The magazine loses money, but a
representative declined to specify a precise amount.

He has spoken to some of those who have left, he said, and found that they took
a different view on the importance of such things. ''But the reason that I do
think we have to talk about apps and products, and audio and video, is because I
think that gets the high-quality journalism to a broader audience,'' he said.

''To just focus on one single way of expressing an idea,'' he said, referring to
the print magazine, ''does disservice to the journalism.''

The magazine will have to compete with various versions of itself, and with its
own diaspora. It had long been a farm team for bigger publications, and in the
weeks since the core staff fragmented, many of its members have been snapped up.
Leon Wieseltier, the longtime literary editor, joined The Atlantic. Julia Ioffe
has joined The New York Times Magazine. David Hajdu, a music critic, joined The
Nation. Jason Zengerle joined GQ.

And a few blocks away, on the fourth floor of the Huffington Post offices, Greg
Veis and Rachel Morris, former executive editors of the magazine, have started
an enterprise unit. They are aiming, with an eventual staff of four or five and
a roster of contract writers, to publish 52 longer articles a year. The
articles, Mr. Veis said in an interview last week, will focus on topics that
hold some public interest. They will be supplemented with storytelling methods
available online -- such as visualizations, graphics, videos and additional
reporting.

''The idea is when we did it in print, we would finish a story and put it out
there and it would just be this one piece,'' Mr. Veis said. On the web, he said,
it will feel ''almost like a studio system around the main piece.'' The
initiative will most likely begin in earnest in May, when The Huffington Post
has an overhaul.

He, like Mr. Foer and some other former employees, declined to comment
specifically on the magazine he left. ''I wish them luck,'' he said. ''I hope
it's good. It's an institution that I deeply, deeply love, and it would make me
happy if they did good work.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/media/after-turmoil-the-new-republic-
re-emerges-on-newsstands.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Guy Vidra, left, and Gabriel Snyder are overseeing the changes
at The New Republic. (B1)
 Chris Hughes, a founder of Facebook and owner of The New Republic, says he is
thinking in terms of years for the transition at the magazine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (78%); PRINT JOURNALISM (78%); RECRUITMENT &
HIRING (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STRIKES (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rebels Agree to Cease-Fire in South Sudan

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia --  President Salva Kiir of South Sudan and the rebel
commander Riek Machar signed another cease-fire agreement on Monday, edging them
closer to a final deal to end a 15-month conflict that has ravaged the new
country, mediators said.

African diplomatic sources said the agreement, which was not immediately made
public, sets out how the two leaders would share power once they formed an
interim government. It proposes that Mr. Kiir would remain president while Mr.
Machar would become vice president, the sources said.

The warring sides also agreed to abide by a cease-fire deal that was signed in
January 2013, but which has been frequently violated.

The rebels, however, said many more details need to be agreed upon before the
deal could be labeled a ''power sharing'' agreement.

After signing the deal, Mr. Machar said the two sides would hold more
discussions on the functions of the provisional government.

Few other details were revealed after frantic late-night talks. Regional
diplomats had warned the warring sides that failure to come up with a new accord
could lead to sanctions.

The conflict in South Sudan, Africa's newest nation and one of its poorest,
erupted in December 2013 and has rumbled on since then despite several
commitments by both sides to halt the violence.

More than 10,000 people have been killed, 1.5 million people have been driven
from their homes, and many in the oil-producing nation of about 11 million
people are struggling to find enough food to eat.

Seyoum Mesfin, the chief mediator, said the two leaders had agreed to resume
talks on Feb. 20.

The two sides must have a transitional government in place by July, when Mr.
Kiir's presidential term runs out.

Human rights groups have said both factions are responsible for ethnic killings
and other abuses, driving the nation to the brink of famine.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/africa/rebels-agree-to-cease-fire-in-sou
th-sudan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT
(90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%);
ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); FAMINE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HUMAN
RIGHTS (62%)

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%)

COUNTRY: SUDAN (94%); SOUTH SUDAN (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Heat Top Celtics to End Skid

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO BASKETBALL; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 63 words


Hassan Whiteside scored half his 20 points during a dominant stretch spanning
the third and fourth quarters to help the visiting Miami Heat survive a Boston
Celtics rally and end a two-game skid with an 83-75 victory. Chris Bosh added 18
points and Tyler Johnson had 13 for the Heat.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/basketball/heat-top-celtics-to-end-skid
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (93%); MIAMI HEAT (83%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

German Wins World Cup Jump

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | WINTER SPORTS; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 283 words


Severin Freund of Germany won a men's World Cup ski jump for his third victory
of the season in Willingen, Germany.

Freund, the Olympic champion at the 2014 Sochi Games, soared 149.5 meters for
the day's longest jump with his first effort and 146 on his second to earn 270.3
points -- 1 ahead of Norway's Rune Velta, who had jumps of 145 and 143 meters.

â-  The German Olympic champion Carina Vogt turned the tables on the Austrian
favorite Daniela Iraschko-Stolz to claim a women's World Cup ski jump in
Hinzenbach, Austria. Vogt prevailed with jumps of 92 and 90 meters for a total
of 245.2 points, while Iraschko-Stolz had jumps of 90.5 and 92.5 meters for
244.8 points. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

â-  Oskars Melbardis of Latvia won a four-man bobsled World Cup race for his
third victory this season in La Plagne, France. Melbardis and his teammates,
Daumants Dreiskens, Arvis Vilkaste and Janis Strenga, defeated the Russian squad
by 0.28 of a second.

â-  Austria's Wolfgang Kindl notched his nation's first victory in a decade in
men's singles at a luge World Cup race in Lillehammer, Norway. Russia's Semen
Pavlichenko was second on the 1994 Olympic track.

â-  The Olympic champion Joergen Graabak of Norway won his first individual
Nordic combined World Cup race in Val di Fiemme, Italy. Graabak defeated
Bernhard Gruber of Austria by 3.8 seconds.

â-  Yuko Kavaguti and Alexander Smirnov won gold medals at the European Figure
Skating Championships in Stockholm, heading a Russian sweep of the event. Ksenia
Stolbova and Fedor Klomov took silver and Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov
won bronze.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/skiing/german-wins-world-cup-ski-jumpin
g-event.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLED SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS
(90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%);
OLYMPICS (90%); 2014 SOCHI WINTER OLYMPICS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SKIING
(73%); ICE SKATING (50%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (52%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); NORWAY (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%);
SWEDEN (79%); LATVIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On a Dark Day for Seattle, a Receiver Is a Bright Spot

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 527 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  Every so often, a player comes out of nowhere and has fans
wondering, who is that guy? In this year's Super Bowl, that player was Chris
Matthews.

About a year ago, Matthews was a 25-year-old receiver hanging on with the
Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League. He was working two jobs
during the off-season when the Seahawks called him to ask if he would come in
for a tryout.

Matthews did not think he could make it in time, but his agent called and told
him to hightail it to Seattle. He did and the rest, as they say, is history.

Matthews played in only three games at the end of the regular season and did not
catch a single pass.

But two weeks ago in the N.F.C. championship game, he became a folk hero in
Seattle when he recovered an onside kick that helped the Seahawks beat the Green
Bay Packers. As reporters crowded around his locker, Matthews had a shy grin.

''I was going for a tackle 'cause I thought he caught it,'' Matthews said
matter-of-factly, referring to a Packers player.

On Sunday, with the stakes higher, Matthews did himself one better. With the
Patriots defenders all over Doug Baldwin and Jermaine Kearse, the team's two
best receivers, Russell Wilson connected with Matthews on key passes, including
a 44-yard acrobatic reception that set up the Seahawks' first score and an
11-yard touchdown in the final seconds of the left in the first half.

For someone who had not caught a single pass in the league, Matthews had one
tidy debut: Four receptions for 109 yards and one touchdown. According to the
Elias Sports Bureau, he became the second player to catch a touchdown in the
Super Bowl without having had a career reception. (The first was Percy Howard of
the Dallas Cowboys in Super Bowl X in January 1976.)

The effort was not enough to lead the Seahawks to victory, as they fell to the
Patriots, 28-24.

But Matthews's story is compelling because he is a prototypical football
journeyman. He played two seasons at a junior college in Los Angeles before
transferring to Kentucky. He was signed by the Cleveland Browns in 2011, but he
was cut after training camp and did not play that season. He then played two
seasons in Winnipeg and was named the most outstanding rookie.

Then came the Seahawks, who have made an uncanny habit of finding unheralded
free agents.

Matthews did not play like an unheralded free agent against the Patriots. With
the Seahawks' offense looking listless in the first half, Wilson found Matthews
with an arcing pass with about four minutes to go. Three plays later, running
back Marshawn Lynch ran the ball into the end zone for Seattle's first score.

After the Patriots regained the lead, Wilson marched the Seahawks down the field
in less than 30 seconds, connecting with Matthews for a score with two seconds
left in the half.

In the first drive of the second half, Wilson found Matthews again, this time
for 45 yards. Matthews spun away from the Patriots' Kyle Arrington. On the
ensuing drive, Matthews caught a 9-yard pass before Seattle scored to go up,
24-14.

Not a bad day in the office for an unheralded free agent -- even if it came in a
losing cause.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/seahawks-chris-matthews-is-an-
unheralded-star-of-a-losing-effort.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Matthews, making a catch  over New England's Kyle
Arrington,  had four receptions for 109 yards  and a score for the Seahawks on
Sunday in his Super Bowl debut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); ATHLETES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (93%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (83%); WINNIPEG BLUE
BOMBERS (58%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (55%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); WINNIPEG, MB, CANADA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA
(74%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (51%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (79%);
ARIZONA, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); OHIO, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Politically Charged Piece Meditates on Civil Liberty

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 341 words


Though set only four years ago, Laith Nakli's ''Shesh Yak'' at Rattlestick
Playwrights Theater is already heartbreakingly out of date. ''The Syrian people
will prevail,'' declares Haytham (Mr. Nakli), an activist in his 50s who has
come to New York to lead a rally. ''The world will stand by us and there will be
reform. I am sure of it.''

What has happened in Syria since those first heady days of protest is the stuff
of tragedy. What happens in New York in Mr. Nakli's play -- that's mere
melodrama.

Haytham has arrived to spend the night at the comfortable if somewhat dingy
apartment of an acquaintance, Jameel (Zarif Kabier), a writer in his 30s. Jameel
seems unusually excited by Haytham's arrival. Is this hero worship or something
more sinister? Or is Jameel simply collecting material? ''I write for TV,'' he
explains. ''Mostly humanizing terrorists.'' But Jameel has loftier aspirations:
''I do want to write a play,'' he says.

Would he write one that is at once as deeply felt and softly preposterous as Mr.
Nakli's? The plot contains a twist or two, so it would be unsporting to discuss
it too specifically. Briefly, the play is a strange and not exactly persuasive
compound of facile thriller and earnest, insubstantial meditation on freedom and
exile.

Yet under Bruce McCarty's somewhat indulgent direction, it is mostly an
opportunity for these actors to bare their hearts and occasionally their chests.
Mr. Nakli knows just the sorts of speeches and circumstances that will delight
performers, if not necessarily audiences. Mr. Nakli's Haytham, ''a brooding heap
of a man,'' has a pronounced limp and a passion for backgammon (the title refers
to a desirable backgammon roll). Mr. Kabier's Jameel has an excitable giggle,
sudden headaches and juicy monologues. Their delighted commitment to the work
feels truer and more absorbing than any of the gently outlandish action onstage.

''Shesh Yak'' continues through Feb. 22 at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224
Waverly Place, West Village; 866-811-4111, rattlestick.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/theater/shesh-yak-stars-laith-nakli-and-zarif-
kabier.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shesh Yak: Zarif Kabier, left, and Laith Nakli in this play by
Mr. Nakli, inspired by the 2011 uprising in Syria, at Rattlestick Playwrights
Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE
(78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SYRIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Edward J. Saylor of the Doolittle Raiders Dies at 94

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 786 words


SEATTLE --  Edward J. Saylor, one of the last surviving members of the Doolittle
Raiders, a band of World War II airmen who bombed Japan in early 1942, stunning
the Japanese at a time when their army and navy were racking up victories across
Asia, died on Wednesday at his home near here. He was 94.

His death was announced by the Doolittle Raiders, a group organized to honor the
airmen. Only three of the original 80 men in the squadron remain alive, the
group said. The team's leader, James H. Doolittle, who was awarded the Medal of
Honor after the raid and retired as a general in the Air Force, died in 1993.

Mr. Saylor, who enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1939 and stayed in the
military for 28 years, retiring as a lieutenant colonel, was stoic and
understated in talking about the raid, which many believed would be a suicide
mission.

The 16 B-25 bombers -- his was plane No. 15 -- could not carry enough fuel to
return to the aircraft carrier from which they took off, more than 600 miles
from Japan. Their plan was to keep going after the run and land in mainland
China, hoping to evade the Japanese Army after that.

But even taking off at all was an uncertainty. Launching land-based bombers,
laden with fuel, bombs and five-man crews, from the short runway of a carrier
designed for smaller fighter planes had been done in training, but never in
combat.

That he survived the bombing run, and the water landing of plane 15, and then a
cat-and-mouse drama for weeks with the Japanese Army as it hunted for the airmen
-- eight of the 80 men were captured and three were executed -- was just a
matter of luck and of doing one's job, Mr. Saylor said in an interview with The
New York Times last year.

''I didn't dwell on it,'' he said, his voice clipped and matter-of-fact, his
shirt buttoned to the top. ''It was just a mission we did in the war,'' he
added. ''We did what we had to do.''

In some ways, the real test for Sergeant Saylor, who turned 22 the month before
the raid, on April 18, 1942, came before takeoff, when an engine of his plane
malfunctioned in testing on the carrier Hornet as the squadron sailed west
toward Japan.

The task of finding the trouble and fixing it fell to him as the plane's
engineer gunner, he said. Disassembling a bomber engine on the heaving deck of
an aircraft carrier in the middle of the Pacific, he said, had never been done,
and it meant carrying every loose part into the fuselage as he worked, for fear
that pieces would roll off the deck into the sea. On a coffee table in his
house, he kept a replica of the gear arm that was at the heart of his, and his
engine's, trouble that day.

Military historians have said that while the raid caused relatively little
physical damage to Japan, it may well have shifted, perhaps crucially, Japan's
military strategy: Surprised and alarmed by the attack, the Japanese began to
pull back resources closer to the home islands in defense. And the raid
unquestionably boosted American morale -- a primary goal -- by proving that
United States forces had not been crippled after the disaster at Pearl Harbor in
December 1941 and a string of subsequent defeats. (The raid was dramatized in
the 1944 movie ''30 Seconds Over Tokyo,'' with Spencer Tracy as Lt. Col.
Doolittle, based on a book by Maj. Ted W. Lawson, another participant.)

The Doolittle attack ''was designed to show Japan that it was vulnerable,'' said
Col. Mark K. Wells, who teaches military history at the United States Air Force
Academy. He said that some historians had attributed the United States' victory
in the Battle of Midway in June 1942 at least in part to the altered Japanese
strategy after the raid.

Mr. Saylor, who was born on March 15, 1920, in Brusett, Mont., said he became
obsessed with aircraft engines from the moment he first saw a plane fly overhead
as a boy. He was determined to understand everything about what made flight
possible.

He continued to work with his hands after retiring from the military -- building
and selling houses, and later making stained glass art pieces.

He is survived by three children and a host of grandchildren and
great-grandchildren, said Thomas Casey, a manager of the Raiders group. Mr.
Saylor's wife of 69 years, Lorraine, died several years ago, Mr. Casey said.

In telling the story of the Doolittle attack seven decades later to The Times,
Mr. Saylor became most visibly emotional in talking about the Chinese boy who
risked his life to save the men of plane 15 by helping them evade Japanese
troops. Mr. Saylor said he vowed at the time to find the boy and bring him back
to America, but in the maelstrom of the war, the boy disappeared without a
trace.

''We owed him,'' Mr. Saylor said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/31/us/edward-j-saylor-airman-who-took-fight-to-ja
pan-with-the-doolittle-raiders-dies-at-94.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. Saylor is seen reflected in a painting that depicts
the  Doolittle raid at his home in Enumclaw, Wash., last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID RYDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); BOMBINGS
(90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NAVAL VESSELS
(89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); DEATHS (77%);
INTERVIEWS (75%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Diverse Representation for Players, Without Regulation

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

Email: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1191 words


PHOENIX -- With attention focused on the N.F.L. over the last few weeks, one of
the more intriguing concepts to emerge was a suggestion that there should be an
initiative for players, especially those in the league's black majority, to
consider African-Americans as they pick agents and lawyers.

Such an effort would be along the lines of the so-called Rooney Rule, which was
instituted in 2003 and which requires N.F.L. teams to interview minority
candidates for head coaching and senior football operations positions.

In practical terms, a similar push for players would be less a rule than a
suggestion, perhaps initiated by the N.F.L. players' union, the N.C.A.A. office
and college athletics departments. The idea would be to expose young pro-bound
athletes and their families to a universe of lawyers and agents that might be
beyond those recommended by coaches.

Here is the troubling question: In a league in which roughly 70 percent of the
players are African-American, why would you even need an initiative to persuade
them to consider African-American representation?

The reasons are multilayered and have to do with quality, trust, familiarity
and, perhaps in some cases, a mentality of questioning the ability of
African-American agents.

''A friend of mine in the business once told me that some of our own people
think that the white man's ice is colder,'' said Deryk Gilmore, an agent with
Priority Sports and Entertainment who is African-American.

For 21-year-olds, the process of choosing an agent can be overwhelming,
especially when intensified by financial need.

''There are a lot of players who may come from a one-parent home, who do not
have a lot of support,'' Gilmore said. ''And a lot of times decisions are made
by the family, and that decision is based not necessarily on who is the best
agent but who is going to give us the most amount of money right now.''

For an agency with substantial resources, extending credit or writing a check to
a family for, say, $200,000 is a small price to pay in exchange for signing a
high-profile client.

Bill Duffy, the president and chief executive of BDA Sports Management, a large
black-owned agency, said many black athletes ''would want to have a black agent
if they knew that there were enough out there who were really qualified.''

Duffy said he was ''having a feeding frenzy right now,'' adding, ''I'm getting
so many players, black, white, because I'm in the system.''

Chicago Bears cornerback Charles Tillman chose his agency, Select Sports Group,
when he broke into the N.F.L. He interviewed white and black agents.

''I don't care about race,'' Tillman, who was picked in the second round of the
2003 N.F.L. draft, said. ''I wanted someone to represent me who would do the
right job.''

Tillman said he was turned off when one African-American agent played the black
card, telling him, ''I'm a brother; I can do some things that the white man
can't do.''

''What I saw at the time,'' Tillman said, ''was that money wasn't black or
white; it was green.''

Since then, Jay Z's Roc Nation has gotten into the business; LeBron James has
signed with the Klutch Sports Group, founded by his close friend Rich Paul; and
Raymond Brothers has built an impressive agency.

As he stood along radio row on Saturday, Arizona Cardinals linebacker Lorenzo
Alexander said he was pragmatic when it came to selecting an agent.

''I'm trying to get the best guy, black or white,'' he said. ''If I'm trying to
find who has the best leverage for me, I'm going to go wherever that may be --
who has the most power, who has the most relationships.''

He added, ''A young black guy may be awesome, but if he doesn't have the
connections and the relationships needed for me to leverage myself, then I can't
go with him.''

Alexander said aspiring African-American agents might have to work with a larger
agency to establish a track record.

''You build credibility, you build relationships, so people know who you are,''
Alexander said, ''and then you can step away and say, 'I've got the experience
now; give me a shot.' ''

Still, what is the difference between teams' being required at least to
interview minority candidates for coaching positions and players' being
encouraged to interview minority candidates for representation?

''I don't see that there is difference,'' said Jim Tanner, the founder and
president of Tandem Sports & Entertainment. ''People should just naturally do
it, whether it's a team interviewing candidates or a player interviewing agents.
They should just naturally make sure that they pick from a diverse pool of
candidates.''

And that pool should include more African-Americans.

''There should be 10 dudes like me,'' Duffy said. ''I'm not smarter than these
cats. I'm not more educated. As a matter of fact, I just have an undergraduate
degree; there are guys who have an M.B.A. or law school degree.

''But those guys would have to be hired by somebody like me or by one of these
large white agencies, and they are not getting those jobs.''

The reality is that between the N.F.L. and the N.B.A., there are certainly
enough athletes to support 10 Duffys, and many more. But is there the
consciousness?

The reaction of athletes over the last few months to the killings of young
African-Americans in Staten Island, Cleveland and Ferguson, Mo., was
encouraging. It was as if the deaths had reminded the athletes that no matter
how much they were compensated or what sort of celebrity they attained, outside
the arena, without their helmets or jerseys, they could not escape their
blackness.

In truth, whether black athletes select black representation -- and help build a
black presence in the business -- is a matter of awareness, not rules. Just as
unions did not coordinate demonstrations by players, they should not have to
play a role in encouraging their members to widen their searches for agents.

Tanner, who also serves as my lawyer, said, ''This is a matter of black athletes
looking in the mirror and saying, As I conduct my business, am I giving
opportunities to people who look like me, or at least sitting down at the table
with them to evaluate their experience and expertise and ability to guide me
through my career?''

Challenging the deeply entrenched paradigm of black labor and white wealth will
require the commitment, the courage and the determination that theatrical
audiences witnessed in the critically acclaimed film ''Selma.''

There are no troopers on horses with clubs and guns. But the longstanding status
quo is protected by coaches and agents, supplemented by large numbers of
African-American players, who stand shoulder to shoulder preventing young black
agents from crossing the bridge.

''This is a tough business,'' Duffy said. ''This stuff is crazy. You've got to
be wired a certain way. You can't be some Joe Official, blue-collar, Ivy League
brother.''

He added, ''You've got to have some street, or you won't survive in this
business.''

A deviation from that model would mean a shift of consciousness. For
African-American players, this season, with its challenges, may have signified
the beginning.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/diverse-representation-without
-regulation.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%);
MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE
(77%); MINORITY GROUPS (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); LAWYERS (76%);
COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Discredited Vaccine Study's Continuing Impact on Public Health

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; RETRO REPORT; Pg.

LENGTH: 1203 words


In the churning over the refusal of some parents to immunize their children
against certain diseases, a venerable Latin phrase may prove useful: Post hoc,
ergo propter hoc. It means, ''After this, therefore because of this.'' In
plainer language: Event B follows Event A, so B must be the direct result of A.
It is a classic fallacy in logic.

It is also a trap into which many Americans have fallen. That is the consensus
among health professionals trying to contain recent spurts of infectious
diseases that they had believed were forever in the country's rearview mirror.
They worry that too many people are not getting their children vaccinated, out
of a conviction that inoculations are risky.

Some parents feel certain that vaccines can lead to autism, if only because
there have been instances when a child got a shot and then became autistic. Post
hoc, ergo propter hoc. Making that connection between the two events, most
health experts say, is as fallacious in the world of medicine as it is in the
field of logic.

An outbreak of measles several weeks ago at Disneyland in Southern California
focused minds and deepened concerns. It was as if the amusement park had become
the tragic kingdom. Dozens of measles cases have spread across California.
Arizona and other nearby states reported their own eruptions of this nasty
illness, which officialdom had pronounced essentially eradicated in this country
as recently as 2000.

But it is back. In 2014, there were 644 cases in 27 states, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Should the pace set in January
continue, the numbers could go still higher in 2015. While no one is known to
have died in the new outbreaks, the lethal possibilities cannot be shrugged off.
If the past is a guide, one or two of every 1,000 infected people will not
survive.

To explore how matters reached this pass, Retro Report, a series of video
documentaries studying major news stories of the past and their consequences,
offers this special episode. It turns on a seminal moment in anti-vaccination
resistance. This was an announcement in 1998 by a British doctor who said he had
found a relationship between the M.M.R. vaccine -- measles, mumps, rubella --
and the onset of autism.

Typically, the M.M.R. shot is given to infants at about 12 months and again at
age 5 or 6. This doctor, Andrew Wakefield, wrote that his study of 12 children
showed that the three vaccines taken together could alter immune systems,
causing intestinal woes that then reach, and damage, the brain. In fairly short
order, his findings were widely rejected as -- not to put too fine a point on it
-- bunk. Dozens of epidemiological studies found no merit to his work, which was
based on a tiny sample. The British Medical Journal went so far as to call his
research ''fraudulent.'' The British journal Lancet, which originally published
Dr. Wakefield's paper, retracted it. The British medical authorities stripped
him of his license.

Nonetheless, despite his being held in disgrace, the vaccine-autism link has
continued to be accepted on faith by some. Among the more prominently outspoken
is Jenny McCarthy, a former television host and Playboy Playmate, who has linked
her son's autism to his vaccination: He got the shot, and then he was not O.K.
Post hoc, etc.

Steadily, as time passed, clusters of resistance to inoculation bubbled up.
While the nationwide rate of vaccination against childhood diseases has stayed
at 90 percent or higher, the percentage in some parts of the country has fallen
well below that mark. Often enough, these are places whose residents tend to be
well off and well educated, with parents seeking exemptions from vaccinations
for religious or other personal reasons.

At the heart of the matter is a concept known as herd immunity. It means that
the overall national rate of vaccination is not the only significant gauge. The
rate in each community must also be kept high to ensure that pretty much
everyone will be protected against sudden disease, including those who have not
been immunized. A solid display of herd immunity reduces the likelihood in a
given city or town that an infected person will even brush up against, let alone
endanger, someone who could be vulnerable, like a 9-year-old whose parents
rejected inoculations, or a baby too young for the M.M.R. shot. Health
professionals say that a vaccination rate of about 95 percent is needed to
effectively protect a community. Fall much below that level and trouble can
begin.

Mass vaccinations have been described by the C.D.C. as among the ''10 great
public health achievements'' of the 20th century, one that had prevented tens of
thousands of deaths in the United States. Yet diseases once presumed to have
been kept reasonably in check are bouncing back. Whooping cough is one example.
Measles draws especially close attention because it is highly infectious.
Someone who has it can sneeze in a room, and the virus will linger in the air
for two hours. Any unvaccinated person who enters that room risks becoming
infected and, of course, can then spread it further. Disneyland proved a case in
point. The measles outbreak there showed that it is indeed a small world, after
all.

What motivates vaccine-averse parents? One factor may be the very success of the
vaccines. Several generations of Americans lack their parents' and grandparents'
visceral fear of polio, for example. For those people, ''you might as well be
protecting against aliens -- these are things they've never seen,'' said Seth
Mnookin, who teaches science writing at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and is the author of ''The Panic Virus,'' a 2011 book on vaccinations
and their opponents.

Mr. Mnookin, interviewed by Retro Report, said skepticism about inoculations is
''one of those issues that seem to grab people across the political spectrum.''
It goes arm in arm with a pervasive mistrust of many national institutions: the
government that says vaccinations are essential, news organizations that echo
the point, pharmaceutical companies that make money on vaccines, scientists who
have hardly been shown to be error-free.

Then, too, Mr. Mnookin said, scientists don't always do themselves favors in
their choice of language. They tend to shun absolutes, and lean more toward
constructions on the order of: There is no vaccine-autism link ''to the best of
our knowledge'' or ''as far as we know.'' Those sorts of qualifiers leave room
for doubters to question how much the lab guys do, in fact, know.

Thus far, the Disneyland measles outbreak has failed to deter the more fervent
anti-vaccine skeptics. ''Hype.'' That is how the flurry of concern in California
and elsewhere was described by Barbara Loe Fisher, president of the National
Vaccine Information Center, an organization that takes a dim view of
vaccinations. The hype, Ms. Fisher said in a Jan. 28 post on her group's
website, ''has more to do with covering up vaccine failures and propping up the
dissolving myth of vaccine acquired herd immunity than it does about protecting
the public health.'' Clearly, she remained untroubled that most health
professionals regard her views as belonging somewhere in Fantasyland.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/a-discredited-vaccine-studys-continuing-imp
act-on-public-health.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); MEASLES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); MUMPS
(78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%);
ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); MMR VACCINE (74%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTISM (73%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (70%); PHYSICIANS &
SURGEONS (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Melodist and Minimalist in Harmony

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words


Oscillating tones, shimmering and percussive, echoed through the Appel Room on
Saturday as an array of musicians from various musical worlds performed works by
Stephen Sondheim and Steve Reich. This Lincoln Center American Songbook concert
was a genial two-hour-plus seminar, moderated by John Schaefer, in which the
composers chatted and compared notes in a program whose selections followed a
through-line, each piece roughly continuing the style of the one before. An
excellent trio (Tedd Firth on piano, John Beal on bass, Paul Pizzuti on drums)
anchored Mr. Sondheim's songs.

The concert illustrated a mutual interest in what, for lack of a better term,
might be called musical pointillism. Mr. Sondheim freely acknowledged his debt
to Mr. Reich in his score for ''Sunday in the Park With George,'' the musical
written with James Lapine, about the painter Georges Seurat and his most famous
work, ''A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.''

Above all, Mr. Sondheim said, he is a harmonist whose songs are inspired by
theatrical characters. He said that the pop revolution of the 1960s had freed
him from the pressure to write stand-alone songs that might be hits. Mr. Reich
is a Minimalist whose pieces, unlike Mr. Sondheim's, often lack clear-cut
beginnings, middles and ends. Even as it changes texture, his music hovers.

The show began with a performance by Alexander Gemignani of ''Finishing the
Hat'' (from ''Sunday''), followed by Mr. Reich's more abstract and heavily
percussive ''Finishing the Hat -- Two Pianos,'' performed by Anthony de Mare and
Blair McMillen on facing keyboards.

A ravishingly beautiful medley of ''Color and Light,'' and ''Move On'' from
''Sunday,'' sung by Mr. Gemignani and Kate Baldwin, was followed by Mr. Reich's
scintillating ''Electric Counterpoint,'' in which the guitarist Derek Johnson
accompanied a recording of Pat Metheny. This bracing musical dialogue with the
self, first recorded by Mr. Metheny in 1987 and since adapted for other
instruments, is a slowly evolving organism whose themes seem to chase each other
around in circles. If Mr. Sondheim is a traditional melodist in the romantic
tradition, Mr. Reich is master of the half-melody.

Then there were three songs from the Sondheim score for ''Company,'' led off by
Ms. Baldwin's rendition of ''Another Hundred People.'' With its rapid-fire
staccato diction, the song almost doesn't need lyrics to convey a rush-hour
freneticism. Ms. Baldwin was joined by the singer Michael Cerveris for
''Barcelona,'' followed by his rendition of ''Marry Me a Little.''

Next came Mr. Reich's ''Radio Rewrite,'' which integrates barely recognizable
fragments of two songs by Radiohead: ''Everything in its Right Place'' and
''Jigsaw Falling Into Place.'' Scored for a small orchestra (conducted by Jerry
Hou) that included two vibraphones and two pianos, it is a vigorous pulsing
piece charged with purpose.

The evening concluded with ''Poems'' and ''Someone in a Tree,'' both from
''Pacific Overtures,'' which with its fragmented lyrics and pentatonic melodies
is as close to outright Minimalism as Mr. Sondheim has gotten.

As much as the concert emphasized their similarities, you would never confuse
Mr. Reich and Mr. Sondheim. They rule adjacent territories whose borders are
sharply defined.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/music/sondheim-and-reich-at-lincoln-cente
r.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reich and Sondheim: In Conversation and Performance: From left,
Stephen Sondheim, Steve Reich and John Schaefer, who moderated this event in the
Lincoln Center American Songbook series. Below, Kate Baldwin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Settling Case, S.&P. Is Seen Backing Down

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 911 words


Standard & Poor's, the giant credit rating agency accused of inflating the
subprime mortgage bubble, had long been convinced that a Justice Department
lawsuit lacked merit. So convinced, in fact, that it portrayed the lawsuit as an
act of ''retaliation'' for its decision to cut the credit rating of the United
States in the summer of 2011.

Now that S.&P. is poised to settle that case, as well as lawsuits from 19 state
attorneys general across the country, the rating agency is walking back that
claim.

As part of a $1.37 billion settlement deal expected this week, S.&P. has agreed
to acknowledge that it never found evidence supporting its accusations of
retaliation, people briefed on the matter said.

The Justice Department, which long scoffed at S.&P.'s claims, had emphasized the
retraction as a sticking point in the settlement talks. S.&P. eventually agreed,
the people said, though its acknowledgment does not address whether additional
depositions would have yielded a different conclusion.

The concession -- an unexpected about-face for the rating agency -- will appear
as one element in a broader statement of facts that S.&P. negotiated with state
and federal authorities. While S.&P. agreed to many of the government's demands,
the people said, it managed to avoid an admission that it had committed fraud,
an important victory for the rating agency.

As the S.&P. case winds down in the coming days, closing the book on one of the
government's signature Wall Street cases, other investigations stemming from the
financial crisis are gaining steam.

S.&P. was not the only rating agency to draw scrutiny. After more than four
years of investigating the role of Moody's, S.&P.'s rival, in stoking the
mortgage crisis, the Justice Department recently secured a breakthrough, the
people briefed on the matter said. It is too soon to tell, however, whether the
recent developments will breathe enough new life into the long-running inquiry
that Moody's will face a lawsuit. The Connecticut attorney general's office,
which was one of the first to sue S.&P., also filed a case against Moody's.

Some banks also remain on the government's radar. The Justice Department, which
already obtained tens of billions of dollars from banks suspected of duping
investors into buying troubled mortgage investments, has turned its focus to
Morgan Stanley, one of the people briefed on the matter said. A settlement is
expected in the first quarter of the year.

The investigations into Wall Street misdeeds typically follow a similar path:
one that results in a settlement. It is rare for a financial institution to
gamble its fate in the courtroom, fearing that a protracted legal battle would
alienate the government and unnerve shareholders.

S.&P. bucked that trend. Faced with demands that it pay more than $1 billion to
settle with the Justice Department and the state attorneys general -- similar to
the demands that it has now accepted -- it initially chose to fight instead.

The Justice Department's lawsuit, filed two years ago this week, accused S.&P.
of fraud. Saying that S.&P. falsely claimed that its ratings ''were objective,
independent, uninfluenced by any conflicts of interest,'' the lawsuit argued
that S.&P. actually inflated its ratings of mortgage securities to appease the
Wall Street banks that had devised the investments. A conflict of interest --
the banks paid S.&P. to rate the deals -- ''improperly influenced'' the ratings
criteria, the Justice Department said.

S.&P., a unit of McGraw Hill Financial, fought back, saying that its claims of
objectivity were mere ''puffery,'' akin to corporate marketing, and could not be
taken seriously. The rating agency, which called the Justice Department's
lawsuit ''meritless'' and vowed to fight it ''vigorously,'' hired at least five
law firms to handle the case.

The lawyers engineered a broad response to the government. Indeed, in its answer
to the Justice Department's complaint, S.&P. offered 19 different defenses to
the charges. But one defense -- that the Justice Department ''commenced this
action in retaliation'' for the downgrade of the United States credit rating --
garnered the most public attention.

''Only S&P Ratings downgraded the United States and only S&P Ratings has been
sued by the United States,'' the filing noted.

S.&P. then took its claims a step further, submitting an affidavit from an S.&P.
executive who said that Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary at the time
of the downgrade, had warned that S.&P.'s conduct would be ''looked at very
carefully.''

At the time, a spokeswoman for Mr. Geithner said that ''the allegation that
former Secretary Geithner threatened or took any action to prompt retaliatory
government action against S.&P. is false.''

But that did not stop S.&P. from subpoenaing Mr. Geithner. The judge overseeing
the case supported the S.&P.'s request.

Floyd Abrams, a noted First Amendment lawyer who often represents S.&P.,
ultimately became the face of the retaliation defense.

During an appearance on CNBC on the heels of the Justice Department's filing of
the case, Mr. Abrams was the first to link the federal investigation to S.&P.'s
decision in 2011 to cut the United States credit rating below the top grade of
AAA.

''The intensity of the investigation,'' he told the network, ''significantly
increased'' after the downgrade.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/settling-case-standard-poors-backs-off-cl
aims-of-government-retaliation/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Standard & Poor's is expected to say it never found evidence of
retaliation for its cutting the credit rating of the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); CREDIT RATINGS (90%);
JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING &
FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL
(89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); DEPOSITIONS (78%);
MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%);
MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (74%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); MOODY'S CORP (84%);
MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES
(92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Reveals Boss's Role in Capturing a Mercenary

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 665 words


In May 2013, court papers say, Joseph Hunter, a soldier of fortune, got an email
from his boss. The boss, a South African named Paul Le Roux, wanted Mr. Hunter's
assistance with ''a priority job.''

Six months earlier, after sailing out of Ecuador, a 40-foot yacht hired by Mr.
Le Roux had crashed on the shores of a South Pacific island. The local police
found a dead Slovakian man onboard and $100 million worth of cocaine inside the
boat's hull. In the ensuing weeks, Mr. Le Roux wrote to Mr. Hunter, the yacht's
captain had turned state's evidence and begun ''providing tips'' to American
authorities.

And so in his email, court papers say, Mr. Le Roux asked Mr. Hunter ''to fix
this issue.'' The papers add that Mr. Hunter, in an email of his own, told his
boss, ''My guys will handle it.''

The way that Mr. Hunter, 49, allegedly handled it, by planning to assassinate
the captain and an American federal agent, led to his arrest and extradition to
New York. But on Friday, for the first time, federal prosecutors acknowledged
that the sting operation that led to Mr. Hunter's arrest was launched with the
help of Mr. Le Roux himself.

The alleged plans were never carried out, and Mr. Hunter remains imprisoned in
New York.

The official disclosure of Mr. Le Roux's involvement in the case, which The New
York Times reported in December was contained in documents filed by the
government on Friday night in response to arguments by Mr. Hunter's lawyer that
the case against his client should be dismissed. In January, the lawyer, Marlon
Kirton, filed a motion asserting that the Drug Enforcement Administration had
entrapped his client and accusing prosecutors of ''outrageous government
conduct'' for having used Mr. Le Roux as a cooperating witness.

In the filing submitted on Friday, the prosecutors acknowledged that Mr. Le Roux
-- referred to in the documents as CW-1 -- had been arrested by the D.E.A. in
September 2012 and had subsequently helped the agency in its pursuit of Mr.
Hunter. At the time of his arrest, the documents say, Mr. Le Roux was a veteran
outlaw whose crimes included arranging murders, trafficking in methamphetamine,
money laundering, mail fraud, wire fraud and ''other serious offenses.''

Nonetheless, his role in helping to capture Mr. Hunter, who used the nickname
Rambo, was not unusual, prosecutors said. ''The government's use of a
cooperating witness with a violent criminal history is, in fact, commonplace in
sting operations targeting narcotics and violent crimes,'' the prosecutors
wrote.

In seeking to rebut Mr. Kirton's accusations of entrapment, the prosecutors
argued that Mr. Hunter was not ''a fearful victim who was manipulated by the
Government to violate the law'' but ''an active participant'' in
''murder-for-hire conspiracies.'' They maintained that Mr. Hunter had killed
before, quoting covertly made recordings in which they said he could be heard
boasting that, in a single year, he had helped kill nine people on Mr. Le Roux's
behalf.

Most of the recordings were made in a house in Phuket, Thailand where, in March
2013, Mr. Le Roux sent Mr. Hunter, at the D.E.A.'s request, to meet with two
undercover operatives who were posing as members of a Colombian drug cartel. Six
months later, as a pair of hit men recruited by Mr. Hunter were about to commit
the contract killings -- in Liberia -- the Thai police raided the house in
Phuket, arresting Mr. Hunter before his extradition to New York.

Two of Mr. Hunter's co-defendants in the murder-for-hire case, Timothy
Vamvakias, a former American soldier, and Dennis Gogel, a German military
veteran, pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges last month in Federal District
Court in Manhattan. Two other men named in the case, Michael Filter, a retired
German soldier, and Slawomir Soborski, who once served in the Polish armed
forces, still face narcotics and murder conspiracy charges. They have pleaded
not guilty, as has Mr. Hunter. His trial is scheduled to begin on March 9.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/us-reveals-criminal-bosss-role-in-cap
turing-a-mercenary.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Hunter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (89%); ENTRAPMENT (89%); WITNESSES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL
CRIME (87%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (87%); EVIDENCE (78%); MURDER (76%); NARCOTICS
ENFORCEMENT (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS
(74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); WIRE FRAUD (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); DRUG
TRAFFICKING (70%); COCAINE (70%); METHAMPHETAMINE (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%);
MAIL FRAUD (60%); ASSASSINATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


We will not replace our pens with guns. But the situation could arise where we
are required to serve our country.

NAHEED HUSSAIN, a lecturer at a women's college in Peshawar, Pakistan, where the
police are offering firearms training since the Taliban killed 150 people at a
school. [A1]



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); SINGLE SEX EDUCATION (86%); TALIBAN
(83%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carroll Petrie, 90, Philanthropist

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 414 words


Carroll Petrie, a prominent socialite and philanthropist who gave hundreds of
millions of dollars to museums, hospitals and charities, continuing the largess
of her husband, the retailing mogul Milton Petrie, after his death in 1994, died
on Jan. 22 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90.

Her death was confirmed by Jay Goldberg, the executor of her will and president
of the Carroll Petrie Foundation.

After Milton and Carroll Petrie were married in 1978, they gave away large
portions of his fortune, which Forbes magazine estimated at nearly $1 billion at
his death. They gave to the Museum of Modern Art, where a cafe on the fifth
floor is named after them, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which opened the
Carroll and Milton Petrie European Sculpture Court in 1990. Other major
beneficiaries included NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center and the Parrish Art Museum on the East End of Long Island.

Mrs. Petrie cut an elegant figure at galas, draped in gowns by Chanel, Valentino
and Scaasi, and regularly appeared in society columns alongside boldface names
like Barbara Walters, Oscar de la Renta, Michael R. Bloomberg and Michael
Douglas.

After her husband's death she was a trustee of the Carroll and Milton Petrie
Foundation, which was endowed with more than $300 million for various charitable
endeavors. The New York Times reported in 1994 that she also inherited a $150
million trust fund, ''$5 million in cash, two homes, including a Fifth Avenue
apartment, planes, cars, jewels, art and antiques -- the requisite paraphernalia
for life at the high end.''

Carroll McDaniel was born on Jan. 25, 1924, in Greenville, S.C. She moved to New
York and became a model in the mid-1940s after attending Converse College in
Spartanburg, S.C., for two years. She later financed the Petrie School of Music
there.

Some years later she married Alfonso Cabeza de Vaca y Leighton, who was a
racecar driver and the Marquis of Portago in Spain. They lived in Paris until he
died in a crash during a race in 1957. She had two other marriages, both ending
in divorce, before marrying Mr. Petrie. Mrs. Petrie also had a home in Palm
Beach, Fla.

Her survivors include a daughter, Andrea Portago, and three grandchildren.

Mrs. Petrie's foundation, along with the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, created the Dog Rescue Project in 2012. The project used $1
million to move dogs from overcrowded shelters to more spacious ones.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/carroll-petrie-a-new-york-philanthrop
ist-dies-at-90.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carroll Petrie continued the philanthropy of her husband.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD TRENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHARITIES (90%);
FOUNDATIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); DOGS
(78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL
CENTERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES
(73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); ANIMAL WELFARE
(64%); AUTO RACING (61%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); CANCER (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM
OF ART (56%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (51%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (72%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA
(53%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH
CAROLINA, SC, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Training Teachers to Take Aim Against Taliban

BYLINE: By ISMAIL KHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PESHAWAR JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words


PESHAWAR, Pakistan --  Gunfire rang out as Fatima Bibi squeezed off three shots,
hitting her target every time. Then she lowered her Glock pistol, turned to her
fellow academics and smiled.

Her instructor was smiling, too.

''These ladies are better shots than some of our men,'' said Abdul Latif, a
police firearms instructor. ''They learned to handle a gun in just two days.
Their confidence level is remarkable.''

Dangerous times call for unusual measures in northwestern Pakistan, where the
police are offering firearms instruction to schoolteachers and university
lecturers since the Taliban massacred 150 people at a Peshawar school in
December.

Ms. Bibi was one of eight lecturers from the Frontier College for Women, a
postgraduate college, who attended a two-day firearms course at the provincial
police firing range last week.

They learned to load, aim and fire weapons ranging from pistols to assault
rifles; they also discussed self-defense techniques, and how to defend their
students if the Taliban stormed in during class.

''The December 16 tragedy showed us that we need to learn to be able to take
care of ourselves and our students,'' said Naheed Hussain, an assistant
professor, who took the course while still wearing her black teaching robe. ''We
will not replace our pens with guns. But the situation could arise where we are
required to serve our country.''

The initiative for the gun lessons comes from the provincial government and the
police authorities in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province as part of a push to increase
security at schools. The province has borne the brunt of Pakistani Taliban
attacks over the years.

Gun ownership is common across northwestern Pakistan, which is largely populated
by ethnic Pashtuns and includes the restive tribal districts. But the advent of
armed teachers has made uneasy many parents, who say it is the responsibility of
the state, and not teachers, to protect schools and universities.

The notion of armed female teachers, in particular, has provoked consternation
across conservative Pashtun society, raising a storm of protest that officials
say could call the entire plan into doubt.

''How can we teach with a gun in one hand and a book in another?'' asked Malik
Khalid Khan, president of the All Primary Schools Teachers Association.

Abaseen Yusufzai, head of the Pashto department at Islamic College University,
said, ''This is the stupidest and most illogical thing that has happened in
Pashtun society in living memory.''

''Women provide moral support, food and water to our warriors,'' Mr. Yusufzai
continued. ''But never in our history have they been required to take up arms.
It suggests that the men have lost their nerve, and the courage to fight.''

Security experts expressed skepticism about the ability of teachers to hold back
Taliban militants, who are often primed with drugs when they wage suicide
assaults.

''How can you expect a woman with a 9-millimeter pistol to forestall a group of
terrorists?'' said Mahmood Shah, a retired army brigadier who was in charge of
security for the tribal belt after 2001. ''It's just nonsense.''

Mr. Shah said he opposed weapons for both male and female teachers. ''Two days
training and 10 shots do not make an expert in firearms,'' he said. ''This is
militarizing our educational institutions and putting both teachers and children
at greater risk.''

But the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provincial government, which is controlled by the
party of the firebrand opposition politician Imran Khan, says it has little
choice but to use drastic measures.

Mushtaq Ghani, the provincial minister for education and information, said the
province's 65,000 police officers were not enough to secure its 45,000 schools,
colleges and universities.

''This is an extraordinary time,'' he told reporters last week. ''We don't want
teachers to take up guns, but it is necessary in the circumstances.''

In addition to the possibility of armed teachers, the authorities have ordered
schools to raise boundary walls and hire armed security guards -- expensive
measures that many schools say they cannot afford.

But Muhammad Atif, the minister for elementary education, said the government
was redirecting $15 million in government money earmarked for school sanitary
facilities and drinking water into the new security measures.

''There are 4,700 schools in this province that do not have boundary walls,'' he
said. ''So let's build walls first and think of toilets and drinking water
later.''

The provision for armed teachers comes with safeguards, officials say. Only
teachers who are nominated by their principal and pass the normal gun licensing
process will be allowed to carry a firearm in class.

The program is entirely voluntary, and teachers will not be allowed to display
their guns openly.

Teachers themselves say they are conflicted -- uncomfortable at the prospect of
carrying a firearm, yet haunted by memories of the bloodshed at the Army Public
School in December, when seven heavily armed militants strode the corridors,
flinging grenades and shooting down students.

''As I gripped the gun and opened fire I started to sweat, thinking I should
have a pen in my hand and not a gun,'' said Akhtar Nagina, a physics lecturer at
the Frontier College for Women. ''But then I remembered what the terrorists had
done. And I figured I should at least have a gun in my purse, for my own
protection.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/training-teachers-to-take-aim-against-te
rrorists.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Weapons training for teachers in Peshawar, where the Taliban
massacred 150 people at a school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A MAJEED/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 The police are offering firearms instruction to schoolteachers and university
lecturers since the  Taliban massacred 150 people at a Peshawar school in
December. The program is voluntary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARSHAD ARBAB/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL
TEACHERS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALIBAN
(90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); MUSLIMS
& ISLAM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); CAMPUS SECURITY
(76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); WOMEN (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%);
WOMEN WORKERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%);
RELIGION (50%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parking Rules

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 26 words


Because of inclement weather, alternate-side street-cleaning regulations will be
suspended in New York City on Monday. Other regulations will remain in effect.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Predators Blank Penguins; Blues Win Their 5th Straight

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.H.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


Connor Hutton stopped 21 shots to earn his second career shutout as the
Nashville Predators beat the host Pittsburgh Penguins, 4-0, on Sunday.

Gabriel Bourque, Roman Josi, Eric Nystrom and Mike Fisher scored, helping the
Predators to their first regulation win in Pittsburgh in 11 years.

Hutton improved to 3-1-2 while filling in as Nashville's No. 1 goaltender while
Pekka Rinne recovers from a sprained knee that is expected to sideline him for
at least another week. The Predators ended a five-game losing streak to
Pittsburgh by taking advantage of sloppy play by the Penguins, who have lost six
of eight.

Nystrom and Bourque pounced on Pittsburgh turnovers -- one of them by the
captain Sidney Crosby -- to give Hutton all the support he needed.

Marc-Andre Fleury made 20 saves for the Penguins but received no help from
Pittsburgh's sputtering offense.

The Penguins have scored just two goals in their last three games, both in an
overtime win on Friday against the Devils.

BLUES 4, CAPITALS 3 Alexander Steen had two goals and an assist, Brian Elliot
stopped 33 shots, and streaking St. Louis held on to defeat host Washington.

Dmitrij Jaskin and Vladimir Tarasenko also scored for the Blues, winners of five
straight and 10 of 11. T. J. Oshie added three assists.

Washington's Alex Ovechkin scored twice, giving him a league-leading 31 goals.
He became the fifth player in N.H.L. history to start his career with 10 30-goal
seasons.

Ovechkin, who added an assist, has 15 goals in his last 15 games.

Karl Alzner also scored for Washington, which is 1-4-2 in its last seven games.

Nicklas Backstrom and Mike Green had two assists each. Justin Peters made 36
saves.

COYOTES 3, CANADIENS 2 Lauri Korpikoski scored two power-play goals, Louis
Domingue won in his first N.H.L. start, and visiting Arizona beat Montreal.

Domingue, 22, who is from the Montreal area, helped end the Canadiens' five-game
winning streak. He got off to a rough start -- Alex Galchenyuk scored twice on
Montreal's first four shots in the opening 4 minutes 55 seconds -- but wound up
making 18 saves.

Oliver Ekman-Larsson also scored for the Coyotes against the backup goaltender
Dustin Tokarski.

WILD 4, CANUCKS 2 Devan Dubnyk stopped 35 shots, and Minnesota beat host
Vancouver.

Zach Parise, Jared Spurgeon, Thomas Vanek and Jason Zucker scored for the Wild.
Zucker sealed it with an empty-net goal with 55 seconds left.

Ronalds Kenins and Daniel Sedin scored for the Canucks. Ryan Miller made 16
saves for Vancouver.

Vanek scored his 10th goal of the season at 7:20 of the third period to make it
3-0. He took a pass from Mikael Granlund just past center ice, drifted to the
right and shot above Miller's blocker.

Kenins and Sedin scored goals just over a minute apart to get the Canucks close.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/hockey/predators-blank-penguins-blues-w
in-their-5th-straight.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Blues' Vladimir Tarasenko  after scoring in a 4-3 victory
over the Capitals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS BLUES (94%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (94%); PITTSBURGH
PENGUINS (94%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%)

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (86%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (86%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%);
BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Popular Demand

BYLINE: By SHELLY FREIERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 95 words


The prime-time audience for cable broadcasts is shrinking further, as viewers
turn to streaming and on-demand services on their televisions or mobile devices.

Nickelodeon announced on Thursday that it would offer its own streaming
subscription service, featuring popular shows like ''Fairly Odd Parents,''
above. Its average audience for Nick at Nite, which shows older sitcoms like
''Full House,'' stayed steady at about one million households last year, but
NickJr., aimed at its youngest viewers, dropped to 330,000 households, down 9.3
percent from 2013. SHELLY FREIERMAN



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICKELODEON) CHARTS: TURNING TO OTHER SCREENS
MAGAZINES (Print/Digital)
BROADCAST TELEVISION
MOVIE BOX OFFICE
MUSIC ALBUMS
CABLE TELEVISION
DVD RENTALS
MUSIC DOWNLOADS (Sources: Nielsen
Studio System/Hollywood.com
Home Media Magazine
Min/MPA
 Billboard/Nielsen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (86%); MOBILE DEVICES
(85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

At 37 and Coming Off Surgery, Miller Readies for Season Debut

BYLINE: By KELLEY McMILLAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 676 words


BEAVER CREEK, Colo. --  The six-time Olympic medalist Bode Miller, who has not
raced this season because of a back injury, has confirmed that he will compete
in the Alpine world championships, which are set to begin here Tuesday.

''I'm going to race the downhill, the super-G, and we're trying to figure out if
I will race the combined,'' Miller said by telephone Saturday. ''But as of right
now, it doesn't look likely, as I haven't had any slalom, and my slalom setup
isn't that comfortable for me.''

If all goes according to plan, Miller's first race will be the super-G on
Wednesday, followed by the downhill on Saturday and the Alpine combined on
Sunday. He was the runner-up in the giant slalom here in 2013 but will forgo the
event this year because it is the most taxing on his back.

Miller, 37, is recovering from an operation he had in November to repair a
herniated disk sustained in a crash while he was competing last March at the
World Cup finals in Lenzerheide, Switzerland.

''My back seems good,'' he said. ''It's obviously the sort of thing where the
closer you get to being 100 percent healthy, the more danger there is, because
you stop protecting it and you stop being real careful, which you need to do to
race well.''

Despite his ailing back, Miller, who has collected four world championship gold
medals and one silver, is confident in his chances in Beaver Creek.

''I wouldn't be racing if I wasn't trying to win or get medals,'' he said. ''I
hope to be on the podium, but it's going to be a challenge, because everyone is
skiing well and it's my first race of the year.''

Forest Carey, coach of the United States ski team, agreed that Miller would be a
contender.

''He's won this hill three times,'' Carey said. ''A year ago, he was one of the
top three downhillers in the world. As recently as last season, he was skiing at
the top, top level, and he's been doing it for 15 years. He knows what it takes.
And he's Bode, so you never know.''

Miller is among the oldest competitors on the hill. He enters the world
championships, his seventh, expecting a child in late May with Morgan, his wife
of two years -- circumstances that are edging him closer than ever to
retirement.

''I've been in the same position a long time, where if everything works out,
I'll continue,'' Miller said. ''But there's a lot of things going on, with
Morgan being pregnant, that are making it more a challenge to continue. I would
say things are consistently pushing me toward retirement, but there's nothing
definitive yet.''

Morgan Miller said she was not convinced that her husband was about to retire.

''When we met, he said he was going to retire,'' she said. ''And now it's two
years later, and he hasn't retired. Going into the season this year, with him
saying this could be the end, I don't really think too much of it.''

With six Olympic medals, five world championship medals and 33 World Cup wins,
Miller is one of the most accomplished ski racers in history. As he looks back
at his career, it is not his collection of trophies and medals that he is most
proud of, but the way he won them.

''I've tried to ski with intensity and with how I believe the sport should be
done,'' Miller said. ''I lived my whole career that way, and that's something
I'm proud of. It's not easy to do when there's pressures from outside to adhere
to the norm and what everyone wants you to do. It's been a lot of sticking to
what I believe in and seeing things through.''

His future after ski racing will focus on his family and several projects he is
involved with, including horse racing; the Turtle Ridge Foundation, which
supports sports for young people and those with disabilities; and the Grilled
Cheese Truck, a food-truck company that employs military veterans.

When the time does come, Miller said, he will be at ease with the prospect of
retiring.

''I've raced a lot of races and I can always ski, and that will be great,'' he
said. ''The opportunity to race on some of these great courses is unique, and
I've had a great, long run.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/skiing/at-37-and-coming-off-surgery-bod
e-miller-readies-for-season-debut.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bode Miller during a training run Sunday for the Alpine world
championships. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANS KLAUS TECHT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (90%); SKIING (90%);
BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); WOUNDS
& INJURIES (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Piling on Work to Escape Gap in Health Law

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words


AUSTIN, Tex. --  Alma Ramos, a soft-spoken prep cook at a Tex-Mex restaurant,
was eager to sign up for health insurance through the new HealthCare.gov
marketplace last year. But Ms. Ramos, a single mother of three, quickly hit a
baffling hurdle.

Because of a wrinkle in the Affordable Care Act, Ms. Ramos made too little money
to receive federal aid for buying private insurance -- and too much to qualify
for Medicaid, the government health care program for the poor. But she found a
solution.

Encouraged by counselors at a storefront enrollment center here, she took on
more work, busing tables at night and, more recently, cooking tamales to sell
out of her tiny apartment. By raising her annual income to about $24,000, Ms.
Ramos, 39, qualified for a subsidy that enabled her to buy insurance for just
$20 a month.

''I want to be covered for my kids,'' she said. ''I'll do whatever I need to
do.''

Ms. Ramos is one of many low-income, working adults who are caught in what
experts call the coverage gap, eligible for neither federal subsidies nor
Medicaid because they live in states that have declined to expand Medicaid under
the health care law. And like Ms. Ramos, many of those people are taking second
jobs or working extra hours to increase their incomes, hoping to become eligible
for assistance that will enable them to afford marketplace plans.

All told, four million adults in nearly two dozen states fall into the gap, and
Texas has the most, nearly one million. Though it is impossible to know how many
of these people are trying to bolster their incomes, enrollment counselors
around the country say they routinely help people think through whether they can
scrape together extra income to qualify for financial help.

''If they are self-employed and clean houses, we calculate how much do you get
per house?'' said Elizabeth Colvin, who runs an enrollment program through
Foundation Communities, a nonprofit group here. ''Could you do one extra house a
month?''

''Sometimes they're like, 'I'm doing all I can; I can't do any more,' '' she
said. ''But then sometimes they're like, 'Yes, I'm actually looking for a
part-time job right now.' ''

The gap is a consequence of the 2012 Supreme Court decision upholding major
pieces of the Affordable Care Act. The law was written with the expectation that
all states would expand Medicaid to cover nearly all low-income adults, so those
who make less than the federal poverty level are not eligible for subsidies. But
the court allowed states to opt out of expanding Medicaid, and 22 states, most
of them Republican-controlled, have done so.

Without the expansion, Texas has some of the strictest Medicaid eligibility
rules in the country, barring most adults from coverage unless their income is
19 percent of the poverty level or below -- and, even then, only if they have
dependent children. For a single parent with two children, for example, the
number would be $3,760 a year.

But people like Laura Hillenbrand have managed to earn their way out of the
coverage gap.

Ms. Hillenbrand, 28, earned $11,000 working part time at a wholesale bakery and
a farmer's market here in 2013. She listed that amount when she first applied
for health insurance a year ago, and was deemed ineligible for subsidies because
her income was under the federal poverty level of $11,670 for a single person.

But Ms. Hillenbrand wanted insurance so much -- she rides her bicycle
everywhere, she said, and worries about getting hurt -- that she investigated
further. After talking with a Foundation Communities counselor, she determined
that she could add enough hours at the bakery to get above the threshold. Now
she pays about $53 a month for her plan, with a subsidy of $141.

''I needed to earn more money in general, and I'm glad I could,'' Ms.
Hillenbrand said, adding that she had gone through a divorce and faced higher
housing expenses. ''But it's pretty ridiculous that if you don't make enough,
you don't get Obamacare.''

Some people are avoiding the gap through sheer luck. Deysi Torres, 20, a
waitress who was recently reassigned to a busier shift, estimates that she will
make $18,000 this year -- about $2,300 above the subsidy threshold for her
household of two. On her old shift, she said, she made $14,000 a year and would
not have qualified. Ms. Torres smiled one recent afternoon as she enrolled in a
Humana plan that will cost $28 a month, with a subsidy of $86.

Ms. Colvin said it was particularly hard for low-wage workers to bring their
incomes above the threshold if they have several children, because the poverty
level is higher for larger families. It is $27,910 for a family of five, for
example.

''To get above 100 percent may be just way out of their reach,'' Ms. Colvin
said.

Children in low-income families, even in non-expansion states, are often
eligible for Medicaid even when their parents are not. And even states with
stringent Medicaid rules typically allow pregnant women and adults deemed
severely disabled to receive Medicaid.

Fifty-four percent of people in the coverage gap already work full or part time,
according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, often in low-wage retail or
restaurant jobs. Half are Hispanic or black, and 86 percent live in the South.

In Austin, Nora Cadena, a Foundation Communities enrollment counselor, said she
had met with a hairdresser who decided to start a dog-walking business to
increase her income. Another counselor, Aubrey Stelly, said he had a client who
took a weekend dishwashing job to escape the gap.

Elsewhere in the country, Amelia Goldsmith, an enrollment counselor with the
Central Virginia Legal Aid Society, said one of her clients had picked up an
additional day working at a day care, providing an extra $90 a month.

And Emily Brostek, who helps people sign up for coverage in Augusta, Me., said
that while ''it doesn't happen a ton,'' her group, Consumers for Affordable
Health Care, had helped several people figure out how to increase their earnings
just enough by picking up extra shifts.

Everyone applying for subsidies has to estimate his or her 2015 income, which
can be tricky for people whose earnings fluctuate. If the estimate is more than
10 percent higher than the income listed on the applicant's most recent tax
return, the federal marketplace may ask for documentation.

''Some people might be nervous about putting on this application that they are
going to make an income they're not certain of,'' Ms. Brostek said. ''It's up to
them what they're comfortable with.''

But if someone who gets a subsidy ends up earning less than the poverty
threshold, he or she will not have to pay back the subsidy under the current
rules, said Cathy Kaufmann, enrollment program director at Families USA, an
advocacy group.

Still, she said, ''there needs to be some level of certainty in projecting their
income as opposed to just wishful thinking, because in the end they are going to
have to swear and attest that their application is true, and we see people take
that very, very seriously.''

Although the law requires most people who remain uninsured to pay a penalty,
those who earn less than the poverty level in states that have not expanded
Medicaid are exempt. Instead, they fill out a form to get a so-called hardship
exemption.

Ms. Ramos continues to struggle financially -- she does not buy her three
children Christmas gifts until she gets her tax refund -- but believes she will
be able to keep earning enough for subsidies. She has expanded the kinds of food
she cooks and sells to include chicken mole and a special kind of tacos.

''The orders keep coming,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/us/piling-on-work-to-escape-gap-in-health-law.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Alma Ramos, 39, with her children, Jose, 5, and Hannah,
1, in Austin, Tex. Earning too much for Medicaid, she had to raise  her income
to qualify for a federal subsidy for coverage. Right, Laura Hillenbrand, 28,
added hours at an Austin bakery to qualify. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN TRIEB FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%);
HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ADULTS (87%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH
INSURANCE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POOR
POPULATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS
(60%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); APPEALS (50%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ann Mara, Matriarch for Giants, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 318 words


After the N.F.C. championship game in 2012, as the broadcaster Terry Bradshaw
tried to interview various players from the victorious Giants, Ann Mara
intervened.

On national television, Mrs. Mara, then 82, poked Mr. Bradshaw in the arm and
said, ''You never pick the Giants.''

Mr. Bradshaw turned toward the camera and said: ''I know. I know. I'm sorry. I'm
getting hammered for not picking the Giants.''

That upbraiding only made Mrs. Mara, who died Sunday, more popular with fans who
already considered her the Giants' matriarch. Since the death of her husband,
the longtime team owner Wellington Mara, in 2005, Ann Mara and her children had
owned 50 percent of the Giants.

Her son John K. Mara, the Giants' president and chief executive, said in a
statement released by the team that Mrs. Mara, 85, slipped in front of her home
in Rye, N.Y., during an ice storm Jan. 18. She had been hospitalized since with
a head injury.

''After a few days, we were hopeful for her recovery, although we knew it would
be a long road back,'' John Mara said. ''Unfortunately, there were
complications.''

He also said of his mother, a prominent philanthropist, ''She has been the
leader of our family in every way, and we will miss her dearly.''

N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said in a statement: ''Mrs. Mara was a tower
of strength, dignity and inspiration for her family and all of us in the N.F.L.
Her family and the Giants organization have always reflected Mrs. Mara's
competitive spirit, integrity and wonderful sense of humor.''

The Giants were founded in 1925 by Tim Mara, Wellington's father, and the Mara
family was the sole owner of the franchise until 1991.

Mrs. Mara met Wellington at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in Manhattan in
1952 at a 7:30 a.m. Mass. As she told the story, ''a little old lady fainted,
and we both went to help revive her.''

She added, ''But I had spotted him before that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/ann-mara-matriarch-for-the-giants-dies-
at-85.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ann Mara after the 2012 Super  Bowl. Roger Goodell said  she was
''a tower of strength.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%);
SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEAD INJURIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Explosion Kills at Least 6 on Bus of Lebanese Pilgrims Visiting Shrines in Syria

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD and HWAIDA SAAD; Mohammad Ghannam contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words


BEIRUT, Lebanon --  An explosion on Sunday ripped apart a bus carrying Lebanese
pilgrims to Shiite shrines in Damascus, Syria, killing at least six people and
wounding 27, official news channels reported.

The attack stood out for striking a specific vehicle in a tightly secured area
just outside the Syrian capital's Old City, and speculation quickly rose that
Hezbollah fighters could have been targeted, or that the attack was a baldly
sectarian provocation.

The Nusra Front, an insurgent group linked to Al Qaeda, claimed responsibility
for what it called a suicide attack. But according to Syrian state television,
two bombs were planted on the waiting bus as passengers visited a shrine in the
Old City. One bomb failed to detonate and was defused, the state news media
said.

Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite group whose fighters play a growing role in
thwarting the nearly four-year insurgency against Syria's president, Bashar
al-Assad, quickly condemned the attack. Hezbollah's Al Manar news channel listed
the names of six dead, all male.

The attack came two weeks after Israel killed several Hezbollah fighters and an
Iranian general in southern Syria, and four days after Hezbollah struck back by
killing two Israeli soldiers in a cross-border attack from Lebanon. On Friday,
Hezbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, made it clear in a speech that the group
would not back down in its fight against Israel or in Syria.

The victims in Damascus were not identified as fighters, though at least one
appeared in memorial pages on social media in military-looking gear. Syria's
state news agency said that at least one child, a 3-year-old boy, was in
critical condition. Extremist Sunni groups among the insurgents, in addition to
being sworn enemies of Hezbollah, have targeted Shiites simply for their sect.

Regardless, the attack appeared to be unusually provocative, exploding just
outside the ancient fortifications of the Old City, near once-bustling tourist
destinations like the Umayyad Mosque that Damascus residents still consider
relatively safe and hitting Shiites as they traveled from one revered shrine to
another.

The bus's next destination was to have been the Sayeda Zeinab shrine outside
Damascus, particularly revered by Shiites. Protecting that shrine was one of
Hezbollah's early justifications for its intervention in Syria, and the group
has used it as a rallying point to recruit fighters.

The bus was part of a weekly tour named for Hussein, the early Islamic warrior
whose death in battle is the central narrative of mourning in Shiite Islam, said
the organizer, Fadi Kheireddine. He said all 58 passengers were Lebanese.

While the shrine's neighborhood was once a crossroads for many sects and
nationalities, a visit last spring revealed that the area was half deserted,
presided over by Hezbollah fighters and Syrian militia members, the surrounding
streets inhabited by Shiites displaced from northern Syria. But in recent
months, regular pilgrim tours have resumed from southern Beirut.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/middleeast/explosion-kills-at-least-6-on
-bus-of-lebanese-pilgrims-visiting-shrines-in-syria.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (93%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); REBELLIONS &
INSURGENCIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA
(78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AL-QAEDA (75%);
SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (61%);
TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (59%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%)

COUNTRY: LEBANON (96%); SYRIA (95%); ISRAEL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Screeching Halt

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words


GLENDALE, Ariz. --  On the same field where a receiver named David Tyree had
improbably caught a desperation throw to propel the Giants to Super Bowl victory
over the New England Patriots seven years earlier, the Seattle Seahawks had a
potentially historic acrobatic catch of their own to remember and treasure.

The difference in the falling reception by Jermaine Kearse, however, is that the
Seahawks did not complete the drive into the end zone.

The highlight was almost immediately trumped by a highly questionable play call,
an interception at the goal line and a brawl, all more unbelievable than the
catch that had preceded them.

''A very, very hard lesson,'' Seattle Coach Pete Carroll said, noting that his
team had been on the verge of another championship. ''I hate to learn the hard
way, but there's no other way to look at it right now.''

Seattle had blown a 10-point fourth-quarter lead but found itself at New
England's 38-yard line with 1 minute 14 seconds left. Trailing by 28-24,
quarterback Russell Wilson lobbed a pass down the right side to receiver Kearse,
who was blanketed by the backup cornerback Malcolm Butler.

Both men leapt over the 10-yard line, falling backward like high-jumpers over a
bar, as the ball was volleyed into the air while they skidded backward on the
grass. The ball dropped into the arms of Kearse, who cradled it for a catch as
dramatic as any in Super Bowl history.

The Seahawks had a first down at the 5-yard line and used the second of their
three timeouts with 1:06 left. Wilson handed off to the bruising back Marshawn
Lynch, who gained 4 yards, nearly dragging defenders into the end zone.

Carroll, his usual state of calm lost in emotion that seemed balanced between
anger and disappointment, said after the game that he had not wanted to
''waste'' a running play and thought a quick pass would be the game-winner. The
offensive coordinator, Darrell Bevell, made the play call, but Carroll gave it
the go-ahead without debate.

''It's not the right matchup for us to run the football, so on second down, we
throw the ball, really to kind of waste that play,'' Carroll said. ''If we
score, we do. If we don't, then we'll run it on third and fourth down.'' He said
he had looked at Wilson, his third-year quarterback, before the play to make
sure that Wilson understood the gravity of the moment. He did.

With the clock ticking, on second-and-goal at the 1-yard line, Wilson took the
snap from the shotgun position. He threw immediately to the goal line, toward
receiver Ricardo Lockette.

But Butler and the ball arrived at the same time, and Butler snagged the prize:
a game-clinching interception.

''I put the blame on me,'' said Wilson, who did not question the call when he
received it. ''I'm the one who threw it.''

The interception immediately set off a debate over Seattle's play-calling and,
shortly after, a fight that escalated momentarily out of control in the end
zone.

The Seahawks had one timeout remaining and Lynch -- the league's leading
bulldozer, with more rushing yards and touchdowns than anyone over the past four
seasons -- ready to plunge in for the winning score.

Instead of Kearse becoming the hero, it was the little-known Butler, who had
been the foil to Kearse moments before he saved the game for New England with an
interception.

''I've worked so hard in practice, and I just wanted to play so bad and help my
team out,'' Butler said afterward. ''I got out there and did exactly what I
needed to do to help my team win.''

With the expected Seahawks victory ripped away unexpectedly, Seattle's emotions
came unhinged. The New England offense took the field for the final snaps. With
20 seconds left, after Seattle had been penalized five yards for encroachment,
New England quarterback Tom Brady took a knee.

A fight broke out, centered around Seattle linebacker Bruce Irvin, who rampaged
through the end zone looking for Patriots to engage. For a few seconds, as
officials tried to gain control, it looked as if the fighting might spread.

''It was just frustration between two teams,'' said Patriots tight end Rob
Gronkowski, who had been in the middle of the scrum. ''It's football.''

Irvin was ejected, Brady took another knee, and the clock expired in a cloud of
confetti that fell on both teams.

For those tantalizing few moments, it looked as if it would be the Seahawks who
prevailed, and as if Kearse would be the hero -- not unlike Tyree had been for
the Giants in a come-from-behind victory over the Patriots in 2008.

''The goal is to win the game,'' Kearse said. ''And right now that catch doesn't
mean anything to me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/late-seahawks-drive-ends-with-
a-screeching-halt-after-a-risky-call.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cornerback Malcolm Butler intercepted a pass from the Seahawks'
Russell Wilson with 26 seconds remaining, allowing the Patriots to hang on for
their fourth championship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A J MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
 Jermaine Kearse catching a pass he batted around after battling the Patriots'
Malcolm Butler, right, for the ball inside the 10-yard line in the final two
minutes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK) (D9) GRAPHICS: Super Bowl
XLIX: New England 28, Seattle 24

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (88%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (91%); NEW YORK
GIANTS (84%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

David Landau, 67, a Reporter of Firm Conviction and Faith

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 734 words


JERUSALEM --  David Landau, a prominent British-Israeli reporter, newspaper
editor and author who practiced an unusual mix of religious Orthodoxy, ardent
Zionism and leftist politics, died on Tuesday at a hospital here. He was 67.

He had been ill since April 2013, when an inoperable brain tumor was discovered,
said his wife, Jackie, who confirmed the death.

Mr. Landau was the first Israeli reporter to interview President Anwar Sadat of
Egypt, in 1978. His last major work was a biography of former Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon of Israel that received positive reviews and whose publication
happened to coincide with Sharon's death last January.

In between, Mr. Landau was the founding editor of the English edition of
Haaretz, the left-leaning Israeli daily, which became a prime source on the
Middle East for policy makers and others abroad; Haaretz's overall editor in
chief for four years; diplomatic correspondent and managing editor at The
Jerusalem Post, where he worked for 20 years; and The Economist's longtime
Israel correspondent.

He left The Post in 1990, leading a walkout of 40 employees to protest a new
owner's political intervention in news coverage, and in 2007 caused a stir by
telling Condoleezza Rice, then the secretary of state, that Israel needed to be
''raped'' by the United States in order to force progress in peace talks with
the Palestinians.

President Reuven Rivlin of Israel, a conservative whose ideology differs sharply
from Mr. Landau's, said on Tuesday that Mr. Landau had been ''an uncompromising
friend and an equally uncompromising adversary.'' Mr. Rivlin's predecessor,
Shimon Peres, with whom Mr. Landau wrote two books, described him as ''a rare
combination of an individual -- religious in depth and liberal in breadth'' and
someone ''not frightened of the truth.''

Mr. Landau succeeded in secular circles while wearing the black yarmulke of the
Orthodox. The reporter Greer Fay Cashman recalled in Wednesday's Jerusalem Post
that during the Yom Kippur War in 1973, Mr. Landau demanded that a press van
heading for the Suez Canal stop so that he could put on ritual garments and
recite morning prayers.

After his exclusive interview with Sadat, a year before the Egypt-Israel peace
treaty, Mr. Landau recited a little-known Jewish blessing upon meeting a
monarch.

Gideon Levy, a Haaretz columnist, wrote that he had ''never met a person as full
of contradictions'' as Mr. Landau.

Maurice David Landau was born in London on June 22, 1947. As a boy he phoned
local newspapers with details of road accidents, earning 10 shillings per tip,
Haaretz wrote in its obituary. He was studying in an Israeli yeshiva when the
1967 war broke out and volunteered at The Jerusalem Post. After earning a law
degree at University College in London, he immigrated to Israel in 1970.

Besides his wife of 45 years, he is survived by a son, Dan; two daughters, Emuna
Landau and Chani Landau Philipps; eight grandchildren; and a brother, Pinchas.

In his home study hung portraits of Queen Elizabeth II and a legendary Hasidic
rabbi, as well as a photo of Mr. Landau with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian
leader. Last spring, deep into his illness, the queen named him an officer of
the Order of the British Empire to honor his work for Anglo-Israeli relations
and Middle East peace.

In its review of his 635-page biography ''Arik: The Life of Ariel Sharon,'' The
Financial Times said it ''promises to become the definitive account'' of Mr.
Sharon's career. Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Ethan Bronner, a
former Jerusalem bureau chief for The Times, found the book ''fine,
comprehensive and readable'' but faulted it as failing to ''really unlock the
mystery to Sharon's shifts or give a fully coherent picture of his inner self.''

Amos Schocken, the publisher of Haaretz, was quoted as saying in his paper's
obituary that Mr. Landau had initially demurred when offered the job of editor
in chief; he explained that he was not a native Israeli and had a different
''attitude toward religion'' than the organization's management and staff, Mr.
Schocken said.

But after being persuaded to take the position, Mr. Schocken said, ''David made
an enormous contribution to the paper as an enlightened Zionist intellectual, a
liberal in the full sense of the word and a believing Jew, and he demonstrated
that there is no inherent contradiction in these things.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/world/middleeast/david-landau-british-israeli-
journalist-dies-at-67.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The journalist David Landau. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX LEVAC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM
(90%); RELIGION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); CONSERVATISM
(78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (70%); YOM KIPPUR (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); COLLEGES &
UNIVERSITIES (60%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (57%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%);
MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bach Interpretation Springs to Life

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 486 words


John Harbison's new work for Jennifer Koh is ''For Violin Alone.'' It's a simple
title, but one that evokes the essential solitude that draws listeners and
violinists to Bach's solo works for violin. There's a unique rawness to watching
the sonatas and partitas played live, more so even than the cello suites. The
hush is audible, the imagery statuesque.

The statue came in triplicate on Saturday night, as Ms. Koh completed her
indispensable Bach and Beyond series at the 92nd Street Y. It was probably
accidental, but as she stood, erect and square in Bach's Sonatas in A minor and
C major, two equidistant shadows swayed on the back wall of the stage. That
quirk of lighting could stand as a metaphor for her four-year project: Bach
surrounded by composers from Bela Bartok to Kaija Saariaho and Esa-Pekka
Salonen, all in his penumbra, the past and present combining in the harmony of
performance, connected but independent.

Ms. Koh called the relationship ''communion'' in her program note, one of
''circularity and symmetry.'' That was clear in Luciano Berio's ''Sequenza
VIII,'' which owes much to the chaconne that ends Bach's Partita in D minor. The
Berio work obsesses over a clash between two notes, A and B, harping savagely on
the dissonance and exploring it in smooth passages and caustic, brittle
interruptions. Here, with bow hairs flying everywhere, Ms. Koh was at her most
ruthlessly committed and distinct.

More of the attention to detail heard in the Berio was needed for the world
premiere of Mr. Harbison's intriguing piece. ''For Violin Alone'' is also based
on Bach's forms, this time a complete partita. It toys with arcane ideas across
seven movements, and with a summarizing ''Epilogue'' it's more unified than any
of Bach's suites. Neither the ''Dance 1'' nor ''Dance 2'' movements really
dance, but the ''March'' powerfully contrasts strident, brash passages (marked
''con bravura''), with fearful, quiet flickers (''timido, ansioso''). ''Air''
sings restlessly, and there's a bluegrass feel to the opening set of variations,
''Ground.'' With time, Ms. Koh will probably find more in a work that, like much
of Mr. Harbison's recent writing, has much to give.

Bach, of course, never stops giving. Violinists influenced by Baroque practice
like Isabelle Faust and Alina Ibragimova find more crispness in their Bach than
Ms. Koh. But Ms. Koh has an allusive breadth of sound -- a voice's quiver, an
organ's force -- and stirred an intensity so strong in two mammoth fugues that
my ears filled in the harmonies left implicit by the limits of a violin's four
strings. Both sonatas were weighty and steeped in tragedy at times, but never
leaden in sprightlier moments. I'd call them monumental, if they hadn't been so
alive.

Jennifer Koh performs Bach and Beyond Part III on Friday at the University of
Michigan's Rackham Auditorium, 915 East Washington Street, Ann Arbor; ums.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/music/jennifer-kohs-bach-and-beyond-part-
iii-for-violin.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer Koh: Her Bach and Beyond Part III at the 92nd Street Y
included John Harbison's ''For Violin Alone.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMON HASSAN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION
(83%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When an Abstract Artist Falls in Love With Monet

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words


WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass. -- Love can be counterintuitive. If I were asked to pair up
the artist Ellsworth Kelly with a historical soul mate, Claude Monet would not
readily come to mind. The American painter of abstract pictures as clean as
Shaker tables and the French Impressionist who piled on pigment as thick as
mulch? I don't think so. Yet here they are together in a small, crystalline show
called ''Monet/Kelly'' at the Clark Art Institute, and they make an utterly
logical, and mind-stretching, match.

What do they have in common? France, for one thing. Mr. Kelly lived there for
six years studying art on the G.I. Bill after World War II. He was mostly in
Paris, but traveled around. In 1949, he spent a working vacation in a
fisherman's cottage on Belle-Île, off the Brittany coast, where he produced,
among other things, a series of spare pencil drawings of that island's cliffs
and headlands jutting into the sea. Although he may not have been aware, some 60
years earlier Monet had spent four months in the same place painting the same
terrain.

Mr. Kelly's interest in Monet began later, in 1952, when he chanced on some of
the panoramic waterlily paintings called ''Nympheas'' in a museum in Zurich.
Intrigued by the idea of near-abstract art done on so large a scale, he visited
Monet's Giverny home. There was no one else there. Monet, who had died in 1926,
was out of fashion in France. His beloved water gardens were overgrown; his
studio was a ruin, with birds flitting in and out. A few waterlily paintings
were still propped on easels; other, later garden pictures, done after Monet's
eyesight had failed, stood stacked against the walls.

Although these passionately painted images of nature taken to the edge of
legibility were at an opposite extreme from the art Mr. Kelly was developing --
matte, monochromatic paintings that had sources in reality but left all trace of
depiction out -- he found himself moved by them. The next day, back in Paris, he
painted an abstract picture that mingled green and blue, with strokes so subtly
feathered that the blue looked like shadows under water. He had never done
anything like it before, and never would again.

Titled ''Tableau Vert,'' it was a homage to the older artist. It hangs, along
with another painting and 18 drawings by Mr. Kelly and nine paintings by Monet,
at the center of an exhibition that is also a homage, and something more. With
every work in it chosen and installed by Mr. Kelly, it's also a visual essay
about his own art as personal response to other art and to the world.

Three of Monet's paintings at the Clark date from his 1886 stay on Belle-Île,
where he was mesmerized by the wind-and-sea-carved rock formations that rose,
like mini-islands, offshore. He returned to them repeatedly and their character
changes from picture to picture. In one, the rocks are soft, squat, spongy
mounds lapped by eddying water; in another, they're dark dorsal fins sticking up
from storm-lashed waves. In a third they're almost peripheral objects, pushed
aside to frame an expanse of cobalt-flecked green sea.

The colors, which swirled later through the Giverny water-garden series, bring
''Tableau Vert'' to mind. And though Mr. Kelly's painting was a one-off, his
relationship with Monet continued and intensified. In 1965, he returned to
Belle-Île and made landscape drawings, as he had in 1949, but now with a
mission. The new images are of specific rock formations that Monet had painted,
each done, as if with single stroke, in contour profile and set in sea-and-sky,
a space defined by a horizon line.

Finally, in 2005, Mr. Kelly came back once more to the island and drew the same
subjects, but in a changed style. The rocks are now more than traced shapes.
They're fleshed out with shading that gives them volume. They seem organically
planted in space. They look alive, charged with creaturely feelings, like
mountains in a Taoist painting. Interestingly, this vivacity may come partly
because Mr. Kelly's drawing hand in 2005, when he was in his early 80s, was less
steady than it had been decades earlier, giving his lines a little shimmy. Also,
he seemed to be less intent on distilling abstract essences from actual forms
than in staying with the forms themselves, dwelling on their particularities,
deliberating over their details.

We see a comparable dynamic in six glorious late Monet Giverny paintings that
are in the show, dating from around 1907 to the year before his death at 86.
Over their span Monet's eyesight is deteriorating, but his painting, far from
growing vague or lightening up, becomes denser and more adamant. The less well
he could see, the more his hand did, laying down strokes on top of tangles of
strokes.

This is very tenacious, insistent art. In ''The Path Under the Rose Arches,''
from around 1920-22, Monet is depicting reality almost entirely through touch.
And he keeps touching, won't stop, won't let go. You can easily understand why,
for Mr. Kelly, whose abstract art is so committed to and embedded in the world,
that first Giverny visit was a kind of love-at-first-sight experience.

It's also not difficult to interpret the show -- which includes drawings by Mr.
Kelly of Cézanne's Mont Sainte-Victoire -- as a meditation on age and how it can
alter perception and practice, leading a realist like Monet toward what looks
like abstraction and bringing an abstract artist like Mr. Kelly back to the
material realities from which his art has always sprung. Lest a focus on age and
aging prevail, however, Mr. Kelly, who is 91, rounds out the show with a recent
painting, ''White Curve in Relief Over White (Belle-Île),'' from 2013.

In the context of what surrounds it, this piece -- two white-painted joined
canvases, one a semi-oval, the other a triangle pointed down -- suggests a
distillation of the island landscape that two artists, so alike and unalike,
shared. More important, it confirms Mr. Kelly's status as a figure whose true
breadth and depth have yet to be fully measured, and whose art continues to be
what it has always been, the ever-ardent product of an old soul.

''Monet/Kelly'' continues through Feb. 15 at the Clark Art Institute, 225 South
Street, Williamstown, Mass., 413-458-2303; clarkart.edu.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/design/monet-kelly-at-clark-art-institute
-ellsworth-kelly-falls-for-monet.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Monet's ''Rocks at Port-Goulphar, Belle-Île''
an Ellsworth Kelly drawing
Mr. Kelly's ''Tableau Vert.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLAUDE MONET, THE ART INSTITUTE OF
CHICAGO
 ELLSWORTH KELLY, COLLECTION OF THE ARTIST) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); GARDENING (76%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%);
WORLD WAR II (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (59%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%)

STATE: BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Exalting Tunes on a Big Canvas

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words


Here's an image I won't forget: the saxophonist Lakecia Benjamin and her band
Soulsquad blasting out the romantic anguish of Ornette Coleman's ''Lonely
Woman'' in front of Emanuel Leutze's painting ''Washington Crossing the
Delaware.'' You know that painting -- a dozen men in a rowboat breaking through
the ice floes, the general facing left in the breaking light.

Not a reproduction but the painting itself, 21 feet wide, gilt-framed. This was
in Gallery 760 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Friday evening during Jazz &
Colors, an experiment in kaleidoscopic concert staging that has previously
happened twice, in Central Park in 2012 and 2013.

The Jazz & Colors idea is to set up many jazz bands in small places within a big
place, playing the same set list of standards and near-standards. It's a
transitory aesthetic experience: You walk through a performance area, graze with
eyes and ears, and move on. At its best, a visit can bring you into new
relationships with a certain band, a certain song and a certain public space.
Its impresario, Peter Shapiro, brought the event indoors this year for Jazz &
Colors: The Masterworks Edition, booking 15 bands and placing them around the
Met's first and second floors, for two hourlong sets with a 30-minute
intermission. (It is scheduled to happen again at the Met on April 24.)

There was no explicit educational mission here, as sometimes happens when music
is played in museums. It wasn't generally clear why certain bands were put in
certain spaces, other than perhaps for sonic reasons: the great vertical space
in the Lehman Court to accommodate Amir ElSaffar's trumpet sound, the wide and
busy Medieval Sculpture Hall for the slow, atmospheric spread of vibraphone and
guitar tones in the quartet the Cellar and Point. The common set list varied,
too, in style and disposition -- meditative blues by Miles Davis and Alice
Coltrane (''All Blues'' and ''Blue Nile''), Lee Morgan's boogaloo
''Sidewinder,'' the swing standards ''Stompin' at the Savoy'' and ''Take the A
Train.'' Given the assignment, a band could go to unexpected places. (I hadn't
heard Mr. ElSaffar play standards before; I was impressed by Linda Oh's total
rearrangement of ''A Train.'')

But sometimes the music really aligned with the art, and what Ms. Benjamin was
doing with ''Lonely Woman'' complemented Leutze's picture so well it felt as if
the room would explode: a team working in loose and heroic unison, the
underlying drone chords like the river, the crashing cymbals like the boat
breaking through the ice.

I'd been hearing ''Lonely Woman'' for the previous 15 minutes as I walked around
the second floor in the second set, trying to get it all in. I heard parts of it
without a rhythm section, as played by Ethel, the string quartet, on the Great
Hall balcony; as played by the harpist Brandee Younger's quartet in a large room
of Chinese Buddhist art; and by the bassist Ben Williams, putting the low end
out front with his quintet, in the Astor Court. The best way to receive this
happening was to relax and float through it. It wasn't really about pleasant
overload, seeing a lot of art or even hearing a lot of bands. (How long does it
take you to get the measure of a band? If your answer is 20 minutes, you could
have had four of those experiences on Friday, maximum.) It was a good reason to
walk around the Met. I tried to see everything. I don't recommend that.

A park surrounds you with sky and leaves and grass; in Central Park, your mind
could latch on more to the music. (Also, the time span there was twice as long:
four hours.) The Met's atmosphere surrounds the event with much more specific
cultural meaning. The brain seeks affinities between sound and visuals. Even in
one room of the Met, that's a lot. In 15 rooms, that's more than a lot. I
wondered what Marvin Sewell's group was thinking as it played ''Body and Soul,''
slowly and beautifully, in the big Arms and Armor Court, around all the helmets
and chain mail -- the armor of the heart? I had a pretty good moment watching
the keyboardist Matt Mitchell and the drummer Ches Smith -- with one snare drum
and one small cymbal -- playing Max Roach's ''Freedom Day'' in front of David
Hockney's collapsed-perspective painting ''Large Interior, Los Angeles.''
Collapsed perspective: That's what Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Smith do.

There was a feeling, at closing time, of not having gotten even a fraction of
what there was to get. If you're lucky to have Jazz & Colors happening in your
vicinity, go, when it returns in April. But set your limits.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/music/jazz-colors-the-masterworks-edition
-takes-over-the-metropolitan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jazz & Colors: Lakecia Benjamin and Maurice Brown of Soulsquad
playing by Emanuel Leutze's ''Washington Crossing the Delaware'' at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. (C1)
 A young listener catches the group Cellar and the Point at the Metropolitan
Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES
(90%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%);
PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); PAINTING (77%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Collectors Turn to Prints

BYLINE: By SCOTT REYBURN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1137 words


LONDON -- A couple of weeks before the world's wealthiest art collectors and
speculators gorge themselves on yet another blowout menu of contemporary art
sales, London's auction houses offered appetizers aimed at more modest budgets.

The financially savvy habitués of Christie's, Sotheby's and Phillips's flagship
evening and day sales are not usually much interested in lithographs and screen
prints estimated in the thousands of pounds. With their arcane technical
processes and large edition sizes, contemporary prints have a reputation for
being less desirable than unique artworks, unless they happen to be by a
commercial superstar such as Andy Warhol or the graffiti artist Banksy.

This thinking seemed to be turned on its head when Phillips held an''Evening &
Day Editions'' auction on Jan. 22 at its new European headquarters on Berkeley
Square and found buyers for 91 percent of the 238 lots, raising a total of 2.8
million pounds with fees, or $4.2 million, well above the £2.4 million high
estimate, based on hammer prices.

A selling rate of more than 90 percent at a high-volume auction of artworks from
various owners is unusual, particularly in the realm of prints. What was going
on?

The move to the wealthy district of Mayfair in London seems to have helped. More
than 2,000 people attended the stylishly presented view in the company's new
52,000-square-foot building in a district bristling with hedge funds, up-scale
galleries, designer stores, exclusive hotels and apartments.

Phillips's previous London auction in this category (the company does two in
London and two in New York each year) had been held in June at its former
salesroom in the less-illustrious neighborhood around Victoria. That view
attracted about 240 people, and the sale raised £1.3 million.

''A lot of the people coming in to Berkeley Square were young professionals
decorating apartments,'' said Robert Kennan, Phillips's head of modern and
contemporary editions in London. ''They were attracted by blue-chip names at
prices that are affordable.''

''Affordable'' can be crazily relative in the world of contemporary art.
Nonetheless, Phillips's sale did include attractive works by well-regarded
artists with come-hither estimates of under £1,000. A black-and-white
''connoisseur'' etching, such as Lucian Freud's 1984 female portrait, ''Head of
Ib,'' was snapped up just above the low estimate at £6,250.

But works with plenty of color and wall power by international brand names drew
competitive bidding. Donald Judd's 1988 ultramarine-blue suite of 10 minimalist
woodcuts, ''Untitled,'' was pushed by four telephones to £182,500, falling to a
private European buyer, and Keith Haring's lurid 1988 carved plywood wall
relief, ''Totem,'' sold for £134,500. Both prices, though broadly in line with
upper estimates, were new auction highs for these particular editions.

''These sales pay off because private buyers can see how the works would look in
their own homes,'' said David Cleaton-Roberts, a director at the London print
gallery Alan Cristea.

''Phillips are also clever to have got rid of the word 'print.' It sounds
old-fashioned and has connotations with reproduction,'' added Mr.
Cleaton-Roberts, who was amazed by the £9,375 paid, more than three times the
low estimate, for the pair of 2007 silhouettes, ''Luc and Ludivine Get Married''
by the Cristea gallery artist Julian Opie. He said another pair was available in
the gallery, priced at £4,800.

Price increases at contemporary ''editions'' auctions tend to be incremental.
For example, Paddle8's most recent online contemporary print sale, from Jan. 13
through Jan. 28, included another version of a Robert Longo 2005 flower study,
''Untitled (Rose, from Ophelia),'' which sold for a low estimate of £3,000 at
Phillips. With two hours of the auction left, before the final prices were
erased from its website, Paddle8's rose had attracted four bids up to $3,900.

Thanks to the Internet, everyone in the market can find out what everything is
currently worth, and most print buyers, unlike wealthy collectors of unique
big-ticket works, are reluctant to lock egos in bidding duels that overly
inflate auction prices.

This was clearly in evidence at Bonhams on Wednesday, when Steve Lazarides,
London's most prominent urban-art gallerist, sold 30 Banksy prints from his
personal collection to raise money for new projects. Mr. Lazarides worked
closely with the street artist from the mid-1990s until 2008. Every work in the
sale carried the all-important certification from Pest Control, Banksy's
authentication service.

Demand for Banksy, who no longer makes commercially-marketed prints, is not as
febrile as it was back in 2005 to 2008, when the new editions Lazarides
published by the artist were being instantly flipped for huge profits on eBay
and his Kate Moss ''Marilyn'' print was selling for as much as £96,000 at
auction.

An example of the print sold for £40,000 at Phillips on Jan. 22, at the midpoint
of its estimate.

At Bonhams, no fewer than 25 of the limited-edition prints sold almost
metronomically for £10,000 and £20,000 with fees, setting a ballpark current
valuation for many of Banksy's most familiar signed images. All of the works on
paper (and one sculpture) sold, raising £434,600.

''Like a lot of people, I had a budget,'' said John Haw, a sales director in
telecommunications and a private collector from Wiltshire in southern England,
who was in the room to buy a 2006 Warhol-inspired ''4 Soup Cans'' screen print
for £10,625 with fees. When originally issued by Lazarides, it cost£3,000 plus
the value-added tax. ''I didn't want to spend more than £11,000 on a print,''
Mr. Haw said.

The highest price of the Banksy collection was the £32,500 paid by a telephone
buyer for the early black-and-white stencil print, ''Rude Copper'' from 2002.

Meanwhile, provided they have been certified by Pest Control, unique works by
the world's most famous graffiti artist continue to be bought for huge sums by
superwealthy individuals with few if any budgetary constraints.

During the ''Frieze Week'' auctions last October in London, Phillips sold the
2006 Banksy sculpture ''Submerged Phone Booth'' for £722,500, more than double
the presale middle estimate.

''I've noticed the print market works best when there's a big disparity between
the editioned and unique works of an artist,'' Mr. Lazarides said a couple of
hours before his Banksy sale. He added: ''When the prices of originals rise
above a certain point, it drives the sales of prints. The prices of the prints
aren't necessarily higher, but they sell quicker.''

Now that so much original art by so many contemporary artists has become so
expensive, ''editions'' are becoming an increasingly popular way of hanging
brand-name art on a wall at a palatable price.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/international/collectors-turn-to-prints.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%);
ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PRICES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); HOTELS &
MOTELS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Pakistan's Competing Narratives

BYLINE: By BINA SHAH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1012 words


KARACHI, Pakistan --  As a writer and storyteller, my main preoccupation is with
narrative -- the literary term for a series of events strung together in a
linear or nonlinear way. We aim to create a fictional or nonfictional narrative
and populate it with people either imaginary or drawn from real life, using
language that bends to our wishes as it projects perception and beauty.

Now the term ''narrative'' has been co-opted by those who observe politics and
seek to make sense of the real world. Hence the question ''What's the
narrative?'' whenever a major political event unfolds.

As John Lanchester wrote in The London Review of Books:

''Everybody in politics now seems to talk about narratives all the time; even
political spin-doctors describe their job as being 'to craft narratives.' We no
longer have debates, we have conflicting narratives.''

I once read that there is an important difference between ''the facts'' and
''the truth.'' The difference between ''narrative'' and ''the truth'' is even
more important. ''Narrative'' does not refer to twisting facts to suit our
stories; it refers to the act of choosing which facts to use in order to create
a story that fits a certain agenda. This is more dangerous than merely
falsifying facts (an offense easy to detect) because a fact-based ''narrative''
can be taken seriously and influence events to come.

Take, for example, the attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar, Pakistan,
on Dec. 16, in which Taliban gunmen killed about 150 people, most of them
children and teachers, before the military killed the attackers. In the
aftermath, Pakistan was united in grief and anger against the Taliban. Civilian
and military leaders alike expressed resolve that domestic terrorism had to be
defeated before it claimed more innocent lives.

The Pakistani Taliban immediately claimed responsibility, calling the attack
revenge for a six-month-long military operation that has targeted militants in
North Waziristan. But very quickly, two competing narratives developed,
disrupting the country's unity.

The first: that the attack was conducted by members of the Pakistani Taliban who
have been strategic assets of Pakistan's military and intelligence establishment
but have now turned on it, trying to destroy the Pakistani state itself. The
second: that the attackers were actually agents of Indian intelligence, or
perhaps the C.I.A., masquerading as Taliban. In this version, the attack was
part of a decades-old conspiracy by Pakistan's fiercest enemies to destroy the
country.

The first narrative is popular with progressive and secular Pakistanis -- those
in the intelligentsia and the military who have a nuanced understanding of local
and regional politics and who recognize that the strategic landscape changed on
Sept. 11, 2001. Conservative citizens, analysts and old-school military brass
espouse the second -- which fits the traditional assumption that India is
Pakistan's No. 1 enemy and that our foreign policy must focus on restraining any
aggression from it. That well-worn view hasn't changed much over decades, thanks
to three wars and to innumerable border skirmishes, which continue today.

Believers in the first narrative understand that Pakistan needs to transform its
security policy so that it deals with the internal threat from the Pakistani
Taliban and other militants; they fear that Pakistani society will become
''Talibanized'' as militants gain supporters. Adherents of the second narrative
see only external threats, concluding that no policy change is needed, and that
Pakistan must dig in its heels and continue to treat India as hostile. They also
think that America's claims to be our ally are false, and that Washington wants
to help India break up our country.

It is painfully clear today -- in the wake of a bombing at a Shiite mosque in
Shikarpur that killed at least 50 people on Friday -- that the narratives we
choose today will have profound sway over where we go as a country tomorrow.

I believe firmly in the first narrative -- that Pakistan must face its inner
demons if it's to survive as a country. But when I write, my beliefs and
preferences cannot stand in the way of inconvenient truths. Should new events
contradict that narrative -- human conduct being prone to delivering surprises
-- I would be conscience-bound to document the story as it really has played
out.

Writers cannot control the meaning that other people see in an event. Still,
readers depend on us to crystallize those events, giving them weight and nuance,
when we make a story out of them. And our narratives about real-life events have
real-life consequences, sometimes for generations.

So how do we devise the narrative? In the name of delivering honest information,
we must do all we can to record what has happened, pushing aside the question of
whose narrative the facts support or undermine. The critical need is for our
narratives to rely only on truths that can be documented or defended --
whichever story line they seem to illustrate. If we do this, we improve the
chances not only to see the situation as it really is and make our choices in
good conscience, but we also leave a door open for a different narrative,
offering a wiser interpretation of reality, when new facts unfold.

Christopher Merrill, a poet and journalist who reported on the Balkan wars in
the 1990s, said in a recent interview with the filmmaker Kalpna Singh-Chitnis
that ''wars are brought to an end by military means and diplomacy, not
journalism, which has a much different responsibility: to record the truth.'' In
Bosnia, he said, ''I was under no illusions writing about this that my role was
anything other than getting the facts straight, teasing out their meaning, and
composing a lively narrative true to the events that I witnessed.''

In Pakistan, where we have been living for some time with a seemingly endless
war, that advice has never been more important.

Bina Shah  is the author of several books of fiction, including, most recently,
''A Season for Martyrs.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/pakistans-competing-narratives.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); TALIBAN (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); CONSPIRACY
(70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); TERRORISM (63%)

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (89%)

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                        The International New York Times

Success All Around for Australia in Asian Cup

BYLINE: By JOHN DUERDEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 846 words


SYDNEY, Australia -- The Most Valuable Player of the 2015 Asian Cup may play his
club soccer in England's third tier with Swindon Town, but Massimo Luongo is the
toast of Australia after helping the Socceroos beat South Korea in the
tournament final.

If Luongo, released by Tottenham Hotspur in the English Premier League in 2012,
was almost unknown before the tournament began, that is not the case any longer
following three successful weeks for Australia both on and off the field.

Australia, which joined the Asian Football Confederation in 2006 and lost to
Japan in the Asian Cup final in 2011, won its first Asian title in its third
attempt with a 2-1 victory on Saturday at Sydney's Olympic Stadium.

Coach Ange Postecoglou took over as Australia coach in October 2013, and the
team lost all three of its games at the World Cup last year and suffered poor
results leading up to the continental tournament. But after delivering the
greatest prize in the Australia's soccer history, Postecoglou believes it will
lead to bigger achievements in the future.

''I know the whole country will be off their couches and won't be able to sleep
tonight,'' Postecoglou said after the game. ''Football is a great game; the
greatest in the world. And hopefully us Aussies, we can take on the best in the
world because I have a real belief in this whole group and in Aussie football,
and we'll move on from here.''

The final was a close, tense affair. South Korea, looking for a third title over
all and its first since 1960, had not conceded a single goal in the five games
leading to the final. In Son Heung-min, the team possesses perhaps the most
exciting attacking player in Asia, and the Bayer Leverkusen player was recently
linked to a big-money move to an English Premier League giant like Arsenal,
Liverpool or Manchester United.

Yet it was Luonga who finally ended that goalless record after 44 minutes. The
midfielder picked up the ball outside the penalty area and fired a fierce shot
into the bottom corner. The goal came at a time when South Korea was starting to
dominate, but in the second half, the 2002 World Cup semifinalists struggled to
break down the Australian back line.

That changed in the 92nd minute, when Son finally found a little space in the
area and silenced most of the 76,000 fans in the stadium.

''My only concern was that because we conceded so late, the boys would be so
heartbroken they couldn't pick themselves up in extra time,'' Postecoglou said.
''But I knew we'd finish stronger. It was just a matter of taking our chance
when it came, and we did.''

After 105 minutes, Tomi Juric took advantage of a defensive mistake by Kim
Jin-su, and James Troisi scored the decisive goal from close range. South Korea
tried desperately to even the score, but could not.

''We were naïve with the second goal; I think we could've cleared the ball,''
said Uli Stielike, the South Korea coach. The German took the job in September
to replace Hong Myung-bo, who resigned in July following a dismal World Cup in
Brazil.

At the very least, Stielike, a former Real Madrid midfielder, has helped restore
the country's faith in its national team after the disappointment of last June.
According to broadcasters in Seoul, around 18 million people in the country of
50 million were expected to tune in for the final.

''It was a game that could have seen victory go to one side or the other,''
Stielike added. ''I think the best for this game would be a draw and each team
takes the cup for two years at home.''

The final was an exciting end to an entertaining tournament. Stars like Son and
Omar Abdulrahman of the United Arab Emirates confirmed their credentials, while
Luongo and Sardar Azmoun of Iran introduced themselves to a bigger audience.

More than 650,000 attended the 32 games, easily beating the target of 500,000
set by organizers. The average attendance of just over 20,000 a game has been
surpassed just once in the tournament's history, in China in 2004.

''The tournament itself has been tremendous,'' the Asian Football
Confederation's president, Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim Al-Khalifa, said after the
final. ''Filled with quality and excitement, it was a fantastic festival of
football that the whole of Asia can be proud of.

In an interview with a Dubai newspaper during the tournament, the sheikh
appeared to question if it was desirable for Australia to continue being a part
of the Asian confederation due to its unpopularity in some countries,
particularly in West Asia. The sheikh, who had been quoted as saying that the
country's presence was an experiment, moved swiftly to say to the Australian
media that his remarks had been manipulated when they were translated from
Arabic into English.

For now, Australia is unlikely to care. Its national team has the continent's
biggest prize and will represent Asia at the 2017 Confederations Cup. One of its
clubs, Western Sydney Wanderers, won the Asian Champions League in November.
Regardless of what others in the continent may think, Australia is enjoying life
atop Asian soccer.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/soccer/success-all-around-for-australia
-in-asian-cup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%);
SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); FIFA WORLD CUP (89%); SPORTS
FANS (73%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (73%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (52%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (93%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
(79%)

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); ENGLAND (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Connecticut's Victory Leaves Its Coach One From 900

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 364 words


Breanna Stewart scored 17 points and Connecticut Coach Geno Auriemma won career
game No. 899 as No. 2 Connecticut defeated host Temple, 83-49, on Sunday.
Auriemma can become the sixth coach in Division I women's basketball history to
reach 900 wins with a victory Tuesday against Cincinnati.

The Huskies (20-1, 10-0 American Athletic Conference) have won nine league games
by an average of 50 points.

Morgan Tuck scored 15 points for the Huskies and Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis had 12.
Alliya Butts led the Owls (10-12, 6-3) with 12 points.

S. CAROLINA 77, MISS. 59 Bianca Cuevas scored a career-high 21 points and No. 1
South Carolina (21-0, 9-0 Southeastern Conference) beat host Mississippi (14-8,
4-5).

BAYLOR 66, KANSAS 58 Nina Davis had 22 points and No. 3 Baylor (20-1, 9-0 Big
12) won its 19th consecutive game with a victory over visiting Kansas (12-10,
3-6).

NOTRE DAME 92, W. FOREST 63 Jewell Loyd scored 20 points, Lindsay Allen added 18
and No. 4 Notre Dame (21-2, 8-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) forced 30 turnovers
in a win over visiting Wake Forest (10-13, 1-8). Dearica Hamby, third in the
A.C.C. in scoring, led Wake Forest with 23 points and 10 rebounds.

MARYLAND 93, IOWA 88 Brionna Jones scored 19 points and had 15 rebounds to help
No. 5 Maryland extend its winning streak to 13 games with a victory over No. 20
Iowa (17-4, 8-2 Big Ten) at home. The Terrapins (19-2, 10-0) moved two games
ahead of Iowa atop the conference standings. TENNESSEE 79, MISS. STATE 67 Cierra
Burdick scored a career-high 24 points and had 8 rebounds and 6 assists as No. 6
Tennessee (19-3, 9-0 SEC) defeated No. 18 Mississippi State (22-3, 7-3) at home.

KENTUCKY 80, GEORGIA 72 Jennifer O'Neill scored 21 points to lead No. 10
Kentucky (17-5, 6-3 SEC) past No. 21 Georgia (17-5, 5-4) at home.

Men

FLORIDA STATE 55, MIAMI 54 Montay Brandon scored 18 points on 7-of-7 shooting
and host Florida State (12-10, 4-5 A.C.C.) overcame a 16-point first-half
deficit to beat No. 23 Miami (14-7, 4-4).

UTAH 67, U.S.C. 39 Jakob Poeltl had 14 points and nine rebounds to help No. 11
Utah (17-4, 7-2 Pac-12) rout host Southern California (9-12, 1-8). Malik Martin
scored 11 points for the Trojans.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/ncaabasketball/roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%);
BASKETBALL (78%)

ORGANIZATION: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (82%); SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE
(56%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH
CAROLINA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA
(79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters Once Again Fill Streets in Hong Kong

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY and ALAN WONG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 535 words


HONG KONG --  Pro-democracy protesters streamed through the heart of Hong Kong
on Sunday in their first sizable show of strength since the police cleared
occupations that blocked streets for 11 weeks late last year.

The protest was much smaller and milder than the ''Occupy'' protests that ended
in mid-December, and fell well short of the 50,000 participants that organizers
had promised. In the end, they estimated that 13,000 people joined, while the
police estimated that the crowd reached 8,800 at its peak.

But the march was a tentative test of how much support the pro-democracy groups
could muster in the new year for their campaign to force the government into
accepting open elections for the city's top official.

''We want to sustain the momentum after the Occupy protests,'' Joshua Wong, an
18-year-old student leader at the forefront of last fall's street
demonstrations, said while walking toward the financial district of Hong Kong.

Hundreds of police officers watched Sunday as the crowd walked through streets
crammed with weekend shoppers. But there were no signs of confrontation with the
protesters, many of whom held yellow umbrellas, a symbol of the street
occupation last year.

For both the protest organizers and the police, the demonstrators' return to the
streets presented a delicate challenge. Though many Hong Kong residents support
general demands for unfettered democracy, growing numbers had grown tired of the
street occupations by the time they ended in December.

For the police force, heavy-handed tactics could inflame public anger, as they
did in late September, when the sight of democracy protesters, many of them
students, being dispersed by tear gas and pepper spray ignited an outpouring of
sympathy.

The demonstration was organized by the Civil Human Rights Front, a coalition of
advocacy groups, which secured police approval for the assembly, unlike the
unapproved protests that erupted into street camps across three parts of the
city and drew tens of thousands at their height.

The protesters had hoped to overturn an election plan for Hong Kong issued by
the Chinese national legislature on Aug. 31. That plan would allow residents a
direct vote for the city's leader, or chief executive, starting from 2017, but
only from a list of two or three candidates already approved by a committee
where most members are loyal to Beijing. Pro-democracy groups and politicians
say that pre-screening would deprive voters of any real say.

''We are at a critical juncture,'' Fernando Cheung Chiu-hung, a member of the
pro-democracy Labor Party in Hong Kong's city legislature, or Legislative
Council, said in an interview. Advocates of full democracy need to win over
wavering public opinion, which could be alarmed by renewed street violence, he
said.

''It depends on whether we can win that support or whether the middle ground
will go along with the government's proposals,'' Mr. Cheung said. ''It would be
difficult to go back to Occupy on the streets; that would get a hostile
response.''

Angela Chu, an employee in an investment company who joined the protest, said:
''This is a way to tell people that we're still here. But marching can't be the
only means.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/world/asia/pro-democracy-protesters-return-to-
streets-of-hong-kong.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A demonstrator marched on Sunday in Hong Kong bearing a  yellow
umbrella, a symbol of last year's street occupation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX
HOFFORD/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (89%); RIOTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%);
INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); APPROVALS (62%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ties Between India and the U.S. Deepen

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; HENG; Pg.

LENGTH: 4 words


Where does that leave China?



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/opinion/ties-between-india-and-the-us-deepen.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Early Triumph, to Toil, to Vindication

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words


BETHESDA, Md. --  Katherine Heiny has led a somewhat clandestine life as a
writer, which is perhaps fitting for the wife of a former spy.

Her short-story collection, ''Single, Carefree, Mellow,'' which comes out on
Tuesday, is being billed as a debut by her publisher, Alfred A. Knopf. But
that's not true, strictly speaking. Ms. Heiny had a short story published in The
New Yorker when she was all of 25.

Back then she seemed destined for success: Ms. Heiny was praised as a prodigy
and published in an anthology alongside Alice Munro, Raymond Carver and Ann
Beattie. Not long after, she effectively disappeared, churning out 25 young
adult novels anonymously under the pen name Katherine Applegate.

When she and her husband, who once worked for Britain's MI6 intelligence agency,
had their first child in 2000, she could no longer meet those brutal publishing
deadlines. The next eight years were a haze of diapers, bottles and play dates,
and Ms. Heiny barely wrote at all.

Now, at 47, she is gearing up to deliver on that early and long-delayed promise.
Her new story collection has landed her a second book deal with Knopf and has
already drawn accolades from young writers like Lena Dunham and Adelle Waldman.
''There's a stylishness to her writing, and an elliptical approach that makes
ordinary life look a little odd,'' Ms. Waldman said in an interview. ''She was
able to take garden-variety romantic situations and create stories that are
satisfying without resorting to clichés.''

Writing in The New York Times Book Review over the weekend, Naomi Fry described
Ms. Heiny's work as ''something like Cheever mixed with Ephron.''

Many of the stories feature women dissatisfied with their spouses and boyfriends
and sometimes their illicit lovers. Ms. Heiny traces her interest in the theme
of infidelity to her husband -- not for any marital transgressions, she said,
but because he's a professional keeper of secrets. ''With my husband's job being
under cover for so long, I'm just used to people having secrets and agendas,''
she said in an interview at her home here.

Ms. Heiny's explosive start as a writer carries a whiff of legend, probably
because of her disappearance from the literary scene for nearly two decades. But
the real story is somewhat more prosaic and more compelling. Ms. Heiny wasn't an
instant sensation.

A native of Midland, Mich., she was the artistic oddball in her family. (Her
mother was a chemist, her father was a chemical engineer, and her two brothers
are chemical and software engineers.) After earning her degree in English at the
University of Kansas, she applied to the master of fine arts program at the
University of Iowa. She was turned down, a situation made more painful by an
apparent computer glitch that caused the university to send her a new rejection
letter every three days for two weeks. But she was accepted by Columbia
University's program and received master's degrees in poetry and fiction.

While enrolled there, Ms. Heiny sent a short story, ''How to Give the Wrong
Impression,'' about a young woman who's secretly in love with her roommate, to
every literary journal she could think of. She got 31 rejections. Then a friend
asked her how The New Yorker had responded. ''I said I didn't send it to them,''
Ms. Heiny recalled. So she mailed it off.

The next day, Roger Angell, an editor at The New Yorker, called to say he wanted
to publish it. Ms. Heiny, who was behind on her rent and initially assumed that
the call was from her landlord, pretended to be someone else at first and
offered to take a message. (''It's probably true,'' Mr. Angell said when asked
about that exchange in an interview, adding, ''She was a good writer.'')

As serendipitous as the moment seemed, it didn't prove life-altering. No big
book deals followed. Ms. Heiny continued to hustle, publishing stories wherever
she could. Then a short story she wrote for Sassy caught the attention of an
editor at a young adult book packaging company, 17th Street Productions, now
known as Alloy Entertainment. Ms. Heiny was offered a job as a writer for hire
for the 25th book of a romance series. She spent a weekend speed-reading the
previous 24, a marathon invoked in a story in ''Single, Carefree, Mellow.''
''Sometimes she feels she was never the same afterwards,'' Ms. Heiny writes of a
character who reads two dozen teenage novels to prepare for a similar
assignment.

For the next four years, she wrote seven days a week, producing a book every two
months while taking restaurant and temporary office jobs to scrape by. When she
was facing a deadline, the publisher would send her brownies as a gesture of
encouragement.

While struggling to get her career off the ground, she met and fell in love with
a man named Ian McCredie, 17 years her senior. After they had been dating for a
few weeks, he revealed his real job: a spy. ''He used to be under death threat
from the K.G.B.,'' she said casually, as though she were describing a spat
between cliquish teenage girls. ''Then they called one day and said they were
over it.''

Eventually, his cover was blown. They got married and had two boys, now 12 and
14, and have settled into a calm suburban existence here on the outskirts of
Washington, where he works as a security and intelligence consultant.

When her younger son was in first grade, Ms. Heiny returned to writing short
stories but had to break into publishing all over again. ''I hadn't sent out a
story in so long that most of my editors had died or retired,'' she said.

She published in small magazines like Glimmer Train and the Alaska Quarterly
Review. (The New Yorker, after its initial embrace, has turned her down
repeatedly, Ms. Heiny said.) She hired an agent, Kimberly Witherspoon, who sent
a batch of stories to an editor at Knopf, Jennifer Jackson. Ms. Jackson said she
had not heard of Ms. Heiny before but was taken by her sly humor. She bought the
stories in a pre-emptive two-book deal.

''The thing that struck me first was how funny she is,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''It
looks so easy, but to be flat-out funny and write jokes is incredibly
difficult.''

In some stories she smuggles in zingy one-liners. ''The only thing worse than
the first time they had sex was the second time they had sex,'' Ms. Heiny writes
in ''Cranberry Relish,'' about a married woman who has a disappointing affair
with a man she meets on Facebook.

But much of the humor is situational. One story features a housekeeper who is
allergic to most cleaning products and considers herself more of a life coach
than a servant. Another lampoons a creepy, talentless magician who is hired to
perform at an 8-year-old's birthday party and emerges from the bedroom looking
like ''a Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard.''

That story is among the most autobiographical of the bunch, Ms. Heiny said. She
said she wrote it after her son's eighth birthday party, which featured a
''lackluster'' origami artist whom the children loathed. ''I really hate kids'
birthday parties,'' she said.

There are autobiographical footprints elsewhere as well, a tendency that Ms.
Heiny winks at when one of her characters worries about blurring the line
between life and fiction.

''Josie thinks that the problem with being a writer is that you miss a lot in
your life wondering if the things that happen to you are good enough to use in a
story, and most of the time they're not,'' she writes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/books/katherine-heinys-road-to-single-carefree
-mellow.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine Heiny, the author of the short-story collection
''Single, Carefree, Mellow.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEXEY SWALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%);
INTERVIEWS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); FICTION LITERATURE
(78%); PUBLISHING (77%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (73%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ADULTS (69%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (66%);
TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (65%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (63%);
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (62%); ENGINEERING (62%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT &
ENGINEERING (60%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: LENA DUNHAM (57%)

CITY: MIDLAND, MI, USA (71%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); IOWA, USA (71%); KANSAS, USA
(50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Tee Time to Kickoff

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 969 words


SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. --  Keegan Bradley, the Patriots' No. 1 fan on the PGA Tour,
woke up Sunday with an uneasy feeling. Not about New England's coming game, but
his own. A down comforter of fog blanketed the area, causing a ground stop at
Sky Harbor Airport 21 miles away and reducing road visibility in many areas to a
few hundred feet.

Bradley, who is strung tighter than a violin, had four tickets to Super Bowl
XLIX and a 9:15 a.m. tee time for the final round of the Phoenix Open. Before
the tournament began, he said: ''I'm so pumped. I never thought I'd get to go to
a Super Bowl in my life, let alone go and watch the Patriots play and win one.
It's going to be a lot of fun.''

With football's version of Christmas here at last, Bradley did not relish the
prospect of his tee time being pushed back, not with 18 holes and a 31-mile
commute to University of Phoenix Stadium ahead of him.

''It did go through my head that there might be a fog delay,'' Bradley said
before teeing off. ''I got a little nervous.''

Bradley was playing Sunday in a threesome that included Brendan Steele, his best
friend on the tour. It was a serendipitous pairing because Steele and his wife,
Anastassia, were attending the Super Bowl with Bradley and his girlfriend,
Jillian Stacey.

In Saturday's third round, Bradley was in the group directly ahead of Steele and
bogeyed the 18th for an even-par 71 and a 54-hole total of four-under 209. A few
minutes later, Steele signed for his 71, which left him at four under. After
pointing out with a laugh that he had helped make their felicitous final-round
pairing happen by bogeying his second-to-last hole, Steele said, ''It wasn't the
number we wanted to be at, but it's nice how it worked out.''

An hour before Steele and Bradley were due to start their final round in a
threesome with K. J. Choi, the fog continued to hold departing passengers
captive at Sky Harbor and shroud University of Phoenix Stadium in a curtain of
gloom. At the course, the skies overhead were clear, the sun was gaining
strength and the Super Bowl-bound pair were side by side on the driving range.
They discussed their postround plans between shots while teeing up balls or
settling into their stances at address.

Before the tournament, Bradley said: ''I will do whatever it takes to get to
that game, so if I have to get in a car and go 150 miles an hour, I'm going to
do it. I can't be this close to a Super Bowl and not go. So I will be there at
some point.''

On Saturday night, Bradley still had not secured a car. Someone suggested using
a helicopter service, but that was not an option because it would cost $900 a
head. Besides, not everybody in the traveling party was comfortable flying in a
helicopter. Limousines and sedans for hire were scarcer than double eagles. At
one area rental agency, Mirage Limousine Service, no sport utility vehicles were
available as of Sunday morning. Its fleet of cars seating four to six people had
been booked at costs from $1,500 to $4,000 an hour with a 12-hour minimum.

Between his third and fourth rounds, Bradley had contacted Jordan Spieth, who
was attending the game with his caddie, Michael Greller, a Seattle area resident
and die-hard Seahawks fan. Spieth's manager, Jordan Lewites, had secured an
S.U.V. through the concierge at the Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, where Spieth,
Bradley and many of the out-of-town players were staying.

The booking cost $126 an hour, with a 12-hour minimum. Lewites also had to buy a
parking pass, at a cost of more than $300, so the driver could wait outside the
stadium.

Spieth offered Bradley and Steele a lift, but it was going to be a tight fit.
Including the driver, there would be seven people in a car designed to seat six
comfortably. ''I'll sit in Keegan's lap,'' Steele joked between shots on the
range.

In front of a gallery that included a man wearing a Patriots Super Bowl scarf, a
woman in a Vince Wilfork replica jersey and dozens of fans shouting ''Go Pats,''
Bradley closed with a four-under 67 for a 72-hole total of eight-under 276.
Steele finished two strokes behind. They struck their final putts at 1:50 p.m.
Bradley walked into the scoring area with a sponsor's cap on his head and
emerged wearing a Patriots cap.

''This is a dream of mine my whole life, to go to the Super Bowl, and I got to
play with Steeley,'' Bradley said. ''It's a day I'll never forget. It's pretty
crazy how it worked out. We're itching to go, for sure.''

They still had to return to their hotel to shower and retrieve the tickets,
which Bradley stowed in his room. At 2:30 p.m., roughly 20 minutes after the
Patriots arrived at the stadium, Bradley and Steele approached Greller. He was
waiting for Spieth, who bogeyed the last hole for a 65 and a 72-hole total of
11-under 273, which was four strokes behind the winner, Brooks Koepka.

''How long will it take you to get ready?'' Bradley asked.

Greller replied, ''I'm going to shower and in two minutes I'll be ready.''

Bradley: ''What about Jordan? How long will it take him?''

Greller: ''He's the one you have to get on.''

Bradley exchanged glances with Steele. Bradley's caddie, Steven Hale, was
driving to San Diego, site of the next tournament, and he offered to drop
Bradley, Stacey, and Steele and his wife at the stadium on the way. Should they
call an audible and go with Hale?

They decided to stick with the original plan. ''See if you can get Jordan
going,'' Bradley told Greller as he headed for the exit. ''Tell him we want to
leave by 3.''

Less than an hour before the scheduled kickoff at 4:30 p.m. local time, Bradley
posted a selfie on his Twitter account showing the six of them in the car, on
the 101 loop. From the front passenger seat, Bradley looked as relaxed as he had
all day. The rest of the day was out of his control.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/golf/keegan-bradley-and-other-golfers-r
ush-from-phoenix-open-to-super-bowl.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bubba Watson, wearing a Seahawks jersey, tossed ski goggles to
fans Sunday at the Phoenix Open, where several players had plans to attend the
Super Bowl. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MADDIE MEYER/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF (90%);
STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COMMUTING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (91%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Understated Detective Wraps It Up

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 450 words


It's been a long war for the British detective Christopher Foyle. On screen,
he's served as a home-front police superintendent and MI5 operative for nearly
seven years, from mid-1940 to early 1947. In the real world, it's been even
longer -- ''Foyle's War'' had its premiere in Britain 13 years ago, producing 28
feature-length episodes around long hiatuses and one premature cancellation.

Retirement has finally arrived for television's most terse policeman, however.
The final three episodes of ''Foyle's War'' were shown in Britain in January and
go online at Acorn TV beginning on Monday. In the dingy, straitened, politically
jumbled world of postwar London, the dogged Foyle, played by Michael Kitchen,
now 66, continues to drive his MI5 bosses crazy while meting out justice to
black marketeers, proto-fascists and Zionist terrorists. He even works in a
visit to the Nuremberg trials.

''Foyle's War'' has long been celebrated for the ''historical accuracy'' (those
are the words always used) achieved by its creator and writer, Anthony Horowitz.
It's questionable how much accuracy is possible or even desirable in a 90-minute
mystery story. The better word is probably scrupulousness -- the special texture
of the show owes to the faith we feel in Mr. Horowitz's depiction of the
clamped-down, suspicious yet doughty atmosphere of 1940s Britain, and to the
trouble and expense to which the production has gone to recreate those times.

Even more important is the scrupulousness the show has maintained with Foyle
himself, a character whose convictions and behavior have never oscillated for
the convenience of the plot. This has everything to do with Mr. Kitchen, who was
the perfect match for Mr. Horowitz's quiet, understated style. A marvelously
subtle actor, he can communicate volumes with the tilt of his head and arch of
his eyebrow in response to a suspect's lies, and he's always worth watching,
even when the mysteries are slight and the solutions formulaic.

In a final conversation between Foyle and his stalwart aide, Sam (Honeysuckle
Weeks), Mr. Kitchen's last two lines characteristically consist of one word
each. When she asks him a question and he replies, ''Honored,'' the series ends
on a perfect note.

Foyle's War

Available for streaming on Mondays on Acorn.tv.

Produced for Acorn Productions and ITV by Eleventh Hour Films. Created and
written by Anthony Horowitz; Jill Green, Nicole Finnan and Mr. Horowitz,
executive producers; John Chapman, producer.

WITH: Michael Kitchen (Christopher Foyle), Honeysuckle Weeks (Sam Wainwright),
Daniel Weyman (Adam Wainwright), Ellie Haddington (Hilda Pierce), Tim McMullan
(Arthur Valentine) and Rupert Vansittart (Alec Myerson).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/television/foyles-war-on-acorn-tv-winds-d
own.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foyle's War: Michael Kitchen in this series set in 1940s
Britain, now in its final season on Acorn TV, beginning on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ACORN TV/ITV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); POLICE FORCES
(78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WRITERS (71%); TERRORISM (53%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gray and Stormy Palettes Mirroring Reality

BYLINE: By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 677 words


Atmospheric conditions united two Juilliard-related concerts last week. Baroque
music inspired by extreme weather and natural phenomena was the focus of
Saturday's concert by Juilliard 415, the Juilliard School's period-instrument
ensemble, at Alice Tully Hall. And the previous night at the conclusion of the
school's Focus! festival dedicated to contemporary Japanese music and its
influences, Debussy's ''Clouds'' led a program by the Juilliard Orchestra at the
Peter Jay Sharp Theater.

Real clouds, of the snow-dispensing kind brought along by a winter storm, had
their own effect. Because Juilliard 415's rehearsal time with its guest
conductor, Jordi Savall, was cut short, Geminiani's colorful ''The Enchanted
Forest'' was replaced by Handel's well-worn ''Water Music.'' And like a flight
taking on passengers stranded by earlier cancellations, Friday's concert made
room for Toru Takemitsu's ''Paths'' for solo trumpet, which would have been part
of another Focus! concert that fell victim to the storm.

The addition of ''Paths'' actually brought a welcome dose of variety to a
program that was otherwise so aesthetically cohesive as to border on the
monochrome. Debussy's influence loomed large in this selection of works by Mr.
Takemitsu, Akira Miyoshi and Takashi Yoshimatsu, which the Juilliard Orchestra
played with exquisite attention to nuance under the direction of Tadaaki Otaka.

For the most part this is atmospheric music that draws its allure from a
shimmering color palette. Mr. Otaka excelled at conjuring up billowing surges of
great plasticity and vaporous pianissimos, as in Mr. Takemitsu's ''Twill by
Twilight,'' which begins with an upward curling motif that drifts, planes and
seemingly evaporates into nothing. There was a wonderful transparency to parts
of Mr. Miyoshi's ''Noesis'' where the borders between individual sounds seemed
to grew porous.

The same illusion was employed in Mr. Takemitsu's filigree violin concerto ''Far
calls. Coming, far!,'' in which the solo line travels alongside another
instrument for brief stretches, discovering and discarding common traits. The
commanding soloist here was Alex Shiozaki. By contrast, ''Paths'' splits the
soloist's personality in two. The trumpeter Sam Jones created a riveting
dialogue between a nasal, slightly neurotic muted voice and one that was warm
and full-bodied.

Mr. Yoshimatsu's ''Threnody to Toki'' is inspired by the flight of the toki
bird, also called the Japanese crested ibis. The orchestra is set up in the
shape of a bird, with the strings arranged in a horseshoe intersected by a line
formed by the conductor, a piano and the percussion instruments. The music
mimics the swoop and flutter of the toki while high harmonics in the strings
evoke blinding bright light.

If Friday's program was dominated by contemplative, essentially eventless music,
Saturday's concert by Juilliard 415 paid tribute to the Baroque taste for music
that was descriptive, dramatic and narrative. The challenge, for Mr. Savall and
the young players, was to bring out the distinctions in pieces by Leclair,
Telemann and Rameau that variously depicted thunderstorms, earthquakes, tempests
and the rush of the tide. The percussionist Christian Lundqvist was much in
demand, operating a hand-cranked wind machine that whirred, whined and hissed
convincingly.

But there was an inevitable sameness to the breezy up-and-down scales and the
blustering dynamic swells. In Telemann's Overture-Suite ''Hamburger Ebb und
Flut,'' I thought I could detect a difference between the gradual liquid surge
depicting the tide and the rendering of the irascible tantrum in the ''Aeolus's
Storm'' section. But in a series of orchestral movements from Rameau operas, I
was hard pressed to distinguish between a thunderstorm and an earthquake.

The orchestra's sound was appealingly fresh throughout, and the playing
responsive. In Handel's Suite from ''Water Music,'' the addition of impressively
confident natural horns and trumpets lit a spark that glowed brightly at the end
of a blustery program.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/music/two-juilliard-concerts-bonded-by-we
ather.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Juilliard Orchestra performed on Friday during the finale
concert of the Focus! festival.
 Jordi Savall led the Juilliard 415 ensemble on Saturday.  (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA
FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
SEVERE WINTER WEATHER (90%); WEATHER (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (89%); SEVERE WEATHER (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); KEYBOARD
INSTRUMENTS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Rare Twist, City Fireboats Battle a Blaze

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 503 words


Once a common sight at urban disaster scenes, the fireboat, with its cannons of
cascading water, is rarely called upon to battle fires in a New York City of
receding industrial zones and new riverfront condominiums.

But as flames engulfed a waterfront warehouse stuffed with old court papers and
medical records in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, this weekend, there they were: two
fireboats pouring frigid water from the East River onto the inferno.

The larger of the vessels, a 140-foot boat known as the Firefighter II, also
used its main cannon as a water-powered battering ram. The impact of 17,000
gallons of water a minute was used to collapse walls, exposing the flames inside
the warehouse.

''Without that force, we wouldn't have been able to hit any of the fire,'' said
Rick Ferro, the chief who directed the waterborne response. It was the first
time the state-of-the-art boat, added to the fleet about four years ago, had put
water on an actual fire.

Indeed, the sight of smoke billowing from an industrial zone as water arches in
from bobbing watercraft is an increasingly rare one for the Fire Department's
Marine Battalion, which counts about 20 boats in its fleet but more frequently
responds to medical emergencies and boats in distress.

This weekend's fire, however, marked the second time in two weeks that fireboats
rushed toward plumes of smoke from out-of-control fires on the banks of the
city's rivers. On Jan. 21, several New York City fireboats helped fight a fire
in a New Jersey apartment complex in Edgewater, a community along the Hudson.

In that operation, the boats did not douse the fire but instead acted as mobile
hydrants, drawing water from the river to supply the fire trucks on land.
(Fireboats performed the same function after the Sept. 11 attacks.)

''It was inland so I couldn't get a stream on the fire,'' said David Bell, the
chief who led New York's response to the New Jersey fire. ''So I was the hydrant
system.''

Fireboats have also responded to smoldering garbage barges, houseboat blazes
and, a few years ago, a coal ship fire in Connecticut.

Because the department used federal funding to replace much of its aging fleet,
''that makes them regional assets,'' said Chief Ferro. ''It used to be like 'The
Flintstones,''' he said of the boats from the middle of the last century. ''Now
it's like 'The Jetsons.'''

During the Brooklyn blaze, Chief Ferro said that in addition to dealing with
heavy current, strong winds and shallow water, the pilot of the Firefighter II
had to contend with the sheer force of the front cannon, known as a monitor,
pushing the unanchored boat backward. ''He did an amazing job,'' the chief said.

Another boat, the 65-footer known as The Bravest, faced challenges of its own: a
stream of paper flowing out of the warehouse and being sucked into the boat's
intake mechanism. Several times, firefighters had to stop blasting water in
order to clear out blocked filters.

As of Sunday afternoon, the fire remained active, as did the fireboats.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/nyregion/in-a-rare-assignment-fireboats-battle
-warehouse-blaze-in-brooklyn.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RIVERS
(76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); MEDICAL RECORDS (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ebola Drug Trial Is Halted for Lack of Patients

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words


A clinical trial in Liberia of a drug to treat Ebola has been halted because of
a sharp decline in the number of people infected with the virus, and studies in
West Africa of other potential treatments are also facing problems finding
patients.

The halted trial was testing the antiviral drug brincidofovir at a clinic in
Monrovia, Liberia. The developer of the drug, Chimerix, announced late Friday
that it would no longer participate in the study.

''Without having enough patients there to make any conclusions, it wasn't
feasible for us to push forward,'' Dr. M. Michelle Berrey, chief executive of
Chimerix, said in an interview Sunday.

She said the company had shipped enough of the drug to Liberia for 140 patients,
but that fewer than 10 had been treated since the trial started on Jan. 2.

The World Health Organization reported last week that the number of new cases in
the three most affected countries -- Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone -- had
fallen below 100 a week for the first time since June. In Liberia, there were
only four new cases in the seven days ending Jan. 25, the organization said.

Researchers said that, of course, the ebbing of the outbreak was a good problem
to have.

''It's more important to end the outbreak than to get the trial done,'' said Dr.
Armand Sprecher, a public health specialist at Doctors Without Borders, whose
Ebola treatment center in Monrovia was the site of the brincidofovir trial.

Doctors Without Borders treatment centers are also being used to study the
antiviral drug Avigan and also blood plasma collected from Ebola survivors.
Avigan, also known as favipiravir, is a flu drug developed by Fujifilm of Japan.

Dr. Sprecher said the study of Avigan, which is taking place in Guinea, started
before the one for brincidofovir and had already treated a ''decent'' number of
patients. Organizers of that trial, however, are now looking for another clinic
in order to find more patients, he said. The plasma trial has not really started
yet, he said.

Organizers of a different trial of survivors' plasma that has started in Liberia
are now looking for collaborators to expand the testing into Sierra Leone, said
Dr. William A. Fischer II, an assistant professor of medicine at the University
of North Carolina and an investigator in that study. He said that besides
testing the plasma as a treatment, the effort was aimed at improving the
capacity of the health systems in West Africa to conduct safe blood donations
and transfusions.

The falling number of patients could also affect other trials that are about to
begin, including those for two vaccines and for the drug ZMapp, health
authorities have said.

The Ebola outbreak has already sickened more than 22,000 people and has killed
more than 8,800, according to the World Health Organization. It is possible that
the outbreak could worsen again, as it did at least once before when experts
thought it was ebbing.

Chimerix, which is based in Durham, N.C., said in its announcement that it would
not participate in future Ebola trials.

''I think for now our plan is not to pursue clinical trials,'' Dr. Berrey said.
''We'll wait and see how the outbreak goes.''

Dr. Berrey said the company, which has no drugs on the market, was small and had
to concentrate its limited resources on finishing the trials needed to gain
regulatory approval of brincidofovir to treat or prevent other types of viral
diseases.

She said the decision to stop the trial in Liberia was made after discussions
with the Food and Drug Administration, Doctors Without Borders and investigators
at the University of Oxford.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/ebola-drug-trial-is-halted-for-lack-o
f-patients.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Unicef tent to treat Ebola patients in Liberia. New cases in
that country fell to only four in the week that ended Jan. 25. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ZOOM DOSSO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (92%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES
(89%); VACCINES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (77%);
INFLUENZA (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY
(73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BLOOD
BANKS (69%); BLOOD DONATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%);
EXECUTIVES (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CHIMERIX INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
(56%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (54%)

TICKER: CMRX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (91%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (91%); WESTERN AFRICA (90%); GUINEA (90%);
AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Black Ice

BYLINE: By KEVIN BRYANT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 187 words


Dear Diary:

Just skiddy enough                                     to turn pedestrians into
tumblers and acrobats                                      without benefit of
training --                                      and drivers into rivals
trying to survive bumper cars,                                      real road
division.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via
email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag
#MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/black-ice/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Texas Sniff Test

BYLINE: By DAN HEYMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 273 words


Dear Diary:

Recently, following an afternoon court appearance, I had a late lunch of spicy
soup at one of my usual Chinatown haunts, then took the 6 train from Canal
Street back to the office.

At Spring Street, a couple got on, and as they passed me, the woman declared, in
a Texas twang, ''I smell jalapeño!'' and she looked at me, accusingly.  I
sheepishly admitted that I had, in fact, just eaten a big bowl of soup infused
with hot oil, but that I doubted that the chiles in the oil were jalapeños.

From there the conversation with the couple veered to how these 60-ish
transplanted Texans came to be New Yorkers eight years ago, whether the husband
looked more like Jon Voight or Martin Sheen and, ultimately, gently, politics,
until all of us detrained at Grand Central.

Since then, I have been wondering whether introducing yourself to a stranger by
smelling his breath is a New York thing or a Texas thing.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via
email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag
#MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/30/a-texas-sniff-test/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Talented Acquaintance at the Gym

BYLINE: By SONIA WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 352 words


Dear Diary:

I had been working as a gym receptionist in Manhattan for four months. Not the
post-N.Y.U./emerging writer lifestyle I had imagined, but it gave me something
to do and enough social contact to fool myself into thinking I had more friends.

There were a few members who had become constants in my life and I gravitated
toward the ones who were my age. There was one who I assumed was also a recent
grad, and when he told me that he was a screenwriter, I took that occupation,
funneled it through my solipsistic Rube Goldberg machine and churned out
''writer, producer, and creator of senior year final project 'Untitled Ode to
Loneliness and Manipulated City Drones to be Retitled Upon Acceptance into
Sundance' and FroYo server.''

I told him that he should contact me if ever he wanted a second opinion or some
feedback. He smiled and thanked me as I gave him (or forced upon him) my
information before he and his college jacket headed out for the night.

When he left, I Googled him. He's not 22. He's 37. And instead of social media
profiles and a desperate-looking LinkedIn page, the search resulted in a
Wikipedia entry, and an IMDB page listing the names of recent blockbusters and
indie favorites. He wasn't a peer trying to make it as a writer. He was a grown
man with thousands of Twitter followers and many an award on his mantelpiece.

I'm still waiting for his email.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via
email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag
#MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/28/a-talented-acquaintance-at-the-gym/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE
(73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Life in the Garment District

BYLINE: By WADE SCHUMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 298 words


Dear Diary:

For many years I lived illegally on the 16th floor in a loft on 38th Street in
the garment district.

The setbacks on the old manufacturing buildings made it one of the more
beautiful and dramatic parts of the city. In the winter, clouds of steam would
rise from pipes in the many windows of the sweatshops, and the lonely tailor
across the street on the 15th floor would pet his cat and leave milk on the
windowsill to keep it cool.

At one point there was an illegal boxing ring on the 19th floor in the building
across the street. I would lie awake at night hearing the shouting of the
audience and the ring of the bell.

One day I was walking down 39th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, and I
heard a high-pitched cry: ''I can't stand it anymore! I can't stand it
anymore!'' I looked around but couldn't find the source of the wailing. Then,
looking up, I saw the full-size head and neck of a giraffe weaving back and
forth out of a 10th-story window.

''I can't stand it anymore!'' shrieked the papier-mâché giraffe again, and
ducked back in.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via
email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag
#MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/life-in-the-garment-district/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWEATSHOPS (77%); CATS (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trying to Lose Her Fashion Inhibitions

BYLINE: By CAMILLE GETZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 339 words


Dear Diary:

When I first move to New York, I decide that it's time to lose any inhibitions
regarding my appearance. Camille, within four minutes of walking outside you're
going to see about 12 people dressed in very convincing David Bowie get-ups. I
think you can pull off gray jeans.

I have successfully made the transition from brown to black eyeliner and am
feeling unapologetically edgy. It is time, I figure, to finally bring out the
Milanese jodhpurs.

The Milanese jodhpurs are skintight high-waisted beige gingham riding pants,
with real reinforcement panels on the inner knee and a zipper on the left side,
because they're all Euro and stuff. My aunt bought them for me in actual Milan
and they make my butt look awesome and they have never seen the light of day
back in little old Sacramento, but I'll be damned if they don't make an
appearance in this glorious city, O.K.?

With the dexterity of a bomb technician, I maneuver myself into the jodhpurs. I
emerge from my dorm, ready for my close-up, heart beating out of my chest. Birds
sing, the sun shines off the Chrysler Building -- I'm living ''Sex and the
City''!  I take one step in the direction of Union Square Park, and -- ''Hey!''

A homeless-looking man laughs hysterically at me from the bus stop. ''Where's
your horse?''

I don't know.

Read all recent entries and our updated submissions guidelines. Reach us via
email diary@nytimes.com or follow @NYTMetro on Twitter using the hashtag
#MetDiary.

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/27/trying-to-lose-her-fashion-inhibiti
ons/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METROPOLITAN DIARY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 923 words


DEAR DIARY:

Just skiddy enough

to turn pedestrians into

tumblers and acrobats

without benefit of training --

and drivers into rivals

trying to survive bumper cars,

real road division.

Kevin Bryant


Dear Diary:

When I first move to New York, I decide that it's time to lose any inhibitions
regarding my appearance. Camille, within four minutes of walking outside, you're
going to see about 12 people dressed in very convincing David Bowie get-ups. I
think you can pull off gray jeans.

I have successfully made the transition from brown to black eyeliner and am
feeling unapologetically edgy. It is time, I figure, to finally bring out the
Milanese jodhpurs.

The Milanese jodhpurs are skintight, high-waisted, beige-gingham riding pants,
with real reinforcement panels on the inner knee and a zipper on the left side,
because they're all Euro and stuff. My aunt bought them for me in actual Milan
and they make my butt look awesome and they have never seen the light of day
back in little old Sacramento, but I'll be damned if they don't make an
appearance in this glorious city, O.K.?

With the dexterity of a bomb technician, I maneuver myself into the jodhpurs. I
emerge from my dorm, ready for my close-up, heart beating out of my chest. Birds
sing, the sun shines off the Chrysler Building -- I'm living ''Sex and the
City''!

I take one step in the direction of Union Square Park, and -- ''Hey!''

A homeless-looking man laughs hysterically at me from the bus stop. ''Where's
your horse?'' I don't know.

Camille Getz


Dear Diary:

I had been working as a gym receptionist in Manhattan for four months. Not the
post-N.Y.U., emerging-writer lifestyle I had imagined, but it gave me something
to do and enough social contact to fool myself into thinking I had more friends.

There were a few members who had become constants in my life, and I gravitated
toward the ones who were my age. There was one who I assumed was also a recent
grad, and when he told me that he was a screenwriter, I took that occupation,
funneled it through my solipsistic Rube Goldberg machine and churned out
''writer, producer, and creator of senior year final project 'Untitled Ode to
Loneliness and Manipulated City Drones to be Retitled Upon Acceptance Into
Sundance' -- and FroYo server.''

I told him that he should contact me if ever he wanted a second opinion or some
feedback. He smiled and thanked me as I gave him (or forced upon him) my
information before he and his college jacket headed out for the night.

When he left, I Googled him. He was not 22. He was 37. And instead of social
media profiles and a desperate-looking LinkedIn page, the search resulted in a
Wikipedia entry, and an IMDB page listing the names of recent blockbusters and
indie favorites. He wasn't a peer trying to make it as a writer. He was a grown
man with thousands of Twitter followers and many an award on his mantelpiece.

I'm still waiting for his email.

Sonia Weiser


Dear Diary:

For many years, I lived illegally in a 16th-floor loft on 38th Street in the
garment district.

The setbacks on the old manufacturing buildings made it one of the more
beautiful and striking parts of the city. In the winter, clouds of steam would
rise from pipes in the many windows of the sweatshops, and the lonely tailor
across the street on the 15th floor would pet his cat and leave milk on the
windowsill to keep it cool.

At one point, there was an illegal boxing ring on the 19th floor of the building
across the street. I would lie awake at night hearing the shouting of the
audience and the ring of the bell.

One day I was walking down 39th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, and I
heard a high-pitched cry: ''I can't stand it anymore! I can't stand it
anymore!'' I looked around but couldn't find the source of the wailing. Then,
looking up, I saw the full-size head and neck of a giraffe weaving back and
forth out of a 10th-story window.

''I can't stand it anymore!'' shrieked the papier-mâché giraffe again, and
ducked back in.

Wade Schuman


Dear Diary:

Recently, following an afternoon court appearance, I had a late lunch of spicy
soup at one of my usual Chinatown haunts, then took the No. 6 train from Canal
Street back to the office.

At Spring Street, a couple got on, and as they passed me, the woman declared, in
a Texas twang, ''I smell jalapeño!'' and looked at me, accusingly. I sheepishly
admitted that I had, in fact, just eaten a big bowl of soup infused with hot
oil, but that I doubted that the chiles in the oil were jalapeños.

From there the conversation with the couple veered to how these 60-ish
transplanted Texans had come to be New Yorkers eight years before, whether the
husband looked more like Jon Voight or Martin Sheen and -- ultimately, gently --
politics, until all of us detrained at Grand Central.

Since then, I have been wondering whether introducing yourself to a stranger by
smelling his breath is a New York thing or a Texas thing.  Dan Heyman

Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at
diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number;
upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of
The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and
adapted in all media. The diary archive can be found at nytimes.com/diary.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Martha Derthick, 81, Analyst Who Untangled Public Policy

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 642 words


Martha A. Derthick, a political scientist whose trenchant analyses of typically
impenetrable subjects like Social Security, federalism, deregulation and tobacco
litigation were praised as ''masterful'' and ''definitive,'' died on Jan. 12 at
a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. She was 81.

Her death followed a series of strokes, said her niece, Kit Stoner, her closest
survivor.

Dr. Derthick's prizewinning 1979 book ''Policymaking for Social Security'' was
hailed by Prof. Paul Pierson, then of Harvard, as ''one of the best studies of
the politics of public policy ever produced.''

Dr. Derthick concluded that Social Security, the world's largest social welfare
program, had evolved without substantial controversy because it had been
insulated from outside control and bureaucratic rivalries, and because the
payroll tax provided an independent revenue source. But she warned that the
financial burden being placed on the system by an aging population might
undermine the political consensus that created it.

''Her writings on federalism and Social Security are unsurpassed: analytically
deep, sprightly, bringing potentially arid, abstruse subject matter vividly to
life,'' Gareth Davies, a history professor at the University of Oxford, said on
Wednesday. ''She deprecated the erosion of federalism since the Great Society,
the growing size and complexity of government, and, like her mentor Edward
Banfield and her friend Daniel Patrick Moynihan, was skeptical about
government's capacity to engineer beneficent social change.''

That skepticism was influential in Washington, even though Dr. Derthick never
held a policy-making government job. (In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon named
her to a presidential commission on campus unrest.)

She was unceasingly curious, passionate about basketball and gardening (one of
her last articles was on azaleas), and she punctuated her speeches and writing
with sports metaphors and quotes from Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals.

''By family background and childhood experience, I have always been more
journalist than social scientist,'' Dr. Derthick once said.

Martha Ann Derthick was born in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, on June 20, 1933, to
Everest and Mabel Derthick. Her father was a reporter and editor for The Plain
Dealer of Cleveland. Her mother was a homemaker.

She graduated from Hiram College in Ohio in 1954, earned a doctorate from
Radcliffe College and taught at Harvard University, the Joint Center for Urban
Studies of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Boston College before
joining the Brookings Institution in Washington, where she was director of the
government studies program from 1978 to 1983. From 1983 to 1999, she was a
professor of government and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia.

Among her other books were ''Agency Under Stress: The Social Security
Administration in American Government,'' ''The Politics of Deregulation,'' with
Paul J. Quirk, and ''Uncontrollable Spending for Social Services Grants.''

Her works explored the unintended consequences of federal mandates for state
welfare programs. She expressed concern that the very structure of American
government, including frequent elections and separation of powers, hindered
effective public administration. And she worried that Congress ''does not value
rationality and consistency as presidential policy makers do.''

In a 2001 collection of essays published by Brookings Institution Press, Dr.
Derthick explained her fervor for federalism and her distrust of centralization.
Her ''strong personal preference,'' she wrote, was for ''a form of government
that divides and disperses official power, ideally with the goal of making it
representative and grounding its exercise in practicality, as opposed to
political rhetoric that is all too often the demagogic style of mass
democracy.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/30/us/martha-a-derthick-public-policy-decoder-die
s-at-81.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha A. Derthick in 1980.  A 1979 book received acclaim.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PENELOPE BREESE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%);
POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY
(78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (76%); AGING (73%); TAXES &
TAXATION (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); LITIGATION (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); HISTORY
(70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); BASKETBALL (63%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Dramatic Drops, Exploiting Gravity's Force

BYLINE: By SIOBHAN BURKE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 450 words


When we watch a dance performance, we rarely think about where it has been and
where it's going. The dancers you see in New York today could have been halfway
around the world last week. With a new series at Abrons Arts Center,
Travelogues, the independent producer Laurie Uprichard (formerly a curator at
Danspace Project and Dublin Dance Festival) frames performance as something that
exists before and after we see it. The series began over the weekend with the
American premiere of ''Solitudes Solo'' by Daniel Léveillé, whose company is
based in Montreal. (Ms. Uprichard had seen the work in Montreal and Paris before
bringing it to the Lower East Side.) This is a dance that, wherever it goes,
plants itself firmly in that place -- or at least it did on Friday in the
intimate Experimental Theater at Abrons.

In a suite of eight solos for five unflagging dancers, to Bach's sonatas and
partitas for solo violin, Mr. Léveillé exploits gravity for the full force of
its downward pull. His stark, devilishly difficult vocabulary tethers the
dancers to the floor, releasing them only to yank them down again. When they
jump -- straight up, spinning 360 degrees or more in a completely vertical
alignment -- they land where they started with a startling thud. Other falls --
knees, forearms, knuckles crashing to the ground -- are just as brusque, foils
to the music's lyricism. (The audience member in front of me, an esteemed dancer
and choreographer, jumped in his seat more than once.)

Arriving and departing through a propped-open side door, the dancers -- four men
and one woman, the riveting Esther Gaudette -- take turns rising to the
challenges of the movement. In their stern gazes, they don't mask the effort
required, say, to leap through space with no preparation, or to bend the
standing leg in a forward-tilting balance very, very slowly. (Neither does their
clothing; for the most part, they wear only briefs.) Mr. Léveillé plays
intriguingly with transitions, sometimes elongating but more often compressing
the time between one action and the next. Amid taut, linear poses, he inserts
the rare head roll or pelvis ripple, moments of softening and, for the watcher,
relief.

Like someone left alone to ruminate, ''Solitudes'' can feel too inward-looking,
too in its head, turning the same thought over and over. Yet that's also a
source of its unexpected pathos. The dancers appear together only once, standing
still and facing us. When it comes to the toughest work, they're on their own.

Travelogues continues May 21-24 with Kimberly Bartosik and Dylan Crossman at
Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side;
866-811-4111, abronsartscenter.org




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/dance/daniel-leveilles-solitudes-solo-at-
abrons-arts-center.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Solitudes Solo: Esther Gaudette dances in the American debut of
Daniel Léveillé's work, as part of the Travelogues series at Abrons Arts Center.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); DANCERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING
ARTS (89%); THEATER (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ARTS
FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 77 words


An article in the Personal Business pages on Nov. 22, about donating senior
discounts to charities, erroneously included an organization among watchdog
websites that evaluate charities on their program, administrative and
fund-raising costs. While Charity Navigator and the Better Business Bureau's
National Charity Report Index provide such services, GuideStar does not. A
GuideStar representative's message pointing out this error was misdirected at
The Times.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (88%);
BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words


An article last Monday about the role of Glenwood Management and its founder,
Leonard Litwin, in the corruption case against Sheldon Silver, the New York
State Assembly speaker, misstated the middle name of Mr. Litwin's daughter. She
is Carole Litwin Pittelman, not Littman. The article also referred incorrectly
at one point to Mr. Litwin as Mr. Littman.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (85%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 34 words


An article in some editions on Wednesday about a man in Manhattan who was shot
by the police misspelled his surname, using information from the Police
Department. He is Brian Quattrocchi, not Quattrochi.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (86%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (86%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 96 words


An article on Dec. 28 about the consequences of the United States' refusal to
pay kidnappers to free American hostages referred imprecisely to a Syrian
journalist who had been held by the Islamic State terrorist group and said
American officials did not pursue information he gave them about Americans being
held by the group. The surname of the journalist, Louai Abo Aljoud, is an
assumed one that he has been using for several years to protect family members
still in Syria; Aljoud is not his real family name. This correction was delayed
to verify Mr. Abo Aljoud's information.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (87%);
RELIGION (85%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


An article on Thursday about the death of two Israeli soldiers in a missile
attack by Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite movement, as they drove in a disputed
area near the Lebanese border misstated the surname of one of the soldiers in
some editions. He was Sgt. Dor Chaim Nini, not Nimi.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (88%); ARMED FORCES (88%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (84%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (91%); LEBANON (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Week's Men's College Basketball Games to Watch

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPH FUHRMANS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 502 words


2 Virginia at 13 North Carolina

Monday, 7 p.m. Eastern, ESPN

For 19 games, Virginia (19-1, 7-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) had played without
a defeat, standing atop the A.C.C. But after Saturday's 69-63 loss at home to
Duke, the Cavaliers could be in danger of losing two in a row when they travel
to Chapel Hill to play North Carolina (17-5, 7-2). Virginia had an 8-point lead
with less than five minutes to play against Duke, only to see the Blue Devils
rally for the victory. The Tar Heels also will be trying to get back on the
winning track after blowing an 18-point lead Saturday in their 78-68 loss to
Louisville.

15 Iowa State at 9 Kansas

Monday, 9 p.m., ESPN

First place in the Big 12 Conference is at stake when Iowa State (16-4, 6-2)
travels to Lawrence to face Kansas (18-3, 7-1). The teams kept pace with each
other on Saturday, with Kansas beating its in-state rival Kansas State, 68-57,
and Iowa State beating Texas Christian, 83-66. When the Cyclones and Jayhawks
met earlier this season in Ames, Iowa State outscored the Jayhawks in transition
points, 21-10, in an 86-81 victory. Although the Cyclones are undefeated at home
this season, they are 1-2 on the road in conference play.

17 West Virginia at 24 Oklahoma

Tuesday, 8 p.m., ESPN2

Kansas and Iowa State were expected to be at the top of the Big 12 this season,
but West Virginia (18-3, 6-2) has been the surprise team in the conference. With
Saturday's 77-58 victory against Texas Tech, the Mountaineers surpassed their
win total from last season. West Virginia is the only team other than Kansas
with a winning road record in the Big 12. Oklahoma (14-7, 5-4), which defeated
its in-state rival Oklahoma State, 64-56, on Saturday in Stillwater, lost the
first matchup this season with West Virginia, 86-65, in Morgantown. In that
game, the Sooners were forced into a season-high 22 turnovers by the
Mountaineers' pressure defense.

8 Notre Dame at 4 Duke

Saturday, 1 p.m., CBS

Notre Dame (20-3, 8-2 A.C.C.) had a five-game winning streak end Saturday with a
76-72 loss at Pittsburgh, the first road loss in A.C.C. play for the Fighting
Irish. Notre Dame, which first must play Boston College on Wednesday, will try
to defeat the Blue Devils for the second time this season. Notre Dame's
do-it-all star, Jerian Grant, had 23 points and 12 assists in a 77-73 win over
Duke on Jan. 28. The Blue Devils (18-3, 5-3), who first play Georgia Tech on
Wednesday, are coming off an impressive victory against previously undefeated
Virginia.

10 Louisville at 2 Virginia

Saturday, 7 p.m., ESPN

Saturday is the end of a challenging stretch for the Cavaliers, who first face
North Carolina on Monday in a matchup with their third straight ranked A.C.C.
opponent, and Louisville (18-3, 6-2), which first plays at Miami on Tuesday, is
3-1 on the road in conference play. As with every game Virginia plays, defense
will be key. Through Sunday, the Cavaliers' defense was the best in the nation,
holding teams to an average of 50.2 points a game.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/ncaabasketball/this-weeks-mens-college-
basketball-games-to-watch.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%);
BASKETBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (90%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%)

CITY: MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%)

STATE: KANSAS, USA (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%);
OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seattle's Call Joins List of Big Gaffes in Sports

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 591 words


The decision by the Seattle Seahawks to throw the ball on second-and-goal from
the 1-yard line, trailing the Patriots by 4 in the closing seconds of the Super
Bowl on Sunday, will go down as an infamous blunder. A team with Marshawn Lynch,
one of the best goal-line running backs in football, instead opted for a far
riskier option, and Malcolm Butler made them pay, intercepting the ball at the
goal line to effectively end the Seahawks' hopes of winning a second consecutive
Super Bowl.

Coach Pete Carroll took responsibility for the call after the game. So did his
offensive coordinator, Darrell Bevell. Whoever actually made the call, the
decision joins an ignominious list of the worst coaching decisions in sports
history. Where the decision ranks will be decided by history, but if it wants to
have staying power, it might need a nickname.

â-  Marty Mornhinweg's overtime call: The stakes may have been far lower, but
few coaches are more associated with one decision than Mornhinweg, who chose to
give his opponent the ball to start overtime in a 2002 game. The Detroit Lions
coach felt the wind direction trumped getting the ball, and that his kicker
would give him a distinct advantage, but his team never got a chance as the
Bears kicked a field goal to win the game before the Lions touched the ball.

â-  McNamara leaves Buckner on the field: It had become common practice for the
Boston Red Sox to take Bill Buckner out of games in the final innings for a
defensive replacement. The veteran had trouble moving around because of various
injuries, but John McNamara, Boston's manager, reportedly let Buckner stay on
the field at the end of Game 6 of the 1986 World Series in hopes of letting him
celebrate on the field with his teammates. A ground ball to first base went
through Buckner's legs as the Mets stormed back to win Game 6 and eventually the
World Series.

â-  Little's bullpen decision: In the final act of the Curse of the Bambino,
Grady Little, the manager of the Boston Red Sox, decided to stick by his ace,
Pedro Martinez, with Game 7 of the 2003 American League Championship Series on
the line. Boston was up, 5-2, in the 8th inning, and the team was five outs from
the World Series when Martinez melted down. Little visited the mound after
Martinez allowed three consecutive hits but decided to leave Martinez in the
game. Jorge Posada then hit a two-run double to tie the game, which the Yankees
won in extra innings.

â-  Dressen lets Branca face Bobby Thomson: Ralph Branca of the Brooklyn Dodgers
was on short rest having thrown 135 pitches just two days before, and had a
terrible personal history with Bobby Thomson, the Giants' slugger. But Chuck
Dressen, the manager of the Dodgers, summoned Branca to the mound in the
National League tiebreaker where he proceeded to give up what is still known as
''The Shot Heard Round The World''. Branca proved to be a great sport, as he
spent years appearing with Thomson and autographing pictures of the famous home
run.

â-  Bob Gibson calls for a run: On the previous play, the Giants had taken a
knee, running the clock down, but clinging to a 17-12 lead over the Eagles with
20 seconds left to play in a 1978 matchup. Gibson, New York's offensive
coordinator, decided the team should attempt a run. Larry Csonka reportedly
asked to not be given the ball, but he got it anyway, fumbling it on the
handoff, and Herm Edwards of the Eagles picked up the ball and ran for a 26-yard
game-winning touchdown that has come to be known as the ''Miracle at the
Meadowlands.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/sports/football/seahawks-call-joins-list-of-bi
g-gaffes-in-sports.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%);
BASEBALL (89%); ATHLETES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (91%); DETROIT LIONS (82%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (70%); NEW
YORK, NY, USA (50%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (70%); NEW
YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

At a Benefit Event, Pressure Takes a Seat at the Table

BYLINE: By PHILLIP ALDER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BRIDGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 444 words


It is important to pressure your opponents, whether it is in the bidding or the
play. Make them come up with the best call or card. Especially when you have a
fit with your partner and know that you are outgunned in high-card points,
bounce the bidding as high as you can.

The diagramed deal occurred during the eighth pro-am hosted by Zeke Jabbour at
St. Andrews Country Club in Boca Raton, Fla., on Jan. 25. It raised about
$100,000 for the National Parkinson Foundation.

An analysis of the deals was provided by Michael Kamil, a seven-time national
champion from Santa Clara, Calif. He suggested that the auction on this board
should begin as given. But what should West do now?

East's two-club response was natural and game-forcing, so his double was for
penalty.

While you are deciding, I had asked some pairs about this board and no one had
faced that much competitive bidding. Against the winners -- Eugene Davidson of
Boynton Beach, Fla., and David Reiter of Dania, Fla. -- South had overcalled two
diamonds and Davidson (West) had chosen to rebid two spades. Now North had
passed, which, especially given the favorable vulnerability, is at present
leading the race for wimpiest bid of the year.

Over two spades, Reiter (East) jumped to four spades, West control-bid five
diamonds, East control-bid five hearts and East leapt to six spades. With
everything as favorable as could be, declarer had no trouble making his
contract. Plus 1,430 was worth 10 matchpoints out of 10.

Should West remove his partner's double with a diamond void? If so, to where,
given that his partner is announcing diamond tricks? It is not clear.

By how many tricks can four diamonds doubled be defeated?

In theory the defenders can take two spades, two hearts, two diamonds and one
club for plus 800, which would beat everyone in Game. But that requires pinpoint
accurate defense.

West, after leading the spade ace and despite his partner's encouraging signal,
must resist the natural temptation to cash the spade king. He must shift to a
heart or a club. Given his partner's response, West would probably choose a
club. East can win that as cheaply as possible and return his second spade.

West takes that trick and leads a winning spade, allowing East to overruff the
dummy (or, if declarer discards a heart from the dummy, East does also). Then
East returns a club or shifts to a heart. Now 800 should be easy, giving a
near-top.

If instead West immediately plays three rounds of spades, declarer can discard a
heart from the dummy, a loser-on-loser play. Then the defenders take only one
heart trick and plus 500, a zero.

Some defensive problems are just too tough.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/at-a-benefit-event-pressure-takes-a-seat-
at-the-table.html

GRAPHIC: DIAGRAM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARKINSON FOUNDATION (57%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Russia, With Capitalist Ambitions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words


RED NOTICEA True Story of High Finance, Murder, and One Man's Fight for Justice
By Bill BrowderIllustrated. 396 pages. Simon & Schuster. $28.  In the early
1990s Bill Browder invested $2,000 in a handful of Polish companies being
privatized after the collapse of Communism. Eastern Europe was dipping a toe
into the cold bath of free-market capitalism, and Mr. Browder, fresh out of
Stanford University's business school, wanted to jump in, too.

His small investment quadrupled in value within the year and went on to repay
him tenfold. ''For those who don't know, the sensation of finding a 'ten-bagger'
is the financial equivalent of smoking crack cocaine,'' he writes in ''Red
Notice: A True Story of High Finance, Murder, and One Man's Fight for Justice.''
''Once you've done it, you want to repeat it over and over and over as many
times as you can.''

Mr. Browder continued to smoke the crack pipe with gusto, shifting his action to
Russia and creating a wildly successful investment fund, Hermitage Capital
Management. His freewheeling, snappy book describes the meteoric rise, and
disastrous fall, of a buccaneer capitalist who crossed the wrong people and paid
a steep price.

The highs were very high. Mr. Browder excelled at sniffing out undervalued
companies, rolling the dice and reaping fantastic returns. After determining
that a little-known oil company called Sidanco was actually worth as much as
Lukoil, for example, he bought about $11 million worth of its stock at $4 a
share. The gamble was vindicated a year later when British Petroleum bought a
block of the company's stock at a 600 percent premium over that price.

Within two years after Hermitage's founding in 1996, its assets had swelled from
$25 million to more than $1 billion, making Mr. Browder the largest foreign
investor in the Russian stock market. In 2000, Hermitage was named the
best-performing emerging-markets fund in the world, having generated returns of
1,500 percent to its original investors. Its assets would grow to $4.5 billion
by 2005.

The lows, however, were very low. A hefty portion of the book describes Mr.
Browder's frantic efforts to fight off a wolf pack of oligarchs trying to muscle
in on Hermitage's action and strip its assets.

The cut and thrust, and the high stakes, make for a zesty tale. Mr. Browder and
his Russian team became adept at amassing scandalous information about their
foes and then presenting the findings, tied up in a neat package, to Western
journalists who could inflict maximum damage.

Mr. Browder admits to a fatal miscalculation. He assumed that his American
citizenship made him untouchable. In fact, he was living on borrowed time. When
Vladimir V. Putin was intent on reining in the oligarchs, his interests and Mr.
Browder's coincided. But at a certain point, they did not.

In 2005, deemed a ''threat to national security,'' Mr. Browder was kicked out of
Russia, and his companies were seized. Later the Russian government asked
Interpol to issue an all-points bulletin, or red notice, for his arrest on tax
evasion charges. Interpol rejected the request, calling it politically
motivated. Mr. Browder was then convicted by a Russian court in absentia. ''When
the Russian government turns on you, it doesn't do so mildly -- it does so with
extreme prejudice,'' Mr. Browder notes ruefully.

Worse, the Interior Ministry arrested Sergei L. Magnitsky, Hermitage's tax
lawyer. After being held in custody for more than a year, Magnitsky was found
dead on a prison floor in Moscow after being beaten and tortured.

Mr. Browder began a relentless campaign to expose and punish Mr. Magnitsky's
persecutors, turning his case into an international cause célèbre. His efforts
helped pressure Congress to pass a law in late 2012, commonly known as the
Magnitsky Act, that barred 18 Russian officials connected with Magnitsky's death
from entering the United States or using its banking system, and set a precedent
for future visa sanctions and asset freezes. Last spring the European Parliament
passed its own version of the act.

It's a Hollywood ending, right down to the standing ovation given by more than
700 European members of Parliament after passing the legislation.

Mr. Browder makes an unlikely hero and even more unlikely capitalist. His
grandfather was the head of the American Communist Party and featured on the
cover of Time magazine in 1938 as ''Comrade Earl Browder.'' Felix Browder,
Earl's son, became a mathematics professor at the University of Chicago. Bill
Browder's brother, Thomas, is an eminent particle physicist. ''In my family, if
you weren't a prodigy, you had no place on earth,'' he writes.

Mr. Browder, by contrast, was a slacker. He goofed off at boarding school and
barely made it into the University of Colorado, Boulder, where he spent his
freshman year reliving ''Animal House.''

In the ultimate act of rebellion, he set his sights on a business career, a
decision that straightened him out academically and no doubt would come as a
shock to his grandfather. Adding insult to injury, Mr. Browder turned his gaze
eastward, toward the former Communist heartland, with plunder on his mind.

''The dominoes were falling: soon all of Eastern Europe would be free,'' he
writes of the tumultuous weeks after the Berlin Wall came down. ''My grandfather
had been the biggest Communist in America, and as I watched these events unfold,
I decided that I wanted to become the biggest capitalist in Eastern Europe.''

For a while, he was. But as Mr. Magnitzky warned him, Russian stories never have
happy endings.

Mr. Browder concludes on a grim note. ''I have to assume that there is a very
real chance that Putin or members of his regime will have me killed someday,''
he writes. For good measure, he adds, ''If I'm killed, you will know who did
it.''

If this sounds histrionic, there is more than one dead body littering Mr.
Browder's pages. Alexander Litvinenko probably felt safe in London until he
drank a cup of radioactive tea. As Mr. Browder discovered on more than one
occasion, Russians are not always known for their light touch.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/bill-browders-red-notice-about-his-russia
n-misadventures.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Bill Browder (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER LINDBERGH) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); OIL & GAS
INDUSTRY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); COCAINE (74%); PRIVATIZATION (72%);
FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%);
PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); OAO LUKOIL (54%); BP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (54%); LKOD (LSE) (54%); BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS447110
GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (53%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN
EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Little Data, Study Identifies the 'Anonymous'

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 578 words


Even when real names and other personal information are stripped from big data
sets, it is often possible to use just a few pieces of the information to
identify a specific person, according to a study to be published Friday in the
journal Science.

In the study, titled ''Unique in the Shopping Mall: On the Reidentifiability of
Credit Card Metadata,'' a group of data scientists analyzed credit card
transactions made by 1.1 million people in 10,000 stores over a three-month
period. The data set contained details including the date of each transaction,
amount charged and name of the store.

Although the information had been ''anonymized'' by removing personal details
like names and account numbers, the uniqueness of people's behavior made it easy
to single them out.

In fact, knowing just four random pieces of information was enough to reidentify
90 percent of the shoppers as unique individuals and to uncover their records,
researchers calculated. And that uniqueness of behavior -- or ''unicity,'' as
the researchers termed it -- combined with publicly available information, like
Instagram or Twitter posts, could make it possible to reidentify people's
records by name.

''The message is that we ought to rethink and reformulate the way we think about
data protection,'' said Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, a graduate student in
computational privacy at the M.I.T.  Media Lab who was the lead author of the
study.  ''The old model of anonymity doesn't seem to be the right model when we
are talking about large-scale metadata.''

The analysis of large data sets containing details on people's behavior holds
great potential to improve public health, city planning and education.

But the study calls into question the standard methods many companies, hospitals
and government agencies currently use to anonymize their records. It may also
give ammunition to some technologists and privacy advocates who have challenged
the consumer-tracking processes used by advertising software and analytics
companies to tailor ads to so-called anonymous users online.

This is hardly the first research effort to identify weaknesses in standard
methods of de-identifying sensitive information about people.

In a study in 2008, two computer scientists, Arvind Narayanan and Vitaly
Shmatikov, reported that they had been able to reidentify some Netflix users in
a database of nameless customer records the company had made available for
researchers competing to improve the company's recommendation engine.

In a study in 2013, Latanya Sweeney, a computer scientist at Harvard,
demonstrated that researchers were able to reidentify patients by name in a
supposedly anonymized hospitalization data set made publicly available by
Washington State.

And last fall, a reporter at Gawker was able to reidentify Kourtney Kardashian,
Ashlee Simpson and other celebrities in an ''anonymized'' database of taxi ride
records made public by New York City's Taxi and Limousine Commission.

If companies or institutions are to continue to make these kinds of data sets
widely available, they should quantitatively attest to the risks of
reidentification, the researchers wrote in the study in Science.

''A data set's lack of names, home addresses, phone numbers or other obvious
identifiers,'' they wrote, ''does not make it anonymous nor safe to release to
the public and to third parties.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/29/with-a-few-bits-of-data-researchers-ide
ntify-anonymous-people/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); RETAILERS (89%); BIG DATA (89%); SCIENCE NEWS
(89%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%);
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); METADATA
MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); DATA SECURITY (73%); WRITERS (72%);
HOSPITALS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (51%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (51%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(51%)

PERSON: KOURTNEY KARDASHIAN (50%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

There's No Branding a Symbol of Free Speech

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 257 words


Almost immediately after jihadists killed 12 in an attack on the French
satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo on Jan. 7, the image went viral: ''Je Suis
Charlie'' or ''I Am Charlie,'' white and light gray letters against a black
background. The words are now a shorthand for support of freedom of expression.

The sign is the creation of Joachim Roncin, 39, the art director of Stylist, a
free Paris weekly magazine. Now, with the aid of pro bono lawyers and the good
will of France's patent office, he's trying to prevent people from capitalizing
on it. ''I can't trademark it. It's not something that belongs to anyone,'' Mr.
Roncin said in a telephone interview. ''If it's a slogan, it cannot be a
brand.'' Mr. Roncin said that even arms manufacturers had filed requests with
the French patent office, hoping to sell weapons with the phrase. He said that
the patent office has said it will not trademark the slogan. Mr. Roncin has only
granted Reporters Without Borders permission to use the image to help raise
money for Charlie Hebdo. (In its first issue published after the attacks, the
magazine ran a cartoon depicting people in Bangladesh hunched over sewing
machines sewing ''Je Suis Charlie'' T-shirts.) Mr. Roncin posted his image on
Twitter not long after the killings. With only around 400 Twitter followers, he
expected only a few friends to share the image, but it swept across social
media, and tens of thousands marched in Paris on Jan. 11 holding ''Je Suis
Charlie'' signs. ''It's incredible,'' Mr. Roncin said. ''Now it's crazy.''



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/arts/design/theres-no-branding-a-symbol-of-fre
e-speech.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOMINIQUE FAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); 2015 CHARLIE HEBDO SHOOTINGS
(90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); PHOTO & VIDEO
SHARING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARMS TRADE (73%); FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); PRO BONO LAW (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPORTERS WITHOUT BORDERS (55%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); BANGLADESH (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assessing the Damage After Russian Library Fire

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 276 words


A major fire that threatened to consume one of Russia's most important libraries
was finally put out late Saturday, but scholars are only beginning to assess the
damage from the flames, smoke and water.

The fire broke out at the Institute of Scientific Information on Social Sciences
in Moscow on Friday evening and engulfed more than 21,500 square feet of the
Soviet-era building. Vladimir Fortov, president of Russia's Academy of Sciences
said on Saturday that the scene ''reminds one of Chernobyl'' and estimated that
15 percent of the 10 million volumes and materials in the library, which he
compared to the Library of Congress, had been damaged.

Alexander Visly, director of the Russian State Library, told the Tass news
agency that most of the rarest volumes and manuscripts at the damaged library,
primarily about economics, philosophy and Marxism-Leninism had been brought to
the Soviet Union from Germany as war trophies.

The institute's director, Yuri Pivovarov, said that it would be possible to find
copies abroad of most of the burned library items, such as materials from the
United Nations, but that the institute had been ''a research conveyor, and this
conveyor has stopped.''

Mr. Fortov dismissed the possibility of arson, which was being discussed in on
some social media sties because of the institute's prime plot of land.
Distraught Russian intellectuals spoke of the fire as deeply symbolic.

Scholars said they planned to appeal to President Vladimir V. Putin for help in
rebuilding the library and the research institute that housed it.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/02/01/fire-at-library-in-moscow-destroys-
millions-of-volumes/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER UTKIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); FIRES (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); SPECIAL
LIBRARIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE
& TECHNOLOGY (77%); ARSON (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); RESEARCH
INSTITUTES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (58%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

January Job Figures, and the Greek Bailout

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1217 words


Here are some of the top business stories to pay attention to in the coming
week.

MORE TURBULENCE POSSIBLE After a testing start to the year, global markets face
the prospect of more turbulence this week. Investors will weigh any statements
or moves by Greece's new government, which vehemently opposes the terms of the
country's bailout.

The stock market will also be examining fourth-quarter earnings releases from
corporate giants including General Motors and Exxon Mobil. In this nervous
environment, investors will also sift United States economic releases, including
the jobs numbers on Friday, for any signs that the economy is slowing. PETER
EAVIS

JOBS FIGURES ARE DUE The big kahuna of monthly economic data will come out
Friday, when the Labor Department reports the latest figures for hiring and
unemployment in January. Payrolls surged in the final quarter of 2014, with
employers adding an average of 289,000 workers a month, significantly more than
the 246,000 monthly rate for the entire year. The consensus expectation on Wall
Street is that payrolls jumped by 235,000 last month, but some optimists are
looking for a considerably larger number if the momentum carried over into 2015.

The unemployment rate is expected to fall by 0.1 percentage point to 5.5
percent, but just as significant for economists and traders will be the change
in average hourly earnings. Most workers have had very slight wage growth since
the recovery began in 2009, despite the falling unemployment rate, and the
Federal Reserve is keeping a close tab on whether wages are finally rising. In
December, wages actually fell slightly, but economists are looking for a slight
increase in average hourly earnings this time around. NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

TWITTER EARNINGS Twitter, the popular short-form message service, will report
fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday. Investors will pay close attention to the
company's user growth numbers, which have paled in comparison to rival networks
like Facebook and Instagram, and have not lived up to analysts' expectations
over 2014. And after a year of dismissing important executives who have failed
to attract newcomers to the service, Dick Costolo, the company's chief
executive, is likely to stave off questions from analysts as to whether he is
the right person to lead the company. MIKE ISAAC

AUTOMAKER RESULTS Two domestic automakers, General Motors and the American
division of Fiat Chrysler, will report fourth-quarter earnings that should
benefit from strong sales of new vehicles in the United States. Fiat Chrysler,
which announces results for its United States unit on Tuesday, is the hottest
carmaker in the market and earning big profits from its Ram pickups and Jeep
sport utility vehicles. G.M., which reports earnings on Wednesday, will cap a
tumultuous 2014, in which it spent heavily to recall about 30 million cars and
trucks in the United States and compensate victims of a defective ignition
switch that set off the biggest safety crisis in the automaker's history. BILL
VLASIC

BP AND EXXON MOBIL RESULTS Exxon Mobil and BP are the next two major oil
companies to report in an earnings season that has been unusually painful
because of the collapse of oil and natural gas prices in recent months. Exxon
Mobil, which reports on Monday, is expected to still eke out a profit mainly
because its refinery and chemical businesses are likely to show strength. The
earnings report for BP on Tuesday is particularly important because the company
still faces legal challenges related to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion and
spill in the Gulf of Mexico and risks for its Russian business because of
Western sanctions. CLIFFORD KRAUSS

OPEN INTERNET RULES A step toward open Internet, or net neutrality, rules will
be made this week. Tom Wheeler, chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, must present his proposal to the other commissioners by Thursday.
Mr. Wheeler has already suggested that he favors regulating Internet service
like a public utility. But the details of how will be crucial. His proposal will
be grist for further debate and lobbying. The commission is scheduled to vote on
Feb. 26. STEVE LOHR

AUTO SALES NUMBERS After a blockbuster year for auto sales, the industry will
announce its first monthly numbers of 2015 on Tuesday. Analysts predict that it
could be a strong start, with many companies expected to post double-digit
increases over January 2014. Automakers recently gathered for the annual Super
Bowl of cars, the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, where
lavish displays and muscular vehicles had many in the industry feeling the wind
at their backs, especially with gas prices lower than in recent memory. AARON M.
KESSLER

INDIA BANK REVIEW The Reserve Bank of India releases the result of its next
monetary policy review on Tuesday. Governor Raghuram Rajan had been expected to
begin cutting rates next Tuesday but made a quarter-point reduction on Jan. 15,
between formal policy reviews, and hinted then at further rate cuts. Economists
are uncertain if he will act again on Tuesday or wait until after the government
unveils its next budget on Feb. 28. KEITH BRADSHER

BANCO SANTANDER EARNINGS Banco Santander will report its fourth-quarter results
on Tuesday as Ana Patricia Botín continues to put her stamp on the Spanish
lender, which her father ran for three decades until his death in September. In
November, Ms. Botín replaced the bank's chief executive and reshaped its board
of directors.

Last month, the bank raised its capital by 7.5 billion euros, or $8.5 billion,
and cut its dividend sharply to ease investor concerns about the strength of its
balance sheet. Santander, one of Europe's largest banks, has benefited in recent
quarters from an improving Spanish economy and a decline in provisions for
delinquent and defaulted loans. CHAD BRAY

LVMH RESULTS  LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the world's largest luxury goods
group, will report its financial results for 2014 on Tuesday. As demand for
high-end leather handbags, watches and jewels has slowed with the cooling
economies of China and Russia, analysts will be interested to hear what
executives are expecting for 2015.

Led by its new head of women's wear, Nicolas Ghesquière, the group has spent the
last year revamping the image of Louis Vuitton, its most valuable and
recognizable brand, which accounts for about a third of its sales and almost
half of its profits. The company may also indicate its plans for the 2.8 billion
euros in proceeds that it booked in December from the distribution of its 23
percent stake in Hermès, a rival French luxury house, to the group's
shareholders. NICOLA CLARK

SONY PICTURES EARNINGS With many of Sony Pictures' computer applications still
down after November's crippling hacking attack, the company will be trying to
return to normal with a Wednesday earnings call. It probably will not have final
results for the quarter that ended in December 2014 because of continuing
efforts to repair its networks. Still, many will be waiting to learn what impact
the cyberattack had on Sony.

Perhaps just as important, it may be revealed what the next step is for Sony's
beleaguered mobile unit, which recent reports said could shave an additional
1,000 jobs soon. PAUL MOZUR





URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/02/business/economy/january-job-data-big-earnings
-reports-and-the-greek-bailout.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%);
WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%);
AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPORT
UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%);
FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%);
AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); FACEBOOK INC (53%);
FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); FCAU (NYSE) (51%);
F (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES &
PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%);
NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL
GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING
(57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET
PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY &
EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: DICK COSTOLO (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials SCHWEDE, WILLIAM J

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 30 words


SCHWEDE--William J. and Robert J. We shared the same birthday all three of us.
Miss you William, and Robert, my identical twin, more and more each day. Your
Loving Brother, Raymond 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths PRAVDA, BERNARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 75 words


PRAVDA--Bernard. In his 96th year, 1919-2015, survived by his children, David
(Lynn), Karen (Norbert) and Susan (Gabor), his grandchildren, Jacqueline
(David), Douglas (Sarah), Elizabeth, Michael, Andrew and Rebecca and
great-grandchildren, Michael and Lily. Predeceased by his wife, Muriel and his
brothers Eli, Alfred and Sidney. Clothier, realtor, stockbroker, jeweler and
kibbitzer supreme. Shiva at Karen's home in Scarsdale, Monday to Wednesday. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES
STORES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEVINSON, SYLVIA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 39 words


LEVINSON--Sylvia. We note with sorrow the passing of our member, Ms. Sylvia
Levinson and extend sincerest condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Angela
W. Buchdahl, President David B. Edelson, Central Synagogue of New York City 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GRUZEN, JORDAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 36 words


GRUZEN--Jordan. We treasure the memory of his unquenchable zest for life, his
love of family and friends, his kind and gentle nature, and his moral center.
Our love to Lee and family. Sheila Gordon & Robin Elliott 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GOLDBERG, HARRIET

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 43 words


GOLDBERG--Harriet. Attorney, 71, died on January 30, 2015. Survived by husband
Robert Wetter, daughter Jennie (Rhett) Ross and brother- in-law Stephen Wetter.
Funeral service Tuesday 11:30am, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, Dobbs Ferry.
Edwardsanddowdle.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GILBERT, SHEILA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 49 words


GILBERT--Sheila. August 27, 1932 to January 30, 2015. Loving wife of Stephen,
beloved mother of Debra Margulies, Beryl Jackson and David Jackson. Dear
grandmother of Bianca, Alain, Barry, Jane, Beth and Aaron, and great-
grandmother of Sarai, Adrien and Asher. You will be in our hearts forever. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FLEISCHER, SCOTT A

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 190 words


FLEISCHER--Scott A. It is with great sadness we announce the death of Scott A.
Fleischer, born December 30, 1947. Scott passed peacefully on January 31st, 2015
at his home in Manhattan. He also was a resident of East Hampton. Scott was the
loving husband of Emily Plunkett Fleischer and loving father of Sophia
Fleischer. Scott, a well- respected member of the film industry, was the VP of
Marketing at Panavision New York, where he worked for 40 years. He is also
survived by his sister Phyllis Held, brother-in-law, Dino Held, and nephew and
nieces Grant, Allison and Clara Held. Scott was preceded in death by his parents
Samuel and Claire Fleischer. He is the son-in-law of Mary Elizabeth Plunkett and
the late Donald James Plunkett. A viewing is set for Tuesday, February 3rd, 4pm
to 8pm at The Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York, NY.
A service will be held on Wednesday, February 4th at 11:30am at The Frank E.
Campbell Chapel also at 1076 Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers, Scott requested
donations to be made to an education fund for Sophia. Please email:
SophiaFleischerFund@ gmail.com for details. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CAMPBELL, SARAH LOOMIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 89 words


CAMPBELL--Sarah Loomis, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, died in Framingham,
MA on January 21, age 86. She is survived by her children, Ethan, Priscilla, and
Michael Campbell; his wife Lisa, and their son, Zane; brothers Worth Loomis and
his wife, Louise; Harvey Loomis and his wife Linda. Our Sally was a woman of
many talents: writer, pianist, choral conductor, artist, and calligrapher, and a
pillar of her church and community. A service will be held at St. John's Church
in Cold Spring Harbor at a future date to be announced. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (83%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(83%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths AGOVINO, AL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 276 words


AGOVINO--Al. The AHRC New York City Board of Directors, staff, membership and
people supported and their families mourn the passing of AHRC New York City's
former Board Member, and extend sympathy to his beloved and bereaved family. The
father of a daughter with an intellectual and developmental disability (I/DD),
Al and his late wife Vera worked tirelessly to improve the lives of people with
I/DD and their families - work that continued even after the tragic loss of
their beloved daughter.

Al was a person of great integrity and common sense who helped many others get
through the difficult trials in their lives. His commitment to advocacy for
people with I/DD was exemplary. Al served on the AHRC New York City Board of
Directors for twenty-six years. He resigned in 2002 because of ill health, but
remained an active member of the organization. Al served as AHRC New York City's
President, chaired many committees over the years and was on the NYSARC Board of
Governors. He was appointed to the New York State Board of Visitors of Metro NY
in 1978 by the Governor and served in that role for two decades including
serving as President in 1995 and 1996. Al served in an advisory capacity on many
state councils and commissions including the New York State Commission on
Quality of Care for the Mentally Disabled, and the NYS Autism Advisory Council.
He was well known and well respected throughout the I/DD community in New York
State. We offer our sincere condolences to his children and grandchildren. Al
will be remembered by his "AHRC New York City family" and will be greatly
missed. Laura J. Kennedy, President Gary Lind, Executive Director 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); FAMILY (90%);
GRANDCHILDREN (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (77%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); MENTAL RETARDATION FACILITIES (72%);
AUTISM (72%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials WALKER, KENNETH BRIAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 36 words


WALKER--Kenneth Brian. On this your 70th Birthday you remain a constant reminder
to me all that is honest, loving and beautiful. Thank you for your grace and the
light you brought to my life. Loving you always, David

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 223 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LOWENHEIM, JERRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 55 words


LOWENHEIM--Jerry, passed away on January 28, 2015. Cherished husband of the late
Cynthia for 61 years; beloved father of Carla and Sharon (Charles); doting
grandpa to Emily, Joanna, and Russell, and great-grandpa to Abbey. Brother to
Marty and the late Henry and Cy. Donations can be made to the American Museum of
Natural History.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (82%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
