
                               1 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Gene Editor

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PROFILES IN SCIENCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2006 words


BERKELEY, Calif. -- As a child in Hilo, one of the less touristy parts of
Hawaii, Jennifer A. Doudna felt out of place. She had blond hair and blue eyes,
and she was taller than the other kids, who were mostly of Polynesian and Asian
descent.

''I think to them I looked like a freak,'' she recently recalled. ''And I felt
like a freak.''

Her isolation contributed to a kind of bookishness that propelled her toward
science. Her upbringing ''toughened her up,'' said her husband, Jamie Cate.
''She can handle a lot of pressure.''

These days, that talent is being put to the test.

Three years ago, Dr. Doudna, a biochemist at the University of California,
Berkeley, helped make one of the most monumental discoveries in biology: a
relatively easy way to alter any organism's DNA, just as a computer user can
edit a word in a document.

The discovery has turned Dr. Doudna (the first syllable rhymes with loud) into a
celebrity of sorts, the recipient of numerous accolades and prizes. The
so-called Crispr-Cas9 genome editing technique is already widely used in
laboratory studies, and scientists hope it may one day help rewrite flawed genes
in people, opening tremendous new possibilities for treating, even curing,
diseases.

But now Dr. Doudna, 51, is battling on two fronts to control what she helped
create.

While everyone welcomes Crispr-Cas9 as a strategy to treat disease, many
scientists are worried that it could also be used to alter genes in human
embryos, sperm or eggs in ways that can be passed from generation to generation.
The prospect raises fears of a dystopian future in which scientists create an
elite population of designer babies with enhanced intelligence, beauty or other
traits.

Scientists in China reported last month that they had already used the technique
in an attempt to change genes in human embryos, though on defective embryos and
without real success.

Dr. Doudna has been organizing the scientific community to prevent this ethical
line from being crossed. ''The idea that you would affect evolution is a very
profound thing,'' she said.

She is also fighting for control of what could be hugely lucrative intellectual
property rights to the genome editing technique. To the surprise of many, the
first sweeping patents for the technology were granted not to her, but to Feng
Zhang, a scientist at the Broad Institute and M.I.T.

The University of California is challenging the decision, and the nasty skirmish
has cast a bit of a pall over the field.

''I really want to see this technology used to help people,'' Dr. Doudna said.
''It would be a shame if the I.P. situation would block that.''

The development of the Crispr-Cas9 technique is a story in which obscure basic
biological research turned out to have huge practical implications. For Dr.
Doudna, though, it is only one accomplishment in a stellar career.

''She's been a high-impact scientist from the time she was a graduate student,''
said Thomas Cech, a Nobel laureate and professor of chemistry and biochemistry
at the University of Colorado, for whom Dr. Doudna was a postdoctoral
researcher. ''New topics, new fields of science, but she just has a knack for
discovery.''

A 'Dumbstruck' Moment

Dr. Doudna was 7 when she moved to Hilo, where her father taught literature at
the University of Hawaii campus there, and her mother lectured on history at a
community college. Their daughter loved exploring the rain forests and was
fascinated by how things worked. She found her calling in high school after
hearing a lecture by a scientist about her research into how normal cells became
cancerous.

''I was just dumbstruck,'' Dr. Doudna recalled. ''I wanted to be her.''

After studying biochemistry at Pomona College in California, she went to Harvard
for graduate school. There her adviser, the future Nobel laureate Jack Szostak,
was doing research on RNA. Some scientists believe that RNA, not DNA, was the
basis of early life, since the molecule can both store genetic information and
catalyze chemical reactions.

Dr. Doudna earned her doctoral degree by engineering a catalytic RNA that could
self-replicate, adding evidence to that theory. But her inability to visualize
this catalytic RNA hindered her work.

So as a postdoctoral researcher in Colorado, she decided to try to determine the
three-dimensional atomic structure of RNA using X-ray diffraction -- and
succeeded, though she had had no formal training in the technique. Structural
and biochemical studies of RNA in action have been her forte ever since.

In 2000, while on the faculty at Yale, she won the Alan T. Waterman Award, given
each year by the National Science Foundation to an exceptional young scientist.
She moved to Berkeley in 2002.

In 2005, Dr. Doudna was approached by Jillian Banfield, an environmental
researcher at Berkeley who had been sequencing the DNA of unusual microbes that
lived in a highly acidic abandoned mine. In the genomes of many of these
microbes were unusual repeating sequences called ''clustered regularly
interspaced short palindromic repeats,'' or Crispr.

No one was quite sure what they did, though over the next few years scientists
elsewhere established that these sequences were part of a bacterial immune
system. Between the repeated sequences were stretches of DNA taken from viruses
that had previously infected the bacteria -- genetic most-wanted posters, so to
speak.

If the same virus invaded again, these stretches of DNA would permit the
bacteria to recognize it and destroy it by slicing up its genetic material. Dr.
Doudna was trying to figure out exactly how this happened.

''I remember thinking this is probably the most obscure thing I ever worked
on,'' she said.

It would prove to have wide use. At a conference in early 2011, she met
Emmanuelle Charpentier, a French microbiologist at Umea University in Sweden,
who had already made some fundamental discoveries about the relatively simple
Crispr system in one bacterial species.

The bacterial expert and the structural biologist decided to work together.

''It was very enjoyable, because we were complementary,'' said Dr. Charpentier,
who recalled sitting in her office near the North Pole while Dr. Doudna regaled
her with stories about Hawaii.

Along with postdoctoral researchers Martin Jinek and Krzysztof Chylinski, the
two scientists eventually figured out how two pieces of RNA join up with a
protein made by the bacteria called Cas9 to cut DNA at a specific spot. The
researchers also found that the two RNA pieces could be combined into one and
still function.

In a eureka moment, the scientists realized that this cellular defense system
might be used to edit genomes, not just kill viruses.

A specific sequence of guide RNA could be made to attach to a spot virtually
anywhere on the genome, and the Cas9 protein would cleave the DNA at that spot.
Then pieces of the DNA could be deleted or added, just as a film editor might
cut a film and splice in new frames.

The researchers demonstrated this using DNA in a test tube. While there were
other genome editing techniques, they found that Crispr-Cas9 was much simpler.

The paper describing the technique, published by the journal Science in June
2012, set off a race to see if it would work in human, plant and animal cells.

Dr. Doudna, whose expertise was in working with molecules, not cells, reported
such a demonstration in human cells in January 2013. But her report came four
weeks after two papers were published simultaneously, one by George Church at
Harvard and the other by the Broad Institute's Dr. Zhang.

The Patent Fight

Now the University of California and the Broad Institute are arguing before the
federal patent office over whether Dr. Doudna or Dr. Zhang, who last year
received the Waterman Award for young scientists that Dr. Doudna had won years
earlier, was the first to invent the genome editing technique. So far, the
patents have gone to Dr. Zhang.

The Broad Institute claims that the paper by Dr. Doudna and Dr. Charpentier in
2012 did not demonstrate how to alter DNA in cells with nuclei, including human
cells, something requiring the inventive steps that Dr. Zhang took. His patent
application included pages from a lab notebook he said demonstrated that he was
doing Crispr genome editing even before the 2012 paper was published.

The University of California says it filed for a patent months before Dr. Zhang
did, though the Broad Institute says that initial application lacked necessary
details. The university's request to the patent office says that once the 2012
paper laid out the recipe, it was obvious how to use it in cells. The university
also says Dr. Zhang's notebook does not prove he could edit genomes before the
2012 paper.

Patent disputes are often settled in time. In any event, Dr. Church of Harvard
said, before Crispr-Cas9 could be used to treat disease, it would need important
refinements from many other researchers.

''It's going to be hard to use Feng's without Jennifer's, and it would be hard
to use either of them without further improvements,'' he said.

The scientists have formed competing companies with rights to their patents and
pending patents. Dr. Doudna co-founded Caribou Biosciences to work on research
uses of Crispr-Cas9, and more recently, Intellia Therapeutics to work on disease
treatments.

Dr. Church and Dr. Zhang are co-founders of Editas Medicine, which Dr. Doudna
also helped start but then withdrew from. Dr. Charpentier, who is now at the
Helmholtz Center for Infection Research in Germany, helped start Crispr
Therapeutics. She and Dr. Doudna remain friends, but no longer collaborate on
research.

Even before the dust settles, researchers are moving ahead. While contending
with the patents, Dr. Doudna began hearing reports that researchers were trying
to use Crispr-Cas9 to make inheritable DNA changes in embryos. Genetically
altered monkeys had already been created in China using the technique.

''It's very far afield from the kind of chemistry I think about and know
about,'' she said. Still, she felt it would be irresponsible to ignore the
rumors.

She organized a meeting of leading biologists in Napa, Calif., in January. In a
subsequent commentary published in Science, the group called for a moratorium on
attempts to create altered babies, though they said basic research on
inheritable changes should still be done.

Dr. Doudna said it was not practical to prohibit basic research. ''You can't
really put a lid on it, even if you wanted to,'' she said. She and others are
trying to organize a bigger international meeting with participants from
companies and governments as well as universities, possibly to set new
guidelines.

Learning to Live With Fame

She is also trying to cope with her newfound quasi-celebrity status. She has
been invited to hobnob with entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley, to speak to science
fiction writers, to advise Hollywood on science-themed movies. The garden, her
hobby, has had to wait.

In November, Dr. Doudna and Dr. Charpentier were each awarded $3 million
Breakthrough Prizes, endowed by leading Internet entrepreneurs. They accepted
their awards at an Oscars-like black-tie affair attended by movie stars like
Cameron Diaz and Benedict Cumberbatch. Recently Time magazine listed the two
scientists among the 100 most influential people in the world.

Dr. Doudna, who has a 12-year-old son, Andrew, also finds herself a role model
for women in science. Her secret: ''I have a great partner,'' with whom she
shares the chores.

Her husband, Dr. Cate, is also a professor at Cal-Berkeley. The couple have
adjacent offices, with views of the Golden Gate Bridge in the distance. Dr. Cate
also studies RNA; there is some overlap, but mostly they do their own research.
Andrew walks to their office from his middle school each afternoon and hangs out
until his parents are ready to go home.

''I don't think of myself as a role model, but I can see that I am,'' Dr. Doudna
said. ''I still think of myself as that person back in Hawaii.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/jennifer-doudna-crispr-cas9-genetic-en
gineering.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DR. JENNIFER A. DOUDNA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT EDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
Top, Dr. Emmanuelle Charpentier and Dr. Doudna, center, with Dick Costolo,
Twitter's chief executive, and the actress Cameron Diaz, in November. Each
scientist won a $3 million Breakthrough Prize. Above, genetically altered twin
monkeys created in China using the Crispr-Cas9 technique. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
KIMBERLY WHITE/GETTY IMAGES FOR BREAKTHROUGH PRIZE
YUYU NIU, ET AL) (D2) GRAPHICS: Breaking the Chain: A complex immune system
discovered in bacteria is already widely used in laboratory studies to modify
the DNA of any organism. (Sources: Nature
 Addgene) (D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
(89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (88%); CHILDREN (78%); BIOLOGY (75%); DNA (75%);
GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (74%); BIOCHEMISTRY (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); ETHICS
(65%); PATENTS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (83%)

PERSON: DICK COSTOLO (74%); CAMERON DIAZ (59%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); HILO, HI, USA (88%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

European Commission Prepares Plan to Distribute Migrants Across E.U.

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 524 words


LONDON -- As Europe struggles to address a worsening migration crisis, the
executive arm of the European Union is expected this week to submit a proposal
to distribute migrants across the 28-member bloc, officials said on Monday, a
plan that would encounter fierce resistance from some national governments.

Tens of thousands of migrants this year have risked the dangerous crossing of
the Mediterranean, often on rickety boats and with fatal consequences. Last
month, a vessel capsized off Italy, killing as many as 900 people.

The proposal for redistributing migrants would be based on a quota system that
would take into account factors like the size of a country's population, the
state of its economy and its level of joblessness, European Union officials
said.

The plan, which has not been finalized and must be approved by national
governments to take effect, is being supported by Germany. Last year, the
Germans fielded one-third of the 570,800 asylum claims registered in the
European Union, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
and they are pressing for other countries to take their share.

The countries in Southern Europe where many of the refugees land, most notably
Greece, Italy and Malta, are also pushing hard for other member states to help
alleviate the pressure on them.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, the European
Union's executive arm, has argued strongly in favor of quotas since last month.
''We must distribute refugees throughout the whole of Europe,'' he told the
European Parliament.

But at a time of strained national budgets and simmering anti-immigrant
sentiment in Europe, the attempt to press countries to take in more migrants is
encountering strong opposition, including from Britain and Hungary, and the
proposals face an uphill struggle to win approval.

For many European Union countries, asylum policy is viewed as a matter of
national sovereignty, and they object to efforts by Brussels to force them to
take action.

Viktor Orban, the Hungarian prime minister, said in an interview on state radio
on Friday that ''the idea that somebody allows some refugees in their own
country and then distributes them to other member states is mad and unfair.''
Instead, he called for Europe to focus on rooting out human traffickers.

As part of an effort to confront illegal immigration, the European Union is
preparing to devote more resources to military operations against the networks
of smugglers that operate in Libya and ferry migrants across the sea.

The bloc's top foreign policy official, Federica Mogherini, was to meet with
diplomats on the United Nations Security Council on Monday, as part of an effort
to get approval for military operations against human traffickers in
international waters as well as in Libya.

Last month, European leaders pledged to triple spending on border protection and
approved plans to ratchet up efforts to immobilize smugglers' boats before they
can set sail. But critics and advocacy groups have criticized the European
Union's plans as too small in scope to address the scale of the immigration
challenge.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/migrants-mediterranean-italy-euro
pean-commission.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC
ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS
(90%); SMUGGLING (89%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); APPROVALS
(89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FERRIES
(76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOREIGN
RELATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICAL
ASYLUM (72%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%);
SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%);
BORDER CONTROL (60%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); UNITED NATIONS
HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (82%)

PERSON: VIKTOR ORBAN (79%); JEAN-CLAUDE JUNCKER (73%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%);
MEDITERRANEAN (92%); ITALY (92%); LIBYA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); MALTA (79%);
BELGIUM (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle Class Is Disappearing, at Least From Vocabulary of Possible 2016
Contenders

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1290 words


Hillary Rodham Clinton calls them ''everyday Americans.'' Scott Walker prefers
''hard-working taxpayers.'' Rand Paul says he speaks for ''people who work for
the people who own businesses.'' Bernie Sanders talks about ''ordinary
Americans.''

The once ubiquitous term ''middle class'' has gone conspicuously missing from
the 2016 campaign trail, as candidates and their strategists grasp for new terms
for an unsettled economic era. The phrase, long synonymous with the American
dream, now evokes anxiety, an uncertain future and a lifestyle that is
increasingly out of reach.

The move away from ''middle class'' is the rhetorical result of a critical
shift: After three decades of income gains favoring the highest earners and job
growth being concentrated at the bottom of the pay scale, the middle has for
millions of families become a precarious place to be.

A social stratum that once signified a secure, aspirational lifestyle, with a
house in the suburbs, children set to attend college, retirement savings in the
bank and, maybe, an occasional trip to Disneyland now connotes fears about
falling behind, sociologists, economists and political scientists say.

That unease spilled out during conversations with voters in focus groups
convened by Democratic pollsters in recent months.

''The cultural consensus around what it means to be 'middle class' -- and that
has very much been part of the national identity in the United States -- is
beginning to shift,'' said Sarah Elwood, a professor at the University of
Washington and an author of a paper about class identity that one Clinton
adviser had studied.

Rising costs mean many families whose incomes fall in the middle of the national
distribution can no longer afford the trappings of what was once associated with
a middle-class lifestyle. That has made the term, political scientists say, lose
its resonance.

''We have no collective language for talking about that condition,'' Dr. Elwood
said.

The result is a presidential campaign in which every candidate desperately wants
to appeal to middle-class Americans -- broadly defined as working-age households
with annual incomes of $35,000 to $100,000 -- but does not know how to address
them. That has led to some linguistic maneuvering.

Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, has said what makes America unique
are the ''millions and millions of people who aren't rich.'' Mr. Sanders, an
independent from Vermont who is seeking the Democratic nomination, has talked
about ''working families'' and ''people working full time.'' Senator Ted Cruz of
Texas, a Republican, has made ''hard-working men and women across America'' the
focus of his message.

''It used to be 'middle class' represented everyone, actually or in their
aspirations, but now it doesn't feel as attainable,'' said David Madland, the
managing director of economic policy at the Center for American Progress, a
liberal think tank with close ties to the Clinton campaign. ''You see
politicians and others grasping for the right word to talk about a majority of
Americans.''

Candidates realize they cannot win election without widespread appeal among the
51 percent of Americans who, according to Gallup, identify as middle or
upper-middle class. That compares with an average of 60 percent who identified
the same way in polls conducted from 2000 through 2008.

But sociologists say such surveys obscure how Americans feel about the
characterization -- and how much the middle class has shrunk. They call the new
economy an ''hourglass,'' with a concentration of wealth at the top, low-paying
service jobs at the bottom and ''a spectacular loss of median-wage jobs in the
middle,'' said William Julius Wilson, a sociologist and Harvard professor.

In surveys, more Americans still choose 'middle class' when asked which category
they belong to, because they do not want to identify as rich or poor and because
no new phrase exists to describe middle-income earners who view their social
class as vulnerable. Working class, once associated with manufacturing jobs, now
mostly connotes low-paying service jobs.

''People are looking for some way to say, 'I recognize I'm a little below the
middle,' '' said Dennis Gilbert, a professor of sociology at Hamilton College
who has published books on American class structure.

Before presidential campaigns tested replacement terms, academics started to
adopt phrases like the ''near poor'' or ''the sandwich generation.'' After the
Great Depression, ''submerged middle class'' became popular to describe families
who could rise if aided by the New Deal.

''What do you call people who don't have good jobs but whoaren't poor?'' said
Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University and author
of ''Labor's Love Lost,'' about the rise and fall of working families.

The words may be endangered, but the idyllic image of the American middle class
that took hold after World War II and became the backbone of everything from
selling appliances to pitching presidential candidates still looms large on the
campaign trail. When candidates talk about the middle class, they increasingly
use the words as a nostalgic term, a reminder about what the American economy
has been and what it could again become -- with the right president, of course.

The 67-year-old Mrs. Clinton regularly walks down memory lane with stories about
her middle-class upbringing in the suburbs of Chicago, invoking an era when
parents who were not rich could raise a child who would become a senator, a
secretary of state and a potential president.

In addition to her signature phrase, ''everyday Americans,'' Mrs. Clinton often
says: ''We need to make the middle class mean something again.'' The line, her
campaign said, was informed by the growing school of thought that in 2015,
''middle class'' makes a majority of voters more anxious than optimistic.

''In the 1960s, 'middle class' felt like it fit your lifestyle,'' said Felicia
Wong, the president and chief executive of the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal
think tank with ties to Mrs. Clinton's economic team.

Even if families fall in the middle in income distribution, they cannot afford
many of the necessities, much less the luxuries, traditionally associated with
being middle class, Ms. Wong said.

Household incomes for the middle class have been stagnant, while the costs of
middle-class security -- which economists define as child care, higher
education, health care, housing and retirement -- increased by more than $10,000
from 2000 to 2012, according to a Center for American Progress report,
''Middle-Class Squeeze.''

''If you're technically in the 50th percentile in income distribution but you
can't afford to send your kids to college or take a vacation, are you middle
class or not?'' Ms. Wong said.

But skeptics say that ''everyday Americans'' and the other phrases candidates
use to fill the void are overly vague and upbeat and obscure a bleak reality.

''If you had a candidate running around talking about the 'submerged middle
class,' voters would run the other way,'' said Frank Levy, an economist and
professor emeritus at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The phrases can be awkward, too, or slow to catch on. Mrs. Clinton has a mantra:
''Everyday Americans need a champion.'' But when she visited a high school in
Las Vegas last week to talk about immigration, she found the students had
welcomed her with a handmade sign with her campaign slogan. They had botched the
punctuation -- and a bit of the meaning, though perhaps it still resonated.
''Everyday, Americans need a champion,'' it read.

Follow The New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and
sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/politics/as-middle-class-fades-so-does-use-
of-term-on-campaign-trail.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking last month with voters in
Marshalltown, Iowa. She has made ''everyday Americans'' a focus of her campaign,
staying away from the term ''middle class,'' which is seen as indicating
vulnerability. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2008 (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%);
WOMEN WORKERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS
(78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LINGUISTICS (75%);
WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); SUBURBS
(71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); FOCUS
GROUPS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BERNIE SANDERS (77%); SCOTT WALKER (73%);
RAND PAUL (73%); TED CRUZ (65%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Now in Charge at City Hall: A Very Frequent Traveler

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1227 words


A rally by the steps of the United States Capitol. Fire-up-the-base speeches in
Iowa and Wisconsin. Cross-country political trips, paid for with private money,
and a Silicon Valley fund-raiser hosted by tech moguls, with tickets going for
up to $10,000 apiece.

Clinton? Rubio? Bush?

No. De Blasio.

After 16 months as mayor of New York, Bill de Blasio seems determined to escape
the confines of his day job and to prompt a national liberal movement -- even as
he leaves himself open to criticism that he is not making problems at home a
priority.

This week, Mayor de Blasio, a Democrat, is off to Washington to spend two days
pressing federal lawmakers to shift their policies leftward. He flies from there
to California, where he will speak about economic inequality and raise money for
his national effort at a private reception in San Francisco, with the former
president of Facebook, Sean Parker, as a co-host.

By the time Mr. de Blasio returns, he will have been traveling outside New York
on political trips for at least a portion of 10 of the last 31 days. (Throw in a
vacation to Puerto Rico and college visits with his son, and the mayor has spent
about a third of April and May on the road.)

The mayor, who has steadfastly defended his trips, argued on Monday that his
federal and municipal efforts were intertwined, and pointed to his efforts on
housing, immigration and education as signs that he remains focused on the city.

''Mayors before me have understood it the same way: They've had to speak to
national issues, while making sure things work here every day,'' Mr. de Blasio
said at a news conference in Queens. ''My job is to do both.''

Still, Mr. de Blasio is pursuing his extracurricular activities at a notably
early stage of his mayoralty. And at times, he has risked sounding like an
outsider, evaluating his constituents from afar.

''A lot of people outside New York City understand what happened in the first
year of New York City better than people in New York City,'' Mr. de Blasio said
in a profile in Rolling Stone, referring to the first year of his
administration. ''But I'm convinced something very special happened here.''

The remark prompted a cartoon in The Daily News that depicted the mayor with a
giant balloon for a head, floating away from a puny body. ''Caution,'' the
caption read. ''Do not overinflate.''

Advisers to Mr. de Blasio said his comment had been misinterpreted, saying the
mayor wanted to draw a distinction between the preoccupations of New York City
tabloids and what he viewed as his broader achievements, like starting a free
prekindergarten program for 53,000 students, as well as a municipal
identification card program.

''He's using every tool as mayor of New York City to combat the central issue of
our times, which is income inequality,'' said John Del Cecato, a political
consultant who is helping to oversee Mr. de Blasio's travels.

''But he knows there is only so much that a mayor can do on his own,'' Mr. Del
Cecato added. ''He really feels it's an obligation to his constituents, to 8.4
million people, to help push the federal government to do its part.''

When it comes to municipal matters, though, Mr. de Blasio has shown varying
degrees of enthusiasm.

In Queens on Monday, he announced a more stringent inspection regimen for the
city's troubled homeless shelters, denouncing an ''unacceptable'' status quo and
adding, ''I'm very proud of what is being done here.''

But at a required lengthy city budget presentation last week, the mayor seemed
less excited. After joking with reporters that driving to Las Vegas was ''an
appealing prospect as this press conference wears on,'' he ended the event on an
ironic note. ''Thank you for sitting through this long and fascinating
presentation,'' the mayor said, dryly.

Wanderlust among mayors is hardly new.

Michael R. Bloomberg, a political independent, eagerly pursued a national
profile while mayor, urging other cities to adopt his ban on smoking and leading
a coalition to end gun trafficking; he also mulled a run for president, although
those activities took place well after his first term. Mr. Bloomberg also
traveled frequently to Bermuda.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, ran for the United States Senate toward the
end of his tenure as mayor. John V. Lindsay, a Republican who later switched
parties, campaigned for the Democratic presidential nomination late in his
second term.

''You have to strap them to the mast, like Odysseus,'' said Gordon J. Davis, a
senior aide to Mr. Lindsay and former city parks commissioner. New York mayors,
he added, can find the lure of fame ''intoxicating.''

But Mr. Davis, who was a speechwriter during Mr. Lindsay's presidential bid,
said he also believed the job required shining a spotlight on urban issues.

''Is it the obligation of the mayor of the city of New York to be a spokesman on
national issues? Absolutely, it is part of the job,'' Mr. Davis said. ''There
may be some style issues on when you do it, and how you do it, but I think it's
perfectly appropriate.''

Mr. de Blasio has denied any presidential ambitions -- at least before his
re-election fight in 2017 -- but he is embracing the national spokesman role.
Besides Rolling Stone, he gave an interview on MSNBC and wrote an op-ed article
in The Washington Post with Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts.

Chirlane McCray, the mayor's wife, is also courting a national audience,
speaking with National Public Radio and publishing a Mother's Day essay in Time
magazine.

Mr. de Blasio has been less forthcoming recently with his local press corps.
Until the event on Monday, the mayor had allowed City Hall reporters to question
him, without restrictions on the topic, three times in the last three weeks,
including once after he bumped into reporters on the City Hall plaza. (Aides to
the mayor said the shooting death of a police officer and the budget
presentation last week took precedent.)

In Washington this week, the mayor is scheduled to attend an event with Ms.
Warren, before joining allies to unveil a list of federal policy demands, which
he describes as the liberal equivalent of Newt Gingrich's ''Contract With
America.'' In California, the mayor is speaking at his daughter's university and
appearing with Robert Reich, the former labor secretary.

On Thursday in San Francisco, Mr. de Blasio is also set to attend a fund-raiser
for the Campaign for One New York, a political nonprofit group established to
advance his agenda. The group, which can accept large contributions outside New
York City's campaign finance limits, is paying for the mayor's California trip.

George Arzt, a longtime aide to former Mayor Edward I. Koch, a Democrat,
recalled that Mr. Lindsay's presidential ambitions were harmed when a Brooklyn
Democrat urged the mayor to end his travels with the much-publicized comment,
''Little Sheba better come home.''

''It is extremely difficult being out of the city a significant number of days
while telling city residents you are in charge,'' Mr. Arzt said. He recalled
that Mr. Koch, who ran for governor in his second term, rarely spent a night
away from the mayoral residence, Gracie Mansion, for fear that something might
go awry.

Mr. Koch had a saying, Mr. Arzt recalled: ''If a sparrow dies somewhere in the
city of a heart attack, it is my fault.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/mayor-de-blasios-days-on-the-road-fue
l-criticism-at-home.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Bill de Blasio in Des Moines last month, above, with an
aide, Michael Carey. Left, Mr. de Blasio at a shelter in Queens, on Monday, when
he argued that his federal and municipal efforts were intertwined. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY RYAN DONNELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%);
FUNDRAISING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING
(67%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); IMMIGRATION
(50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (94%); SEAN PARKER (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON
VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Punishment Is a Matter of Perspective

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN.

Email: wcr@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 852 words


If you are a fan of the New England Patriots and you live in the Northeast, you
most likely reacted with rage and indignation to Monday's announcement that the
N.F.L. would penalize the team for using deflated footballs.

More Patriots bashing, you might be saying -- the unfair persecution of a
benevolent owner, Robert K. Kraft; a rugged individualist of a coach, Bill
Belichick; and a quarterback virtually assured of a place in the Hall of Fame,
Tom Brady, who collectively make up a holy trinity that has delivered four Super
Bowl titles to New England.

If you live in the rest of the world, you're probably saying that it's about
time these scoundrels were punished. You might be applauding the N.F.L. for
finally getting it right after a year in which the league's commissioner, Roger
Goodell, got just about everything wrong.

The N.F.L. suspended Brady, the most valuable player of this year's Super Bowl
and the league's golden boy, for four regular-season games. The Patriots were
also fined $1 million and lost a couple of draft picks, including next year's
first-rounder.

All this, Patriots fans will argue -- as they have argued since the controversy
started -- over some lousy deflated footballs from the A.F.C. championship game,
in which the Patriots routed the Indianapolis Colts.

In a statement, Goodell said he supported the punishment of the Patriots, which
was doled out by the league's executive president for football operations, Troy
Vincent, for what the league called ''conduct detrimental to the integrity of
the N.F.L.''

Goodell blundered in his handling of the case of Ray Rice, who was caught on
film punching his fiancée, and I still believe that the league erred in the way
it addressed Greg Hardy's domestic violence case.

Hardy, a defensive end whom the Dallas Cowboys signed in March, was given a
10-game suspension last month for conduct detrimental to the league after an
investigation found that Hardy had used physical force against his ex-girlfriend
at least four times -- but he still gets to play?

Indeed, the bar has been set so low that the penalties imposed on Brady and the
Patriots actually seem harsh.

A report commissioned by the N.F.L. concluded that Tom Terrific, as Brady is
called, ''was at least generally aware'' of plans by Patriots personnel to
underinflate footballs to Brady's liking, below the league-mandated minimum of
12.5 pounds per square inch.

''On the plus side, it was meaningful,'' Ron Katz, the chairman of the Institute
of Sports Law and Ethics at Santa Clara University, said in a telephone
interview Monday when asked about the punishment.

Katz said the penalty ''may have been on the low side of meaningful, but it was
not a slap on the wrist.''

''The main problem with cheating is that those who play by the rules are
penalized,'' Katz said, adding, ''Champions don't cheat.''

Well, maybe a little they do.

The Patriots have now been fined twice in eight years by the N.F.L. Each fine
has had to do with the organization's cheating to gain a competitive edge. (In
2007, the Patriots were fined $250,000 -- and Belichick $500,000 -- for
videotaping Jets coaches' defensive signals during a game at Giants Stadium. New
England also lost a first-round draft pick.)

Brady is set to miss games against Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Jacksonville and Dallas.
If his suspension is upheld, he will return for a game at Indianapolis on Oct.
18, what looks to be the N.F.L.'s game of the year.

Patriots fans have pointed out that the 243-page report that led to Brady's
suspension never directly linked him to the illegal deflation. But the most
surprising element of the Patriots' punishment is that Goodell treated Kraft, a
friend and staunch supporter, so harshly.

Kraft said in a statement that the punishment ''far exceeded any reasonable
expectation.'' The severity, though, depends on where you're sitting.

Goodell is still reeling from misstep after misstep last year. He initially gave
Rice a two-game suspension for knocking out his fiancée, who is now his wife.
Only after he faced severe pushback did Goodell suspend Rice for the season.

Goodell has desperately tried to regain his law-and-order mojo. All he did on
Monday was hold serve.

''They don't deserve to be champions,'' Katz, of the Institute of Sports Law and
Ethics, said, referring to the Patriots. But champions they are.

Last week, during an appearance by Brady at Salem State in Massachusetts, fans
were rabid in their support of him and his team. They chanted and cheered and
defended their hero.

Expect more of the same. In fact, I expect Monday's penalty will ignite a
rallying cry from Patriots fans, who will be hoping to cheer their team on to
yet another Super Bowl appearance. I can see it now: ''Free Tom Brady'' hoodies
everywhere.

From where I sit, Monday's penalty was a hard love tap: A billionaire owner
loses a million bucks; a 37-year-old quarterback gets to take the first four
games of the season off.

The Colts, who were cheated, get to stew over their 45-7 title game drubbing.
The Patriots get to keep their trophy.

Where's the justice?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/punishment-is-a-matter-of-pers
pective.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); MISCONDUCT
(89%); ATHLETES (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ETHICS (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (72%);
SPORTS AWARDS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (62%); DOMESTIC
OFFENSES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%);
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (54%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (79%)

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dogfighting, Videotaping, Drugs, Bullying, Texting . . .

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 600 words


Perhaps more than any league, the N.F.L. has meted out suspensions for a
stunning variety of misdeeds, including dogfighting, gambling, videotaping,
texting, ball tampering, artificial crowd noise, bounties, bullying and drug
use.

The league has presided over an extensive record of misconduct, even if the
penalties at times seem inconsistent and arbitrary to some.

The penalties can range from $20,000 -- the fine the San Diego Chargers paid for
using grip-enhancing sticky towels in 2012 -- to Michael Vick's two-year
suspension beginning in 2007 for involvement in a dogfighting ring.

The heavy penalties issued Monday to Tom Brady and the New England Patriots for
their roles in the deflated-football scandal are the latest punishments in the
long list. Brady was given a four-game suspension and the Patriots were fined $1
million and stripped of their first-round draft pick in 2016 and a fourth-round
pick in 2017.

The fine matches the one handed out to Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., then the San
Francisco 49ers' owner, who pleaded guilty to a felony in connection to a
Louisiana corruption scandal in 1999.

The four-game suspension for Brady seemed severe in some quarters, especially
compared with the original suspension last year of Ray Rice, the former
Baltimore Ravens running back who was banned two games after knocking his
then-fiancée unconscious in a hotel elevator in Atlantic City. Following public
outrage and the subsequent release of a videotape that documented the attack,
the league then suspended Rice indefinitely. Rice had a portion of that
overturned on appeal.

In 2007, the Patriots were stripped of a first-round draft pick and fined
$250,000 for violating the rules when they videotaped the Jets' sideline to pick
up coaching signals. Patriots Coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000 in that
incident, but he was ruled not to have been aware that two Patriots employees
had schemed to improperly deflate footballs. An investigative report said that
it was ''more probable than not that Brady was at least generally aware of the
inappropriate activities.''

This spring, Cleveland Browns General Manager Ray Farmer was suspended for four
games for texting team personnel during a game. Around the same time, the league
stripped the Atlanta Falcons of a fifth-round draft pick in next year's draft
and fined them $350,000 for piping crowd noise into their stadium.

The league handed out extensive penalties to the New Orleans Saints in 2012 for
an incentive program, supposedly organized by the defensive coordinator Gregg
Williams, that compensated Saints players for injuring opposing players. In
addition to three players who received three-, four- and eight-game suspensions,
Jonathan Vilma was initially suspended for a full season before being reinstated
through appeal.

The N.F.L. also suspended Williams and Coach Sean Payton for the season, and
General Manager Mickey Loomis for eight games. The Saints were fined $500,000
and stripped of two second-round draft picks.

A year later, offensive lineman Richie Incognito was suspended indefinitely for
bullying a teammate on the Miami Dolphins, a ban that ended at the conclusion of
the 2013 season.

This past year, Adrian Peterson, a running back for the Minnesota Vikings, was
deactivated by the team and then placed on the N.F.L.'s exempt list after he was
charged with child abuse. Peterson ultimately made a plea deal for a single
charge of reckless assault.

Early examples of penalties for gambling include the season-long suspensions of
Alex Karras and Paul Hornung in 1963 and Art Schlichter in 1983.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/nfl-presides-over-a-long-list-
of-misconduct.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patriots Coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000 for
videotaping the Jets in 2007, and the Patriots were also punished. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Dolphins lineman Richie Incognito was suspended indefinitely for bullying a
teammate. The ban ended after the 2013 season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO
LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Saints Coach Sean Payton was suspended for an entire year, part of the Saints'
extensive penalties in a bounty scheme. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN C. COX/GETTY
IMAGES)
 Ray Rice was suspended for two games for knocking his fiancée unconscious. He
was later barred indefinitely but appealed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON
DeCROW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); DOG FIGHTING (90%); SPORTS TAMPERING (90%);
AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (87%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ATHLETES
(77%); CORRUPTION (69%); APPEALS (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); FELONIES (66%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NEW
ORLEANS SAINTS (84%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (59%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO
49ERS (55%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (54%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (79%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (67%); ATLANTA, GA, USA
(51%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); OHIO,
USA (67%); GEORGIA, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brady Receives a 4-Game Ban

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words


New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, a golden boy of American sports and
perhaps pro football's biggest star, was suspended Monday for four
regular-season games without pay by the N.F.L., which said he had deliberately
and secretly violated league rules.

The N.F.L. also fined the Patriots $1 million and took away two prized future
draft picks, including a first-round choice in 2016, saying that the team, and
Brady, schemed to improperly deflate footballs in the A.F.C. championship game
last season on the way to securing New England's fourth Super Bowl victory.

A deflated football is said to be easier to grip, especially in the cold and wet
conditions that the Patriots faced at home against the Indianapolis Colts on
Jan. 18.

In a statement, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said he supported the
punishment issued by the league's executive vice president for football
operations, Troy Vincent, for what the league called ''conduct detrimental to
the integrity of the N.F.L.'' The team and Brady were also censured for not
fully cooperating with a league-commissioned investigation into how a vast
majority of footballs used in the first half of the Patriots' victory in the
A.F.C. championship game ended up underinflated not long after the game
officials had measured and approved the footballs in a pregame inspection.

It was a stunning, rare and significant rebuke for Brady, widely considered the
most successful quarterback of his generation. Brady also becomes one of the
most recognized, honored and popular players suspended in N.F.L. history. Don
Yee, Brady's agent, said Brady would appeal the suspension. Most successful
appeals of this kind typically result in an abridged suspension, not a
revocation of the suspension.

If the suspension is upheld, it will deprive him of about $2 million in salary
and make him eligible to return for the Oct. 18 game against -- who else? -- the
Colts.

Yee, in a statement Monday, called the discipline ''ridiculous'' and lashed out
at the league's nearly four-month investigation, which was led by Theodore V.
Wells Jr.

''There is no evidence that Tom directed footballs be set at pressures below the
allowable limits,'' Yee said. ''In fact, the evidence shows Tom clearly
emphasized that footballs be set at pressures within the rules. The Wells report
presents significant evidence, however, that the N.F.L. lacks standards or
protocols with respect to its handling of footballs prior to games; this is not
the fault of Tom or the Patriots.''

Brady did not comment on Monday's disciplinary action. In a statement, Robert K.
Kraft, owner of the Patriots, said: ''Tom Brady has our unconditional support.
Our belief in him has not wavered.''

Kraft added: ''Despite our conviction that there was no tampering with
footballs, it was our intention to accept any discipline levied by the league.
Today's punishment, however, far exceeded any reasonable expectation. It was
based completely on circumstantial rather than hard or conclusive evidence.''

The Brady reprimand, the fine and the lost draft picks are another stain on the
legacy of the Patriots, who have won four N.F.L. titles since the 2001 season
but have often been viewed as a team willing to bend or skirt rules in shadowy
ways. It is the second time in eight years the Patriots have been disciplined by
the league. In 2007, New England and its coach were fined $750,000 and lost a
first-round draft pick after the Patriots videotaped Jets coaches' signals in
violation of league rules.

The deflated-footballs scandal is also another blow to the N.F.L., coming just
months after an embarrassing 2014 season in which several prominent players were
arrested in connection with domestic abuse or child abuse and suspended by the
league.

But the public relations damage may be felt greatest by Brady, whose humble
entry into pro football as an obscure draft pick made his subsequent, surprise
success a winsome underdog story. With good looks and an all-American smile,
Brady became the face of the Patriots and was showered with sponsorship dollars.
Married to the supermodel Gisele Bündchen, he is a significant piece of the
thriving Patriots brand and inexorably tied to a franchise worth nearly $3
billion.

But on Monday, Brady, who had always been cast as an innocent in the midst of
other Patriots transgressions, was singled out by the league as a focal figure
in a petty but duplicitous scandal. A bag of slightly deflated footballs may not
seem like something that will taint the legacy of a nearly certain Pro Football
Hall of Fame career, but for now, Brady's reputation is sullied by a humiliating
punishment just over three months after he was named most valuable player of the
Super Bowl.

In a letter to Brady, Vincent castigated him for various offenses, referring to
the 243-page Wells report released last week. The report identified two
low-level Patriots employees, John Jastremski, an equipment assistant, and Jim
McNally, an officials' locker room attendant, as the central conspirators in the
deflating of the footballs but cited ''substantial and credible evidence'' that
Brady was ''at least generally aware of the inappropriate activities.'' Brady
has denied knowing anything about the tampering of the footballs.

''It was unlikely that their actions were done without your knowledge,'' Vincent
wrote, referring to Jastremski and McNally. ''Moreover, the report documents
your failure to cooperate fully and candidly with the investigation, including
by refusing to produce any relevant electronic evidence (emails, texts, etc.),
despite being offered extraordinary safeguards by the investigators to protect
unrelated personal information.''

As part of its statement, the league said it was advised by Kraft, who along
with Coach Bill Belichick was absolved of wrongdoing, that Jastremski and
McNally had been suspended without pay indefinitely. According to the league,
neither individual may be reinstated without the approval of Vincent.

Brady will be allowed to participate in off-season, training camp and preseason
activities, including preseason games. The Patriots will also lose their
fourth-round selection of the 2017 draft.

At the core of the league's investigation was the discovery at halftime that a
high percentage of the footballs used by the Patriots in the A.F.C. championship
game were underinflated. The footballs had been inspected by game officials
before the game and inflated to the permissible pounds-per-square-inch measure
established by the N.F.L. Circumstantial but detailed information and accounts
provided in the league report last week implicated Jastremski, McNally and Brady
as part of an operation to furtively deflate the footballs beyond the
permissible threshold sometime between the pregame inspection and the opening
kickoff.

Tipped off by a Colts executive, the officials measured the footballs again at
halftime and found that a majority of the Patriots footballs -- the teams each
used their own balls -- were underinflated. The footballs were once again
inflated as required, and the Patriots then continued to dominate the Colts in a
45-7 rout.

On Monday, Vincent wrote that he did not think the underinflated Patriots
footballs had affected the outcome of the game. But he also suggested that the
Patriots might have been underinflating footballs long before Jan. 18.

''The evidence suggests that Jan. 18th was not the first and only occasion when
this occurred, particularly in light of the evidence referring to deflation of
footballs going back to before the beginning of the 2014 season,'' Vincent
wrote.

When the N.F.L.'s lengthy report was released last week, Kraft issued an angry
rebuttal that was severely critical of the league's conclusions.

''To say we are disappointed in its findings, which do not include any
incontrovertible or hard evidence of deliberate deflation of footballs at the
A.F.C. championship game, would be a gross understatement,'' Kraft said.

Vincent answered Kraft on Monday, saying the league used a standard of proof
established in the league bylaws.

''Namely, preponderance of the evidence, meaning that 'as a whole, the fact
sought to be proved is more probable than not,' '' Vincent wrote. ''This is a
well-recognized legal standard, which is applied in courts and workplaces every
day throughout the country.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/tom-brady-suspended-for-four-g
ames-and-patriots-fined-1-million.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The owner Robert K. Kraft in January. He said the Patriots still
supported Tom Brady. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(90%); ATHLETES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); SPORTS
OFFICIATING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVES
(68%); APPROVALS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%);
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (94%)

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Needle Moves in Las Vegas (and Not Into a Football)

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 289 words


It is a good thing Tom Brady's four-game suspension for his role in the
ball-deflation case was not announced during the N.F.L. season, or else there
might have been a run on Nevada sports books.

There has been no betting action accepted on the New England Patriots since an
N.F.L.-commissioned report that was released Wednesday concluded that it was
''more probable than not'' that Brady was at least generally aware that a
Patriots attendant in the officials' locker room and an equipment assistant were
deflating footballs to gain an edge against the Indianapolis Colts in the A.F.C.
championship game in January.

A line was up immediately, however, on Monday after the announcement of the
Brady suspension. Before the report, New England was favored by 6 points against
the Pittsburgh Steelers in the season opener Sept. 10 at Gillette Stadium.

Now, the Super Bowl champion Patriots are favored by 1 point.

''Generally, Brady's value is considered to be about 7 points per game -- but
New England has the advantage of the entire offseason to prepare for his
absence, somewhat lessening the impact,'' said R. J. Bell, the founder of
Pregame.com, a handicapping site.

New England is not only losing its quarterback for four games -- the Patriots
were fined $1 million and lost two draft picks, including a first-round choice
in 2016.

The Patriots, of course, have been down this road before. In 2007, the league
fined the Patriots and Coach Bill Belichick and ordered the team to forfeit a
first-round draft pick after a Patriots staff member was discovered videotaping
signals by Jets defensive coaches during a game at Giants Stadium.

If Brady's suspension is upheld, he will return Oct. 18 in Indianapolis, against
the Colts.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/patriots-are-no-longer-a-big-f
avorite-with-las-vegas-oddsmakers.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: --5: The change in the point spread for the Patriots, who are
now favored by only 1 point against the Steelers in their season opener.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%);
ATHLETES (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); COACHES & TRAINERS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%);
PITTSBURGH STEELERS (83%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (57%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (92%)

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (72%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


The Sports of The Times column on Friday, about the appropriate penalty for Tom
Brady and the New England Patriots for apparently deflating game-day footballs,
misspelled, in some copies, the surname of the N.F.L. commissioner who suspended
Alex Karras and Paul Hornung for betting on N.F.L. games and associating with
gamblers in 1963. He is Pete Rozelle, not Rozell.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (84%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Manager of Bayern Returning, He Insists

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 508 words


It will take a remarkable comeback for Bayern Munich to advance from Tuesday's
Champions League semifinal second leg against Barcelona, but Pep Guardiola, the
Bayern manager, said Monday that the result would have no bearing on whether he
would be coaching a new club next season.

Guardiola, speaking at a prematch news conference in Munich, disputed a report
on the website of the television channel beIN Sports that said he and the
English club Manchester City had reached an oral agreement for him to lead that
team beginning this summer.

''I've already said 200 million times -- I'll be here next season,'' Guardiola
said. ''That's it. I have a year left on my contract. Next season, I will be
here.''

Potential links between Guardiola and Manchester City have popped up in the news
media with some regularity over the past year.

City's coach, Manuel Pellegrini, won the Premier League title last season but
has been criticized by fans and other observers after the club failed to
seriously challenge for the championship this season and turned in tepid
performances in the Champions League and the F.A. Cup.

It has been widely reported that City's owners, who are based in Abu Dhabi and
desperate for success in the Champions League, are likely to part ways with
Pellegrini after the Premier League season ends this month. At the very least,
Guardiola is familiar with some of City's officials: Its chief executive, Ferran
Soriano, and its director of football, Txiki Begiristain, who joined the club as
top executives in 2012, share a history at Barcelona with Guardiola.

Guardiola won 14 trophies with Barcelona during a dominant stretch from 2008 to
2012. He then took a sabbatical year before joining Bayern Munich in 2013 on a
contract that runs until the summer of 2016.

Guardiola has won the Bundesliga in both of his seasons in Germany but was
embarrassed in the Champions League semifinals last year by Real Madrid and,
after a 3-0 loss to Barcelona in last week's first leg, is in a position to be
summarily bounced in the same round again.

The Barcelona star Lionel Messi scored twice in the first leg at Camp Nou, and
Neymar added the home team's final goal in stoppage time to further sully
Guardiola's first match in Barcelona since his departure.

''Barcelona are strong on the break,'' Guardiola said Monday. ''If we let
something slip, they'll punish us.''

Still, Guardiola refused to concede. Bayern Munich turned around a 3-1 first-leg
deficit in the quarterfinals against Porto, and while that Portuguese club was
certainly a far weaker adversary than Barcelona, Guardiola is scheming for a
similar result.

''We have to defend well,'' he said. ''We can't go on the all-out attack. We
have to control the game.''

He added: ''We're Bayern. Before a game, I've never said that we have no chance.
Of course we do.''

The Bayern-Barcelona winner will play the survivor of the other semifinal, which
will conclude in Madrid on Wednesday. Juventus beat Real Madrid, 2-1, last week
in Italy in the first leg of that tie.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/soccer/pep-guardiola-denies-he-will-lea
ve-bayern-for-manchester-city.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pep Guardiola and Bayern Munich face Barcelona on Tuesday in the
second leg of a Champions League semifinal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRIK
STOLLARZ/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); AGREEMENTS (70%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (79%)

CITY: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (55%)

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (98%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); PORTUGAL (68%); SPAIN (58%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Life Without Brady? For Starters, There Is a Precedent for the Patriots

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 633 words


The suspension of Tom Brady means the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots
have to face playing without their star for four games. How will they fare?

There is not a lot of history to go by. After taking the starting job from an
injured Drew Bledsoe in Game 3 of the 2001 season, Brady has started every game,
with the only exceptions coming in the 2008 season.

THE PAST In 2007, the Patriots went 16-0 in the regular season, and Brady won
the Most Valuable Player Award. When he sustained a knee injury in the season
opener the next year, Matt Cassel took over, giving us the only recent look at
the Patriots without Brady.

The results were not terrible. Cassel led the team to a 11-5 record, but New
England missed a playoff berth on a tiebreaker, despite winning its last four
games. It was one of only two seasons in the Brady era when the Patriots did not
make the playoffs, the other being 2002, his second year as a starter.

Cassell's numbers were reasonable; he ranked between eighth and 12th in most of
the key passing statistics, even while getting sacked a league-leading 47 times.
Still, that was a big drop-off from Brady, who had been No. 1 in almost every
category the previous year. Nevertheless, Cassell parlayed his performance into
a contract with the Kansas City Chiefs, where he had mixed results.

Brady was back the next season, winning comeback player of the year. The
Patriots returned to the playoffs, though they won only 10 games. That was the
last time New England has won fewer than 12.

THE PRESENT As of now, the Patriots' backup is Jimmy Garoppolo, who was drafted
out of Eastern Illinois last year in the second round. He served as Brady's
understudy, appearing briefly in six games. It is hard to make reliable
judgments from his brief late-game appearances, but he was 19 of 27 passing for
182 yards and one touchdown.

Still, quarterbacks drafted in the second round do not generally have stellar
careers. For every Colin Kaepernick and Geno Smith who become stars, or at least
starters, there are a few who become career backups (say Jimmy Clausen) and
several more straight-up busts (say Pat White or Brian Brohm). The trouble is,
it is hard for even expert scouts to tell for sure until a quarterback gets into
a game and shows what he can do.

Having the Patriots organization around him will certainly help Garoppolo, but
his replacing a great brings a serious level of uncertainty to New England.

THE FUTURE Barring a successful appeal, Brady will serve his suspension from the
start of the regular season, perhaps the worst time from the Patriots' point of
view.

The Patriots face a tricky lineup of games without Brady. They open at home
against the Steelers, who were 11-5 last season. That is followed by what might
be their toughest divisional game of the season in Buffalo. After an easy game
against the Jaguars and a bye, New England must travel to Dallas to face the
Cowboys, who were 12-4 last year.

And which team do the Patriots play in what would be Brady's return in Week 6?
The Indianapolis Colts, who brought the Patriots' underinflated footballs to the
attention of the N.F.L. during the A.F.C. championship game.

Starting with Game 6, New England's schedule becomes much easier, with only a
game at Denver in Week 12 looking very frightening.

There is one other saving grace for the Patriots. They have no clear rival in
the A.F.C. East. Last year they won the division by three games over the
resurgent Bills, who were 9-7 but could easily regress this year under their new
coach, Rex Ryan. The Dolphins were 8-8, and the Jets were awful.

Even if the Brady suspension costs them a win or two, the Patriots still have to
be considered comfortable favorites to win that division.

And Brady will be eligible for the playoffs.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/tom-bradys-suspension-leaves-p
atriots-with-a-bit-of-uncertainty.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Backup's Biography: Jimmy Garoppolo is first in line to
replace Tom Brady at quarterback for New England's opening game at home against
Pittsburgh on Sept. 10: â[0/00]¥ Starred at Eastern Illinois from 2010-13,
breaking several school and career records held by Tony Romo â[0/00]¥ Selected
in second round (62nd over all) in 2014 â[0/00]¥ Completed 19 of 27 attempts for
182 yards and one touchdown pass in rookie season with Patriots (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS
AWARDS (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); KNEE DISORDERS &
INJURIES (72%); RANKINGS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); KANSAS CITY CHIEFS (54%)

PERSON: TOM BRADY (93%); TONY ROMO (78%)

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (54%)

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); MISSOURI, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arid Canvas With Strokes of Apartheid

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words


''They got eyes but they do not see us,'' says the gentle old man to the young
boy in ''The Painted Rocks at Revolver Creek,'' the tender, ruminative new play
written and directed by Athol Fugard. Both man and boy are black South Africans,
and the man's observation refers to the white farmers for whom he works.

More broadly, of course, the words refer to the culture of apartheid, and the
moral blindness on which it was based. Mr. Fugard has been anatomizing the evils
of apartheid, and the troubling legacies it left behind, throughout his long and
distinguished career. His new play, which opened on Monday at the Signature
Theater, considers both the brutal injustices of apartheid and the violence that
roiled South Africa after its dismantling.

The first act takes place in 1981. It's a Sunday morning, which means Nukain
(Leon Addison Brown), the old farmworker, has a personal chore to do: paint in
bright colors the rocks that dot the dry landscape. The creation of these
''flowers,'' as he calls them, was a task he began years before, and which has
become a weekly pleasure he shares with young Bokkie (Caleb McLaughlin), the
11-year-old boy in his charge. (The play was inspired by the life of the
outsider artist Nukain Mabuza, although a program note makes clear that the
details are fictionalized.)

Today, however, Nukain cannot seem to get started. Inspiration fails him, to the
surprise and consternation of his young companion, who is eager to watch him
work. ''Two Sundays now we come here with everything, but Tata does nothing,''
Bokkie gently admonishes Nukain, whom he refers to by a filial term of
affection. ''Just sits and stares at the big one.''

This is the sizable rock that remains the last unpainted. Taller than Nukain,
and a good six feet wide, it looms as a final challenge that Nukain shies away
from, for reasons he cannot quite understand. While he considers the prospect,
the energetic Bokkie tries to cajole and coax him into beginning, and Nukain
finds himself reflecting on his life.

Waiting for the work to begin is pleasurable for us because Mr. Brown and the
young Mr. McLaughlin bring such vibrancy to their characters. Slightly stooped,
looking exhausted from a life largely led roaming the country trying to obtain
work, Mr. Brown's Nukain nevertheless retains a softly glowing warmth that dims
only when he considers the mystery of his inability to see the shape of this
final ''flower.'' The magnetic Mr. McLaughlin gives a marvelously fresh and
animated performance as the rambunctious Bokkie, who jumps eagerly to help when
Nukain at last finds inspiration.

''We are going to give the big one eyes,'' Nukain exults, ''so that he can see
me now when I stand here.'' As they paint the rock, it becomes not just another
of Nukain's flowers, but an abstract visual record of his life -- one of
hardship and endurance, but brightened by the joy of creation.

The sudden arrival of Elmarie (Bianca Amato), the wife of the farmer who owns
the land, dampens the excitement both Nukain and Bokkie have taken in their
work. She's puzzled by the design on the rock, and casually insists that Nukain
paint over it next week in his more decorative, innocuous style -- a suggestion,
or rather a demand, that Bokkie angrily rejects.

Nukain accepts it with the reflexive humility born of a steady diet of
privation, dependency and racism, leaving Bokkie with only the wistful thought
that in some future day Elmarie and her husband ''will open their eyes and then
they will see us.''

More than 20 years pass, and we take up the story in 2003. Time and weather have
worn away much of Nukain's work; the big rock has been nearly washed clean of
color. Bokkie, whose name is actually Jonathan, is now a grown man portrayed by
Sahr Ngaujah. A schoolteacher who dreams of writing, Jonathan has brought a
satchel of paints to the site of Nukain's flower garden and hopes to restore his
work, and in doing so honor his life.

He is surprised before he can begin by the sudden, alarmed arrival of Elmarie,
who brandishes a gun and quickly calls for help. Farmers in the area are being
ruthlessly attacked and killed; apartheid has ended, but widespread anger
remains over redistribution of the land.

The tense conversation that ensues sometimes stumbles over expositional passages
detailing the contrasting fates of farmers in South Africa and Zimbabwe, where
Jonathan lived for many years. And while Jonathan's eloquence is neatly
explained by his passion for words -- a passion inspired by Nukain's own
dedication to his art (''I love language the way he loved color'') -- some of
his speeches have the whiff of the prepared lecture about them.

But Mr. Ngaujah's impassioned performance helps to animate the staid patches in
the writing. Ms. Amato, too, renders her character in strong strokes, Elmarie's
condescension having curdled into fear that seems to be etched into the lines of
her face.

Although the world around them has changed radically, the patterns of feeling
forged many years before still make it hard for Elmarie and Jonathan to see each
other with unclouded eyes.

The Painted Rocks at Revolver Creek

Written and directed by Athol Fugard; sets by Christopher H. Berreca; costumes
by Susan Hilferty; lighting by Stephen Strawbridge; sound by Stowe Nelson;
dialect coach, Barbara Rubin; production stage manager, Linda Marvel; associate
artistic director, Beth Whitaker; general manager, Gilbert Medina; director of
production, Paul Ziemer. Presented by Signature Theater, James Houghton,
artistic director; Erika Mallin, executive director. At the Pershing Square
Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton; 212-244-7529,
signaturetheatre.org. Through May 31. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes.

WITH: Bianca Amato (Elmarie), Leon Addison Brown (Nukain), Caleb McLaughlin
(Bokkie) and Sahr Ngaujah (Jonathan).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/theater/review-the-painted-rocks-at-revolver-c
reek-an-athol-fugard-play.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Painted Rocks at Revolver Creek: Caleb McLaughlin, left,
and Leon Addison Brown in this Athol Fugard play that opened on Monday at the
Signature Theater. (C1)
 From left, Caleb McLaughlin, Bianca Amato and Sahr Ngaujah in ''The Painted
Rocks at Revolver Creek.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER (77%); FARM
LABOR (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Way Around 'Super PACs'

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 138 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Clinton Embraces a 'Super PAC,' Trying to Erode a G.O.P. Edge'' (front
page, May 7): On the one hand, I'm disappointed that Hillary Rodham Clinton
didn't make an effort to avoid a super PAC, that terrible offspring of the
Supreme Court's execrable ruling in Citizens United. On the other hand, I'd be
appalled at her political malpractice if she did not make every effort to secure
every penny required to get elected in America today.

We must do something to limit money in politics. Unfortunately, the only way to
do that is to recruit large numbers of candidates for legislative office who are
eager to pass limits on fund-raising, then solicit from wealthy people and
corporations the obscene amounts of money required to get them elected.

Does that even make any sense?

KATHY HEGGEMEIER

Richmond, Va.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/a-way-around-super-pacs.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%);
POLITICS (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUPREME
COURTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); FUNDRAISING (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (66%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They're Not Politicians?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 54 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Beyond the Demon Sheep'' (column, May 7):

Kudos to Gail Collins for calling out presidential candidates -- specifically,
the Republicans Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson -- who boast that they are not
politicians. Such a claim is akin to bragging about one's own ignorance.

BEN MILES

Huntington Beach, Calif.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/theyre-not-politicians.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%)

PERSON: CARLY FIORINA (90%); BEN CARSON (70%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senator Boxer Objects

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

Re ''U.S. to Put Curbs on Formaldehyde'' (front page, May 4):

I believe that strong public health standards are needed for formaldehyde, a
toxic chemical in plywood and many consumer products that poses serious health
threats, including cancer. I object to how your article characterized my
involvement in the rule-making process.

I spearheaded the effort to ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency
issues a strong rule that provides true health safeguards. My staff members
fought attempts to weaken the rule and repeatedly pressed the Office of
Management and Budget and the E.P.A. to issue a strong rule without delay.

I stand by my commitment to ensuring that the products that are used by our
children and families every day are safe.

BARBARA BOXER

Washington


The writer, a Democrat from California, is the ranking member of the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/senator-barbara-boxer-on-formaldehyde-
rules.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALDEHYDES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
(88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); US
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
(88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); FAMILY (88%); CHILDREN (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE
(84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS
(69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CONSERVATION (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE
(50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (70%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volvo's $500 Million Assembly Plant in South Carolina to Create 2,000 Jobs

BYLINE: By AARON M. KESSLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words


Volvo Cars will build a factory in South Carolina, the company said on Monday,
making it the first time a Chinese-owned automaker will have an auto assembly
plant in the United States.

Volvo will invest $500 million in the new factory, which will be in Berkeley
County, S.C., outside Charleston. The company estimated that the plant -- its
first in the United States since entering the market 60 years ago -- would
employ 2,000 people in its early years and eventually be closer to 4,000.
Construction will begin this fall and the factory will begin producing vehicles
in 2018.

Volvo, which remains based in Sweden, has gone through a number of owners in
recent years. In 2010, Zhejiang Geely Holdings, its current owner, bought it
from Ford, which acquired it in 2000 from the Volvo Group.

Lex Kerssemakers, president and chief executive of Volvo Cars of North America,
said in an interview on Monday that while Geely had been aware of the plans, the
decision to build an American plant was made by executives in Sweden.

''We are a Swedish company, and continue to be a Swedish company,'' he said.
''This is a decision taken by Volvo.''

Volvo already operates two plants in Europe and two in China. It is hoping to
increase its American sales volume, after an 8 percent decline last year from
2013, to about 56,000 vehicles. Globally, though, the company is growing, up 9
percent last year to nearly 470,000 vehicles -- helped by surging demand in
China.

The company's new South Carolina factory will initially be capable of making
100,000 vehicles a year, though Volvo officials have yet to disclose what models
may be produced there.

''It illustrates how critical the North American region continues to be, even
with China's ascension to the largest new-car market on the planet,'' said Karl
Brauer, senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book.

South Carolina officials lined up sizable incentives to lure the Volvo plant.
The automaker will receive about $200 million in combined incentives. That
includes $120 million in economic development bonds, $30 million in state grants
and an additional $50 million of incentives from a state-owned utility company,
Santee Cooper.

Volvo's announcement is the latest in a series of production expansions by
foreign automakers in the United States. In July, Volkswagen, the German
automaker, announced it would spend $600 million to expand its plant in
Chattanooga, Tenn., and build a new sport utility vehicle designed for the
American market. The vehicle was described by executives as a ''true American
car'' -- big, tailored to American tastes and full of the latest technology.
Volkswagen hopes it can help cure its anemic sales performance in the United
States.

Mr. Kerssemakers said on Monday that Volvo was unlikely to take a similar
approach at its first American plant. He said it would continue to focus on
building ''global cars,'' vehicles that can be sold anywhere.

''Does it exclude, in the future, specific American cars? No. But we have
absolutely no plans to do for now,'' he said. ''We think the cars we make are
already perfectly suitable to the U.S.''

Mr. Kerssemakers said the automaker chose the South Carolina site for its
proximity to seaports and the quality of autoworkers and facilities in the
region.

''One of the main criteria for us was infrastructure,'' he said. ''South
Carolina has people who know the industry, can work in the factory, and who
understand our business.''

He said the company was looking long-term at its first production on American
soil. ''A commitment like this you don't make for 10 or 15 years,'' he said.
''It's designed for decades.''

South Carolina's governor, Nikki R. Haley, echoed that sentiment on Monday,
saying in a statement that Volvo's presence ''will be felt for decades to
come.''

The Volvo factory is a coup not just for the state but also for the Charleston
area in particular, which has had a series of deals with luxury auto
manufacturers. In March, Mercedes-Benz announced a $500 million investment in a
new plant in North Charleston, S.C., that would produce its next-generation line
of Sprinter cargo vans, adding more than 1,000 jobs.

BMW also builds sport utility vehicles in South Carolina, at its Spartanburg
plant.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/automobiles/volvo-selects-south-carolina-for-5
00-million-assembly-plant.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Volvo factory in Chengdu, China. The automaker is hoping to
increase its American sales volume, after an 8 percent decline last year from
2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); PLANT
CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS
(90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); NEW MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
(89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY
VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (78%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (78%);
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%);
INTERVIEWS (73%); BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); SALES &
SELLING (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%)

COMPANY: AB VOLVO (94%); VOLVO CARS OF NORTH AMERICA INC (59%); ZHEJIANG GEELY
HOLDING GROUP CO LTD (56%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (52%)

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (94%); VOLV.A (STO) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336120 HEAVY
DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (94%); SIC5012
AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING
(56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET
PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK
PUBLISHERS (52%)

CITY: CHENGDU, SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%); CHATTANOOGA, TN,
USA (51%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (79%);
SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (78%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); SWEDEN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%);
GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Bank of England Keeps Interest Rate Steady at 0.5%

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words


LONDON -- The British central bank said on Monday that it would maintain its
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, the level since March 2009, as the
markets digest the implications of the Conservative Party's election victory
last week.

The Conservatives, led by Prime Minister David Cameron, made fiscal tightening a
key tenet of their campaign, and many economists predicted that the party's
victory meant the Bank of England would further delay any rate increase. As the
government cuts spending, the idea is that the Bank of England mitigates the
impact of those cuts with low interest rates to encourage borrowing and other
economic activity.

The JPMorgan economist Allan Monks trimmed his forecast for Britain's 2016
growth rate to 2.3 percent, from 2.6 percent, based on the impact of expected
budget cuts. The Conservatives have pledged to eliminate the overall deficit,
now running around 5 percent of gross domestic product, by 2019.

Samuel Tombs, senior economist for Britain at Capital Economics in London, wrote
last week in a client note, ''The economy remains on track for a major
reintensification of the fiscal squeeze next year.''

But the picture is more complicated than that, other economists said.

British economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the first quarter, half the
rate of the final quarter of 2014. Manufacturing and construction figures have
been soft. Mr. Cameron has promised to call a referendum on whether Britain
should leave the European Union, adding to the economic uncertainty. And wages,
which the central bank predicted would grow 3.5 percent in 2015, are expanding
at a much slower pace. All of those factors suggest that rates will stay low for
longer.

But driving the case for a move toward ''normalization,'' or higher interest
rates, are rising oil prices and the eurozone, which is in better shape than it
was in February, when the central bank issued its latest inflation report.
Additionally, the uncertainty that surrounded the election -- and predictions
that it would result in a hung Parliament -- has been removed.

''The market hasn't had much stability in terms of where it's predicting the
next hike,'' said David Tinsley, chief economist for Britain at UBS. One moment
the market expects rates to rise next summer, and another it expects them to
rise next spring. ''Unless there is a firmer story on wage growth,'' he said,
''that will continue to be the story.''

The Conservatives swept to victory last week in spite of near-unanimous opinion
polls indicating the election would be neck and neck. The Liberal Democrats, who
had been in a governing coalition with the Conservatives, lost seats, as did the
more left-leaning Labour Party. The Scottish National Party made significant
gains, presenting a challenge for Mr. Cameron, who will have to figure out how
much power to cede to Scotland.

Against that new landscape, the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee
voted on Friday to keep rates steady. (The announcement of the decision was
postponed until Monday to avoid conflicts with the election.)

On Wednesday, the central bank is set to release its latest economic predictions
in a new report on inflation. Inflation in Britain has been zero percent for the
past two months, the result of falling oil prices and lower food prices. The
central bank seeks to hit a 2 percent inflation target and when it falls short,
Mark J. Carney, the central bank's governor, is required to write a letter to
the chancellor of the Exchequer explaining why the target has not been met.

In February, the Bank of England predicted that inflation would briefly dip
below zero in the second quarter. At the time, Mr. Carney praised the strength
of the British economy, and said the drop in inflation would be temporary.

While Britain's economy grew at a healthy 2.6 percent clip last year, wages have
remained largely stagnant, suffering from the effects of the 2008 financial
crisis. The issue was a critical one in the election as Labour sought to
capitalize on anemic wage growth to make its case that only a small portion of
Britain was feeling the benefits of the recovery. The Conservatives took credit
for the strong economic figures and argued that they needed more time to bring
the fruits of the recovery to more people.

After the election, stocks rose in London and the pound moved higher. On Monday,
the FTSE 100 stock index had risen about 0.17 percent around midday in London,
while the pound held steady.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/international/bank-of-england-holds-r
ates-steady.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%);
CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS
(78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INFLATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS
(77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%);
EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PRICES
(77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); EURO
(75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); NEWS
BRIEFS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%);
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL
RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SCOTLAND
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Tuesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 716 words


4:10 P.M. (Cinemax) THE PLAYER (1992) In this Oscar-nominated movie by Robert
Altman, Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), who manages production at a Hollywood
studio, tries to figure out who is writing him poison-pen postcards while he
fends off a young genius (Peter Gallagher) rumored to be his replacement. When
the author of the hate mail -- a screenwriter (Vincent D'Onofrio) Griffin failed
to get back to -- turns up dead, Griffin becomes a suspect, partly for having
fallen in love with the writer's girlfriend (Greta Scacchi, above with Mr.
Robbins). Whoopi Goldberg and Lyle Lovett play the detectives who make Griffin
squirm. ''As a satire, 'The Player' tickles,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New
York Times. ''It doesn't draw blood.'' Mr. Altman's most subversive message, he
added, ''is not that it's possible to get away with murder in Hollywood, but
that the most grievous sin, in Hollywood terms anyway, is to make a film that
flops.''

12:50 P.M. (HBO2) CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY (2005) Tim Burton's sugar
rush, based on the book by Roald Dahl, stars Johnny Depp, left, as an oddly
sinister candy maker and Freddie Highmore as a boy who wants nothing more than
to swim in chocolate. Well, who wouldn't? Despite burdening Willy Wonka with a
psychological back story, ''there is simply too much pleasure to be found in
Wonka's world to get too hung up about his relationship with his dad,'' A. O.
Scott wrote in The Times. ''The real lesson of 'Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory' is -- or should be -- that pleasure and curiosity are their own
rewards.''

8:30 P.M. (ABC Family) DARK SHADOWS (2012) Johnny Depp summons the spirit of the
romantic vampire hero Barnabas Collins in Tim Burton's revisiting of a soap
opera from the 1960s and early '70s. Eva Green, right, plays the maid Angelique,
who paws at Barnabas; Bella Heathcote is Josette, who runs off with his heart.
Three's a crowd, and the witchy Angelique casts a spell that leaves Josette dead
and Barnabas in a deep grave, where, after 200 years of entombment, he awakens
in 1972. ''Barnabas's liberation does the same for Mr. Depp's performance, and
it's delightful to watch how the actor handles the vampire's readjustment to the
world of the living, which, after he has thrown back some invigorating human
Slurpees and faced down a 'demon' (a car), he does with both lofty entitlement
and abject bewilderment,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. '' 'Dark Shadows'
isn't among Mr. Burton's most richly realized works, but it's very enjoyable,
visually sumptuous and, despite its lugubrious source material and a sporadic
tremor of violence, surprisingly effervescent.'' She added, ''And while there
may not be any deeper resonance lurking in his 'Dark Shadows' -- the show first
surfaced in the middle of the Vietnam War, when real horror was playing out
daily in the news -- Mr. Burton's gift for deviant beauty and laughter has its
own liberating power.''

10 P.M. (TV Land) YOUNGER Liza (Sutton Foster) flirts with the idea of dating
someone more age-appropriate when the publisher (Peter Hermann) asks her to
babysit. Kelsey (Hilary Duff) prepares to accompany the author Anton Bjornberg
(Thorbjorn Harr) to an awards ceremony.

10:30 P.M. (Comedy Central) INSIDE AMY SCHUMER Amy directs a pizza commercial,
interviews a gigolo and says she's sorry.

11 P.M. (CUNY) THE STOLER REPORT The producers Barbara Whitman, Kristin Caskey
and Mike Isaacson, along with Paul Libin, an owner of Circle in the Square
Theater, trace the journey of the show ''Fun Home'' from the Public Theater to
Broadway.

What's Streaming Now

MAGICAL UNIVERSE (2014) Jeremy Workman follows the octogenarian artist Al
Carbee, who died in 2005, as he goes through his daily routine of constructing
and photographing intricate dioramas starring Barbie. ''Mr. Carbee's work has a
professional polish and a svelte pop beauty, and his softly voiced, sincere
commentary and the opaque video quality suggest a dreamy public-access TV
show,'' Nicolas Rapold wrote in The Times. ''But while Mr. Workman evidently
respects Mr. Carbee's talent, he also frames his movie as a trite narrative
about a kind of lovably odd acquaintance who comes out of his shell, without
many incisive ideas about shaping or broadening the material.'' (Netflix)
KATHRYN SHATTUCK




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/television/whats-on-tv-tuesday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO
PRODUCTION (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (87%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (78%); ACADEMY AWARDS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT
& ARTS AWARDS (78%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (77%); MURDER (75%); TELEVISION
INDUSTRY (71%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trade Wars in Congress

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 705 words


Congress is considering a trade bill that is pitting President Obama against
many members of his own party and some Republicans. Though the two sides have
major differences, a compromise is still possible and would be good for the
American economy.

Mr. Obama is pushing for a bill that sets negotiating objectives for trade
agreements and binds Congressional lawmakers to casting up-or-down votes on
those deals for up to six years. This ''fast-track'' process would be used for
two big pacts being negotiated now: the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11
countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan and Mexico, and the
Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union. Mr.
Obama argues that foreign negotiators will not put their best offer on the table
if Congress can easily amend deals after they have been signed.

On Tuesday, the Senate is expected to take up the bill, which is opposed by some
liberal Democrats who believe such trade agreements hurt American workers and by
Republicans who do not want to give the president a victory. Getting support in
the House might be even harder.

The important thing to remember about the Pacific and European trade deals is
that they are not primarily about lowering customs duties and quotas. While
these deals would reduce those barriers to trade, they would have much of their
impact by getting countries to adopt similar regulations in areas like labor
standards, environmental protection, how governments treat foreign investors and
patent and copyright law.

Done right, the Pacific trade deal, which is nearing completion, could help
reduce environmental destruction and improve the lives of workers in countries
like Brunei, Peru, Chile and Vietnam, which are part of the negotiations. That
agreement would also strengthen American alliances in Asia because it includes
Malaysia and Singapore. Administration officials say other countries like South
Korea and Thailand might want to join the pact in the future.

Some provisions that are expected to be part of the deal could raise problems.
For example, some public interest groups fear that the deal could force
developing countries to adopt strict patent regulations that could make many
medicines unaffordable to poor people.

Other critics like Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, are
worried that provisions in the trade agreement that prohibit governments from
discriminating against foreign companies might be used by international banks to
challenge American financial regulations. Mr. Obama has called Ms. Warren's
fears ''hypothetical'' and ''speculative;'' the administration says the
fast-track bill contains language that would prevent the use of trade measures
to change American laws.

Many lawmakers want the administration to include an enforceable provision
against currency manipulation in the Pacific trade deal. This is a concern
because countries like China, Japan and South Korea have, at various times,
artificially depressed the value of their currencies to boost exports, which has
hurt American businesses and led to manufacturing job losses.

There are ways Mr. Obama can address these legitimate concerns. For example, he
and lawmakers should be able to write amendments to the bill that clearly
explain that trade pacts that could undercut financial and other regulations
would not receive fast-track consideration. This is important because the bill
in the Senate would be effective well after Mr. Obama has left office.

On currency manipulation, the administration has acknowledged that the Pacific
pact should address this issue. But it has provided few details about how the
agreement might prevent or discourage countries from using this tactic.

Most Americans support increased trade and business ties with other countries.
But half also believe that trade destroys jobs, according to a 2014 Pew Research
report. Last week in a speech at the offices of Nike, Mr. Obama said the
agreements he is negotiating would be good for American workers and the economy.
He still needs to convince lawmakers in Congress.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/trade-wars-in-congress.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE
DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%);
CURRENCIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL
TALKS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); COPYRIGHT LAW (73%); LIBERALISM (72%);
TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%);
TRADE DISPUTES (70%); PATENT LAW (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%);
COPYRIGHT (64%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); KOREA,
REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CHINA (79%);
EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE
(79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (78%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nadal Drops in Rankings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | TENNIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 116 words


Rafael Nadal dropped out of the top five in the ATP rankings for the first time
in 10 years after failing to successfully defend his title at the Madrid Open.

Nadal dropped to seventh in the rankings, meaning he could face higher-ranked
opponents as early as the quarterfinals at the French Open.

â-  Gilles Simon took advantage of a few key double faults by Jack Sock and
rallied for a 4-6, 7-6 (2), 6-3 win in the opening round of the Italian Open in
Rome. Tenth-seeded Grigor Dimitrov also played cleanly in a 6-3, 7-6 (4) win
over Jerzy Janowicz.

In women's play, Venus Williams, the 1999 Rome champion, beat Katerina
Siniakova, 6-2, 6-2, and Madison Keys defeated Madison Brengle, 6-2, 6-4.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/tennis/rafael-nadal-drops-in-rankings.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (91%); VENUS WILLIAMS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Digital Upends TV Viewing, Data Reigns

BYLINE: By SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; 2015 TELEVISION UPFRONTS;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words


Coca-Cola has created some of the most memorable commercials in television
history. Now the company is looking for something more.

''TV networks still have a role, but we're interested in the mix between
traditional TV and emerging digital platforms,'' said Ivan Pollard, a top
marketing executive at Coca-Cola North America.

Coca-Cola is just one of many brands now shifting advertising budgets to digital
and social media, which offer the promise of better consumer data and the
ability to reach targeted audiences. The goal is to capture the attention of
today's fickle, commercial-skipping viewers, who consume content on multiple
screens and on their own schedules.

As advertisers rethink their campaign strategies, broadcast and cable networks
are adapting their sales pitches to marketers as well. At lavish upfront events
this week in Manhattan, many networks are showcasing their digital offerings --
like online video -- as well as new data and targeting capabilities alongside
their slate of coming TV shows.

''Everyone is coming out with a data play, a data product, right now,'' said
Jeff Lucas, head of sales for Viacom Media Networks, whose channels include MTV
and Nickelodeon.

Television networks, which rely on the upfront season for tens of billions of ad
dollars, are facing declining ratings and heightened competition from digital
outlets. And while television still dominates the ad market, with some $70
billion in ad spending last year in the United States, online ad spending is
swelling. In particular, digital video, which attracted $5.8 billion in ad
spending in the United States last year, is expected to grow to $7.8 billion
this year and to $12.8 billion by 2018, according to the research firm
eMarketer.

''The consumers in the digital world are not going to be captive viewers that
will sit through 16 minutes of ads an hour,'' Chase Carey, chief operating
officer of 21st Century Fox, said in an earnings call last week. ''Advertising
will have to be more effective and engaging to justify a premium. We'll need to
work more closely with advertisers to connect with consumers in ways they value
and enjoy.''

For the traditional television industry, that means giving advertisers more data
and better ad-buying solutions. Networks are also offering packages that allow
advertisers to buy spots for both TV and digital content.

At its event on Monday at Radio City Music Hall, NBC promoted its suite of
data-driven ad products, including NBCUx, which enables targeted ad buying.
''These platforms and products ensure that your campaigns -- your ads -- are
reaching the right consumers,'' Linda Yaccarino, the chairwoman of advertising
sales and client partnerships at NBCUniversal, told hundreds of marketers and ad
buyers.

Recently, 21st Century Fox -- whose broadcast network, Fox, also held its
upfront presentation on Monday -- acquired a digital ad firm called TrueX, which
makes a technology that replaces a series of standard ads or video commercials
with one interactive ad.

ABC plans to announce several data-driven products at its upfront event on
Tuesday, including tools that allow advertisers to optimize their ad placements
for specific audience segments beyond just age and gender. Turner Broadcasting
-- whose networks include CNN and the Cartoon Network -- plans to introduce an
ad-targeting product on Wednesday.

And at a series of events this year, Viacom showcased Viacom Vantage, which
offers advertisers the ability to target specific consumers across the company's
portfolio of networks.

TV networks are also relying more on live programming.

At NBC's event, the network highlighted a new live variety series, ''Best Time
Ever With Neil Patrick Harris''; a comedy show, ''Undateable,'' which will also
be live; and its next live musical event, ''The Wiz,'' which will broadcast in
December. The network also heavily promoted live sports programming like
''Sunday Night Football'' and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
Similarly, Fox has repeatedly trumpeted its production of the musical
''Grease,'' which will be shown live in January.

At the same time, digital outlets are trying to establish themselves in the TV
space. Many recently held their own presentations for advertisers -- called
newfronts, or new upfronts.

At Hulu's event last month, Peter Naylor, the company's senior vice president
for advertising sales, said, ''Hulu is TV.'' Shane Smith, the chief executive of
Vice Media, presented what he called the company's ''personal TV slate.''

Many of the 33 companies that held newfront presentations -- including Yahoo,
Condé Nast Entertainment and Time Inc. -- introduced original, long-form
programming that resembled premium TV shows. AOL announced a distribution and
licensing agreement with NBCUniversal that allows the companies to develop
programming together.

All of this means that the line between TV and digital is blurring, and that
advertisers care more about the effectiveness of their ads than where they
run.''It's about going where the money is being spent,'' Mr. Naylor of Hulu said
in an interview.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/media/tv-networks-borrow-page-from-di
gital-rivals-to-attract-advertisers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the NBC Upfront Presentation on Monday in New York, Dolly
Parton sang to the accompaniment of Robert Greenblatt, chairman of NBC
Entertainment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DRINKWATER/NBC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION
(89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET
SEGMENTATION (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%);
INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%);
CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING
SERVICES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ONLINE
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(71%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (90%); COCA-COLA NORTH LATIN AMERICA (58%); VIACOM INC
(55%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION
PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%)

PERSON: DOLLY PARTON (59%); CHASE CAREY (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Live and Kicking: Soccer Games to Watch

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 296 words


What started last week finishes this week, with second-leg matches in the
Champions League set for Tuesday and Wednesday. The soccer editor Andrew Das, a
shameless Ajax supporter, tells you what to watch.

Champions League

The big story line in Barcelona's trip to Bayern Munich on Tuesday (2:45 p.m.,
Eastern time, Fox Sports 1) may not be the result on the field -- Barcelona
coasted in the first leg, 3-0 -- but in the coaches' box. Pep Guardiola on
Monday pushed back against reports over the weekend that said he had agreed to
leave Bayern for Manchester City, which, it should be noted, still has a coach.

He may not be the only one on the way out: If Real Madrid cannot bounce back
from its 2-1 loss at Juventus in the first leg (Wednesday, 2:45 p.m., Fox Sports
1), Carlo Ancelotti could be departing as well. Real Madrid effectively handed
the Spanish league title to Barcelona with a 2-2 tie against Valencia on
Saturday. If they follow that up by tumbling out of the Champions League while
Barcelona advances, it will get uncomfortable very quickly for Ancelotti.

Sunday Spectacular

With the league races and even many of the relegation places largely settled,
spend your Saturday outside for a change. Sunday is the day to find a TV. Here's
a good shut-in schedule:

6:30 a.m.: CSKA vs. Spartak in the Moscow derby (NGSN)

8:30 a.m.: Ajax, the greatest club in the world and one you should consider
supporting, at Dordrecht (NGSN)

11 a.m.: Arsenal at Manchester United (NBCSN)

1 p.m.: Barcelona at Atlético Madrid (beIN)

Then, for dessert, after the weekly M.L.S. doubleheader, the United States
women's national team continues its pre-Women's World Cup tour with a game
against Mexico at Carson, Calif. (9:30 p.m., Fox Sports 1).

I dare you to watch them all.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/soccer/live-and-kicking-soccer-games-to
-watch.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS
(90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); FIFA WORLD
CUP (78%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (53%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (53%); SIC7941
PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (53%)

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (91%)

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (94%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (90%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); SPAIN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charges of Corruption Topple Another of Albany's Leaders

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN and SUSANNE CRAIG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words


ALBANY --  The capital was thrown into familiar tumult on Monday as yet another
of the state's leaders fell from grace: Dean G. Skelos, the majority leader of
the New York State Senate, stepped down from his leadership post.

The announcement followed a week of escalating pressure on Senator Skelos, who
sought to stay on as the chamber's leader despite his arrest last week on
federal corruption charges. To succeed him, Republicans selected John J.
Flanagan, who, like Mr. Skelos, is from Long Island.

''It was the right decision to step aside,'' Mr. Skelos said, adding, ''I was a
distraction.''

His downfall adds a chapter to what has already been a difficult year in Albany.
In a span of only 16 weeks, the leaders of both legislative chambers have been
arrested and replaced as a result of separate corruption cases, a head-spinning
change in a capital known for its inertia.

Mr. Skelos's decision on Monday came after his counterpart atop the State
Assembly, Sheldon Silver, was forced to give up his post as speaker after his
own arrest on federal corruption charges in January. In a similar series of
events, Assembly Democrats first rallied around Mr. Silver, before deciding days
later, amid calls for his ouster, that he could no longer continue as speaker.

The recent arrests unavoidably place a focus on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who, with
Mr. Silver and Mr. Skelos, had comprised Albany's ''three men in a room,'' a
reference to the capital's traditional decision-making process. Mr. Cuomo, a
Democrat, is the last man standing.

His relative experience compared with the new legislative leaders, Mr. Flanagan
and Speaker Carl E. Heastie, could give him an upper hand in negotiations.

But the ''three men'' culture has also been criticized by many, including Preet
Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, whose
office brought the cases against both Mr. Silver and Mr. Skelos.

Mr. Bharara has been waging a public campaign against corruption in Albany, and
his efforts appear to have gained momentum since his office took over the files
of the Moreland Commission, an anticorruption panel that Mr. Cuomo created in
2013 and then shut down last year. Mr. Bharara also began a criminal
investigation into the circumstances of the panel's closing.

As Mr. Skelos and Mr. Silver await their trials, they are in good company. A
former leader of the Senate Democrats, John L. Sampson of Brooklyn, is awaiting
his own trial on federal charges. Just last week, Assemblyman William
Scarborough, a Democrat, pleaded guilty to federal and state corruption charges
and gave up his seat in Queens.

And Mr. Skelos's second-in-command, Senator Thomas W. Libous, whose district
includes Binghamton, was indicted last year on accusations that he lied to
federal authorities in a corruption investigation. (Mr. Flanagan said he would
keep Mr. Libous in that post.)

Standing in the hallway outside the Senate Republicans' conference room, Karen
Scharff, the executive director of Citizen Action of New York, a liberal
advocacy group that supports campaign finance reform, said New York was
experiencing ''a statewide governmental crisis.''

''We just need to all wake up to that,'' Ms. Scharff said, ''and I think voters
are waking up to it ahead of our elected leaders and are going to demand
change.''

Mr. Skelos's decision to step down as majority leader came as the Senate
Republicans held a closed-door meeting on Monday, which he had not been expected
to survive.

Mr. Skelos, 67, who will keep his seat, preferred Mr. Flanagan, 54, over the
other candidate, Senator John A. DeFrancisco, 68, from Syracuse, who is chairman
of the Finance Committee. Mr. Flanagan and Mr. DeFrancisco shared a frozen pizza
on Sunday night; Mr. DeFrancisco described the meeting as cordial.

The choice of Mr. Flanagan, who is from Suffolk County and has led the Education
Committee, preserves the clout of the bloc of nine Republican senators who
represent that region in the Senate.

Mr. Skelos is accused of using his influence to extort payments for his son,
Adam B. Skelos, who was also arrested last week. The senator has said he is
innocent of the charges against him. But he said on Monday that he had decided
to step down after an ''obnoxious'' news photographer went into his son's
backyard last week, and his 2-year-old grandson fell and split his lip.

''I said: 'You know what? It's not worth it,' '' Mr. Skelos told reporters after
a brief Senate session during which Mr. Flanagan was sworn in. He added a second
motivation for his decision, pertaining not to his family, but to his Senate
colleagues: ''Quite frankly, I think I was somewhat of a distraction.''

The change in leadership occurs as the end of the current legislative session,
scheduled for mid-June, approaches. A number of important public policy matters
have yet to be addressed, including the future of rent regulations and a housing
program that provides tax breaks to developers.

Mr. Flanagan will also have to contend with the cloud of corruption that seems
fixed above the Capitol, even as Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers have made several
attempts at ethics reforms in recent years.

For one thing, lawmakers are allowed to hold part-time jobs, and a number of
them work as lawyers, an arrangement that has prompted concerns about possible
conflicts of interest. Mr. Flanagan, himself a lawyer, said he had resigned from
his firm, though he said his decision to do so was driven by the demands of his
new job.

Asked about Albany's seemingly intractable corruption problem, Mr. Flanagan said
he wanted to bring more light to the business of government, though he did not
mention any specific reforms he plans to champion.

''I think it is extraordinarily important that people be able to have faith in
their government,'' he said. ''And I want to work to the largest extent possible
to help effectuate that.''

Mr. Skelos's decision to step down avoided what could have been a messy
parliamentary squabble, since Democrats were again planning to seek his removal
on the floor of the Senate, after an unsuccessful attempt last week.

Mr. Flanagan was formally elected as the Senate's leader on Monday afternoon.
Before the vote, he roamed around the Senate chamber shaking hands and accepting
congratulations while photographers captured the moment. Mr. Skelos sat quietly
in his seat.

The minister who delivered the invocation asked that the Senate be able to
''move forward from the corruption and the problems of the past.''

After Mr. Flanagan took his oath of office, he and Mr. Skelos embraced. In
remarks from the Senate floor, the new leader paid tribute to his predecessor.

''I want to thank Senator Skelos for decades of public service,'' he said.
''This gentleman has devoted his entire adult life to the service of the people
of the state of New York. He's done a fantastic job.''

Mr. Flanagan added that Mr. Skelos's life had come ''full circle'' because he
was now a grandparent. He recalled Mr. Skelos's eagerness to show off photos of
his grandchildren. (The criminal case against Mr. Skelos focuses on what
prosecutors said was his desire to find income for his son.)

''It's all about his family, and rightfully so,'' Mr. Flanagan said, ''and
that's something I respect and admire.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/dean-skelos-leader-of-senate-to-vacat
e-post-in-albany.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dean G. Skelos is out as the State Senate majority leader.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS) (A1)
 Dean G. Skelos, at the State Capitol on Monday, said, ''I think I was somewhat
of a distraction.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CORRUPTION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%);
ARRESTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS
(76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo, Taking Aim at Campus Sexual Assaults, Calls for a Stricter Law

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 814 words


Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, appearing at a Manhattan college with Representative Nancy
Pelosi, on Monday called for the passage of ''the toughest law in the nation''
on campus sexual assault, a message aimed at state lawmakers who have expressed
some reservations about his proposals.

Mr. Cuomo's proposed policies, which are already in place at New York's public
colleges, would require private colleges to adopt ''affirmative consent'' as the
standard of behavior, putting the burden on an accused student to show that the
other person had agreed to the sexual activity, rather than making accusers
prove that they had said no; silence or lack of resistance would not be
considered consent.

Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has also proposed that students reporting sexual assaults
must not be punished if they were violating a campus policy on drinking or
drugs, with the goal of removing the fear that by coming forward, those
reporting might be reprimanded, administration officials say. The proposed
policies would also require strict penalties for anyone found guilty of sexual
assault, with either suspension or expulsion the only available options.

In recent weeks Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul has been traveling across the state to
promote the changes, as has Christine C. Quinn, the former New York City Council
speaker. On Monday, at the Fashion Institute of Technology, a state-run college
in Chelsea, the governor himself spoke out, joined by Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of
California. For additional star power, Mr. Cuomo's office had already released a
video message from the comedian Whoopi Goldberg.

''This will be the toughest law in the nation, and I am proud of that,'' he
said.

In the last few years, colleges across the country have come under fire for
haphazard handling of sexual assault complaints, and some have changed their
policies under pressure from the Obama administration. Last year, California
became the first state to pass an ''affirmative consent'' law for college
campuses.

''This is an epidemic in some ways,'' Ms. Pelosi said on Monday, ''and that is
why we are also grateful to Governor Cuomo for his strong leadership and the
bold action to protect New York's college students.''

Despite the enthusiastic campaign, and a widely held belief that many schools
can do better, the proposal has encountered some resistance from legislators, as
well as private colleges and universities, concerned about some of its wording.
For example, some have taken issue with the accuser's being labeled in the
legislation as ''victim,'' rather than something more neutral. (The State
University of New York and City University of New York have enacted new policies
without needing legislative approval.)

''All universities have an obligation to be neutral in these circumstances,''
said Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat and chairwoman of the
Assembly's committee on higher education. ''You cannot prejudice the
circumstances by naming one 'the victim,' and the other 'the accused.' ''

Ms. Glick said other concerns about the bill included definitions some
considered vague and the lack of an explicit appeals process, which could mean
the only available recourse for a student who felt the process was unfair would
be to sue.

But Alphonso David, counsel to the governor, said the legislation did not
address ''the specifics of appeals or any aspect of due process, as that area is
well tilled through the Constitution, case law, private college policies and
other statutes.''

Ms. Glick added that those complaints originated from private colleges and
universities that had expressed misgivings, but few had been willing to discuss
their concerns publicly for fear of picking a fight with the governor's office.
So far, few have spoken out in support. Mr. Cuomo's office circulated a short
list of colleges that supported the legislation, including Syracuse and just 10
other small colleges and universities.

An administration official said the office planned to release the names of more
colleges that favored the bill in the weeks leading up to the end of the
legislative session in June.

Ms. Quinn, an adviser to the Cuomo administration who has been actively
promoting the sexual assault policy, said she was ''very optimistic that we will
pass this legislation by the end of this session.''

In a statement after the speech, Mr. Cuomo said, ''As a father of two
college-aged girls, with a third on the way next year, this isn't just an
important issue for the state, it's a personal issue for me as it is for many
parents who every fall say goodbye to their children with an expectation that
their schools are doing everything they can to keep them safe.''

Ms. Glick said the conversations were just beginning, but added: ''A day in
politics could be like a month in somebody else's life. We have a lot of time
between now and the end of the session.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/cuomo-taking-aim-at-campus-sexual-ass
aults-calls-for-a-stricter-law.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, praised
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's ''bold action to protect New York's college students'' on
Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%);
PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%);
SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (65%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); KATHY HOCHUL (79%); RICK PERRY
(59%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raising Paddles Against an Oil Giant

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1086 words


SEATTLE --  A dozen or so men and women, cinched into life jackets, paddles at
the ready, were about to launch their kayaks into Elliott Bay early Thursday
evening with Seattle's glittering skyline as the backdrop. For some of the
paddlers, it was a first-time experience, and with the water at 50 degrees and
choppy, there were some obvious signs of trepidation.

''O.K., what hazards are we watching for?'' Elizabeth Chiaravalli, their
instructor, shouted, and a smattering of answers immediately bounced back. ''The
waves!'' ''The dock!'' ''The pilings!''

Then Cynthia Orr, 67, a mental health counselor, spoke up. ''Shell Oil!'' she
cried, standing by her boat. Her fellow kayakers -- or kayaktivists, as they
call themselves -- roared.

The standoff between Royal Dutch Shell, which proposes to lease a terminal in
the Port of Seattle for its Arctic drilling fleet, and the opponents who want to
block the company's plans for environmental and other reasons, is going aquatic.
The various groups organizing a ''ShellNo Flotilla'' for Saturday hope to
attract 1,000 kayaks or other small boats, and are arranging temporary housing
for people coming from elsewhere to train and participate.

Some talk of physically blocking Shell's giant drilling rigs -- a fairly
dangerous idea for people in small boats in a busy port. But a generally stated
goal at last week's training session and on the main flotilla website is simply
to make a grand statement of solidarity.

Some opponents are drawn in the name of climate protection, or anticorporate
fervor or another cause; this is Seattle, after all, where political passions
come in potpourri. Elected officials have jumped in as well, with at least one
City Council member, Mike O'Brien, taking ''kayaktivist training'' this month.

The drama is currently unfolding: Federal officials on Monday conditionally
approved Shell's plan to drill in the Chukchi Sea this summer, if the company
also gets the required state and federal permits. And the giant rigs that would
be used for that work are now en route to Seattle or berthed nearby ready to
move -- though the company has provided no exact itinerary.

Last week, Seattle planning and development authorities said that Shell's
planned use of the port required a new permit, creating a potential legal snag.
The port's five-member commission, which split 3 to 2 in support of the lease,
has scheduled a meeting for Tuesday with Shell on the agenda.

A Seattle company, Foss Maritime, which plans to operate the terminal with Shell
as its tenant, said Friday that it would appeal the decision about the need for
a new permit. It said in a statement that the city was practicing ''politics
rather than policy.''

Some labor groups, including the International Longshore and Warehouse Union,
have stepped forward to support Shell because of the jobs its fleet would create
for local workers. But at least 200 opponents have signed pledges saying they
are prepared to face arrest in civil disobedience protests, organizers of the
anti-Shell effort said.

''We need to focus our port, our businesses, on the new economy, on things like
clean energy of the future and not on the old economy that is dying out, such as
oil,'' said Mayor Ed Murray, a Democrat, who has urged the port to find another
tenant or use.

But protesters, Mr. Murray said, must act prudently, whether in kayaks or on
land. ''Individuals need to be responsible, and not risk endangering themselves,
or other people or property,'' he said.

A spokesman for Shell, Curtis Smith, declined to say what the company's
alternative plans might be if Seattle proves unworkable. The company hopes to
begin drilling off Alaska on July 15 or soon after, he said, if ice is clear.

''We're watching closely the actions of all parties,'' Mr. Smith said. ''At the
same time, we're considering our options.''

Dr. Laura Byerly, the medical director at a community clinic near Portland,
Ore., is among the people planning to protest. She said it would be novel for
her in two ways: She has spent her life ''following the rules,'' as a physician
and a professional woman, with little experience in protests and not much in
boats, either.

She has also become increasingly worried about climate change, so when a friend,
Ken Ward, said he intended to drive the three hours north to Seattle this week
with his 17-foot, green-and-white sailing dory on a trailer and invited her to
come along, she immediately said yes.

''I'm going from inaction to action,'' said Dr. Byerly, 53, who planned to train
with Mr. Ward on a lake west of Portland.

Mr. Ward, 58, who described himself as a carpenter, handyman and climate
volunteer, knows about protesting on water. In 2013, he and another man anchored
a lobster boat in an industrial inlet near Providence, R.I., blocking a
40,000-ton shipment of coal to a power plant. They were charged with conspiracy,
disturbing the peace and other violations, but the major charges were dropped.

This time, Mr. Ward said that he planned merely to participate in the flotilla,
and that he and Dr. Byerly would hand out cups of tea to other boaters or
kayakers from the dory.

He said that with planetary concerns in the balance -- whether in burning fossil
fuels or protecting the Arctic -- no debate over energy was truly local anymore,
and that he felt a need to respond to what he called ''places of conflict,''
wherever they might turn up.

''Seattle's fight is everyone's fight,'' Mr. Ward said.

At Thursday night's kayak training session, instructors showed the group how to
get back in a tipped kayak (keep your center of gravity low, sliding on, belly
first), how to signal for help (paddle vertical) and how to paddle backward. In
the spirit of inclusion, trainees were asked what gender pronoun -- he, she or
something else -- they preferred. Training sessions just for women and just for
minorities are planned for this week to encourage greater participation.

Ms. Orr, the mental health counselor, said that as recently as a month ago, she
might not have come at all, but that a recent book about climate change and
corporate power, ''This Changes Everything,'' by Naomi Klein, had galvanized her
into action. ''It pierced my denial,'' Ms. Orr said.

Another trainee, Sue Kay, 69, said that she and her friend Rosy Betz-Zall, 64,
would try the kayaking for now, but that come flotilla day, they might well opt
for a more stable perch, like a pontoon boat, depending on the weather.

''We're hedging our bets,'' Ms. Kay said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/grabbing-paddles-in-seattle-to-ward-off-an-
oil-giant.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kayakers training to protest a bid by Royal Dutch Shell to
lease a terminal in the Port of Seattle for an Arctic oil drilling fleet.
 Three days of protests are planned against Shell, starting Saturday with a
flotilla of kayaks and small boats on Puget Sound. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID RYDER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL
& GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%);
OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (74%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT
(67%); CITIES (62%); APPROVALS (62%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); MENTAL HEALTH
PRACTICE (54%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); SHELL OIL CO (56%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE)
(84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%);
NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); SIC2911
PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ARCTIC (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Go-To Strategy Seems Best to Stay Away From

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 626 words


How many times does a strategy have to fail before it is abandoned?

Two games after Coach Kevin McHale of the Houston Rockets criticized the Los
Angeles Clippers for intentionally fouling Dwight Howard -- which backfired as
the Rockets won the game -- he apparently decided that two could play at that
game. McHale had his team foul DeAndre Jordan so often in Game 4 on Sunday night
that Jordan, a poor-shooting center, went to the free-throw line 28 times in the
first half and 34 times over all as part of the 40 fouls the Rockets committed.

The strategy did not work. The Rockets were blown out, 128-95, as Jordan was 14
for 34 from the line and finished with 26 points and 17 rebounds. Howard was in
foul trouble early and was barely a factor. He was ejected with nearly 10
minutes remaining when he collected his second technical foul.

Even the N.B.A.'s most frequent free-throw shooter, James Harden of the Rockets,
seemed to criticize his team's strategy of forcing Jordan -- and his 41.7
percent career free-throw percentage -- to the line.

''Personally, I don't like it,'' Harden told reporters after the game, ''but I
guess different coaches have their different philosophies.''

The interesting aspect of the strategy is how rarely it seems to work.

Since game logs became readily available in the 1963-64 season, a player has had
25 or more free-throw attempts in a game 74 times, including regular-season and
postseason games. The rare occurrence is generally brought on by desperation,
with teams trying to erase large deficits. While coaches will try anything to
avoid losing, it is worth noting that the team on the receiving end of the fouls
has won 50 of the games, about two-thirds.

Some of the instances can immediately be discounted, as there is no way a team
was sending great free-throw shooters like Michael Jordan, Charles Barkley or
Harden to the line that many times on purpose. But even among the league's
free-throw butchers, it has not proved particularly effective.

In DeAndre Jordan's case, he has had three games with 25 or more free-throw
attempts, and his team has won all three. Similarly, Howard has had it happen
three times, and his team won all three as well.

Shaquille O'Neal, who had to deal with intentional fouls so often that the
generic term for the practice is Hack-a-Shaq, was given 25 or more free-throw
attempts in a game five times and his teams were 4-1, with O'Neal hitting more
than 50 percent of the attempts in three of the games.

Wilt Chamberlain was one player against whom the strategy was, perhaps,
effective. That one-man statistical oddity is the outlier in so many statistics
that it often seems better to discount him entirely. But when teams decided to
put him to the line over and over again, it worked nearly as often as it did
not: His teams were 5-4.

But one of the nine games proved that even when this strategy seems to be
working, it is not foolproof. On Dec. 12, 1967, the Seattle SuperSonics went
after Chamberlain and sent him to the line 25 times. In a particularly bad
performance, Chamberlain made only six free throws, with his 24 percent mark the
worst among players with 25 or more attempts. Nevertheless, that did not stop
Philadelphia from winning, 118-107. Seattle shut down Chamberlain, but Hal Greer
torched the SuperSonics for 38 points.

There is no question that DeAndre Jordan and Howard are terrible shooters from
the line and that sending them there a lot can be effective. But it seems there
is a limit to how effective the strategy can be when things get so out of hand.

And with both coaches in this series having tried the strategy and failed,
perhaps when they face off in Game 5 on Tuesday, the contest can involve more
basketball and fewer free throws.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/basketball/note-to-clippers-and-rockets
-hack-a-shaq-strategy-isnt-working.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Clippers' DeAndre Jordan being intentionally fouled in Game
4. Jordan took 34 foul shots, and the Rockets lost by 33. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
DUNN/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ROCKETS (94%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (91%); NATIONAL
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (78%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Displeasure With U.S., Saudis Face Long Dependency

BYLINE: By BEN HUBBARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1193 words


RIYADH, Saudi Arabia --  Persian Gulf leaders, led by King Salman of Saudi
Arabia, are sending increasingly public messages of displeasure with the Obama
administration over its policies in the Middle East, even as the president seeks
to reassure them this week in meetings at Camp David.

Yet, while they are upset with the White House, particularly over the impending
nuclear deal with Iran, the Saudis and their gulf allies face a dilemma: Even as
they are taking a more active role in their own defense, they remain almost
entirely reliant on Washington for their security.

This dependency ''has to change, and they know this has to change,'' said
Jean-Francois Seznec, a professor of Persian Gulf political economy at the
School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.

Decades of cooperation and billions of dollars in weapons contracts have left
the gulf nations deeply entwined with the United States and Britain in ways that
cannot be quickly undone, analysts say. Qatar hosts the largest United States
air base in the region, and Bahrain is the home port of the Navy's Fifth Fleet.
And their efforts to make reliable military partners of fellow Muslim nations
like Pakistan and Egypt have met little success, despite tens of billions of
dollars in aid.

American-made fighter jets are being used in the Saudi-led bombing campaign in
Yemen, but ''none of these airplanes would fly if the United States refused to
send parts,'' Dr. Seznec said.

Many of the same fears driving the Saudi policy shifts have been expressed
forcefully by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. Both capitals are
worried that President Obama's focus on achieving an agreement with Iran, a
country they see as an implacable aggressor, has shaken bedrock commitments by
Washington that have long underpinned the regional order.

The sense of neglect by Washington has caused a crisis of confidence among the
gulf nations, capped by the announcement Sunday that King Salman of Saudi Arabia
would not attend this week's meeting -- after the White House said that he
would. The Saudi foreign minister, speaking Monday in Washington, said the
decision was not related to any disagreement between the countries.

The king of Bahrain will also stay away, sending his crown prince instead. Of
the six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, only the monarchs of Kuwait and
Qatar will attend.

American officials, trying their best to play down the incident, said Mr. Obama
spoke with the king by phone on Monday in preparation for the meeting. But the
Saudi king's displeasure was clear.

''It is a diplomatic message that Saudi Arabia is not expecting anything new
from Camp David,'' said Abdullah al-Shammari, a Saudi political analyst and
former diplomat. ''Everyone knows that Saudi Arabia is not pleased with the
administration of President Obama, especially when it comes to the deal with
Iran and the nuclear program.''

Expressing an increasingly common view, he said the solution for Saudi Arabia
was to depend less on the United States and to increase cooperation with other
powers.

''Just as the United States is trying to lessen its dependence on Saudi oil, the
Saudis are trying to lessen as much as possible their reliance on the American
alliance,'' Mr. Shammari said.

But the Saudis remain heavily reliant on the United States, and to a lesser
extent on Britain, in nearly every branch of their security apparatus.

''The Saudi air force could not carry out day-in, day-out bombing missions
without help from U.S. trainers and maintenance experts and the flow of spare
parts and ammunition,'' said Bruce Riedel, senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution, speaking about the Saudi-led bombing campaign against Shiite rebels
in Yemen.

A recent report by the Congressional Research Service said Saudi Arabia's
decision to update and expand its air force with American F-15 fighter jets
would perpetuate Saudi reliance on parts and training provided by the United
States military and defense contractors.

The United States is also involved in training the army and modernizing the
Saudis' national guard, and American advisers paid for by the Saudi government
are ''embedded in industrial, energy, maritime and cybersecurity offices within
the Saudi government,'' the report said.

Saudi Arabia, the United States and Britain also have close intelligence ties,
with top officials from the three countries meeting frequently and sharing
information.

In addition, contracts for fighter jets include agreements on maintenance, spare
parts and software upgrades that can go on for years, Mr. Riedel said, keeping
the countries' security operations bound tightly together far into the future.

Dr. Seznec, of the School of Advanced International Studies, estimates that
Saudi Arabia has spent about $500 billion to build its military in the last 20
years. About three-quarters of that money has gone to the United States.

''Those are huge amounts of money,'' he said.

Gulf nations are concerned that President Obama is so fixed on securing a
nuclear deal with Iran that he has overlooked Tehran's misbehavior in the
region, particularly its empowerment of its allies and proxies in Iraq, Syria,
Lebanon and Yemen.

Gulf nations worry further that any sanctions relief that results from an
agreement will give Iran even more money to fund its proxies.

''We assume the worst-case scenario, which is that Iran will continue to run its
foreign policy in terms of more intervention and with the clout that Iran will
feel as a result of having this agreement,'' said Sami al-Faraj, head of the
Kuwait Center for Strategic Studies. ''The United States today has left us in a
sense alone.''

Some gulf nations have made efforts to diversify their alliances.

Qatar recently signed a multibillion dollar weapons deal with France, and
similar deals with other nations are reportedly on the way. Persian Gulf leaders
have so appreciated France's hard line in the Iranian nuclear talks that they
invited President François Hollande to attend a meeting last week of the Gulf
Cooperation Council, making him the first head of state from outside the
alliance to do so.

While Qatar, with its relatively small military, can shift quickly with new arms
deals, it would take Saudi Arabia much longer to integrate military hardware
from another supplier, Mr. Riedel said.

Saudi Arabia has, however, asked for help from fellow Muslim countries like
Pakistan in its Yemen campaign. But despite bankrolling the Pakistani nuclear
program and offering other aid over the years, the Saudis were shocked when the
Pakistani parliament unanimously voted not to send troops.

Egypt, whose government has been kept afloat by billions of dollars in Persian
Gulf aid in recent years, has also declined to send ground troops.

Despite the reluctance of would-be allies to step up, the gulf nations appear to
be at the beginning of what could be a long process of learning to rely more on
themselves and other allies.

''They would prefer for the U.S. to be the godfather and protector, but they
also realize that they have to stand on their own feet,'' Dr. Seznec said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/persian-gulf-allies-confront-
crisis-of-confidence-in-us.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%);
AGREEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEFENSE
INDUSTRY (70%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(69%); BOMBINGS (66%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%); US NAVY (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%);
SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SALMAN BIN ABDUL AZIZ (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ
(79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%)

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAN,
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); BAHRAIN (92%); QATAR (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%);
PAKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); YEMEN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not: Seth Meyers, John Oliver and Fashion

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Fashion; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg.

LENGTH: 364 words


There's been a lot of speculation recently about whither goeth late-night comedy
on television, and understandably so, given the churn in hosts. One of the
answers, in any case, seems to be toward fashion -- though what's really
interesting is the divide that seems to be opening up in approaches to the
subject.

To put it bluntly: Some hosts love it, some hosts love it not. But either way,
it's an attraction as well as a differentiator, in late night as in life.

Compare, for example, two recent episodes from two different shows.

[Video: https://youtube.com/devicesupport Watch on YouTube.]

The first, courtesy of ''Last Week Tonight With John Oliver,'' takes on the
fast-fashion industry and pulls very few punches -- toward either the
manufacturers or the consumers who think it is possible to buy dresses that are
made responsibly for under $20.

He names brands like H&M, the Gap, Joe Fresh and the Children's Place, complete
with pithy price comparisons between garments being modeled and the cost of
certain foodstuffs (deli rotisserie chicken, for example).

[Video: https://youtube.com/devicesupport Watch on YouTube.]

It's damning, unlike one skit from ''Late Night With Seth Meyers'' titled ''Anna
Wintour: Comedy Icon.'' That pretty much says it all, but to summarize: It
involves Ms. Wintour, the very powerful editor of Vogue and the artistic
director of Condé Nast, poking fun at her very powerful (and scary serious)
image and bossing around Mr. Meyers.

Mr. Meyers is, of course, famously close to the fashion world. He was, until
recently, fashion's favorite awards-event host, though James Corden of ''The
Late Late Show'' seems to be giving him some competition.

Still, that's two names getting cozy with the industry, and one using it as a
target. Going by the rule of three, that equals a trend.

And that's especially because both segments -- the one that celebrated fashion
and the one that took it to task -- got a lot of excited Twitter reaction. This
suggests to me that the subject may become ever-richer pickings for the next
generation's after-10 p.m. talk-show crowd, whether they are positioning
themselves as friends of the industry or as skeptics.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/fashion/he-loves-me-he-loves-me-not-seth-meyer
s-john-oliver-and-fashion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (89%); FILM (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING
(89%); FAST FASHION (77%)

PERSON: SETH MEYERS (93%); ANNA WINTOUR (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paul Tries to Stake Territory as Lone Candidate Who'd Guard Civil Liberties

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1120 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  Senator Rand Paul can't stop swearing.

''What the hell is a Republican doing in San Francisco?'' he blared to a crowd
of 150 Bay Area tech entrepreneurs intrigued enough to come hear him speak on
Saturday.

The people who support his crusade against the National Security Agency's
surveillance dragnet? ''The leave-me-the-hell-alone coalition,'' Mr. Paul calls
them.

Then there is his biggest and most reliable stump-speech applause line: ''What
you do on your phone is none of the government's damn business.'' Mr. Paul may
soon put it on T-shirts. They would make nice companions to the $15 ''NSA Spy
Cam Blocker,'' which covers laptop webcam lenses in hopes of shutting Big
Brother's prying eyes.

As Congress and the courts try to resolve the difficult question of how far the
federal government may go in collecting data on citizens' private
communications, Mr. Paul has become the most unabashed and unambiguous opponent
of renewing those far-reaching powers of any presidential candidate.

''The right to be left alone is the most cherished of rights,'' he said here
over the weekend. ''There's not one other candidate on the Republican side or
the Democratic side who's willing to say: 'On Day 1 I'd stop it all. I would end
all bulk collection of records.' ''

Few of Mr. Paul's stands arouse greater suspicion from conservatives, who are
eager to caricature him as a peacenik and a kook. And few issues make him stand
out so starkly against a field of rivals who are largely in agreement that the
intelligence agencies should have broad, unencumbered powers to pursue
terrorists.

Yet as Congress debates extending the Patriot Act beyond its June 1 expiration,
Mr. Paul, of Kentucky, is determined to seize the spotlight and test whether a
candidate so vocal about safeguarding civil liberties can succeed in a party
that increasingly demands fealty to hawkish dogma on national security and
defense.

In an interview, Mr. Paul said he would use the next few weeks to deliver floor
speeches and introduce a series of amendments aimed at curtailing government
surveillance. (On Monday in New Hampshire, he told The Union Leader he would
lead a filibuster against renewal of the Patriot Act.)

''Someone has got to defend the Constitution,'' he said in the interview on
Saturday.

A spirited legislative battle on government surveillance could also energize Mr.
Paul's core of libertarian supporters, who have detected a reticence lately in
his attitude toward the ideals that helped fuel his political rise. He signed
onto a confrontational letter that his Senate colleagues sent to Iran's leaders,
warning against cutting a deal with President Obama over their nuclear program.
He also appeared to mock Baltimore protesters after the death of Freddie Gray,
despite having advocated in the past for a crackdown on the use of excessive
force by the police.

Mr. Paul acknowledges that sometimes his mouth gets him in trouble. But he said
no one should have any reason to doubt his beliefs. ''I talk too much,'' he
said. ''I will say things that aren't perfect. You don't get this from Hillary
Clinton because she won't talk to you.''

His call to let the Patriot Act expire, however, is no offhand remark.

The issue is one that animates him. And it could help put him back at the center
of the debate over national security, a topic he has ceded lately to rivals who
appear much more comfortable taking a hard line against hostile regimes like
Iran.

''You can be a minority because of the color of your skin or the shade of your
ideology,'' he said on Saturday. ''So there's every reason in the world we have
to be concerned about a government that collects all of our records all of the
time.''

Polls show that Republicans generally approve of the bulk records collection
program; many even want it strengthened. A New York Times poll in September
found that 44 percent of Republicans believed the program was ''about right,''
while 26 percent said that it did not go far enough. Just 23 percent said it
went too far.

Most of Mr. Paul's declared and likely primary rivals have shown a willingness
to defer to the intelligence community. Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor,
has praised President Obama's use of the data sweeps, which were started under
his brother George W. Bush. And Senator Marco Rubio of Florida denounced the
court decision that declared the program illegal. ''Now is not the time to end
this program,'' he wrote in an op-ed article in USA Today.

Not even Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described socialist who is
running for the Democratic nomination, has made N.S.A. reform as big a piece of
his campaign as Mr. Paul.

But Mr. Paul sees appeal in making the issue part of a larger critique of the
foreign policies of both the Bush and Obama administrations. ''Even in the
Republican Party, there are a lot of people who are starting to wonder: 'Are we
safer? Is Iran not stronger with Hussein gone?' '' he said in the interview. ''
'Are we not more at risk from radical Islam?' ''

Mr. Paul hopes to sell himself as ''a different kind of Republican,'' as he put
it in San Francisco, and that this will resonate in early-voting states like New
Hampshire and Iowa, where his campaign has made younger voters a priority. The
2016 Iowa caucuses will take place while colleges are in session for the first
time since 2004.

Mr. Paul's attention to privacy matters, his campaign is calculating, could show
that he is attuned to the concerns of younger, more technologically dependent
voters. And it is an important element in a cool factor that he is working hard
to cultivate. His website has a store filled with sardonic merchandise --
including obsolete computer hardware billed as ''Hillary's hard drive,'' wiped
clean, and a T-shirt that says ''Don't Drone Me, Bro.''

The venue he chose for his San Francisco appearance, meanwhile -- a shared work
space called Startup House, where entrepreneurs pay $50 to $450 for desks,
Internet access and a stocked refrigerator -- was not where one would typically
expect to find a Republican running for president. It advertises itself as ''a
supportive environment for people who aren't just white guys working on
start-ups.'' Mr. Paul's campaign is a new tenant.

The founder of Startup House, Elias Bizannes, said that he had to endure some
nasty emails from his members for hosting a Republican, but that Mr. Paul was
making strides.

''You're not going to be the most tech-savvy candidate because you know Snapchat
and Instagram,'' Mr. Bizannes said. ''He definitely gets that.''

Follow The New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and
sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/politics/rand-paul-tries-to-stake-territory
-as-lone-candidate-whod-guard-civil-liberties.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Rand Paul spoke about surveillance programs on Saturday
in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); US PATRIOT ACT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (89%);
INTERVIEWS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP
(77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); AGREEMENTS (74%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: RAND PAUL (88%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 36 words


''The magnitude of falsity, conservatively measured, is enormous.''

JUDGE DENISE L. COTE, of Federal District Court in Manhattan, ruling that two
banks misled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in selling them mortgage bonds.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); MORTGAGE
INVESTMENTS (85%); BONDS (82%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME
LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN
CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES
(91%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Absent King Signals Saudi-U.S. Marriage Adrift

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Helene Cooper contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words


WASHINGTON --  The decision by King Salman of Saudi Arabia to skip a summit
meeting called by President Obama reflects a new reality for two nations that
for generations shared goals in the Middle East but that are now at odds in
fundamental ways.

Both countries insisted on Monday that the king's absence was not a snub, even
as it was hard to ignore four powerful factors that have led to rising tensions
between the two nations: the administration's pursuit of a nuclear accord with
Iran, the rise of the Islamic State in the region, the regional unrest that came
to be known as the Arab Spring and the transformation of world energy markets.
An American oil boom in particular has liberated the United States from its
dependence on Riyadh and changed a decades-long power dynamic.

To the extent that this week's meetings of Persian Gulf leaders at the White
House and Camp David were intended to help smooth over those divisions, an
opportunity has slipped away. And the future looks even more complicated if the
two countries head down different paths toward their perceived security.

''There's no question there have been differences. That's been true for some
time,'' said Philip Gordon, who stepped down a month ago as the White House
coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa and the gulf region. ''The
relationship is not a sentimental one. We each have interests, and if we show
we're willing to work with them on their core interests, they will show they're
willing to do that with us.''

The question is whether each is willing. In the 70 years since Franklin D.
Roosevelt met with King Abdul Aziz, the relationship between the United States
and Saudi Arabia has been a complicated marriage of shared interests, clashing
values and cynical accommodations. The common denominator was a desire for
stability. But now the two sides define that differently.

For Mr. Obama, a diplomatic agreement with Iran curbing its nuclear program
offers the strongest chance of keeping conflict in the region from escalating.
For the Sunni-led Saudi government, the relaxation of sanctions in the proposed
deal would simply give Iran, a predominantly Shiite state, billions of dollars
to foment more instability around the region.

While the Americans and the Saudis are now cooperating to fight the Islamic
State, Riyadh wants more action to force out the government of President Bashar
al-Assad in Syria, while Mr. Obama has been reluctant to intervene. Similarly,
while Mr. Obama has portrayed the drive for greater democracy in the region as a
force for good, the Saudis see the still simmering Arab Spring movement as a
threat to their hold on power.

In the midst of all that, the politics of energy have shifted along with the
surge in oil production in North Dakota and Texas. No longer so dependent on
foreign crude, the United States can flex muscles without worrying about the
Saudis cutting its energy supply. Yet Washington still relies on Riyadh to keep
the price of oil low to pressure Russia's energy-based economy in the standoff
over Ukraine.

Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama, said that
differences were to be expected between two countries with varied interests but
that those did not undermine the broader relationship. ''We have a very robust
agenda that we share with the Saudis,'' he said. ''There have been disagreements
under this administration and under the previous administration about certain
policies and development in the Middle East, but I think on a set of core
interests, we continue to have a common view about what we aim to achieve.''

But experts said the United States had little desire to be drawn more deeply
into the dangerous proxy war between Iran and the Sunni states playing out in
places like Yemen. ''The United States is not interested in overindulging in
other issues that the gulf states are worried about,'' said Marwan Muasher, a
Jordanian former foreign minister. ''Are the gulf states going to go back from
this meeting feeling reassured? I would say the answer is no.''

Presidents have labored to stay close to Saudi Arabia for decades, but have
sometimes run into turbulence. Ronald Reagan sold the Saudis sophisticated Awacs
airplanes over the objections of Israel. George Bush sent 500,000 troops to
defend Saudi Arabia and reverse Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. His son George
W. Bush shared plans in advance with eager Saudis for his own invasion of Iraq.

But King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who died in January, was once so upset with
the younger Mr. Bush about his support for Israel that the king threatened to
storm out of a visit to the president's Texas ranch. The Saudis also frustrated
Mr. Bush by refusing to work closely with the Shiite-led Iraqi government as it
fought Sunni insurgents. Over the years, administrations have worried about
Saudi money that has financed extremist groups.

Mr. Obama, who ripped up his schedule to fly to Riyadh in January to pay
respects to King Salman when he took power, spoke with the king by telephone on
Monday. The White House had announced Friday that King Salman would attend the
meeting, but was blindsided over the weekend when the Saudis said they would
instead send Crown Prince Mohammed bin Nayef and Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

The Saudis said the king needed to stay in Riyadh because of the kingdom's air
campaign against Houthi rebels in neighboring Yemen. Some regional experts said
that at age 79, he has not traveled much out of the country. But some Arab
officials said his decision not to attend reflected a broader disappointment
that Mr. Obama would not be offering much concrete security assistance at the
meeting.

The king was not the only one to turn down Mr. Obama's invitation. The leaders
of Oman, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates -- some of whom are in ill health
-- will also skip the meeting, sending subordinates instead.

Critics said the list of attendees revealed Mr. Obama's inability to shape
events in the region. ''It's an indicator of the lack of confidence that the
Saudis and others have,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, told
MSNBC. He blamed Secretary of State John Kerry for misreading Saudi signals.
''He sometimes interprets things as he wants them to be rather than what they
really are,'' Mr. McCain said.

The Obama administration said it had rejected a mutual defense treaty sought by
the gulf states several weeks ago. The foreign ministers of those countries,
however, raised no major protests to Mr. Kerry when he met with them in Paris on
Friday in advance of this week's summit meeting. ''There was no hint of
dissatisfaction,'' said Robert Malley, the president's top Middle East adviser.

Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi foreign minister, insisted on Monday that no slight
was intended by the king's last-minute decision to skip the summit meeting.
''The idea that this is a snub because the king did not attend is really off
base,'' he told reporters in Washington. ''The fact that our crown prince and
deputy crown prince attend an event outside of Saudi Arabia at the same time is
unprecedented.''

White House aides said the Saudi princes were the important ones to deal with on
these issues. But the president, who will host a dinner at the White House on
Wednesday night and then a day of meetings at Camp David on Thursday, will be
left with few prospects for a major breakthrough.

Tamara Cofman Wittes, a former deputy assistant secretary of state under Mr.
Obama, said: ''If anybody had the idea that the summit, in the midst of
everything that's going on, was going to somehow be a neatly wrapped little
package that would conclude everything, they were kidding themselves.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/politics/kings-absence-at-summit-signals-sa
udi-us-marriage-on-rocks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and Michelle Obama were greeted by King Salman
of Saudi Arabia in Riyadh in January. The king will skip a gathering in the
United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%);
2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); RELIGION (75%); OIL &
GAS INDUSTRY (74%); AGREEMENTS (66%)

PERSON: SALMAN BIN ABDUL AZIZ (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%);
BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (93%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN,
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GULF STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

President of Poland Has Setback in Balloting

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN and JOANNA BERENDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 441 words


WARSAW --  The conservative challenger to Poland's incumbent president has
defied pre-election polls and stunned the ruling party by winning the largest
number of votes in the first round of presidential balloting, the electoral
commission announced Monday night.

The challenger, Andrzej Duda of the conservative Law and Justice party, received
34.8 percent of the vote and will enter a May 24 runoff against President
Bronislaw Komorowski. Mr. Komorowski, who ran as an independent but is a member
of Civic Platform, the center-right party that has governed Poland since 2007,
drew 33.8 percent of the vote Sunday.

The election was being closely watched in capitals across the continent, because
Poland has the largest and most vigorous economy in Eastern Europe and because
it has been playing a larger role in continental affairs. The former prime
minister, Donald Tusk, was elected last year as the president of the European
Council, the body that sets the agenda for summits and helps represent the bloc
at international gatherings.

The presidency in Poland is a largely ceremonial office, although its holder
serves as commander-in-chief of the military and has some limited powers to
influence legislation.

Mr. Komorowski's poor showing sent tremors through the governing party, which is
worried that the results might indicate a tough road ahead during the more
crucial parliamentary elections in the fall. The voting in that election will
determine the country's next prime minister, a much more powerful position.

Pawel Kukiz, a rock star, also turned in a surprisingly strong performance,
winning 20.8 percent of the vote with a campaign that tapped into
dissatisfaction with the country's entire political class. More and more Poles
consider politicians to be arrogant and alienated from the society and its
struggles, said Rafal Chwedoruk, a political scientist from Warsaw University.

''Kukiz's result reflects the growing level of frustration in the country,
especially among young Poles who live with a certain sense of hopelessness, and
whose future is completely unpredictable,'' Mr. Chwedoruk said.

Still, Mr. Komorowski had been widely expected to win an easy re-election.
Although he faced 10 challengers, ran a campaign that was considered torpid at
best and saw his support in the polls dwindle in the weeks preceding the vote,
none of the pre-election polls showed him finishing second to Mr. Duda.

''I want to build Poland based on dialogue and respect,'' Mr. Duda told his
supporters Sunday night. ''We want to have a dignified life in a safe Poland.
This is just an overture, and we need a victory. We will win!''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/poland-election-president-bronisl
aw-komorowski-andrzej-duda.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RUNOFF
ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); POLITICAL
SCIENCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (66%)

PERSON: BRONISLAW KOMOROWSKI (79%)

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Death While Working Out

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 992 words


The recent death of the tech executive Dave Goldberg, reportedly during a
treadmill workout on a vacation, has saddened and rattled the fitness community.
The death of Mr. Goldberg, the chief executive of SurveyMonkey and husband of
Sheryl Sandberg of Facebook, has left many people wondering if the exercise
itself might have triggered a serious health event. Was it a heart attack?
Another health problem? An unfortunate accident?

While the circumstances surrounding Mr. Goldberg's death are not fully known,
the science on exercise and sudden death is both comforting and troubling.
Someone who exercises has a much lower risk of dying from heart disease than
someone who doesn't. At the same time, it's also true that during exercise, a
person has a slightly higher risk of having a heart attack than when he or she
is just sitting quietly in a chair.

To learn more about the relationship between exercise and heart risk, I spoke
with two experts on the topic: Dr. Michael Blaha, the director of clinical
research at the Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Heart Disease at Johns
Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore, and Dr. Paul D. Thompson, the chief of cardiology
at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. Here are edited excerpts from our
conversation.

Q.

How frequent are heart attacks, especially fatal heart attacks, during exercise?

A.

Dr. Paul Thompson: They're quite rare. Back in 1982, we published a study in
JAMA, among the first on this topic, I think, where we tallied all of the deaths
during jogging that had occurred in Rhode Island over a six-year period. We
found that there was about one death for every 15,000 joggers. Since then, other
studies have shown approximately the same number of deaths per number of
joggers.

Q.

But heart attacks during exercise do occur?

A.

Dr. Thompson: Yes, obviously they do. There's no doubt that exercise
substantially reduces the risks over all that someone will develop heart
disease, but it doesn't prevent them altogether. It's important to understand,
too, that deaths during exercise among young people are not usually due to
atherosclerosis, but to previously undetected, inherited abnormalities, such as
an enlarged heart. In older people, especially men, deaths during exercise are
generally due to atherosclerosis, or narrowing of the heart arteries.

Q.

Why would exercise lead to a heart attack in someone who'd been exercising?
Wouldn't they and their hearts be accustomed to the exertion?

A.

Dr. Michael Blaha: Exercise is a form of stress, and like any stress, it
stimulates reactions in the cardiovascular system that can abruptly overburden
that system, even if it's withstood those stresses before. The same thing can
happen if you get too little sleep, or you're rushing down the hall to make it
to a meeting, or you're under a lot of mental pressure. We had a doctor here, a
woman, who was having a very difficult, busy day and started having pain in her
left shoulder, which she ignored. It was a heart attack associated with mental
stress. It's not that there's something unique about exercise that triggers
heart attacks. It's just another kind of stress.

Q.

Will an exercise stress test pick up heart problems?

A.

Dr. Thompson: The problem with an exercise stress test is that it identifies any
narrowing of the arteries that already exists. But most exercise-induced heart
attacks occur because a plaque abruptly ruptures, causes a blood clot and blocks
the artery at that moment. An exercise stress test won't predict these kinds of
lurking heart problems. The best prevention is to pay attention to what your
body is telling you.

Q.

So what are the symptoms that someone who exercises should be most aware of?

A.

Dr. Blaha: Obviously, chest pain associated with exercise, especially if it's
persistent; any shortness of breath that you haven't felt that before; numbness
or tingling in your left arm or jaw. Those are the easy warning signs. But there
are usually subtler signs, too. I've had so many patients tell me, ''I just
couldn't run the way I could six weeks ago.'' They'll think that they had a
cold. But unusual fatigue is a sign you shouldn't ignore. If you can't cover the
same distance that you could a little while before, see a doctor. You may have a
cold. But you also might not.

A.

Dr. Thompson: I tell people, if you have discomfort during exercise that
develops anywhere from around your earlobe to your belly button, that could be
heart disease. It could be something insignificant, too, but it should be
checked.

Q.

Is it fair to say, though, that, over all, the benefits of exercise for the
heart -- and the rest of the body -- outweigh the small risk of a heart attack
during a workout?

A.

Dr. Blaha: Yes, although I'd argue that what's really important is not exercise,
per se, but fitness, meaning your body's aerobic capacity. We published a study
in February showing that there is no upper limit to the mortality benefits of
fitness. The more fit you are, the less likely you are to die early -- of a
heart attack or anything else. Compared to the benefits of being fit, the
transient risk of a heart attack during any given session of exercise is very
slight. That doesn't mean it can't happen. But it is not a reason to avoid
exercise.

A.

Dr. Thompson: The way I look at it is that exercise is medicine and it's
wonderful medicine, but like any medicine, it has potential side effects. So do
most things. Having sex slightly increases the risk of a heart attack compared
to not having sex, since it's a form of exertion. But that doesn't mean we
should avoid sex. I tell people, if you want to live life as safely as possible,
stay in bed alone. But who wants that?

Related: ''Treadmill May Be Riskiest Machine, but Injuries From It Still Rare.''

For more fitness, food and wellness news, ''like'' our Facebook page.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/06/an-unexpected-death-rattles-the-fitness
-community/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%);
EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); PHYSICAL FITNESS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%);
WALKING & JOGGING (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%);
CARDIOLOGY (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (79%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (55%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Sign of Palestinians' Mood, Hamas Wins a Vote at a West Bank University

BYLINE: By DIAA HADID; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and
Majd Al Waheidi from Gaza.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1185 words


BIRZEIT, West Bank --  Lina Halsa certainly made a splash at the student rally
for the Islamist Hamas movement here at Birzeit University last month. Wearing a
sleeveless top, tight jeans, and with her hair in a ponytail, Ms. Halsa's attire
was revealing even by the standards of this liberal, secular campus. But it was
downright scandalous according to Hamas norms.

Yet, Ms. Halsa was the very image of Hamas success on the campus, where the
Islamist party beat out the more moderate Fatah faction in student elections. A
photograph of her waving the faction's signature green banner rocketed around
social media, followed by a video in which she explained that she voted Hamas in
part because her clothing ''shows how much they are able to embrace other
people.''

A headline in the Pan-Arab daily Al Hayat trumpeted: ''A Blonde Turns Birzeit
Green.''

The April 22 election was about far more than clothing, of course. Student
elections are seen as an important benchmark of the Palestinian political mood,
particularly since there has been no national balloting since Hamas won the
legislative contests in 2006, and president of the Palestinian Authority,
Mahmoud Abbas, is starting the 11th year of what was to be a five-year term. The
nod to Hamas was broadly interpreted as another indication of just how unpopular
President Abbas and his government have become.

''We lost big,'' Saeb Erekat, a top aide to Mr. Abbas, said of Birzeit at a
briefing with international journalists. ''I cannot give you a simple reason for
it, but the Palestinian mood,'' he added, ''my house feels suffocated.''

At two other West Bank campuses where Hamas participates -- Hebron University
and An-Najah University in Nablus -- student elections were effectively canceled
this spring after repeated delays, causing an uproar.

An-Najah officials said elections were postponed in November because of shouting
matches on campus and attacks on social media, then canceled in April because
Fatah planned a party for graduates and an end-of-year shopping festival.

At Hebron University, Sami Adwan, the academic vice president, said the planned
vote in March was put off because the student assembly failed to hold meetings
and report on its activities as required.

Some students suspect another motivation: ''They didn't want to have elections
because they anticipated a scandal,'' Asem Ishtaya, 21, a Hamas-affiliated
student at An-Najah, said of campus administrators. ''This is the last patch of
democracy in the West Bank. It's small but it's important.''

At Birzeit, students said they voted based on who would deal with the pressing
issue of being allowed to pay tuition in installments and on whether they found
Fatah's diplomatic approach or Hamas's militant one more promising for
Palestinian statehood. Hamas candidates continued to ride a wave of admiration
over the war with Israel in the Gaza Strip last summer, and benefited from
growing discontent against Mr. Abbas, who is also the head of Fatah.

''Fatah didn't fight in Gaza, Hamas fought in Gaza,'' explained Suhaila, a
20-year-old English literature major who spoke on the condition that her last
name not be published for fear of retribution amid postelection arrests of Hamas
campus activists.

''Nobody believes in negotiations,'' said another female student, who also asked
for anonymity for the fear of government retaliation. ''The president has
abandoned us, and they take all the money that comes from abroad and distribute
it among themselves.''

Hamas, which does not tolerate dissent in Gaza, has not allowed campus elections
there since it took control of the territory in 2007 -- a point that its student
activists in the West Bank shied away from discussing. Of the West Bank's nine
major Palestinian universities, two had elections this year that included Hamas
on the ballot: Polytechnic in Hebron, where the Islamist movement tied with
Fatah, each winning 15 seats, and Birzeit, where Hamas won 26 of 51 seats to
Fatah's 19.

In the days after the surprising results, two dozen Hamas activists from West
Bank campuses were detained by Palestinian Authority security forces, according
to Human Rights Watch, citing Addameer, a Palestinian prisoner-rights group.

Gen. Adnan Damiri, a spokesman for the security service, said the detentions had
nothing to do with political affiliations, though a Hamas student at Birzeit
said the activists had been interrogated about how and why they won.

Grant Rumley of the Washington-based Foundation for Defense of Democracies,
which is frequently critical of Mr. Abbas, said the detentions had ''the
characteristics of state-sponsored involvement in student elections.''

Yet, he noted, at least Mr. Abbas allowed some form of student elections to
occur.

Birzeit, on a pine-studded hill a short drive from the Palestinian Authority's
headquarters in Ramallah, has regularly held student elections since the 1970s,
and has long been a matter of pride for Fatah because it is close to its power
base. It is a place where as many women wore blowout hair styles as head scarves
on a recent day, and students of both genders openly mixed and smoked, a scene
offensive to conservative Palestinian sensibilities.

Hamas last won Birzeit elections in 2007, part of a juggernaut after the
movement's upset victory in parliamentary elections. In the years since, with a
bitter Hamas-Fatah schism persisting despite repeated reconciliation pacts, the
annual Birzeit balloting has taken on added significance.

''The split between Fatah and Hamas, and the decision of Fatah and Hamas to
cancel the idea of national elections is a setback for the democratic process,''
said Ghassan Khatib, vice president of Birzeit and a former Palestinian
Authority spokesman. Student ''elections are important as an indication,'' he
added, ''because simply there is no other way.''

Students said Hamas ran an excellent campaign, marketing themselves as new after
years of Fatah domination of the student council and focusing on issues that
really mattered to students. They used social media to post updates and
interviews with students. They put out pamphlets promising, for example, to end
the practice of giving preferential treatment in class selection to students who
pay their tuition bills upfront.

Fatah leaders, meanwhile, confident of an easy victory, were already fighting
over council positions, alienating some students.

''It was a disaster,'' said one Fatah activist, insisting on anonymity to
criticize his party's effort. Referring to first-year students, he added, ''We
even lost the Smurfs to Hamas!''

Ms. Halsa's audacious entry to the Hamas rally was a turning point: Fatah
loyalists shamed her for her attire, while Hamas students paid her a solidarity
visit. Her video pledging her vote to Hamas was viewed 62,000 times.

''They were amazing,'' said Ruba, a 21-year-old media major who did not vote for
Hamas but was impressed. ''Their campaign speeches, how they played with that
girl, that blonde. They made a point: Hamas in Gaza is different from Hamas in
the West Bank. They played it right.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/hamas-wins-the-hearts-of-stud
ents-at-west-bank-campus-election.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING
(90%); AL FATAH (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS
(89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); TUITION FEES (73%); TALKS
& MEETINGS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.M.'s Ignition Switch Death Toll Hits 100

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Hillary Stout contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words


DETROIT --  The consequences of General Motors' long-delayed recall of defective
small cars hit a grim milestone on Monday, when the company's compensation fund
said it had approved the 100th death claim tied to faulty ignition switches.

The toll far exceeds the 13 victims that G.M. had said last year were the only
known fatalities linked to ignitions that could suddenly cut off engine power
and disable airbags.

And as the number of victims mounts, the ignition-switch crisis is cementing its
status as one of the deadliest automotive safety issues in American history.

The number of fatalities will most likely ultimately fall short of the estimated
270 people killed in Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone tires in the late
1990s and early 2000s.

But while the Ford-Firestone accidents were obvious incidents of tire failures
and sport utility vehicle rollovers, the ignition switch has gained notoriety
because the defect was essentially hidden for a decade until G.M. began
recalling 2.6 million affected cars last year.

Lawyers involved in litigation against G.M. have accused the company of
deliberately understating the magnitude of switch-related deaths in
congressional hearings last year.

''The success of the cover-up for over a decade leaves most of the victims
unaccounted for,'' said Robert Hilliard, one of the lead lawyers in a
consolidated group of lawsuits against G.M. ''One hundred is not even the tip of
the iceberg.''

A G.M. spokesman said on Monday that the company cited 13 deaths for so long
because it based those fatalities on extensive accident reconstruction efforts.

Kenneth Feinberg, an independent compensation expert hired by G.M., has made
settlement offers to the families of people who died in the vehicles with faulty
ignitions.

''The Feinberg facility is a settlement program,'' said Jim Cain, the G.M.
spokesman. ''It is designed to settle claims, rather than make rigorous
engineering or legal judgments about the definitive causes of the accidents.''

In the fund's regular weekly update released on Monday, Mr. Feinberg said that
more than 4,300 claims for deaths and injuries had been filed.

Of that total, the fund has so far approved payments for 100 deaths and 184
injuries.

There are still 37 death claims and 589 injury claims that are under review, the
fund said.

Camille Biros, the deputy manager of the program, said that many of the eligible
death claims involve younger victims in their teens and early 20s. She said the
fatalities involved passengers as well as drivers, including people sitting in
the back seat of vehicles.

Some of the claims were made for accidents that occurred after G.M. began
recalling the small cars last February. But Ms. Biros said there was no precise
number available for post-recall victims.

G.M. set up the compensation fund last year after its internal investigation
showed that dozens of engineers, lawyers and investigators inside the company
had known about ignition problems for years but failed to fix them.

Mary T. Barra, G.M.'s chief executive, dismissed 15 employees as a result of the
internal inquiry, overhauled the automaker's vast engineering operations and
changed its safety protocols.

G.M. paid a $35 million fine to federal regulators for failing to report the
defect in a timely manner. And the company is still under investigation by the
Justice Department for possible criminal charges and civil penalties.

The switch crisis led to dozens of other recalls last year by G.M., the nation's
largest automaker, for a wide range of vehicle defects. The company has spent
about $3 billion over all on the recalls, including setting aside $600 million
to compensate ignition-switch victims.

Ms. Biros of the compensation fund said it hoped to complete its review of all
claims by July. She also stressed, as did G.M., that Mr. Feinberg's standard for
reviewing claims was more lenient than those used by the company or a court to
determine whether the defect caused an accident.

''Ours is not a legal nor is it an engineering review of these claims,'' she
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/gms-ignition-switch-death-toll-hits-1
00.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth Feinberg, an independent compensation expert hired by
G.M., has made settlement offers to the families of people who died. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DREW ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%);
SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%);
AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); TIRES (78%);
PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%);
PERSONAL INJURY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); LAWYERS (77%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HISTORY
(70%); ADOLESCENTS (63%)

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (71%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (71%); SIC3011
TIRES & INNER TUBES (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE
MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3714 MOTOR
VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (59%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES
(59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Menendez Seeks to Move Corruption Case Out of New Jersey

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 335 words


NEWARK -- Senator Robert Menendez asked Monday to have his federal corruption
case moved to Washington from New Jersey, arguing that virtually none of the 22
counts listed in his indictment occurred in his home state.

Lawyers for Mr. Menendez and his co-defendant, Dr. Salomon E. Melgen, filed the
request in Newark. Abbe Lowell, Mr. Menendez's lawyer, said during a court
proceeding last month that he would probably file for a venue change. The
government will have a chance to respond to the motion.

Mr. Menendez, a Democrat, is charged with accepting gifts and donations totaling
about $1 million from Dr. Melgen, a Florida ophthalmologist, in exchange for
political favors. The gifts included flights aboard a luxury jet and a Paris
vacation.

In exchange, Mr. Menendez is accused of trying to advance Dr. Melgen's business
interests, including intervening in a Medicare billing dispute worth millions of
dollars.

Mr. Menendez has said he accepted gifts from Dr. Melgen because the two have
been close friends for years.

Monday's motion argues that Mr. Menendez is not charged with any acts that took
place in New Jersey. The government began the investigation and grand jury
presentation in Florida before moving the case to New Jersey, the brief says.

The basis for trying the case in New Jersey ''appears to be radio communications
from the pilot of a plane in New Jersey airspace on which Senator Menendez was a
passenger,'' the brief states. ''Needless to say, the pilot's cabin and the
airport control tower were not the 'nerve center' of the conspiracy alleged in
the indictment.''

The brief argues that the location of the defendants and possible witnesses, the
expense to the parties and the location of lawyers and the fact that events at
issue took place in Washington are compelling reasons to move the case.

In Florida, Dr. Melgen was named in a separate 76-count indictment that accuses
him of making false diagnoses and performing unnecessary surgeries that he then
billed to Medicare.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/menendez-seeks-to-move-corruption-cas
e-out-of-new-jersey.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); LEGAL VENUE (89%); LAWYERS (89%);
AIRCRAFT PILOTS (88%); MEDICARE (78%); GRAND JURY (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%);
CHARITABLE GIVING (75%); AIRPORTS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC
CONTROL (69%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%);
INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (92%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alexandre Lamfalussy, a Euro Founder, Dies at 86

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 861 words


FRANKFURT --  Alexandre Lamfalussy, a Hungarian-born economist and banker
considered a founding father of the euro, died on Saturday in Ottignies,
Belgium. He was 86.

His son Christophe confirmed his death but did not provide the cause.

Mr. Lamfalussy was the founding president of the European Monetary Institute,
which later became the European Central Bank and which now oversees the eurozone
monetary system.

As president of the institute, Mr. Lamfalussy assembled the core of the
multinational staff that started the common currency, and he gave the euro much
of its intellectual underpinnings. He helped devise the rules on debt and
spending that govern membership in the eurozone and was even involved in
designing the bank notes.

''Alexandre Lamfalussy's name will always be inextricably connected with the
single currency and the European Central Bank,'' the central bank said in a
statement on Monday. ''He guided the immense and unprecedented preparatory work
for the establishment of the E.C.B. in July 1998 and the launch of the single
currency in January 1999.''

Ivo Maes, a senior adviser at the National Bank of Belgium, described Mr.
Lamfalussy as a member of a generation determined not to repeat the experience
of World War II. He was a ''very convinced European,'' said Professor Maes, who
teaches at the University of Louvain and has written extensively about Mr.
Lamfalussy's work.

Mr. Lamfalussy rarely appeared in public in recent years because of poor health
and said little about the crisis that has enveloped the eurozone since 2010. But
in his last public appearance, at an economic conference in February 2014, he
criticized contemporary political leaders as not being as committed to the euro
as those who created it in the 1990s.

''I think they are unlikely to have so strong a vested interest in the
successful continuation of a project that was initiated by their predecessors,''
Mr. Lamfalussy said, according to a transcript of his remarks.

Mr. Lamfalussy was born on April 26, 1929, in Kapuvar, a village in Hungary near
the border with Austria. He spent his childhood in Lenti, in the southwestern
part of the country, where his father was a forestry engineer for a large
landowner.

In 1949, dismayed at increasing repression under the postwar Communist
government, Mr. Lamfalussy and three friends crossed the border into Austria,
taking advantage of a heavy snowfall that had prompted border guards to suspend
patrols.

With the help of Benedictine monks, Mr. Lamfalussy and his friends made their
way to Belgium, where he studied economics at the University of Louvain. He
later earned a doctorate from Nuffield College at Oxford and taught at Yale
University in 1961-62.

While studying for his doctorate, Mr. Lamfalussy began work as an economist for
the Banque de Bruxelles, a commercial bank in Belgium that has since been
absorbed by ING Group. He rose to become chairman of the executive board but
resigned in 1975 after taking responsibility for a large loss in foreign
exchange trading.

The debacle helped instill in Mr. Lamfalussy a mistrust of financial markets and
made him an advocate of vigorous oversight of banks.

In 1976, Mr. Lamfalussy, who had continued to teach, became an economist at the
Bank for International Settlements, or B.I.S., a clearinghouse for central
banks, in Basel, Switzerland. He was its general manager from 1985 to 1993, when
he was named president of the European Monetary Institute and put in charge of
completing the euro project.

The new currency met huge skepticism at first. In memoirs dictated to his son
Christophe, Professor Maes and Sabine Peters, Mr. Lamfalussy recalled speaking
to financial professionals in New York in 1994. What few people were in the
audience, he said, ''were looking at me and thinking, 'Poor guy, what has he got
himself into?' ''

In 1998, on the eve of the euro's introduction, Mr. Lamfalussy turned down an
offer to become the first president of the European Central Bank, saying that at
almost 70 he was too old. But he remained active in bank regulation issues and,
in 2004, publicly advocated giving the central bank supervisory authority over
eurozone commercial lenders.

A decade later, after a crisis had exposed the weaknesses of Europe's fragmented
banking system, political leaders adopted his suggestion.

In addition to his son Christophe, Mr. Lamfalussy is survived by his wife,
Anne-Marie Cochard; three other children, Isabelle, Laurence and Jérôme; 12
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

In recent years Mr. Lamfalussy faulted German and French leaders for violating
limits on debt and spending. He said they had set a precedent for Greece to
wildly exceed the limits and touch off the eurozone crisis.

In his memoirs, Mr. Lamfalussy advocated giving the European Central Bank more
powers and entertained the idea of Greece leaving the euro. But he remained a
believer in the currency union.

''I think that the violent destruction of the system would have such disastrous
consequences for the world,'' he said, ''that it is unthinkable that serious and
intelligent people would not do everything to prevent it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/alexandre-lamfalussy-a-euro-founder-d
ies-at-86.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexandre Lamfalussy, an economist, in 1997. He was founding
president of what was to become the European Central Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERND
KAMMERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%);
EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS
(90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); DEBT
NOTES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); WEATHER (72%);
TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); TRANSCRIPTS (63%);
WORLD WAR II (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); ING BELGIUM SA/NV (58%); ING GROEP NV
(58%); BANQUE NATIONALE DE BELGIQUE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); BNB (BRU) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING
(58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL
BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113
DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%);
SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL
COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%)

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); BELGIUM (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%);
HUNGARY (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Russia: Kerry and Putin to Discuss Syria

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1007 words


WASHINGTON --  Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to Russia on Monday to
meet with President Vladimir V. Putin and discuss whether it is possible for the
two sides to work together on a political solution for the conflict in Syria,
American officials said.

The meeting, which will be held on Tuesday in the Black Sea city of Sochi,
represents a new attempt by the Obama administration to pursue a political
solution to Syria after years of frustrated diplomacy and deepening violence
there.

It is also another twist in the United States relations with Russia. The Obama
administration has sometimes sought to isolate Mr. Putin because of his military
intervention in Ukraine, but has also sought to carve out areas where the two
sides might cooperate.

''This trip is part of our ongoing effort to maintain direct lines of
communication with senior Russian officials and to ensure U.S. views are clearly
conveyed,'' said the State Department, which added that the subjects will
include ''a full range of bilateral and regional issues, including Iran, Syria
and Ukraine.''

The Russian Foreign Ministry announced the meeting in somewhat caustic terms.
''Russia-U.S. relations are passing through a difficult period caused by
targeted unfriendly actions by Washington,'' its statement read. ''We are open
to cooperation based on equal rights, noninterference in internal affairs and
due consideration for Russia's interests, without attempts to put pressure on
us.''

American and Russian officials have been worried that the fighters from their
countries who have joined the ranks of Islamic militants in Syria could return
home to carry out terrorist attacks. The recent setbacks President Bashar
al-Assad's troops had sustained have only underscored that the dangers posed by
the militants may be growing.

But the Obama administration has previously sought to work with Russia on Syria
without success. Two years ago, Mr. Kerry met with Mr. Putin in Moscow and
announced that the United States and Russia would convene an international
conference to try to end the war in Syria.

That conference, which was held under the United Nations auspices in early 2014,
failed to make any headway when the delegation representing Mr. Assad refused to
discuss the formation of a transitional administration that would not include
him.

Robert Ford, who served as the senior envoy to the Syrian opposition at that
conference, said that Russia's reluctance to pressure the Assad government to
make concessions had contributed to the impasse.

''In February 2014, the Russian delegation declined to lean on the Syrian
delegation to negotiate a political solution, even though the U.N. secretary
general's invitation clearly stated that was the purpose of the negotiation,''
said Mr. Ford, who has since retired from the State Department.

Another question is whether Russia still retains enough influence to prod the
Assad government to negotiate. Russia, which has long supported the Syrian
government, has supplied it with sophisticated arms and parts for its
helicopters.

But Iran has provided more military and financial support, and has arranged for
Hezbollah, the Lebanese militia backed by Tehran, to fight with Mr. Assad's
forces.

Two rounds of talks on the Syria crisis that Russia hosted in Moscow this year
made no headway when the Assad government officials showed no flexibility and
members of the moderate Syrian opposition refused to attend.

''The lack of any real progress in the Moscow talks'' demonstrates ''the
constraints in getting Assad to go diplomatically,'' said Andrew J. Tabler, an
expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Mr. Kerry' s visit to Sochi will not last long. After meeting with Mr. Putin on
Tuesday, Mr. Kerry will travel to Turkey later in the day for a meeting of NATO
foreign ministers. By Wednesday night, Mr. Kerry is scheduled to be back in the
United States for President Obama's Camp David meeting with Saudi and other
Persian Gulf diplomats.

Mr. Kerry's trip is taking place amid mounting concern over Russia's policy
toward Ukraine. Just last month, the State Department charged that the Russian
was continuing to violate a February cease-fire accord by shipping heavy weapons
to Ukrainian separatists and keeping some Russian forces in eastern Ukraine

''Clearly Russian-backed separatists in Eastern Ukraine are preparing for
another round of military action that would be inconsistent with the Minsk
Agreement,'' Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter told Congress last week,
referring to the cease-fire accord, which was negotiated by European powers with
Russia and Ukraine.

To signal their displeasure over Russia's continued military intervention in
eastern Ukraine, Mr. Obama and other Western leaders did not attend celebrations
on Saturday in Moscow that commemorated the 70th anniversary of the end of World
War II.

But shortly after that event, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany traveled to
Moscow to meet with Mr. Putin, and Mr. Kerry is heading to Russia for his own
meeting.

Just a year ago, aides to President Obama asserted that they could not envision
a constructive relationship with Mr. Putin because of the use of military force
in Ukraine and Cold War-style rhetoric.

In practice, however, the Obama administration's Russia policy has all along
sought to identify areas of potential cooperation, such as in the Iran nuclear
talks in which Mr. Kerry has worked with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign
minister, even as the United States has imposed economic sanctions on Russia
because of Ukraine.

Mr. Kerry is expected to build on that approach by discussing areas in which the
two sides might work together in addition to Syria, such as North Korea, whose
nuclear weapons and missile programs have rattled the international community.

Still, Mr. Kerry's trip may spur criticism that the Obama administration is
sending mixed messages to Mr. Putin.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/kerry-searching-for-answers-o
n-syria-conflict-to-meet-with-putin.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US
PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); SYRIAN
CRISIS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%);
RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BASHAR
AL-ASSAD (79%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (96%); UKRAINE
(92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Philanthropy Starts After Profits Are Tallied

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM AMERICA; Pg.

LENGTH: 694 words


Foundations are the new Birkin bags. Everyone who is anyone has one. Giving is
now chic. Far from being in denial about it, many wealthy people fret over
rising inequality these days, in public and in private.

When they do, giving invariably comes up -- whether traditional charity,
multiple-bottom-line investing or corporate social responsibility.

What is less fashionable to talk about is the way that those with wealth take
before they give. There is an unwritten social rule now that you can harangue
the wealthy to give money away, but you mustn't ask how the money was made.
There are no galas celebrating the money people knew better than to seek.
Charity begins after profit.

So consider this utter faux pas of a thought experiment: Would a multinational
corporation do more to advance its goal of corporate social responsibility by
paying all of its workers at least $15 an hour or by doling out money from its
foundation to, say, provide temporary housing to the families of hospitalized
children or build playgrounds or promote physical activity?

In a sense, the debate comes down to this: Should corporations forgo some profit
to help the world, or should they invest their profits in doing some good, in
the process diverting attention from what's behind their financial success?

Take McDonald's. The fast-food chain proudly promotes its philanthropic
endeavors: the $21.7 million the company and its subsidiaries gave away in 2013,
which amounts to one dollar for every $1,300 of revenue; the 12 playgrounds it
helped to build; the game it co-developed with Nintendo, to foster physical
activity among youth; and the 15 new Ronald McDonald Houses for the families of
sick children.

In McDonald's annual report on sustainability and philanthropy, J.C.
Gonzalez-Mendez, who holds the title of senior vice president for global
inclusion, community engagement and philanthropy, wrote that giving back was
''integral'' to the company, which seeks to have ''a measurable impact on the
well-being of children and their families.''

Such impact is possible for an institution like McDonald's. Along with its
franchisees, the company employs 840,000 workers in the United States alone and
claims to feed 69 million people a day.

But it has scarcely given in to protests by employees seeking a base wage of $15
an hour, even in the face of evidence that its low pay forces workers to live on
government support, including food stamps. And though it has announced plans to
remove controversial ingredients like maltodextrin and has started to offer
healthier items like apple slices, does its charitable work offset the
consequences of a menu that is still dominated by fried and fatty food?

McDonald's is hardly alone. We live in a period of extremes.

Goldman Sachs helped to wreak havoc on the housing market, betting against the
very investments it was pushing on clients. And then it took a sliver of its
revenues and used it to provide money, mentorship and training to ''over
10,000'' female entrepreneurs around the world. But how many women saw their
businesses implode or their pensions disappear because of the financial crisis
Goldman helped to foster? Would society be better off if Goldman took a more
restrained approach to both the balance sheet and charity works?

Even when the scale of the charity is enormous, as may be the case with Bill
Gates and Microsoft, it makes one wonder how a person so giving in one phase of
life ran a company so famously merciless that it spent years in court for its
aggressive business tactics.

One problem with this extreme form of give and take is that companies don't
devote equal resources to each. If it doesn't seem that way, it may be because
the wealthy pay to publicize their giving and pay to obscure other aspects of
their corporate culture.

Giving is, to be sure, a form of gratitude for fortune. It is, too, a mode of
compensation, of repairing the collateral damage of success. But it's also a
deft way to continue taking in all the old unkind ways and declare ''Nothing to
see here, folks.''

Join an online conversation at  http://anand.ly and follow on
Twitter.com/anandwrites




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/americas/philanthropy-starts-after-profi
ts-are-tallied.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); FOUNDATIONS
(90%); BUSINESS ETHICS & CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%);
WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); CHILDREN
(87%); FAMILY (87%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FRANCHISING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%);
RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); WAGES
& SALARIES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION
(72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FOOD STAMPS (65%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NINTENDO CO LTD
(53%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (58%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3944
GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Executioners, Song, Silence

BYLINE: By JULIA BAIRD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1015 words


SYDNEY --  Just after midnight a few days ago, a small crowd gathered in a
jungle clearing on Nuksakambangan, a prison island in Indonesia.

It was an awful, terrifying moment. And so powerful it seemed strangely holy.

A row of eight men, tied to wooden crosses, with arms outstretched and feet
bound, faced a firing squad. The men wore white shirts. A black cross was taped
on the chests of the condemned to show where their hearts were.

All eight refused blindfolds, choosing instead to look their executioners in the
eye. As they waited for the gunfire, the men -- from Australia, Nigeria,
Indonesia, Brazil and Ghana; all convicted of offenses related to drug smuggling
-- sang hymns. A pastor who was present, Karina de Vega, said that even though
they were not all Christians, they sang like a choir: ''It was breathtaking.''

Two Australians, Andrew Chan, 31, and Myuran Sukumaran, 34, led the group.
Former ringleaders of what became known as the ''Bali Nine'' drug operation, the
pair had undergone a transformation in the decade they had spent in jail. Mr.
Chan had been ordained a minister, while Mr. Sukumaran had become an
accomplished artist.

The Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, and the foreign minister, Julie
Bishop, had pleaded for stays of execution, in vain. And, over the final weeks,
Australians had been galvanized into unexpected protests.

As the members of the firing squad cocked their rifles, the strains of ''Amazing
Grace'' were heard in the darkness. The drug smugglers were singing a hymn
written by a former slave ship captain, John Newton, also a wretch who wanted to
be saved.

Then the bullets came.

And an amazing thing happened: Australia, a proudly secular, cynical country,
stopped. Even those who did not weep were silent; a curious stillness infected
the country the day after the shooting. Two of them were ours, and they had been
shot dead.

In the hours before the executions, thousands held candles at vigils, lay
sleepless in their beds or woke early, fumbling for the news on their phones.

The appeals for clemency had been a tortuous, protracted process, and we grew
accustomed to the faces of the condemned on our screens and newspaper pages. Now
their lives were snuffed out and many felt anguished and distressed.

According to a recent poll, almost half of Australians are atheists: 48 percent
of respondents said they had never believed in a ''classical creator God'' or no
longer did; and 60 percent think the Bible is a book of myths.

Yet the story of redemption in an Indonesia jail persuaded my country to rethink
its attitude toward the death penalty. Mr. Abbott called the executions ''cruel
and unnecessary,'' pointing to the fact that the men were ''fully
rehabilitated.'' After the executions, he announced that Australia would
withdraw its ambassador to Indonesia.

Australia is officially opposed to the death penalty -- the last person to be
executed was hanged in 1967 -- but polls have shown us to be conflicted and
inconsistent on the question. We don't favor it here, but Australian public
opinion is more sympathetic toward it in other countries or if it is used
against terrorists (like those responsible for the 2002 Bali bombings that
killed 202 people, including 88 Australians). A recent poll found that 52
percent agreed that fellow Australians who had been convicted of drug
trafficking and sentenced to death in another country should be executed.

Yet almost the same number (53 percent) objected to the executions of Mr. Chan
and Mr. Sukumaran. The two also drew support from both sides of Parliament and
across the media.

Perhaps it was because the former traffickers had genuinely reformed. They had
become figureheads within the prison, helping inmates and leading church
services. It was also reported that Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran had risked their
own safety to protect women's quarters when a riot broke out in 2012.

Mr. Chan converted to Christianity during a stint in solitary confinement when
he realized his death sentence was likely to be carried out. To ensure that his
prison ministry would continue, Mr. Chan trained others to be leaders. ''Jesus
set me free,'' he said.

Sincerity is judged exactingly in Australia; we have crude words for those who
try to pull the wool over our eyes, for fraudsters or pretenders. We are also
deeply suspicious of piety. But we believed these men as they cried for another
chance. (A poll taken after the executions found 71 percent of Australians
thought the death penalty should not be used against drug traffickers, and just
over half thought Australia should take a more aggressive stance on the subject
globally.)

And this is why their long trek to a brutal death became somehow sacred. It made
many of us reconsider the possibility of change, the potency of mercy and the
terrible finality of taking another's life. In the run-up to the executions,
Simon Smart, the director of the Center for Public Christianity, asked: ''Why do
we long for redemption stories? Where do we find hope in the midst of struggle
and disappointment? The short, beautifully tragic lives of these young men
seemed to point to something of an answer. Were they on to something as they
sang their way to their graves?''

On top of those questions, more are now being asked: Should we make stronger
efforts globally to lobby against the death penalty? How should we respond to
the fact that Indonesian officials continue to ask for clemency for their own
citizens on death row in other countries -- slam them as hypocrites or fight
with them? If Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran forgave their persecutors, can we?

The Rev. Christie Buckingham was with the men before they died. Their last hour,
the pastor said, was one of their finest: ''giving comfort to all around them,
including the guards who had become fond of them.''

If there are any moments that should compel a country to pause and think, this
was one.

Julia Baird,  a journalist and television presenter with the Australian
Broadcasting Corporation, is working on a biography of Queen Victoria.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/julia-baird-indonesia-executioners-son
g-silence.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); SHOOTINGS
(89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CORRECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(78%); SMUGGLING (77%); FIREARMS (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); BIBLE &
CHRISTIAN TEXTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (51%)

PERSON: TONY ABBOTT (79%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (74%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); BRAZIL (79%); GHANA (79%); NIGERIA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'American Idol' Prepares for Its Swan Song

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN; Ben Sisario contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words


At its height, ''American Idol'' minted breakout stars and drew more than 30
million viewers an episode. It was the No. 1 broadcast show for eight years,
provided a boon to an ailing music industry and was the sort of appointment
television that industry executives are desperately trying to recreate.

That was then. The show has aged and the singing competition genre has faded. In
recent years the ''Idol'' audience has eroded at an alarming rate, with losses
in total viewership in eight of the last nine seasons. This season, it is
drawing under nine million viewers, its fewest ever.

Its demise seemed inevitable, and on Monday it finally came. Fox announced that
it would shut down ''Idol,'' one of the most popular and dominant reality shows,
after its 15th season concludes next year.

''It was not an easy decision,'' Gary Newman, the co-chief executive of the Fox
Television Group, said on a conference call with reporters, ahead of the
network's presentation of its fall lineup to advertisers. '' 'American Idol' has
been such a vital part of Fox for its run.''

''American Idol'' began in 2002 and was a huge success just as reality shows
began sweeping through all of television. The show not only established itself
as a ratings powerhouse but spawned a series of amateur singing competitions
that strove to duplicate its successful formula, including ''The X Factor'' and
''The Voice.'' Its acerbic, wisecracking British-born judge, Simon Cowell,
became a star in the United States. With its strong ratings, ''Idol'' was a huge
driver of revenue for Fox.

It also became influential in the cultural conversation surrounding television
as its seasons gained momentum toward the selection of an eventual winner.

The show became a launching pad for talented amateur singers, giving rise to the
careers of stars like Kelly Clarkson, Carrie Underwood and Jennifer Hudson, as
well as Clay Aiken, Jordin Sparks, Katharine McPhee and Adam Lambert.

At its peak, ''American Idol'' was a juggernaut for record sales. In 2007,
''Idol''-related titles represented 2.1 percent of all album sales, according to
Nielsen.

For a struggling music industry, it provided other benefits as well, like boons
for songwriters and publishers of featured music. In 2008, Sony/ATV, which
publishes most of the Beatles' catalog, negotiated a lucrative deal to have the
show feature the group's songs for two full weeks.

And the annual concert series titled ''American Idol Live,'' which has been
running since 2002 with contestants from the show, has grossed at least $217
million in ticket sales, according to the trade publication Pollstar.

The biggest-selling ''American Idol'' star is Carrie Underwood, the
fourth-season winner, who has sold about 15 million albums, won seven Grammys
and in December 2013 sang the role of Maria Von Trapp in NBC's live broadcast of
''The Sound of Music.'' Kelly Clarkson, who won the first season, has sold
nearly 14 million albums and remains a major attraction; ''Piece by Piece,'' her
seventh studio album, opened at No. 1 on Billboard's chart in March.

But in recent years the show has provided diminishing returns in record sales.
Caleb Johnson, for example, who won the 13th season in 2014, opened at No. 24
with his album ''Testify,'' and in its second week the album fell to No. 131.

Its waning influence in the music world reflected its decline on TV. As its
format grew old and it faced increasing competition from other talent shows,
''American Idol'' suffered a steady drop in viewers, especially in the 18- to
49-year-old demographic that is most attractive to advertisers. The current
season has drawn just a 2.1 Nielsen rating in that age bracket, down from the
12.6 rating it recorded in season 5.

The last season of ''American Idol'' will begin in January, Fox said Monday. The
longtime host, Ryan Seacrest, will be joined by the judges Jennifer Lopez, Keith
Urban and Harry Connick Jr.

Mr. Newman said the final season would be a ''true season-long celebration.''

''We really wanted to do it in a way that felt special and celebratory and treat
the show the way it deserved to be treated,'' he said.

Fox made the announcement about ''Idol'' as it unveiled its fall lineup in a
format known as the upfronts. The network said that another old Fox hit, ''The
X-Files,'' would return as a limited series in January, and its first episode
will be shown after Fox's broadcast of the always highly rated pro football
N.F.C. championship game. The stars of the original show, David Duchovny and
Gillian Anderson, will both return.

The biggest new hit on TV this season, ''Empire,'' will return on Wednesdays at
9 p.m., and begin again this September, Fox said. The network said that it would
show 18 episodes next season, up from the 12 this year, and that it would split
the season in two.

Fox, which is the fourth-rated broadcast network, will introduce a series of new
shows after several flops last season. The new lineup includes ''Lucifer,''
which is based on a DC Comics series, and ''Minority Report,'' based on the
futuristic 2002 movie starring Tom Cruise.

Ryan Murphy's ''Glee'' ended with little fanfare this year, but he will return
with a new show, ''Scream Queens,'' which stars Emma Roberts and Jamie Lee
Curtis. John Stamos will lead a new comedy called ''Grandfathered,'' and Rob
Lowe and Fred Savage will star in ''The Grinder.'' Both shows will be shown on
Tuesday.

Also on Monday, NBC presented its new lineup of shows. They include a variety
show hosted by Neil Patrick Harris and a reboot of ''Heroes'' titled ''Heroes
Reborn.'' Other shows that will be introduced later in the season include one
with Jennifer Lopez, ''Shades of Blue,'' and two medical shows, including
''Heartbreaker'' and a show by Dick Wolf, the creator of ''Law and Order,''
called ''Chicago Med.''

NBC will also introduce several specials, including a TV movie featuring Dolly
Parton and a live production of ''The Wiz.''

At Fox's formal upfront presentation Monday afternoon at the Beacon Theater in
Manhattan, the network focused on its future and spent less than a minute on
''American Idol.''

''It's bittersweet to announce next season will be its last,'' Mr. Newman said.
''It's such an extraordinary story for Fox. You could not watch television over
the last 14 years without being swept up in the phenomenon.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/media/american-idol-will-end-its-run-
in-2016.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Kelly Clarkson, Jennifer Hudson and Adam Lambert,
all stars who found fame on ''American Idol.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED
PROUSER/REUTERS
RAY MICKSHAW/FOX, VIA AP
FRANK MICELOTTA/FOX) (B1)
 Randy Jackson, Paula Abdul and Simon Cowell were the original judges on
''American Idol,'' a ratings juggernaut for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN
WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION
PROGRAMMING (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%);
MUSIC (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); MUSIC
PUBLISHING (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); TICKET SALES (73%);
EXECUTIVES (72%); SONG WRITING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JENNIFER HUDSON (92%); SIMON COWELL (58%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Article Challenges U.S. Version of Bin Laden Hunt

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 875 words


WASHINGTON --  Four years after a Navy SEAL team killed Osama bin Laden in his
compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, lingering questions remain about the raid and
what led up to it. Now, in a 10,000-word article in The London Review of Books,
the journalist Seymour M. Hersh challenges nearly every facet of the
semiofficial narrative that has emerged over the years, alleging a vast cover-up
that involves hundreds, possibly thousands, of people and goes all the way to
President Obama himself.

On Monday, the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said the article is
''riddled with inaccuracies and outright falsehoods.''

The gist of Mr. Hersh's report is that Pakistan harbored Bin Laden for years
with money paid by Saudi Arabia. Once the United States found out the Pakistanis
had Bin Laden, Mr. Hersh writes, it offered Pakistan's generals a choice: Help
the United States kill him or watch billions of dollars in American aid
disappear. The Americans and the Pakistanis then worked together to plot the
raid, Mr. Hersh writes.

In its bold claims, Mr. Hersh's article, relying largely on anonymous sources,
pairs plausible alternatives to the details about the raid presented by the
administration with a number of much more questionable claims.

Were it not for the byline of Mr. Hersh, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who
first gained notice more than 45 years ago for exposing the My Lai massacre in
Vietnam, the story would likely have been readily dismissed and gained little
attention.

In one conceivable episode, Mr. Hersh writes that American intelligence
officials were alerted to Bin Laden's whereabouts by a Pakistani military
officer who walked into the United States Embassy in Islamabad and was
subsequently paid a reward and moved by the C.I.A. to the United States. The
account told by the Obama administration after the raid -- that the C.I.A.
tracked down Bin Laden through the work of dogged analysts -- was a ruse
intended to protect the real informant, according to Mr. Hersh.

It is a deception that the C.I.A. has employed before, claiming for years that
it discovered that one of its own, Aldrich H. Ames, was passing intelligence to
the Soviet Union through the work of a team of analysts. The truth that
eventually emerged was that crucial evidence against Mr. Ames came from a Soviet
spy working for the C.I.A.

Yet other claims by Mr. Hersh would have required a cover-up extending from top
American, Pakistani and Saudi officials down to midlevel bureaucrats.

One example is Mr. Hersh's claim, based on anonymous sources, that
administration officials were lying when they said the SEAL team recovered a
trove of intelligence from Bin Laden's compound.

If he is right, that means the United States knowingly allowed an F.B.I. agent
to perjure himself at a federal trial of a member of Al Qaeda in New York in
February. In his testimony, the agent described in detail how he received
computers, hard drives, documents and other material from the SEAL team members
immediately after they landed at a base in Afghanistan. He then spent 17 hours
cataloging the material before it was put on a plane back to the United States.

The detail, if manufactured, is stunning: The agent, Alexander Otte, listed the
types of materials he had received, including the size of some of the digital
storage devices recovered (a two-gigabyte micro-SD card, a four-gigabyte thumb
drive), and even the brands of the devices (Sony and Kingston).

Mr. Otte also testified that he saw the body of Bin Laden, which Mr. Hersh
reported had been largely dismembered by gunfire during the raid. The SEAL team
members then threw some body parts out of the helicopters on the way back to
Afghanistan, Mr. Hersh writes, though he did report that Bin Laden's head was
largely intact.

Mr. Otte, in his testimony, offered a very different account: Asked if the SEAL
team members had a body with them, he said, ''It was the body of Osama bin
Laden.'' At no point did he describe the body as being in pieces or having been
decapitated.

Mr. Hersh is standing by his article. In a brief telephone interview on Monday,
he said, ''You can have your skepticism.''

His manner was cheerful and breezy, and he seemed unfazed about the controversy
his reporting has stirred up. It is not the first time that Mr. Hersh's work has
been met with hostility from the authorities, and he laughed loudly at the
mention of the denials from the White House and others.

''Those are classic nondenial denials,'' he said, before rushing off to take a
call from another reporter.

Mr. Hersh is not the first person to present this version of events. A similar
account was presented on Aug. 7, 2011, on the blog The Spy Who Billed Me, which
is run by R. J. Hillhouse, who tracks national security issues.

Ms. Hillhouse lacks the pedigree of Mr. Hersh, who more recently detailed the
abuse committed at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.

There are also the varying narratives spun out by the White House in the days
and weeks after the raid. Mr. Hersh's story would probably have gained much less
traction had it not been for the often contradictory details presented by the
Obama administration after the raid, and the questions about it that remain
unanswered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/seymour-hersh-article-alleges-cover-up-in-b
in-laden-hunt.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS
(77%); ESPIONAGE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); BOOK
REVIEWS (57%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Warns Insurers About Surcharges and Gaps for Contraception

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 831 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Monday put health insurance companies
on notice that they must cover all forms of female contraception, including the
patch and intrauterine devices, without imposing co-payments or other charges.

In the last month, the National Women's Law Center and the Kaiser Family
Foundation issued separate reports finding that insurers had often flouted a
federal requirement to provide free coverage of birth control for women under
the Affordable Care Act.

Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the Senate health
committee, and Gretchen Borchelt, a vice president of the women's law center,
praised the action by the administration.

''Insurance companies have been breaking the law, and today the Obama
administration underscored that it will not tolerate these violations,'' Ms.
Borchelt said. ''It is now absolutely clear that all means all -- all unique
birth control methods for women must be covered.''

In addition, the Obama administration said that insurers must cover genetic
testing and counseling for certain women who have a family history of breast or
ovarian cancer. Specifically, it said, insurers must cover testing for mutations
in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which can increase a woman's risk of developing
breast or ovarian cancer.

Insurers ''must cover preventive screening, genetic counseling and genetic
testing without cost-sharing when an individual has a family cancer history
associated with increased risk for BRCA-related cancer,'' said Katie Hill, a
spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services.

The new guidance also makes clear that insurers should cover preventive services
for transgender people when a doctor finds that the services are medically
appropriate.

Insurers cannot deny coverage or charge for ''sex-specific recommended
preventive services'' because of a person's gender identity or the sex assigned
at birth, the government said.

''Tens of millions of women are eligible to receive coverage of recommended
preventive services without having to pay a co-pay or deductible,'' said Sylvia
Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services. ''Today we are
clarifying these coverage requirements.''

Federal officials also told insurers on Monday that they could not charge for
anesthesia services provided in connection with colonoscopies performed as a
preventive service, for people with no signs of colon cancer. The administration
previously told insurers, in February 2013, that they could not impose
co-payments or other charges for the cost of removing a polyp during a
colonoscopy performed as a screening procedure.

''Polyp removal is an integral part of a colonoscopy,'' the administration said
then.

Karen M. Ignagni, the president of America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry
trade group, criticized the report from the women's law center when it was
issued on April 29. She said it presented ''a distorted picture of reality.''

She said on Monday that ''health plans provide access to a wide range of
contraceptive options as required under federal law.'' And she emphasized that
insurers were still allowed to use ''reasonable medical management techniques''
to control costs and encourage the efficient delivery of care.

Ms. Murray and other congressional Democrats had urged the administration to
clarify the coverage rules. The new guidance ensures that more women receive
''the health care they are entitled to,'' including contraception, Ms. Murray
said.

The Food and Drug Administration ''currently identifies 18 distinct methods of
contraception for women,'' the administration said.

But researchers at the National Women's Law Center found that some insurers
lumped together several methods of contraception and covered only one or two in
a category. For example, they said, some insurers did not cover the
contraceptive patch or the vaginal contraceptive ring because they covered
another ''hormonal method'' of contraception, like birth control pills.

Under the new guidance, such restrictions are not allowed. Likewise, it said,
insurers ''may not impose cost-sharing on the ring or the patch.''

The new guidance was provided in a series of questions and answers issued
jointly by the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor and the Treasury.

David C. Stacy, the government affairs director at the Human Rights Campaign, a
gay rights group, welcomed the statement requiring coverage of preventive
services for transgender people.

''A transgender man who has a need for breast cancer screening would be assured
of getting that screening,'' Mr. Stacy said. ''A person who has transitioned
from female to male may still have a high risk of breast cancer.''

Dr. Mark S. DeFrancesco, the president of the American Congress of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists, thanked federal officials for the clarification. ''Too
often,'' he said, ''medical management is used by some insurers as a barrier to
access for patients.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/health-insurers-ordered-to-heed-law-on-free
-contraception-coverage.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); CONTRACEPTION (91%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); GENETIC
SCREENING (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%);
HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ENDOSCOPY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS
(89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); CANCER (89%); COLORECTAL CANCER (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%);
MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS  SCREENING & TESTING (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION &
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); FAMILY (78%);
TRANSGENDER PERSONS (73%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); FOUNDATIONS
(72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (72%); OVARIAN CANCER (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS &
INJURIES (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WOMEN'S LAW CENTER (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL (79%); PATTY MURRAY (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Mark Halperin Apologizes for Remarks in Ted Cruz Interview

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 259 words


Mark Halperin, a political journalist for Bloomberg, issued an apology on Monday
for a television interview he conducted with Senator Ted Cruz, in which he
questioned the senator on his Cuban heritage, and asked him to speak Spanish.

The interview with Mr. Cruz, Republican of Texas, was interpreted by some as
disrespectful.

''I kept waiting for Halperin to ask Cruz to play the conga drums like Desi
Arnaz while dancing salsa and sipping cafe con leche -- all to prove the
Republican is really Cuban,'' the columnist Ruben Navarrette wrote in The San
Jose Mercury News.

Mr. Halperin said in his apology that the interview was intended to be ''the
type of lighthearted banter that he's done with us before on the show.''

''In no way was I asking Senator Cruz to 'prove' he was an 'authentic' Latino,''
Mr. Halperin said.

''I apologize to those that were offended and to Senator Cruz,'' he added. ''I
promise that I will work to make the tone and questions better next time.''

Mr. Cruz quickly issued a response, calling Mr. Halperin ''serious and fair
minded'' and saying that the apology was unnecessary.

Mr. Halperin and John Heilemann are the authors of the political books ''Game
Change'' and ''Double Down.'' They joined Bloomberg in 2014 to host their own
television show, ''With All Due Respect,'' and anchor the media company's
political coverage.

They have since been treated with skepticism by their rivals -- some have
criticized the school-style report cards, complete with letter grades, that Mr.
Halperin gives to political candidates.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/media/mark-halperin-apologizes-for-re
marks-in-ted-cruz-interview.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2016 (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%);
POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Greece Pays One Bill, but Future Is Murky

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and JAMES KANTER; Peter Eavis contributed reporting from
New York and Niki Kitsantonis from Athens.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words


BRUSSELS --  The government of Greece, quickly running out of cash, moved on
Monday to quell fears of an imminent default on its debts, authorizing its
treasury to make a big loan payment to the International Monetary Fund.

While Athens once again managed to pull together enough cash to avoid a default,
it is not clear how much longer Greece can continue to scrape by.

Unless creditors agree to more aid, Greece will have trouble making a series of
looming debt payments. The continuing standoff over the aid -- and the
uncertainty it has created -- has darkened the outlook for the country's
economy, which risks another downturn.

Despite word of payment, Greece and its creditors on Monday remained at an
impasse over a deal to free up fresh financial aid for the embattled country.
Before releasing the aid, Greece's creditors have been demanding that the
government make economic overhauls in areas like pensions, labor rules and
taxation.

Eurozone finance ministers, who were joined by representatives of the I.M.F. and
the European Central Bank, indicated that Greece had made some progress on a
proposed list of economic overhauls since an acrimonious meeting two weeks ago
in Riga, Latvia.

But the finance ministers, known as the Eurogroup, said that Athens would need
to do more work before it could hope to receive any further loan aid under the
country's current bailout program.

''We acknowledged that more time and effort are needed to bridge the gaps on the
remaining open issues,'' the Eurogroup said in a statement. The group added that
officials would ''decide on the possible disbursements'' of money to Greece once
an agreement had been reached.

The clocking is ticking for Greece.

The authorized payment to the I.M.F., which is due on Tuesday, is 757 million
euros, about $848 million. By mid-July, Greece must pay the I.M.F. nearly ?3
billion more and roll over ?11 billion of short-term debt. From July through
August, Athens must also pay the European Central Bank about ?6.7 billion on its
Greek bond holdings.

Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has been scrambling to come up with ways to
continue meeting Greece's obligations. Despite a deal on Feb. 20 to extend
Greece's ?240 billion bailout program by four months, creditors will not release
the ?7.2 billion aid tranche until Greece submits sufficient reforms.

In recent meetings with other lenders, I.M.F. officials have highlighted that
Greece has been backtracking on earlier pledges to make its labor market more
flexible and reduce the costs of its pension system, according to people with
direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. Without the
overhauls, the fund officials warned that Greece would find it more difficult to
pay off its debts in the longer term and make it more likely that creditors
would take losses.

The Greek government has been pulling together money anywhere it can be found.
Last month, the government angered mayors across the nation by passing a decree
obliging state entities to hand over their spare cash. The move raised some
money, but it was unclear whether it was anywhere near enough to cover looming
repayments.

Even if Greece does survive the summer without defaulting, the budgetary strains
and required cuts add to the country's staggering debt load, while doing little
to revive its economy or ease its towering unemployment rate in the short term.
And many economists are concluding that Greece will need a new set of bailout
loans to avoid a financial collapse.

Foreign investments and business activity in the country have also started to
decline again, in the face of renewed uncertainty over whether Greece might
default or leave the eurozone altogether. Citing such uncertainty, the European
Commission this month sharply cut its 2015 growth estimate for Greece, to 0.5
percent. Last fall, it forecast the economy would increase by 2.5 percent.

An agreement between Athens and its lenders would need to be reached by the
beginning of June because otherwise ''it starts getting very, very, very
tight,'' a eurozone official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

In a news conference after Monday's meeting, Yanis Varoufakis, Greece's finance
minister, said Athens had made ''great efforts and major concessions'' to reach
a deal.

While a breakthrough had not been reached, he said, prospects were improving.
''The quest for an agreement that resolves the five- to six-year-old crisis of
the Greek social economy is continuing,'' he said. ''Agreement is getting
closer, and the institutions, our partners and representatives of the Greek
government are continuing to search for that solution in very good spirits.''

The atmosphere was more cordial than that seen at a meeting between Greece and
its creditors in Riga last month. There, Mr. Varoufakis was rebuked by other
eurozone ministers, weary of his confrontational negotiating style. Mr.
Varoufakis responded defiantly on his Twitter account the next day, quoting
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt: ''They are unanimous in their hate for me;
and I welcome their hatred.''

Soon after, Mr. Tsipras downgraded Mr. Varoufakis's prominence in negotiations
with international lenders, putting other Greek officials in charge of the
day-to-day discussions.

Pierre Moscovici, the European Union's economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, said Monday that compared with the discussions held in Riga,
''there has clearly been progress.'' Still, he said, Greece had not gone far
enough on ''substantial points.''

The European Commission vice president, Valdis Dombrovskis, was more blunt. ''We
still don't have a comprehensive reform plan,'' he said. ''It's clear that time
is limited and we need to hurry up.''

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the finance minister at the head of the Eurogroup, tried to
be upbeat before Monday's meeting, telling reporters that there would be ''no
result on the table today.'' Mr. Dijsselbloem said that ''in political terms,
the deadline is the end of June'' to reach a deal with Greece. ''The Eurogroup
stands ready as soon as there is a positive outcome from that process'' in order
to ''take political decisions,'' he said.

As the debt crisis continues with no resolution in sight, Mr. Tsipras has faced
growing criticism of his government coalition. Last month, he said he might
resort to calling a public referendum on any deal with the country's
international creditors if the package went beyond the no-austerity political
mandate that brought his leftist government into power.

On Monday, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble of Germany suggested that a
referendum might not be a bad idea.

''It's in the hands of the Greeks,'' Mr. Schäuble told reporters. ''If the Greek
government feels it should hold a referendum, then it should hold a referendum.
That may even be a right measure, to ask the Greek people to decide whether they
are ready to accept what is necessary, or whether they want the alternative.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/international/greece-debt-talks-euroz
one-finance-ministers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yanis Varoufakis, the Greek finance minister, said after
Monday's meeting that a deal with Athens's creditors was ''getting closer.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOAN DEFAULTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC
FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES
& TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); EURO ZONE (78%);
AGREEMENTS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%);
CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%);
TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%); RIGA, LATVIA (55%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (95%); EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES
(90%); LATVIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kim Kyok-sik, 77, Korean General

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 229 words


SEOUL, South Korea --  Kim Kyok-sik, the North Korean general who South Korean
officials have said was behind two deadly attacks on South Korea in 2010, died
on Sunday. He was 77.

The cause was acute respiratory failure, The Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the
North's ruling Workers' Party, reported on Monday.

General Kim was the commander of a North Korean Army corps whose units were
accused by South Korea in the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship, the Cheonan,
in which 46 sailors were killed in March 2010. General Kim's front-line units
were also accused of shelling a South Korean border island, Yeonpyeong, that
year, killing two marines and two civilians.

South Korean officials singled out General Kim as one of the top North Korean
military officers who plotted the attacks. North Korea denied involvement in the
sinking of the South Korean ship, which South Korean and United States officials
said was hit by a North Korean torpedo.

General Kim held crucial military posts, including the head of the Ministry of
People's Armed Forces and the chief of the General Staff of the North Korean
People's Army, under the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and his father, Kim
Jong-il, who died in 2011.

Although Kim Kyok-sik retained his four-star rank, he recently retired from
central military posts as Kim Jong-un elevated younger generals in the military
hierarchy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/asia/kim-kyok-sik-hard-line-north-korean
-general-dies-at-77.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Kyok-sik, accused of plotting attacks on South Korea.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); NAVIES
(76%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%);
UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Will Allow Drilling for Oil in Arctic Ocean

BYLINE: By CORAL DAVENPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words


WASHINGTON --  The Obama administration on Monday gave conditional approval to
allow Shell to start drilling for oil off the Alaskan coast this summer, a major
victory for the petroleum industry and a devastating blow to environmentalists.

The decision adds a complex new chapter to the legacy of President Obama, who
has pursued the most ambitious environmental agenda of any president but has
sought to balance those moves by opening up untouched federal waters to new oil
and gas drilling.

Shell has sought for years to drill in the icy waters of the Chukchi Sea.
Federal scientists believe the region could hold up to 15 billion barrels of
oil.

The Interior Department decision angered environmentalists who for years have
demanded that the administration reject offshore Arctic drilling proposals. They
fear that a drilling accident in the treacherous Arctic Ocean waters could have
far more devastating consequences than the deadly Gulf of Mexico spill of 2010,
when the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion killed 11 men and sent millions of
barrels of oil spewing into the water.

Both industry and environmental groups say that the Chukchi Sea is one of the
most dangerous places in the world to drill. The area is extremely remote, with
no roads connecting to major cities or deepwater ports within hundreds of miles,
making it difficult for cleanup and rescue workers to reach in case of an
accident.

The closest Coast Guard station with equipment for responding to a spill is over
1,000 miles away. The weather is extreme, with major storms, icy waters and
waves up to 50 feet high. The sea is also a major migration route and feeding
area for marine mammals, including bowhead whales and walruses.

The move came just four months after the Obama administration opened up a
portion of the Atlantic Coast to new offshore drilling.

Administration officials said they had taken measures to ensure that the new
drilling in the Arctic would be carefully regulated.

''We have taken a thoughtful approach to carefully considering potential
exploration in the Chukchi Sea,'' Abigail Ross Hopper, director of the Interior
Department's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, said in a statement. She said
that the administration recognized the need to establish high standards for the
protection of the Arctic ecosystem as well as the cultural traditions of Alaska
Natives and that the offshore exploration ''will continue to be subject to
rigorous safety standards.''

The Interior Department's approval of the drilling was conditional on Shell's
receiving approval of remaining state and federal drilling permits for the
project, including permits from the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement and authorizations under the Marine Mammal Protection Act.

Curtis Smith, a spokesman for Shell, called the approval ''an important
milestone'' for Shell and said it showed the administration's confidence in
Shell's commitment to safety.

But environmental groups denounced the move and said Shell had not demonstrated
that it could drill safely in the Arctic Ocean.

''Once again, our government has rushed to approve risky and ill-conceived
exploration in one of the most remote and important places on Earth,'' said
Susan Murray, a vice president of Oceana, an environmental group. ''Shell has
not shown that it is prepared to operate responsibly in the Arctic Ocean, and
neither the company nor our government has been willing to fully and fairly
evaluate the risks of Shell's proposal.''

The Obama administration had initially granted Shell a permit to begin offshore
Arctic drilling in the summer of 2012. However, the company's first forays into
exploring the new waters were plagued with numerous safety and operational
problems. One of its oil rigs, the Kulluk, ran aground and had to be towed to
safety. In 2013, the Interior Department said the company could not resume
drilling until all safety issues were addressed.

In a review of the company's performance in the Arctic, the department concluded
that Shell had failed in a wide range of basic operational tasks, like
supervision of contractors that performed critical work.

The report was harshly critical of Shell management, which acknowledged that it
was unprepared for the problems it encountered operating in the unforgiving
Arctic environment.

But the administration said that since then, the Interior Department has
significantly strengthened and updated drilling regulations. And outside experts
said that while the challenges of Arctic drilling were steep, the new plan
surmounted them to some extent by allowing drilling only in the summer months
and in shallow waters.

''It recognizes both the economic and energy potential of the Arctic seas, but
also the environmental sensitivity of the area and the challenges of responding
to spills and other incidents in such a harsh climate,'' said Thomas Lorenzen,
who recently left the Justice Department after more than a decade as assistant
chief in the environment and natural resources division, and is now a partner at
the law firm of Dorsey & Whitney.

''Notably, the proposed exploration is in very shallow waters -- only 140 feet
deep -- and thus it will not present the kinds of challenges that the Deepwater
Horizon spill posed,'' Mr. Lorenzen said. ''That well was in water about 5,000
feet deep.''

The Obama administration has also issued new drilling safety regulations
intended to prevent future accidents like the Deepwater Horizon explosion. Last
month, the Interior Department proposed new rules to tighten safety requirements
on blowout preventers, the industry-standard devices that are the last line of
protection against explosions in undersea oil and gas wells.

The 2010 explosion was caused in part when a section of drill pipe buckled,
which led to the malfunction of a supposedly fail-safe blowout preventer on a BP
well.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/white-house-gives-conditional-approval-for-
shell-to-drill-in-arctic.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION &
EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL
EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES
(90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); APPROVALS
(89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%);
WILDLIFE (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS
EXTRACTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); OIL & GAS
ACCIDENTS (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS
MFG (77%); SEVERE WEATHER (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); MARINE BIOLOGY
(75%); MAMMALS (75%); OCEANS (75%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (73%); WORKPLACE
HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%);
HARBORS & PORTS (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%);
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (55%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (58%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (58%); RDSA (AMS) (58%); RDS.B (NYSE) (58%); RDS.A (NYSE)
(58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%);
NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF
MEXICO (79%)

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

2 Sunni Leaders Denounce Lack of Role in Iraqi Government

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 652 words


WASHINGTON -- One month after Iraq's prime minister assured American officials
here that his Shiite-dominated government was striving to build a multisectarian
state, two leading Sunni politicians said Monday that Sunnis were being squeezed
out of the country's political system.

''Are we part of Iraq?'' Rafe al-Essawi, a former deputy prime minister and one
of the leading Sunni figures in Iraq, said in an address at the Brookings
Institution. Sunnis are looking to see ''if there is any benefit in political
participation.''

Appearing at the same event, Atheel al-Nujaifi, the governor of the embattled
Nineveh Province, complained that the Iraqi government had yet to provide
weapons to thousands of Sunni fighters eager to join an eventual military
operation to retake Mosul, the provincial capital, from the Islamic State
militant group.

So wary are the Sunnis of the authorities in Baghdad that Mr. Nujaifi urged that
Nineveh Province be granted autonomy if Islamic State fighters were evicted,
though as part of an Iraqi federal system.

''What comes after the battle is crucial,'' he said. ''I believe that authority
in Iraq should be split up, but not Iraq itself.''

When Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi came to the White House last month,
President Obama praised him for reaching out to the Kurdish and Sunni
minorities. But the parade of Iraqi visitors in recent months has put Iraq's
fractious politics on display.

In a visit here last week, Massoud Barzani, the president of Iraq's autonomous
region, made clear it that the Kurds had delayed, but not shelved, their dream
of independence. Underscoring that point, he said in a presentation at the
Atlantic Council that the unity of Iraq was ''voluntary and not compulsory.''

In his remarks on Monday, Mr. Essawi said that he did not believe that Mr. Abadi
was overtly sectarian, an accusation that was often directed at the prime
minister's predecessor, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.

''He inherited a very damaged political and security situation, '' Mr. Essawi
said of Mr. Abadi. ''He is a good guy.''

But the thrust of the Sunni criticism was that Mr. Abadi had been too weak to
bring about long-promised power-sharing arrangements and that a stronger
American hand was needed to encourage change.

The overdue reforms, they said, include the establishment of national guard
units, a move that American officials have encouraged as a way to empower local
Iraqis but that is still being debated by the Iraqi Parliament.

They also argued for dismantling the Shiite militias, particularly those that
are advised and equipped by Iran. Given the weakness of the Iraqi Army, however,
it is unlikely that the Iraqi government will get rid of most of the militias,
which are known in Iraq as the popular mobilization forces.

Mr. Essawi said that Sunnis were poorly represented in the upper ranks of the
Iraqi government and in the Iraq military. Legislation that would remove the
barriers that prevent former ranking Baathists from playing a political role, he
noted, has still not been passed.

During their visit to Washington this week, Mr. Essawi and Mr. Nujaifi plan to
meet with State Department officials and lawmakers.

When Mr. Maliki was prime minister, Mr. Essawi became such a prominent voice of
the political opposition that he was threatened with arrest and left Baghdad.

Even with the arrival of Mr. Abadi, Mr. Essawi is still cautious, splitting his
time between the Kurdish city of Erbil and Amman, Jordan. The gestures that have
been made to the Sunni population, he said in an interview on Sunday, have been
more rhetorical than real.

''It's like having a patient who needs 300 grams of protein to stay alive, and
you give him one gram,'' said Mr. Essawi, who was trained as a medical doctor
and once served as the head of a hospital in Falluja, Iraq. ''This is not a way
of keeping him alive. You are just killing him very slowly.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/2-sunni-leaders-denounce-lack
-of-role-in-iraqi-government.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); ARMIES (76%); EVICTION
(72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MINORITY GROUPS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

PERSON: HAIDER AL-ABADI (79%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Fiskars Agrees to Buy Owner of Wedgwood and Waterford

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 331 words


LONDON -- The Fiskars Corporation, a Finnish maker of home and garden products,
said on Monday that it had agreed to acquire the maker of Wedgwood china and
Waterford crystal for $437 million.

The deal, if completed, would give the Fiskars Living division a strong presence
in the United States and would enhance its market position in Europe and the
Asia-Pacific region, the company said. The combined company would have sales of
1.17 billion euros, or about $1.31 billion, and 8,600 employees.

Fiskars plans to acquire 100 percent of the holding company of WWRD, which owns
the luxury home and lifestyle brands Waterford and Wedgwood, as well as the
tableware makers Rogaska, Royal Albert and Royal Doulton.

It will buy the business from the private equity firm KPS Capital Partners,
which bought the WWRD brands in March 2009.

''Through the acquisition, we will create a strong presence for the Fiskars
Living business in the U.S., and further enhance Fiskars's market position in
Europe and Asia-Pacific,'' Kari Kauniskangas, the Fiskars president and chief
executive, said in a news release. ''Fiskars will now have a balanced portfolio
of businesses.''

The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in
July.

If the transaction is completed, the management of WWRD would report to Mr.
Kauniskangas.

Under its various brands, WWRD manufactures and sells a variety of home goods,
including bone china, crystal stemware and decorative items for the home.

The company had net sales of $432 million for the fiscal year ended April 4,
with 44 percent of those sales in the United States. It has 226 retail stores,
76 of which are owned by the company, and employs 3,800 people in 14 countries.

Founded in 1649, Fiskars sells products for the home, garden and outdoors
markets. It posted sales of ?768 million in 2014 and employs 4,800 people in 20
countries.

Shares of Fiskars rose 4.9 percent to ?18.75 in early afternoon trading on
Monday in Helsinki.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/fiskars-corporation-wwrd-wed
gwood-waterford.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS (78%); COMPANY
STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%);
LIFESTYLE TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%);
APPROVALS (68%)

COMPANY: FISKARS OYJ ABP (94%); KPS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (56%)

TICKER: FIS1V (HEL) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3524 LAWN &
GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS
FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%)

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (91%); FINLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge's Ruling Against 2 Banks Finds Misconduct in '08 Crash

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words


Many on Wall Street have long argued that the banks did not generally break the
law when they packaged shoddy mortgages and sold them to investors in the
lead-up to the financial crisis of 2008.

But on Monday, in the starkest of terms, a federal judge dealt a strong blow to
that version of history. She ruled that two banks misled Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac in selling them mortgage bonds that contained numerous errors and
misrepresentations.

''The magnitude of falsity, conservatively measured, is enormous,'' Judge Denise
L. Cote of Federal District Court in Manhattan wrote in a scathing 361-page
decision.

The ruling came in a closely watched case brought by the government against the
Japanese bank Nomura Holdings and Royal Bank of Scotland. They were the only two
of 18 financial firms that took their case to trial, arguing that it was the
housing crash, and not deceptive loan documents, that caused the bonds to
collapse.

The other firms -- including Goldman Sachs and Bank of America -- settled,
together paying nearly $18 billion in penalties but avoiding a detailed public
airing of their conduct.

The government, under pressure to hold Wall Street accountable after the crisis,
has pursued a wide range of actions against domestic and foreign banks. Agencies
including the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission have
reached multibillion settlements.

But some of the government's biggest wins -- including its victory on Monday --
have come from an unlikely source: the Federal Housing Finance Agency, a
relatively obscure Washington entity set up to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, the beleaguered government-sponsored enterprises rescued by taxpayers in
September 2008.

The agency's lawyers have aggressively pursued the banks, helping the government
secure big-dollar settlements. But unlike the relatively opaque settlements, the
trial against Nomura and R.B.S. opened a window into the behavior of banks
heavily involved in subprime mortgages at the peak of the housing boom.

Judge Cote, and not a jury, decided the case, after the government dropped a
claim that would have entitled the banks to a jury. After that, legal experts
became more pessimistic about the banks' chances: Judge Cote has a reputation
for taking a hard line against the banks. They also expressed surprise that the
Nomura and R.B.S. did not settle, though some suspected that as foreign banks,
they were less concerned with risking their reputations in the United States.

Judge Cote has asked the F.H.F.A. to submit a proposal for damages, which are
expected to be about $500 million. ''It is clear the court found that the facts
presented by F.H.F.A. were convincing,'' Alfred M. Pollard, the agency's general
counsel, said in a statement.

A Nomura spokesman, Jonathan Hodgkinson, said the bank plans to appeal the
decision. ''Nomura is confident that it was consistently candid, transparent and
professional in all of its dealing with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,'' he said. A
spokesman for R.B.S. could not immediately be reached for comment.

Judge Cote's ruling described a dangerous and toxic period in the American
economy. As house prices were soaring, Wall Street banks were purchasing
high-risk mortgages and then bundling them into bonds that were sold around the
world. As this huge mortgage machine churned on, the quality of the loans
plunged.

Some financiers and housing industry analysts have since asserted that, while
Wall Street was acting out of greed and with a cavalier disregard for risk, it
did not act deceptively. But Judge Cote, in her order, took a dim view of the
banks' conduct. She said that loan guidelines were ''systematically
disregarded'' and found ''disturbing examples'' showing that Nomura was willing
to package and sell defective loans.

''This case is complex from almost any angle, but at its core there is a single,
simple question. Did defendants accurately describe the home mortgages in the
offering documents for the securities they sold that were backed by those
mortgages?'' she wrote in her decision. ''Following trial, the answer to that
question is clear. The offering documents did not correctly describe the
mortgage loans.''

Judge Cote described Nomura as a late-to-the-party participant in the mortgage
boom that cut corners to win business, which, she asserted, led the bank to
stuff the pools of mortgages that it sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with
defective loans. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which was represented by
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, said two-thirds of the mortgage loans
underlying the securities had underwriting defects.

''As its witnesses repeatedly described and as its documents illustrated,
Nomura's goal was to work with the sellers of loans and to do what it could to
foster a good relationship with them,'' the judge wrote. ''Given this attitude,
it is unsurprising that even when there were specific warnings about the risk of
working with an originator, those warnings fell on deaf ears.''

During the trial, expert witnesses performed analyses of some of the loans
backing the disputed bonds. The experts brought in by the housing finance agency
said far more of the loans than the documents stated had characteristics that
made them much more likely to default.

Lawyers for Nomura and R.B.S. argued that those experts' analyses were seriously
flawed. In his closing argument last month, David B. Tulchin, a lawyer for
Sullivan & Cromwell, representing Nomura, called the experts' methodologies
''entirely artificial in the extreme.''

The banks' lawyers could argue on appeal that even though Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac took steep paper losses on the bonds, their actual losses have been small.
All payments on the roughly $2 billion in bonds have been made, except for about
$25 million, according a member of Nomura's legal team, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

More broadly, Nomura, in its appeal, will most likely continue to argue that the
government's losses on mortgage bonds were caused by the wider housing crash,
making it a legal stretch to tie the losses on those bonds to flaws in the
underlying loans.

Judge Cote, however, said that the banks' misconduct exacerbated the collapse in
the mortgage market.

''The origination and securitization of these defective loans not only
contributed to the collapse of the housing market, the very macroeconomic factor
that defendants say caused the losses,'' she wrote, ''but once that collapse
started, improperly underwritten loans were hit hardest and drove the collapse
even further.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/nomura-found-liable-in-us-mo
rtgage-suit-tied-to-financial-crisis.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nomura's offices in Tokyo. A judge said the bank misled Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
(B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING
& FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE
INVESTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VERDICTS
(77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS
(74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL
(73%); DAMAGES (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL
MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); NOMURA
HOLDINGS INC (71%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (70%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP
INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); NMR (NYSE) (71%);
N33 (SGX) (71%); 8604 (TSE) (71%); RBS (NYSE) (70%); RBS (LSE) (70%); GS (NYSE)
(58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN
CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES
(93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%);
NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Bank of America Merrill Lynch Hires Tech Banker

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 307 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch has hired Bill Frauenhofer, a
longtime adviser to chip-making companies, as its head of global semiconductor
investment banking, the firm announced in an internal memorandum on Monday.

Mr. Frauenhofer was most recently at Jefferies, where he was the head of global
semiconductor and electronics coverage, according to the memo. He previously led
similar teams at UBS and Citigroup.

His hiring comes amid an expected uptick in deals within the semiconductor
sector, as chip makers grapple with shifts in the industry. The rise of
smartphones and other mobile devices has hurt traditional chip manufacturers,
while semiconductor companies have looked to consolidation to gain negotiating
leverage with their customers.

Intel, the computer processor heavyweight, recently held discussions to buy
Altera in a move meant to diversify its product offerings, though those talks
ended.

He will join Bank of America in August and be based in Palo Alto, Calif.

Here is a copy of the memo from Chet Bozdog and Anwar Zakkour, co-heads of
global technology, media and telecommunications at the bank:

We are pleased to announce that Bill Frauenhofer has been named head of Global
Semiconductor Investment Banking. In this new role, Bill will be responsible for
developing relationships with clients globally to drive growth and increase our
market share in this key area of focus. He will join the firm in August, be
based in Palo Alto, California and report jointly to us.

With over 20 years of banking experience, Bill joins us from Jefferies where for
the past several years has served as head of Global Semiconductor and
Electronics Coverage. Prior to that, he led the global semiconductor banking
teams at both UBS and Citi.

Please join us in welcoming Bill to the firm and in wishing him much success.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/bank-of-america-merrill-lync
h-hires-tech-banker.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%);
SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%);
EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ELECTRONICS SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); MARKET SHARE (70%); SMARTPHONES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(70%); MOBILE DEVICES (70%); CUSTOMER RELATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (55%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (95%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP
(90%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC
(LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING
(91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING
COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS334413
SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Real Estate Merger Envisions a 3rd Global Giant, Spanning 50 Countries

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617 words


For years, the business of servicing commercial real estate properties was
dominated by just two firms.

Now DTZ, with its $2 billion takeover of Cushman & Wakefield, is betting that it
can break into the top ranks, a plan that has been in the works for some time.

If completed, the transaction would create a much stronger competitor to the two
giants of commercial real estate services, the CBRE Group and Jones Lang
LaSalle. The newly combined company, which would take the better-known Cushman &
Wakefield name, would have more than 43,000 employees across more than 50
countries.

''The companies have remarkably complementary skills and reach in different
geographies -- whether in New York, London or Shanghai, this will be a
formidable combination,'' Brett White, the executive chairman of DTZ, said in a
statement. ''While breadth and depth are important to serve clients, it's not
just about size. It's also about local expertise and deep customer service,
which are strong traits of Cushman & Wakefield and DTZ, and ultimately what will
differentiate us going forward.''

These are heady times globally in the commercial real estate business, which has
generated plenty of work for the companies that service those properties. But
successfully challenging CBRE and Jones Lang LaSalle will require a competitor
to possess meaningful offerings across a variety of areas, from brokerage
services to facilities management.

DTZ and its backers, including the American private equity firm TPG Capital and
the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, have hoped to become that rival. The plan
already had a major architect in Mr. White, the former chief executive of CBRE
and one of the men behind that company's rise to the top of the commercial real
estate world.

But even before the TPG group acquired control of DTZ last year, it had already
set its sights on combining that firm with Cushman & Wakefield, according to a
person briefed on the matter.

The two are of similar size -- DTZ reporting $2.9 billion in annual revenue and
260 offices in 50 countries, Cushman posting $2.1 billion in revenue last year
and 259 offices in 60 countries -- though Cushman, nearly a century old, has the
more recognizable name.

Together, the two will have annual revenue that comes close to that of Jones
Lang LaSalle. The combined company will have a roughly even mix of revenue from
brokerage fees, which depend on the vicissitudes of the real estate market, and
services that generate more predictable and steady fees.

A combination of Cushman and DTZ has been on many people's minds for some time:
DTZ's former owner had tried unsuccessfully to merge the business with Cushman
in the past, the person briefed on the matter said.

Circumstances had changed by last year, after the Italian investment firm Exor
first began exploring a sale of its controlling stake in Cushman & Wakefield.
Exor, which is controlled by the Agnelli family of Italy, had taken a majority
stake in the real estate company in March 2007.

Under the terms of Monday's deal agreement, Mr. White of DTZ will become
chairman and chief executive of the combined company, while Tod Lickerman, the
chief executive of DTZ, will become president. Cushman's North America chief
executive, John Santora, will hold the titles of chief operating officer and
chief integration officer.

After completion of the merger, Carlo Barel di Sant'Albano, the international
chief executive of Cushman & Wakefield, will take a senior global leadership
role at the combined company. Edward C. Forst, Cushman's chief executive, is
expected to leave the company.

The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter and is subject to
regulatory approval.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/cushman-wakefield-exor-dtz.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlo Barel di Sant'Albano, international chief of Cushman &
Wakefield, will take a senior leadership role after the DTZ deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG, VIA GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MERGERS (90%); REAL ESTATE
(90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CUSTOMER
SERVICE (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET
(73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%)

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (92%); CBRE GROUP INC (92%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD
INC (92%); TPG CAPITAL LP (54%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (92%); CBG (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (92%); NAICS523110
INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT
(92%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (92%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES
RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (92%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS &
BROKERS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719
OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BRETT WHITE (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

JPMorgan Hires Banker for Private Financing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 389 words


JPMorgan Chase has hired a senior banker to lead the firm's effort to provide
private financing for companies like hot Silicon Valley start-ups, the bank
announced in an internal memorandum on Monday.

The firm has poached Keith Canton, who will become head of private capital
markets with an emphasis on so-called equity private placements when he joins
the firm in August.

Private financing has become an increasingly prominent business, as investors
ranging from hedge funds to mutual funds look to pour money into private
companies. Start-ups like the car ride service Uber and the messaging app Slack
have been announcing fund-raising rounds from these investors more and more
frequently amid that flood of cash.

Banks like Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, which in the past have sought to
manage those start-ups' initial public offerings, have responded by bolstering
their private placement offerings.

JPMorgan is giving that task to Mr. Canton, a former Lehman Brothers executive
who then joined the successor firm Barclays, where he most recently was global
co-head of private capital markets.

He will be based in New York and report to Michael Millman and Jeff Zajkowski,
the co-heads of equity capital markets for the Americas.

A spokeswoman for JPMorgan confirmed the contents of the memo.

Below is the text of the memo:

Message from Michael Millman and Jeff Zajkowski

We are pleased to announce that Keith Canton will join J.P. Morgan to become
head of Private Capital Markets with an emphasis on Equity Private Placements.
He will be based in New York and report jointly to us.

Private capital raising has become an increasingly significant source of
financing across all industries, and Keith will lead our strategically important
dialogue with issuers and investors as we enhance our product suite to meet our
clients' evolving needs.

Keith joins us from Barclays -- legacy Lehman Brothers -- where he spent 13
years, most recently serving as the Global Co-Head of Private Capital Markets.
His strong leadership skills and exceptional product expertise will serve our
clients well. Keith earned a BS at University of Pennsylvania, The Wharton
School, and an MBA from Duke University.

He will officially join the firm in August following his gardening leave. Please
join us in welcoming Keith to J.P. Morgan.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/jpmorgan-hires-banker-for-pr
ivate-financing.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (90%);
STARTUPS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%);
FUNDRAISING (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); HEDGE
FUNDS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN
BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL
BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT
BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, &
FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF
SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Ahold and Delhaize Is a Deal Waiting to Happen

BYLINE: By ROBERT COLE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 366 words


It is a deal waiting to happen. To be completed, however, the protagonists may
have to show that a 25 billion euro tie-up between Ahold of the Netherlands and
Delhaize of Belgium is not an accident waiting to happen.

Ahold, which has about twice the market capitalization of Delhaize, will have to
take the lead in this long-anticipated piece of supermarket M.&A. But investors
seem to think there could be chunky enough synergies from the combination for
both companies to benefit. Reports of talks between the two companies led to
smart share price increases on Monday morning, with Delhaize up twice as much as
the putative acquirer.

The greatest share of any financial benefits would have to come from the
combination of the two companies' United States businesses, which would account
for about two-thirds of joint sales, Barclays analysts calculate. Most of the
rest of the combined company's ?61 billion of revenue and ?2.2 billion of
earnings before interest and tax would come from the home Benelux markets, with
eastern Europe and Asia providing a little less than 10 percent, it says.

The merger idea makes sense. There is geographical overlap in the East Coast of
the United States and a similar focus on the upper middle segments of their
markets. Both companies have had trouble increasing revenue.

A combination of Delhaize's Food Lion with Ahold's Stop & Shop and Giant will
certainly leave room to cut costs. But it will not automatically ease a
difficult competitive environment. Wal-Mart is unlikely to reduce its pressure
on old-fashioned supermarkets.

Financing may also be an issue, especially if the sellers are anxious for cash.
Although Ahold is not highly geared, it has just finished a ?2 billion share
buyback program. A reversal may be required to get the deal done. Neither
Ahold's board nor its investors will want to do a transformational deal that
resembles the disastrous highly leveraged U.S. Foodservice acquisition in 2000.

It is easy to see why expectations of a deal are running high. Success, however,
is not a fait accompli.

Robert Cole is assistant editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent
commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/ahold-and-delhaize-is-a-deal
-waiting-to-happen.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%);
MERGERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (73%);
ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS
(70%)

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (92%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (92%); AH (BIT) (92%); AH (AMS) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES
(92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%);
NETHERLANDS (73%); BENELUX (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words


Because of an editing error, an  article  on Monday about executive changes at
Shakespeare & Company, a theater troupe in Lenox, Mass., misidentified the kind
of cancer that affected Tony Simotes, the group's former artistic director. It
was throat cancer, not lung cancer.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (87%); CANCER (86%); LUNG CANCER
(83%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (83%)

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE & CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (91%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fight Over Chinese Currency Policies Threatens Vote on Trade Bill

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words


WASHINGTON --  A heated dispute over how to challenge China on currency policy
has imperiled a trade bill that has become President Obama's top legislative
priority, uniting even the president's top Democratic supporters against taking
up the bill in the Senate.

Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, vowed
to press forward with a vote Tuesday afternoon to begin debating legislation
granting the president ''fast track'' negotiating authority to complete a major
trade deal with 11 Pacific Rim nations. But Democrats say they will filibuster
the measure unless it is combined with a separate customs enforcement bill that
would crack down on currency manipulation.

Both sides say the vote will be close, but absent a breakthrough in
negotiations, the 60-vote threshold will be difficult to meet. At the root of
the dispute is China, which is not even a party to the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, the trade agreement Mr. Obama hopes to make a capstone of his
administration.

Voting to proceed to the measure on trade promotion ''is saying this bill is
worthy of debate,'' Mr. McConnell pleaded on the Senate floor Monday, promising
that senators could add amendments.

But opponents sensed the momentum was on their side.

''We're going to win,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who has
led the effort to demand trade promotion authority be considered only with other
measures on trade enforcement and assistance for workers dislocated by trade
accords.

The customs bill in question has created a stew of conflict over issues as
varied as child labor and enforcement of import duties. Candy makers want to
preserve a loophole -- closed in the customs bill -- that allows them to import
African cocoa harvested by child labor. Automakers are demanding the inclusion
of a tough measure allowing companies to challenge trading partners that they
say artificially depress the value of their currency to raise the price of
American imports and lower the cost of their exports.

Republicans accuse Democrats of reneging on their promise to move forward on
trade promotion authority on the condition that it is linked only with a measure
expanding assistance to workers displaced by economic globalization. Democrats
say Republicans coaxed them into putting their most desired trade measures into
a bill that is now being dumped.

Trade promotion authority would give allow the president to complete the Pacific
deal, knowing that any final accord could still be voted down by Congress but
could not be amended. Mr. Obama has repeatedly framed the Pacific accord as a
way to counter China's rising power in Asia, giving countries like Malaysia,
Brunei, Japan, Singapore and Vietnam an economic alliance that would be a
counterweight to China's increasingly assertive policies in the region.

But a bipartisan coalition, including Mr. Brown and Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, is challenging the administration to do far more.

''If the White House and our foreign policy community were so interested in
dealing with China, we would have been much more aggressive in passing a
currency bill that would allow us to go toe to toe on these issues,'' Mr. Brown
said. ''We're doing none of that.''

The coalition has told the White House there will be no trade promotion
authority bill without a provision aimed at China's currency policies.

''I have said to them for three to four months, if you do currency alongside
T.P.A. but at the same time, it would help your cause,'' said Senator Charles E.
Schumer, Democrat of New York.

But senior administration officials remain opposed to the senators' solution, a
measure that would require the Commerce Department to investigate currency
policy after a complaint is filed, then impose duties to raise the cost of an
imported good to counter currency manipulation.

Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker called it ''a terrible idea,'' even though it
would bolster the authority of her cabinet agency.

''There's one authority over our currency,'' she said. ''We should strengthen
Treasury. We should not dilute this by having more than one department
responsible for currency.''

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said any measure to counter a
foreign power's currency policies could backfire, undermining the Federal
Reserve Board, which uses the flow of currency to tighten or loosen economic
growth in the United States.

More to the point, Republicans say, a tough currency measure attached to trade
promotion authority would doom the Pacific trade accord, scaring away important
countries like Japan and Malaysia in a misguided jab at China.

''Is the goal to get T.P.A. done, or is it to crush the president's trade
agenda?'' asked a Republican aide on the Senate Finance Committee.

The customs bill in question is multifaceted. Besides the currency measure, it
includes the creation of an interagency trade enforcement center and a system to
respond faster to unfair trade practices like the dumping of exports at prices
below the cost of production. Another provision would require the Customs and
Border Protection agency to expeditiously investigate allegations of customs
duty evasion. Still another would close a 75-year-old loophole that allows the
importation of goods provided by child labor if a company cannot find those
goods elsewhere.

Candy makers are opposing that last provision on the novel ground that it would
kill Ghana's cocoa trade.

But as the trade legislation becomes more complex, so does the task of winning
approval. Outside conservative groups like Heritage Action for America, the
political arm of the Heritage Foundation, have generally stayed quiet on trade
promotion authority, torn between their support for free trade and their
distrust of Mr. Obama. Now they are encouraging opposition if trade promotion
authority is linked to trade adjustment assistance, which they oppose as a waste
of federal tax dollars.

''Heritage Action has always been a free trade organization, but free-market
conservatives are understandably split on this president's request for
fast-track authority,'' Michael A. Needham, the group's chief executive, said on
Monday. ''Including an egregiously ineffective welfare program in a bill
intended to promote trade will only exacerbate the problem.''

If Democrats bring down the procedural motion to proceed to trade, both sides
say that is not likely to be the last word. Negotiations have already begun on a
broader trade bill that could include some currency provision, perhaps weaker
than the one in the disputed customs measure.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/fight-over-china-currency-policies-th
reatens-vote-on-trade-bill.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Robert Casey, right, of Pennsylvania and Sherrod Brown
of Ohio discussed a Pacific Rim trade deal in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX
WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%);
TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS
(78%); AGREEMENTS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%);
TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (73%); CHILD LABOR
(69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); INTERNATIONAL
TRADE (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (64%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); PRICE INCREASES
(61%)

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SHERROD BROWN (77%); MITCH MCCONNELL (72%); BOB
CASEY (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM
(79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comcast Turns to Wall St. for a New Finance Officer

BYLINE: By EMILY STEEL; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 387 words


Comcast announced on Monday that it had hired Michael J. Cavanagh as its chief
financial officer, choosing a prominent Wall Street executive to help the
company move forward after the collapse of its proposed $45 billion merger with
Time Warner Cable.

Mr. Cavanagh most recently worked as co-president and co-chief operating officer
of the Carlyle Group, a global asset management firm in New York. He will join
Comcast early this summer and be based at its Philadelphia headquarters.

He succeeds Michael J. Angelakis, who had been Comcast's chief financial officer
since 2008. In March, Comcast announced that Mr. Angelakis was leaving his post
to start a Comcast-backed company with $4 billion in financing to make strategic
investments in the United States and abroad. Mr. Angelakis will be a senior
adviser to Comcast and help in the transition.

Brian L. Roberts, Comcast's chief executive, described Mr. Cavanagh as a
''world-class executive with significant experience leading and overseeing large
companies with multiple, complex businesses.''

Mr. Cavanagh is a prominent and influential figure on Wall Street. He comes to
Comcast after just one year at Carlyle, one of the giants of the private equity
industry. As co-president there he became one of the potential successors to the
investment firm's founders.

Before joining Carlyle, Mr. Cavanagh worked for almost 10 years as part of the
operating committee of JPMorgan Chase. He worked for about six years as
JPMorgan's chief financial officer during the financial crisis. Additionally, as
a top lieutenant to Jamie Dimon, the chief executive, he helped steer the bank
through some of its toughest challenges, including an investigation into the
huge ''London whale'' trading loss.

''Comcast is an exceptional company that is well positioned to win in the
rapidly evolving media and technology industries,'' Mr. Cavanagh said in a
statement. ''The opportunity to work closely with Brian and one of the best
management teams I've come across in any industry was something I could not pass
up.''

Before JPMorgan Chase, Mr. Cavanagh was an executive at Bank One and Citigroup.

Mr. Cavanagh holds a bachelor's degree from Yale and a J.D. from the University
of Chicago. He also is on the board of Yum Brands and is a member of the Council
on Foreign Relations.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/media/comcast-hires-michael-cavanagh-
as-chief-financial-officer.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael J. Cavanagh

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); MERGERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%);
INVESTIGATIONS (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); COMCAST CORP (93%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC
(58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE)
(93%); TWC (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CG
(NASDAQ) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT
ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION
PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT
CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%);
SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%);
SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%); BRIAN L ROBERTS (56%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chilean Leader Removes Five From Cabinet in a Shake-Up

BYLINE: By PASCALE BONNEFOY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 814 words


SANTIAGO, Chile -- President Michelle Bachelet, responding to a series of
corruption scandals that have shaken Chile's political establishment, made
sweeping changes in her cabinet on Monday.

Stressing the need ''to honor the transparency and honesty that is demanded of
us,'' Ms. Bachelet replaced five ministers and moved another four to new
positions.

Those ousted included the interior minister, Rodrigo Peñailillo, who is one of
dozens of politicians, their relatives and other intermediaries under scrutiny
for possible involvement in corruption.

With her government in crisis, Ms. Bachelet explained the cabinet shuffle as a
step toward the ''renewed energy and new faces'' needed to advance her reform
agenda while in office.

But she has also made it clear that the political upheaval has effectively
derailed her future.

Ms. Bachelet has said that she expects her political career will not carry on
beyond her current term, which ends in 2018.

''It's obvious that I will never be a candidate to any position of public
representation in politics ever again,'' she said last month.

After weeks of mounting political crisis -- with scandals spreading from the
right-wing opposition to members of the governing coalition and the president's
own family circle -- Ms. Bachelet announced last week that she had asked her
entire 23-member cabinet to resign.

The drastic decision came amid investigations into illegal corporate financing
for electoral campaigns across the political divide. The cabinet shuffle was
widely seen as a way of tightening her leadership within the governing coalition
and boosting her own sagging popularity.

Although the cabinet changes may signify a new stage for her government, they
may not correct the larger problem: a major loss of credibility in the political
system and its leaders.

''There is a political crisis when over 70 percent of the population believes
that the political system doesn't work, that people lie and that the system
should change,'' said Marta Lagos, director of a regional public opinion firm,
Latinobarómetro. ''As long as the government doesn't address this crisis, its
program of reforms will take a back seat.''

Months of investigations by an independent national prosecutor's office and the
Internal Tax Service have uncovered a widespread system of fake invoices and tax
fraud designed to circumvent electoral laws and conceal illegal corporate
financing for political campaigns.

Ms. Bachelet had been pressed for weeks to remove Mr. Peñailillo, the interior
minister.

The scandal blew up when it emerged in September that one of Chile's largest
financial holdings, Penta Group, used hundreds of false invoices issued by
politicians, their friends, assistants and relatives for nonexistent work to
funnel illegal campaign donations, mainly to members of the right-wing
Independent Democratic Union party, and evade taxes in the process.

In March, several Penta executives were jailed on charges of tax fraud, bribery
and money laundering. All have been released, although some remain under house
arrest. Last Thursday, Sabas Chahuán, the national prosecutor, requested that a
court charge five prominent right-wing politicians who received funds illegally.

The Penta case led to an investigation into a mining company owned by Julio
Ponce, a former son-in-law of the country's dictator, Augusto Pinochet, who
ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990. The case has revealed how, either directly or
indirectly, the mining company channeled funds to candidates across the
political spectrum, including to members of Ms. Bachelet's New Majority
center-left coalition.

But most damaging for the president are accusations that her son, Sebastián
Dávalos, used his influence to obtain a $10 million bank loan for his wife's
consulting firm, Caval, to invest in a lucrative land deal.

In the televised interview in which she announced the resignations last week,
Ms. Bachelet said she was going through an emotionally difficult time and
admitted making ''important mistakes'' in handling the situation involving her
son, whose behavior she described as reckless.

That same afternoon, Congress approved an investigative commission to look into
the allegations regarding Caval and her son.

A year into her second term in office, the president's approval ratings continue
to sink, despite the passing of important reforms in education, taxation and the
electoral system.

Ms. Bachelet has responded to the scandal with a series of anti-corruption
measures in the hope of restoring public faith in Chile's political system.

In March, she appointed an advisory council to propose new regulations on the
ties between politics and business. Last month, she announced measures to curb
corruption and conflicts of interest. They include limits to campaign spending,
banning corporate donations and raising sanctions for corruption.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/americas/president-michelle-bachelet-chi
le-reshuffles-cabinet-ministers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS
(90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (86%); POLITICAL
CORRUPTION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%);
APPOINTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
(69%); ELECTION LAW (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (64%); TAX LAW (64%); TAXES &
TAXATION (63%)

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (90%)

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%)

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cavaliers Coach Draws Scrutiny After Crucial Victory

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 796 words


CLEVELAND --  Eleven minutes had passed in David Blatt's news conference Monday
afternoon when he finally betrayed some impatience with the reporters encircling
him on the Cleveland Cavaliers' practice court.

The previous night, Blatt, the Cavaliers' coach, saw his team tie its
second-round Eastern Conference playoff series against the Chicago Bulls when
LeBron James hit a winning shot at the buzzer. It was a crucial win, a moment to
savor and build upon. And yet much of the postgame discussion among fans and
pundits has revolved around two blunders Blatt was perceived to have made in the
waning seconds: his brief attempt to call a timeout when the Cavaliers had none
remaining and his decision to draw up a play -- one that James rejected -- that
had James inbounding the ball, not receiving it, with 1.5 seconds left.

''So you guys want to make this the story? It's not the story,'' Blatt said.
''To me, it's not a story.''

Blatt hesitated and then appeared to refocus himself.

''It is just part of the drama,'' he said as a smile returned to his face.
''Shakespeare wrote comedies, he wrote tragedies, he wrote tragicomedies, he
wrote drama-comedies -- at least in the movies nowadays you have a lot of those
-- and that's just part of this wonderful business we're all in.''

Though he may not like it, Blatt seemed to understand a crucial fact about his
team. If the Cavaliers' season has not quite constituted a Shakespearean
narrative, it has at least been a compelling soap opera.

And Blatt, 55, has been one of the central characters. Last June, after spending
many years as one of the top coaches in Europe, Blatt was hired to coach the
Cavaliers. It was his first job -- as a player or as a coach -- in the N.B.A.,
and it became a wholly different task less than a month later when James
returned to Cleveland after opting out of his contract with the Miami Heat.

The story lines unfurled inevitably from there in colorful strands. Was Blatt
the coach to handle the league's biggest superstar and to manage the sudden
expectations of a championship? Did he and James get along? How much power did
James wield? When the Cavaliers were struggling, Blatt's job seemed constantly
at risk. Now, even after a surge into the postseason, it still seems that way.

On Monday, Blatt said he had never before lost track of the number of timeouts
in a game, and he thanked his staff for alerting him before he was charged with
a technical foul.

''A near-mistake was made, I owned up to it, and I own it,'' Blatt said. ''A
basketball coach makes 150 to 200 critical decisions during the course of a
game, something I think that is paralleled only by a fighter pilot. And if you
do it for 20-something years, you're going to blow one or two, and fortunately
it didn't cost us.''

It was a typically colorful remark from Blatt. He and James are naturally
engaging orators, which has only heightened the entertainment this season.

James let out a resigned laugh Monday when asked about his coach's rough night.
He said being near him could bring criticism down on another person.

''I don't know, man,'' he said, smiling. ''You associate with me, you get a
little heat.''

Yet James had a more clear-cut role in Blatt's latest round of public scrutiny.
James was the final person to take questions Sunday night, and he revealed,
unprompted, that he had overruled Blatt's initial play. James said it was not a
big deal, the same as a ''great quarterback calling an audible.''

James was asked what he had thought when he saw Blatt's initial plan to have him
inbound the ball: ''It wasn't a vision at all,'' he said. ''I'm not inbounding
the ball. We're going to win or lose with me.''

Blatt said it was not fair to cast what happened as a disagreement or as James
wielding veto power. He said he was just showing trust in his player. At the
same time, Blatt tried to play down the burden of constant examination.

''There's nothing wrong with being critiqued, and there's nothing wrong with
being scrutinized, and there's certainly nothing wrong with being followed,'' he
said. ''That means people think something of you and your program.''

REBOUNDS

Kyrie Irving had a magnetic resonance imaging test Monday that revealed
tendinitis in his left knee. Irving has been dealing with a muscle strain in his
right foot since Game 2 of the first round of the playoffs, and he said that the
knee injury could have developed in an overcompensation for the pain in his
foot. Irving played 79 minutes in the previous two games, shooting a combined 5
for 23 from the field and getting two assists. ''I can't look myself in the
mirror and sit on the bench or sit in the locker room while I watch my teammates
go out there,'' Irving said when asked about possibly resting a game.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/basketball/cavaliers-coach-draws-scruti
ny-after-crucial-victory.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Blatt on Sunday. His initial call on the last play was
rejected by LeBron James, who hit the game winner against the Bulls. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(89%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (83%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (90%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Center-Right Moment

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 856 words


The most surprising event of this political era is what hasn't happened. The
world has not turned left. Given the financial crisis, widening inequality, the
unpopularity of the right's stances on social issues and immigration, you would
have thought that progressive parties would be cruising from win to win.

But, instead, right-leaning parties are doing well. In the United States,
Republicans control both houses of Congress. In Israel, the Likud Party led by
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pulled off a surprising win in an election
that was at least partly about economic policy. In Britain, the Conservative
Party led by Prime Minister David Cameron won a parliamentary majority.

What's going on here?

Well, there are some issues in each election specific to that country, but there
are a few broader trends to be observed. The first is that the cutting-edge,
progressive economic arguments do not seem to be swaying voters.

Over the past few years, left-of-center economic policy has moved from
opportunity progressivism to redistributionist progressivism. Opportunity
progressivism is associated with Bill Clinton and Tony Blair in the 1990s and
Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago today. This tendency actively uses government
power to give people access to markets, through support for community colleges,
infrastructure and training programs and the like, but it doesn't interfere that
much in the market and hesitates before raising taxes.

This tendency has been politically successful. Clinton and Blair had long terms.
This year, Emanuel won by 12 percentage points against the more progressive
candidate, Chuy Garcia, even in a city with a disproportionate number of union
households.

Redistributionist progressivism more aggressively raises taxes to shift money
down the income scale, opposes trade treaties and meddles more in the
marketplace. This tendency has won elections in Massachusetts (Elizabeth Warren)
and New York City (Bill de Blasio) but not in many other places. Ed Balls, the
No. 2 figure in the Labour Party in Britain, co-led the group from the Center
for American Progress that wrote the most influential statement of modern
progressivism, a report on ''inclusive prosperity.'' Balls could not even retain
his own parliamentary seat in the last election.

The conservative victories probably have more to do with the public's skepticism
about the left than with any positive enthusiasm toward the right. Still, there
are a few things center-right parties have done successfully.

First, they have loudly (and sometimes offensively) championed national
identity. In this era of globalization, voters are rewarding candidates who
believe in their country's exceptionalism.

Second, they have been basically sensible on fiscal policy. After the financial
crisis, there was a big debate over how much governments should go into debt to
stimulate growth. The two nations most associated with the ''austerity'' school
-- those who were suspicious of debt-based stimulus -- were Germany and Britain.
This will not settle the debate, but these two nations now have some of the
strongest economies in Europe and their political leaders are in good shape.

Third, these leaders did not overread their mandate. Cameron in Britain promised
to cut the size of government, and he did, from 45.7 percent of G.D.P. in 2010
to 40.7 percent today, according to The Economist. The number of public-sector
jobs there has gone down by 1 million.

But he made these cuts without going overboard. Public satisfaction with
government services has gone up. And there have been some sensible efforts to
boost those at the bottom. As The Economist pointed out, ''The richest 10
percent have borne the greatest burden of extra taxes. Full-time workers earning
the minimum wage pay a third as much income tax as in 2010. Overall, inequality
has not widened -- in contrast to America.''

The British electorate and the American electorate sometimes mirror each other.
Trans-Atlantic voters went for Reagan and Thatcher together and Clinton and
Blair together. In policy terms, Cameron is a more conservative version of
President Obama.

Cameron's win suggests the kind of candidate that would probably do well in a
general election in this country. He is liberal on social policy, green on
global warming and pragmatically conservative on economic policy. If he's
faulted for anything, it is for not being particularly ideological, though he
has let his ministers try some pretty bold institutional reforms to modernize
the welfare state.

Globally, voters are disillusioned with large public institutions. They seem to
want to reassert local control and their own particular nationalism (Scottish or
anything else). But they also seem to want a slightly smaller public sector,
strong welfare state reform and more open and vibrant labor markets as a path to
prosperity.

For some reason, American politicians are fleeing from this profile, Hillary
Clinton to the further left and Republicans to the right.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/david-brooks-the-center-right-moment.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%);
HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY
(89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TRENDS (73%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PUBLIC
FINANCE (68%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%); IMMIGRATION
(57%); GLOBALIZATION (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DAVID
CAMERON (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%); TONY BLAIR (55%); ED BALLS (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Prime Minister Announces His New Cabinet

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 861 words


LONDON --  Prime Minister David Cameron, fresh from winning a parliamentary
majority in the general election last week, announced a cabinet on Monday that
retains many senior figures but brings in some new faces, a number of them
women.

He promoted his friend and chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, to be
first secretary of state, the highest-ranking minister after Mr. Cameron --
outranking the foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, the home secretary, Theresa
May, and the defense secretary, Michael Fallon, all of whom keep their
portfolios.

Ms. May and Mr. Osborne are considered potential successors to Mr. Cameron, who
is likely to step down before the end of this new Parliament's five-year term in
2020.

Another potential successor is Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, who returned
to Parliament by winning a seat last week. He accepted an appointment to Mr.
Cameron's weekly ''political cabinet,'' but will not be a minister.

''As promised, he will devote his attention to his final year as mayor of
London,'' Mr. Cameron said.

Mr. Cameron's spokesman added, ''The mayor has always been clear, he has to
fulfill his mandate running London first, and that's exactly what he will be
doing until his term ends in May 2016.''

Mr. Cameron, who promised a cabinet that was one-third women, appointed Amber
Rudd as energy and climate change secretary, Priti Patel as employment minister,
and Anna Soubry as minister for small business. Tina Stowell, a baroness,
remains leader of the House of Lords and assumes the status of a full member of
the cabinet. Nicky Morgan remains education secretary.

Mr. Cameron also promoted Sajid Javid, considered by many to be a rising star in
the party, to be business secretary. Mr. Javid, 45, is a former investment
banker and the son of a bus driver. He was previously secretary for culture,
media and sport, a portfolio that now goes to John Whittingdale.

Mark Harper, the former immigration minister, has been named chief whip, a
crucial role in a government with a narrow majority in the House of Commons and
many members whose views on immigration and Europe are well to the right of Mr.
Cameron's.

Michael Gove, the former chief whip and education secretary, who is close to Mr.
Cameron, was appointed minister for justice. He replaced Chris Grayling, who
will become leader of the House of Commons, succeeding William Hague, who did
not run for re-election.

The secretary of state for Scotland will be David Mundell, the only Conservative
to win a Scottish seat in Parliament last week. Fifty-six of Scotland's 59 seats
were swept by the Scottish National Party.

Mr. Cameron was greeted with applause on Monday when he met with his party's
lawmakers, and promised that his term would be about ''renewal'' after five
years of ''repair and recovery'' in a coalition government with the Liberal
Democrats.

But as he prepared for negotiations with Britain's partners in the European
Union, he will have to work to keep his party in line. At least 60 Conservative
members of Parliament, and perhaps as many as 100, are in favor of Britain's
leaving the union unless Mr. Cameron can deliver fundamental changes in
Britain's terms of membership. He has promised to hold a referendum on the issue
by 2017.

There is also likely to be friction over how much autonomy to offer Scotland,
and over some of the budget cuts Mr. Cameron and Mr. Osborne have promised.

Legislators from the opposition Labour Party met on Monday as well, to lick
their electoral wounds and discuss strategy. The party's leader, Ed Miliband,
stepped down after the election, leaving a temporary replacement, Harriet
Harman, to announce a shadow cabinet of 14 women and 15 men on Monday.

Mr. Miliband's brother David, whom he defeated for the leadership in 2010, said
on Monday that he would not run for the post now. Speaking to the BBC from New
York, where he heads the International Rescue Committee, a nongovernmental
organization, David Miliband criticized the election campaign run by his brother
as too narrow and unattractive to voters.

There was ''absolutely no point in blaming the electorate'' for Labour's defeat,
he said. ''They didn't want what was being offered.''

David Miliband said his brother and Gordon Brown, the former Labour prime
minister, had ''allowed themselves to be portrayed as moving backwards from the
principles of aspiration and inclusion that are the absolute heart of any
successful progressive political project.''

Still, he said, ''many of the attacks on Ed were unpleasant and unfair, and I
think he dealt with them with enormous dignity and with courage.''

Alan Sugar, a Labour member of the House of Lords and prominent donor to the
party, announced on Monday that he was quitting the party in disgust at what he
considered its antipathy toward business.

On the far right, the U.K. Independence Party on Monday rejected the resignation
of its leader, Nigel Farage. Mr. Farage lost his bid for a seat in Parliament on
Thursday and resigned on Friday, as he had promised to do. But party officials
said there was ''overwhelming evidence'' that the membership wanted him to
remain as leader.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/britain-coalition-david-cameron-c
onservative-cabinet.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister David Cameron with Conservative members of
Parliament in London on Monday for a group photo. Among the new faces in his
cabinet are several women. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN WERMUTH/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%);
BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY &
GENTRY (79%); POLITICS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%);
INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (93%); GEORGE OSBORNE (73%); BORIS JOHNSON (58%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%)

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Olive Garden Breadsticks to Debut in Lunch Sandwiches

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words


Olive Garden, faced with steadily declining sales, announced plans to capitalize
on perhaps its most popular menu item, breadsticks. The restaurant chain, owned
by Darden Restaurants, says it will use its breadsticks for chicken parmigiana
and meatball sandwiches starting June 1. Consumers ordering the new items will,
of course, get unlimited breadsticks. The breadsticks used for sandwiches will
be shorter and wider than the regular ones, said Justin Sikora, a Darden
representative. Olive Garden's breadsticks gained attention last year during a
dispute with an investor, Starboard Value. Among other criticisms, Starboard
said Darden wasn't being disciplined in its distribution of breadsticks to
customers. It also said the quality of the breadsticks seemed to have declined.
Shortly after, Starboard won its bid to take control of Darden's board. The new
sandwiches will be available only on the lunch menu. The meatball sandwich will
cost $7 and the chicken parmigiana $8, Mr. Sikora said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/olive-garden-breadsticks-to-debut-in-
lunch-sandwiches.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%);
RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (95%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schwarzman Gives $150 Million for a Performing Arts Center at Yale

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words


The Wall Street financier Stephen A. Schwarzman has fond memories of Commons,
the 114-year-old limestone building at Yale where he first took meals as a shy
freshman from a public school in suburban Philadelphia.

''Commons always had a big emotional impact on me,'' he said in a recent
interview. ''I did not know one person when I went and I was very lonely. I've
always been interested in that building and what goes on there.''

Now with a gift of $150 million, one of the largest ever made to a cultural
center, Mr. Schwarzman plans to transform Commons and its attached buildings
into a performing arts center and hub along the lines of the Kennedy Center in
Washington -- on whose board he served for six years.

The plan, announced on Monday, will be drawn up in part by Michael M. Kaiser,
the former Kennedy Center president. It will incorporate existing performance
spaces, namely Woolsey Hall, the 2,650-seat auditorium built alongside Commons
and Memorial Hall as part of a complex designed by Carrère and Hastings to
celebrate Yale's bicentennial in 1901.

But the complex, to be called the Schwarzman Center, will also have new halls
for theater, music, lectures and readings, to be built beneath and on the upper
floors of the existing buildings, and new programming featuring major performing
artists and groups whose events will be open to the public.

With the transformation, Yale would be among the best equipped universities in
the Northeast for arts programming while the expansion would help New Haven, a
struggling city where the university is a major employer as well as tourist
draw, with its two art galleries and the Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript
Library.

Before the center's opening, scheduled for 2020, Yale plans to hire a full-time
director to run it.

''You're going to need someone who thinks big and who can program across
genres,'' said Peter Salovey, the university's president, in an interview.

As an act of philanthropy, Mr. Schwarzman's gift trumps the $100 million he gave
to the New York Public Library in 2008 (the Fifth Avenue flagship building that
now bears his name). David H. Koch, the oil-and-gas billionaire, and David
Geffen, the entertainment mogul, have also made recent $100 million naming
donations to upgrade performing arts spaces at Lincoln Center -- Mr. Koch to
finance a renovation of the New York State Theater in 2008 and Mr. Geffen this
year to underwrite an overhaul of Avery Fisher Hall.

''It will be the hub of the campus, it will evolve after I'm not around, it will
touch almost everyone,'' Mr. Schwarzman said of the center, whose completion is
expected to be underwritten by his donation alone.

A portion of the gift -- $20 million -- will be used for the center's
presentations and operations. Yale will contribute an additional $2 million a
year for 10 years, starting in 2019, for programming and staff.

Yale was thinking mainly of sprucing up the Commons complex when it approached
Mr. Schwarzman for help. The three buildings need an upgrade -- including
Memorial Hall, where the names of Yale graduates who died in military conflicts
from the Revolution to Vietnam are inscribed.

But Mr. Schwarzman, the chairman, chief executive and a co-founder of the
Blackstone Group, the asset management company, said he did not want to just put
his name on a renovated building.

''I like creating new things,'' he said, citing as an example the scholarship
master's degree program modeled partly on the Rhodes scholarships that he
recently started at Tsinghua University in Beijing -- called Schwarzman Scholars
-- to which he has contributed $100 million. ''In the charitable world, I find
myself giving to large projects that I think can make a large-scale impact.''

Mr. Schwarzman had several discussions with Mr. Salovey, in which they found
themselves re-envisioning Commons as a place to unite the various constituencies
on campus -- undergraduates, graduate and professional students, faculty, staff
and alumni, as well as members of the public -- even as it raised Yale's
profile.

''It's largely an immense dining hall that reminds students of Hogwarts,'' Mr.
Salovey said of Commons, referring to the school in the Harry Potter stories.
''He's pushed us to think beyond the boundaries of what student centers on
campus can do.''

The appeal of a central communal hub is particularly ripe at Yale. The
university's undergraduates tend to be dispersed because of Yale's setup of 12
residential colleges (two more are under construction), where most students live
and eat after freshman year. These colleges host prominent guests at small
gatherings and present performances in modest underground theaters.

''We do a great job of small events in residential colleges or hidden away in
professional schools that give students an intimate experience with a person of
note,'' Mr. Salovey said. ''What we don't have are activities where they can all
come together as a community.''

Under the plan, Commons will remain a freshman dining hall, though it will also
be used for cultural purposes. The renovation -- to be handled by an architect
yet to be selected -- will also turn the large space beneath Commons, now used
for food storage, into a pub with coffee and hanging out by day and beer and
wine (for those of age) along with events at night.

In a written proposal for the center, Mr. Kaiser discussed harnessing technology
to help Yale ''become the campus of the future.'' His ideas include enabling
students to interact with important alumni at the center by teleconferencing via
video screens during meals.

''You could have lunch with Sonia Sotomayor one day and Meryl Streep the next,''
Mr. Kaiser said in a phone interview. ''This is an opportunity to do something
on a grander scale.''

The center represents a direct response to the explicit request of its student
government representatives, as expressed in a 2013 joint report that called for
the creation of a ''campuswide center that bridges the boundaries between
undergraduate, graduate and professional school students'' and that ''encourages
vibrant, significant and inclusive social interaction at Yale.''

Mr. Salovey said: ''They want to mix it up -- where a student studying drama can
sit with an undergraduate who is just starting to have an interest in theater
and a Ph.D. student who is writing about a playwright to not be so carved up.''

By the time the center opens, there will also be more people on campus, because
Yale's undergraduate population is expected to grow by 15 percent -- bringing
the total student body to more than 12,000 -- after construction of the two
residential colleges. Final determination of the configuration and use of the
center will be made in consultation with a committee comprising students,
faculty and staff.

With the addition of the center, Mr. Salovey said, he imagines that students
walking around campus at night looking for something to do will almost always
find it.

''You should be able to say, 'I bet there's something going on at the Schwarzman
Center,' '' Mr. Salovey said, ''even if you have no idea what it is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/design/stephen-a-schwarzmangives-150-mill
ion-for-yale-cultural-hub.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Schwarzman, left, the chairman and chief executive of
the Blackstone Group, at Commons with Peter Salovey, Yale's president.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
A rendering of the plan to transform Commons at Yale and its attached buildings,
including existing performance spaces such as Woolsey Hall, into a performing
arts center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BY CHRISTOPHER WILLIAMS ARCHITECTS LLC/GREGORIO
VASQUEZ)
 Beinecke Plaza showing Commons, left, and Woolsey Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
MARSLAND/YALE UNIVERSITY) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE
(75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES
(69%); LIBRARIES (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING
ARTS (56%)

PERSON: STEPHEN SCHWARZMAN (93%); DAVID GEFFEN (69%)

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); WASHINGTON, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Science Best Sellers

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; SCIENCE BOOKSHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words


1 Being Mortal by Atul Gawande. Metropolitan/ Holt. The surgeon and New Yorker
writer considers how doctors fail patients at the end of life, and how they can
do better. (Last month's ranking: 1)

2 David and Goliath by Malcolm Gladwell. Little, Brown. How disadvantages work
in our favor, from the author of ''The Tipping Point'' and ''Outliers.''

3 What If? by Randall Munroe. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. Scientific, often
humorous answers to hypothetical questions, derived in part on the author's
website, xkcd.com. (3)

4 The Emperor of All Maladies by Siddhartha Mukherjee. Scribner/Simon &
Schuster. An oncologist's history of cancer and its treatment covers both the
eureka moments and the decades of despair.

5 The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg. Random House. An examination of the
science behind habits, how we form them and break them. (5)

6 Quiet by Susan Cain. Crown. Introverts -- one-third of the population -- are
undervalued in American society. (4)

7 Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The
winner of a Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business
and personal life, and when to trust our intuitions. (6)

8 The Gift of Fear by Gavin de Becker. Random House. Intuitive signals that
protect us from becoming victims of violence.

9 A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking. Bantam. The British cosmologist
reviews efforts to create a unified theory of the universe. (2)

10 Alan Turing: The Enigma by Andrew Hodges. Princeton University. The presiding
genius of Bletchley Park, the center that cracked the German Enigma code.

11 What the Dog Knows by Cat Warren. Touchstone. Canine powers of detection, and
what dogs can sniff out: truffles, bedbugs, bombs, drugs, disease and death. (9)

12 The Sixth Extinction by Elizabeth Kolbert. Picador. The New Yorker writer
examines human influences in the planet's current spasm of plant and animal
loss.

13 The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot. Crown. A woman's
cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. (7)

14 Beneath the Surface by John Hargrove with Howard Chua-Eoan. Palgrave
Macmillan. A former orca trainer at SeaWorld on the dark side of the
multibillion-dollar marine park tourism industry.

15 Asapscience by Mitchell Moffit and Greg Brown. Scribner. Irreverent answers
to questions that are not asked often in the classroom. (10)

16 Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari. Harper. How Homo sapiens became Earth's
dominant species. (8)

17 The Teenage Brain by Frances E. Jensen with Amy Ellis Nutt.
Harper/HarperCollins. What neuroscience has learned about brain development in
the teenage years, along with practical suggestions for parents.

18 An Astronaut's Guide to Life on Earth by Chris Hadfield. Little Brown.
Decades of education at NASA and in outer space yield adrenaline-filled
anecdotes.

19 The Future of the Mind by Michio Kaku. Doubleday. A theoretical physicist
examines research at the intersection of neuroscience and physics that may lead
to a complete map of the brain, as well as telepathy, mind-controlled robots and
uploaded memories.

20 The Digital Doctor by Robert Wachter. McGraw-Hill Education. The advantages
and the disadvantages of an increasingly computerized health care prescribing
and delivery system.

About the Best Sellers

The titles ranked here are selected by the Science Times editors from all adult
nonfiction books reported to The New York Times for the month. These titles are
fundamentally based on the sciences; those for which science is more tangential
or peripheral are generally excluded. Rankings reflect sales for April 2015.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/best-selling-science-books.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS
(89%); CANCER (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (86%); ONCOLOGY (78%); DEATH & DYING
(78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (75%);
ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); DOGS (68%); ANIMALS
(67%); BRAIN (62%); BED BUGS (50%); TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HAWKING (79%)

STATE: EARTH (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Picasso Painting and Giacometti Sculpture Hit New Highs at Auction at Christie's

BYLINE: By SCOTT REYBURN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1132 words


To a medley of whoops, hollers and gasps on Monday night, Pablo Picasso's 1955
painting ''Les Femmes d'Alger (Version 'O')'' sold for $179.4 million including
fees at Christie's ''Looking Forward to the Past'' sale of artworks spanning the
20th century. The price was the highest on record for a work of art sold at
auction, the company said, and was well over its estimate of $140 million.

Once the bidding reached $120 million, the Picasso was pursued by five clients
on telephones, often in agonizingly slow, $1 million increments, before finally
being sold to a buyer represented by Brett Gorvy, Christie's international head
of contemporary art. The previous all-time auction high, also at Christie's, had
been the $142.4 million paid by Elaine Wynn, co-founder of the Wynn casino
empire, for Francis Bacon's ''Three Studies of Lucian Freud'' in November 2013.

''It's incredibly difficult to find big, A-plus-quality Picassos fresh to the
market,'' said the Paris-based dealer Thomas Bompard. ''It's a price for a
unique thing. You can't replace a painting like that.'' Less than 30 minutes
after the Picasso sale, Alberto Giacometti's gaunt bronze sculpture, ''L'homme
au doigt (Pointing Man)'' sold for $126 million, or $141.3 million with fees, an
auction high for any sculpture.

It was the first time that two works estimated at over $120 million each were
for sale at the same auction.

Picasso's ''Les Femmes d'Alger (Version 'O')'' is the most opulent and imposing
of a series of paintings that the Spanish-born artist produced from 1954 to 1955
in response to Eugène Delacroix's 1834 Orientalist masterpiece, ''Women of
Algiers.'' It had last been on the market in November 1997, when it sold for
$31.9 million at a Christie's auction of works owned by the American collectors,
Victor and Sally Ganz. It was bought at that auction by a Saudi collector and
kept in a house in London, said two dealers with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be named because of  concerns over confidentiality. Monday night's
seller, who was not identified, had been guaranteed a minimum price by
Christie's, which estimated the work would fetch about $140 million.

The Swiss-born sculptor Giacometti is renowned for his hauntingly emaciated
figures made in postwar Paris when Europe was in the grip of Existentialist
angst. He became one of the art market's ultimate trophy names in February 2010
after the billionaire Lily Safra paid 65 million pounds (then $103.4 million)
for the 1961 bronze, ''Walking Man I,'' at a Sotheby's auction in London.

''Pointing Man,'' an  earlier,  hand-painted bronze from 1947-51, is regarded by
many as more compelling. Made in an edition of six, plus an artist's proof, it
had been acquired from the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York in 1970. Christie's
anonymous seller has been identified as the New York real estate magnate Sheldon
Solow, according to artinfo.com. The Giacometti had been estimated to sell for
$130 million and did not carry any financial guarantees. A less obviously
commercial lot than the Picasso, it attracted just two telephone bidders.

''Looking Forward to the Past'' was the creation of Loic Gouzer, Christie's
contemporary specialist, whose auction of 35 works by on-trend contemporary
artists -- called ''If I Live I'll See You Tuesday'' -- raised $134.6 million
for the auction house last May. This time, Mr. Gouzer and his fellow specialists
at Christie's aimed to combine high-value, early-20th-century works including
Picasso, Giacometti and Monet, which would normally headline an Impressionist
and modern sale, with desirable contemporary pieces by artists such as Andy
Warhol, Jean-Michel Basquiat and Peter Doig.

''This kind of cross-pollination is an effective way of getting collectors to
buy in different areas,'' said David Nisenson, a private dealer. ''There's a
great demand for masterpieces, and there are a lot of wealthy new buyers who
want to park their money.''

The 35-lot auction raised $705.9 million against an estimate of about $500
million with just one lot unsold. A high success rate had been ensured by 18 of
the works being given pre-auction guarantees financed either by third parties or
by Christie's itself. Five lots, with a total lower estimate value of more than
$200 million, were guaranteed by the auction house.

Generous guarantees from Christie's, which is privately owned by the French
luxury goods magnate François Pinault, and the chance to sell to ultra-wealthy
collectors of both Impressionist and contemporary art, produced a concentration
of the sort of works that billionaires seemed to want to buy.

''Prices have reached such high levels, and this has encouraged better things to
appear on the market,'' said the London art adviser Wendy Goldsmith, a former
head of 19th-century European art at Christie's. ''The sellers are swayed by the
figures. They want to strike while the iron's hot. They know that nothing lasts
forever.''

With such a high proportion of the works guaranteed at substantial levels,
competition in the room was muted, with most of the bidding coming from
telephones. Among the handful of works bought in the room, the 1924 Max Ernst
painting ''Le Couple (L'Accolade)'' was bought by the New York dealer David
Zwirner for $9.1 million, just above the high estimate.

But the evening was dominated by telephone bidding, with Picasso's 1938 portrait
of Dora Maar, ''Buste de femme (Femme á la résille),'' entered by the casino
magnate Steve Wynn, reaching $67.4 million, above estimate,  and the 1958 Mark
Rothko abstract, ''No. 36 (Black Stripe),'' selling for $40.5 million. Both were
bought by Christie's staff-members based in Asia. (Final prices include the
buyer's premium: 25 percent of the first $100,000; 20 percent of the next
$100,000 to $2 million; and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect
commissions.)

Among the works by living artists, Cady Noland's 1989 silhouette-shaped  screen
print of the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald, ''Bluewald,'' sold to a client of Mr.
Gorvy for $9.8 million, an auction high for the artist.

So what, if anything, does the success of this sale mean? Despite the departure
of its former chief executive, Stephen Murphy, and concerns about guarantees
inflating auction prices, Christie's is still using its financial muscle to
attract the world's most valuable artworks into its sales. And the world's
wealthiest 0.1 percent is paying ever-higher prices to own them.

''After Murphy left people thought there would be fewer guarantees, but it's
more of the same,'' said Guy Jennings, the managing director of the Fine Art
Fund in London. ''Christie's is using high finance to squeeze the opposition
out.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/two-art-works-top-100-million-each-
at-christies-sale/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Picasso's ''Les Femmes d'Alger (Version 'O')'' sold for $179.4
million with fees on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY 2015 ESTATE OF PABLO PICASSO/ARTISTS
RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK, VIA CHRISTIE'S)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ART DEALERS (90%);
VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); EXISTENTIALISM (60%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL SINGAPORE
PTE LTD (56%); CHRISTIE'S (INTERNATIONAL) SA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

CITY: ALGIERS, ALGERIA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%)

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Artists Challenge Frick Expansion Plan

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words


Prominent artists, architects and gallerists have urged Mayor Bill de Blasio and
Meenakshi Srinivasan, chairwoman and commissioner of the Landmarks Preservation
Commission, to deny the Frick Collection's expansion plan.

''Those of us in the art world who cherish the unique and tranquil ambience
offered by the Frick are urging the Frick to withdraw its proposed plan and
consider alternative methods of expansion that would preserve the character
essential to its appeal,'' the artists said in a May 6 letter to the public
officials, signed by 54 people, including artists Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman and
Chuck Close, and dealers like Paul Kasmin, among others.

The Frick is planning a new six-story wing that will increase its exhibition
space, open private upstairs rooms and create a new roof garden on East 70th
Street. The addition would extend the building to the east -- using space
currently occupied by a gated garden on East 70th Street that is closed to the
public -- connecting the museum to its art reference library on East 71st
Street.

''We strongly believe that the Frick's effectiveness as a display space lies in
its intimacy,'' the letter said. ''Viewing highlights of the collection --
whether the photorealism of Vermeer's 'Officer and Laughing Girl' or the
diffused softness of Renoir's 'La Promenade' -- we are transported by the
gallery's serene environment, and encouraged to reflect on what it means to let
art inhabit one's daily life.''

The Municipal Art Society announced Monday that it too had written a letter,
this one to the museum itself, saying that it would oppose any design that would
endanger the gated garden, which was created by the landscape architect Russell
Page.

The Frick pointed out that its plan has the backing of other art-world
luminaries, adding in a statement: ''Our plan will not compromise the Frick's
intimacy but will enhance it. The existing galleries will remain unchanged and
for the first time a portion of the second floor of the historic mansion will be
opened to the public as new permanent galleries.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/artists-others-ask-city-to-block-pr
oposed-addition-to-the-frick-museum/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT
(89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%);
HISTORIC SITES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); GARDENING (73%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ELKMAN, STEVEN MUNRO PASSED AWAY FRIDAY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 298 words


ELKMAN--Steven Munro passed away Friday, May 8, 2015, following a courageous
battle against pancreatic cancer. He was surrounded by family at his home in
Ridgefield, Connecticut. He was born on October 1, 1946 to Phyllis (Peale) and
Sidney Elkman of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Mr. Elkman graduated from Graham-Eckes School in Palm Beach, Florida in 1964. He
then attended Cornell University, where he was a member of Theta Delta Chi, and
Columbia University. Mr. Elkman was a Managing Director at Deutsche Bank in New
York City, following decades on Wall Street at the firms Clark, Dodge & Co,
Kidder Peabody & Co, Alex. Brown & Sons and Bankers Trust. A devoted animal
lover, Mr. Elkman was Chairman Emeritus of the American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA). He also served as a director of
several companies and non-profit organizations. Steven spent his time in
Ridgefield, Connecticut, and New York City where he was a member of The River
Club, and Newport, Rhode Island where he was a member of Spouting Rock Beach
Assoc iation. He was a passionate collector of antique automobiles, tinkering
and restoring vehicles in his garages. Steven was a historical non-fiction
enthusiast; he also enjoyed travel, tennis and trap shooting. Steven cultivated
friends of all ages throughout his life and as a natural raconteur with generous
and precise humor, he will be greatly missed. He is survived by wife, Linda
(Dawson), and their two children, Allison and Bradley, brother, William Elkman
of Manhattan Beach, California and aunt, Renee Brown of New York City. In lieu
of flowers, please consider a donation in Steven Elkman's name to Abramson
Cancer Center of the University of Pennsylvania or the ASPCA. A memorial service
and celebration of life are being planned.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN
(78%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (78%); CANCER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%);
MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (74%); ANIMAL WELFARE (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL &
WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (71%)

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (71%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (57%); DEUTSCHE
BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS (83%);
THETA DELTA CHI (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%);
DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%);
NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); NEWPORT, RI, USA
(79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%);
CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

DeGrom Falters on Road, and Mets' Rally Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; CUBS 4, METS 3; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 397 words


CHICAGO -- Mets starter Jacob deGrom matched up Monday night at Wrigley Field
with the Cubs' Jon Lester, one of the most accomplished pitchers in baseball. On
most nights, Lester possesses pinpoint control and a powerful cut-fastball;
deGrom is a fireballer with electric stuff. But the anticipated duel did not
materialize. Lester was good enough, while deGrom was erratic and the Mets
(20-12) fell, 4-3.

With the Mets trailing, 4-1, in the sixth inning, Lucas Duda and Wilmer Flores
connected for back-to-back home runs, but the Mets never pulled even. Hector
Rondon earned his seventh save, but only with some defensive help. After the
pinch-hitter Curtis Granderson walked to open the ninth for the Mets, shortstop
Starlin Castro made a diving catch on Dilson Herrera's line drive. Pinch-hitter
Johnny Monell then grounded into a game-ending double play.

DeGrom (3-4) was coming off a sterling outing against Baltimore -- seven
innings, one earned run -- but was touched up early by the Cubs (16-15). He hit
Dexter Fowler to open the game, then gave up a towering home run to the rookie
Kris Bryant. On the next pitch, Anthony Rizzo blasted a home run to right field,
where the bleachers are still under construction. He allowed a fourth run when
another rookie, Addison Russell, drove home Chris Coghlan with a two-out single
in the fourth.

''It boils down to location,'' deGrom said. ''Tonight I struggled with it, and I
think it kind of makes me get off my game plan.''

Manager Terry Collins said the team needed to get deGrom back on track. ''When
he had to make a pitch he didn't make it, couldn't make it,'' Collins said.
''You can talk secondary pitches all you want, but you got to locate your
fastball.''

DeGrom threw 97 pitches in five innings, allowing the four earned runs on five
hits and four walks. He struck out five. Lester improved to 3-2. In six innings,
he gave up five hits and four walks, and he struck out six.

With the Wrigley bleachers open for the first time this season because of
ongoing construction, Duda's homer to center field was the first thrown back by
Cubs fans, a favorite tradition of theirs. The Mets did not get their first hit
until the fourth inning, when Duda singled to right, moving Michael Cuddyer to
second. Kevin Plawecki knocked in Cuddyer with a single to center with two outs.
The threat ended when Dilson Herrera flied out.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/baseball/jacob-degrom-falters-on-road-a
nd-mets-rally-isnt-enough.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (91%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

16 vs.16

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 125 words


The Rangers have rallied from a three-games-to-one deficit in their secondround
series against the Washington Capitals to force a Game 7 on Wednesday at home,
the latest example of how the team excels when on the brink. Since the start of
the 2012 postseason, the Rangers have faced elimination 16 times, compiling a
13-3 record. They have not lost an elimination game at home since 2007.

The Capitals have had nearly the opposite experience in their last 16 games in
which they could win a playoff series. Washington has a 4-12 record, with only
one road victory, in possible clinching games since Alex Ovechkin first reached
the postseason in 2008. Five of those losses -- and two victories -- have come
against the Rangers. (Bold denotes home games.)



URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HENRIK LUNDQVIST IN 16 ELIMINATION GAMES SINCE 2012: 13-3 (8-0
at home) 1.50 goals-against average .955 save percentage
ALEX OVECHKIN IN 16 CLINCHING GAMES SINCE 2008: 5 goals, 5 assists 2 goals in
Game 7, but none since 2009 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Chris Kreider (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK WASS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: THE RANGERS'
RECORD: 13-3
 THE CAPITALS' RECORD: 4-12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (84%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Rutgers, It's Books vs. Ballgames

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 846 words


It's not exactly a secret that big-time college sports often distort priorities
on university campuses. But every once in a while, something bursts into public
view to put those priorities in glaring relief. A recent example is a fight that
is taking place at Rutgers University. The dispute pits faculty members who want
to restrain the athletic department's out-of-control costs against some powerful
alumni who want the Rutgers athletic department to spend even more money to
better compete in its new conference, the Big Ten.

Guess who's likely to win?

Although Rutgers is said to have played the first American college football game
ever -- against Princeton, in 1869 -- it has never been an athletic powerhouse.
In the 1990s, yearning to join the elite, Rutgers became part of the Big East
Conference. But, with the exception of women's basketball, its overall athletic
performance has generally remained mediocre.

What's more, the Rutgers athletic department has consistently run large
deficits; indeed, since the 2005-6 academic year, deficits have exceeded $20
million a year. In the last academic year, Rutgers athletics generated $40.3
million in revenue, but spent $76.7 million, leaving a deficit of more than $36
million. In other words, revenue barely covered half the department's expenses.

And how did the university cover this shortfall? Partly, it used its own funds,
to the tune of $26 million last year, money that might have gone to professors'
salaries or other academic needs. It also took it out of the hide of the
students themselves, who have been assessed steadily rising fees to help cover
the athletic department's deficit. Last year, fees that went to athletics
amounted to $10 million.

A few years ago, in an effort to relieve the financial pressure, Rutgers
accepted an invitation to join the Big Ten, perhaps the wealthiest conference in
the country. With football powers like Ohio State and Michigan, the Big Ten not
only has lucrative deals with ABC and ESPN, it also has its own TV network.
Thanks to those TV deals, last year the Big Ten paid out some $27 million to its
11 qualifying universities.

Yet even with the Big Ten's money (and to be fair, as a new member, Rutgers
won't reap the full rewards for six years), the Rutgers athletic department is
projecting deficits at least through the 2021-22. Indeed, according to figures
compiled by a faculty committee, Rutgers athletics is projecting a total deficit
of $183 million between now and 2022.

You can see, of course, why this would infuriate faculty members -- or, for that
matter, anyone who cares about academics. Like most state schools, Rutgers has
seen its state financing shrink drastically over the last decade, while tuition
and fees have been going up. Academic departments have had multiple rounds of
belt-tightening. ''At the school of arts and sciences,'' said Mark
Killingsworth, a Rutgers economics professor who has been a leading voice
against the athletic department's costs, ''we have been told that we can hire
one person for every two who leave.'' The library, he noted, recently had its
budget cut by more than $500,000. Meanwhile, Kyle Flood, the football coach, is
getting a $200,000 raise next year, taking his salary to $1.25 million.

In late March, the Rutgers university senate approved, by a wide margin, a
report written by its Budget and Finance Committee that called on the athletic
department to eliminate its losses within five years; to end the use of student
fees to cover the athletic budget; and to treat the use of discretionary funds
as loans.

Almost immediately afterward, a powerful Rutgers alumnus, State Senator Raymond
Lesniak, commissioned a study aimed at showing that Rutgers needed to invest
more in athletics, not less. Why? One reason is the supposed economic benefits
that come with a successful sports program. Another rationale is that now that
Rutgers is in the Big Ten, it will have to step up its game to compete -- which,
of course, would require lavish facilities, just like those at Ohio State and
Michigan.

Lesniak, who just filed a bill that would give Rutgers $25 million in tax
credits for infrastructure projects, clearly relishes the idea of Rutgers
becoming, as he puts it, ''Big Ten-ready.'' So do other alums, including Greg
Brown, the chairman of the Rutgers Board of Governors. ''We weren't interested
in joining the Big Ten,'' Brown said after one board meeting. ''We were
interested in competing and winning in the Big Ten.'' And if that requires
spending money, well, that's what the big boys do.

Responds Killingsworth: ''The mantra has always been that if we spend enough
money, we'll have good teams, and generate more revenue. It's never happened.''

Rutgers is an enormous public institution, with an annual budget of $3.6
billion. It is responsible for educating 65,000 students. Why isn't that more
important that competing in the Big Ten?

Why does the tail always wag the dog?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/joe-nocera-at-rutgers-its-books-vs-bal
lgames.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EXTRA
CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SPORTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS
(87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); BASKETBALL (73%); TELEVISION
INDUSTRY (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cancer's Semantics Issue

BYLINE: By MIKKAEL A. SEKERES, M.D.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 730 words


I had to admit I was more than a little excited to see my next patient. This was
a big day, for both of us.

Five years earlier, when he was 68, he had come to the emergency room, feeling
terrible. His white blood cell count was higher than his age, and he was
profoundly anemic -- really, to a degree that was almost incompatible with life.
He was transferred to our hospital, where we performed a bone marrow biopsy that
clinched the diagnosis of acute leukemia.

''You sat on my bed,'' he said to me, ''and you gave it to me straight. You laid
out my options.'' He stared up toward the fluorescent lights in the clinic room,
thinking back to this seminal moment. His wife sat next to him, focusing on his
face, her smile frozen as she probably thought about that same moment from her
own perspective.

For people approaching their eighth decade, the decision of whether or not to
take chemotherapy for leukemia is anything but straightforward. The treatment
can be brutal, confining a person to his or her hospital room for a month, and
it can accelerate a death that might have taken months if the leukemia were left
to its own devices. People go through with it to try to win the golden ticket --
the chance to be cured of leukemia. In someone my patient's age, that occurs
only 5 percent of the time.

Two handfuls of people of the hundreds I have treated over the past decade.

Our definition of ''cure'' is a functional one. I can't look a patient in the
eye and tell him right after a round of chemotherapy that I was able to remove
all of the cancer, as a surgeon might after an operation to excise a tumor.
''Cure,'' for us, means a person has lived five years without the leukemia
coming back.

For my patient, that meant this day.

''I think you made a good decision to take the drugs.'' I said, and he and his
wife laughed at the understatement.

In the past, with other patients who had achieved this five-year goal, I would
come bounding into their exam rooms exclaiming, ''We can say it now! We can use
the C-word. You're cured!'' And we would all celebrate noisily. Oncologists,
like baseball players, tend to be superstitious. Until this time point has been
reached, we tend to avoid tempting the fates by using words like ''cure,''
preferring instead convoluted phrases like ''long-term disease-free survival.''
But after this five-year mark, I would tell my patients that, as much as I
enjoyed their company, they no longer had to fight the traffic to see me
anymore.

But then, a couple of these patients showed up on my clinic schedule again,
eight or 10 months later, having gone to their primary care doctors complaining
of fatigue, or of just not feeling ''right.'' Routine blood work again showed
abnormalities, and they returned to my office, confused and devastated.

Sometimes I realized that we hadn't really cured the leukemia so much as reset
the clock to a time just before the leukemia diagnosis, when they had an
underlying bone marrow disorder that turned into leukemia, and that this was
responsible for the recurrent abnormal blood counts. Sometimes they really did
have leukemia again, and I wondered if we had caused this second bout with the
chemotherapy we had used to treat the original leukemia.

I would be equally devastated. As a result, I have become more reserved in the
joy I used to have for my patients. Rather than rejoicing, I caution them that
there is still a chance the leukemia may return. Is it fair of me, though, to
continue to burden them with this threat of relapse, to hold the sword of
Damocles over their heads, when we all know how special it is to reach this
five-year mark?

My patient, his wife and I basked in the silence for a few seconds, quietly
enjoying his good health, his normal blood counts, what he had been through, and
how far he had come.

''Ordinarily, we would say you're cured now,'' I told him, ''because the chance
that the leukemia will come back is so low. But...''

He interrupted me. ''Doc, I'd feel more comfortable if we kept seeing you,'' he
said, almost intuiting my hesitation, my muted enthusiasm, and what I was about
to say. ''Just to be on the safe side.''

I nodded, relieved. ''I'd like that, too,'' I said.

Dr. Mikkael Sekeres is director of the leukemia program at the Cleveland Clinic.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/cured-from-cancer-almost/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDIN ISIP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEUKEMIA (92%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%);
CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); CANCER (89%); CANCER DRUGS (87%); ONCOLOGY
(78%); ANEMIA (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION
(78%); BASEBALL (65%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-C.I.A. Officer Gets Prison Term for Leak to a Times Journalist

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 860 words


ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- A former Central Intelligence Agency officer on Monday was
sentenced to three and a half years in prison on espionage charges for telling a
journalist for The New York Times about a secret operation to disrupt Iran's
nuclear program. The sentence was far less than the Justice Department had
wanted.

The former officer, Jeffrey A. Sterling, argued that the Espionage Act, which
was passed during World War I, was intended to prosecute spies, not officials
who talked to journalists. He asked for the kind of leniency that prosecutors
showed to David H. Petraeus, the retired general who last month received
probation for providing his highly classified journals to his biographer.

The case revolves around an operation in which a former Russian scientist
provided Iran with intentionally flawed nuclear component schematics. Mr.
Sterling was convicted in January of disclosing the operation to James Risen, a
reporter for The Times, who had revealed it in his 2006 book, ''State of War.''
Mr. Risen described it as a botched mission that may have inadvertently advanced
Iran's nuclear program.

The Justice Department said that Mr. Sterling's disclosures compromised an
important C.I.A. operation and jeopardized the life of a spy. Under federal
sentencing guidelines, he faced more than 20 years in prison, a calculation with
which the Justice Department agreed. Prosecutors sought a ''severe'' sentence.

Prosecutors maintain that the program was successful, and said Mr. Sterling's
disclosure ''was borne not of patriotism but of pure spite.'' The Justice
Department argued that Mr. Sterling, who is black, had a vendetta against the
C.I.A., which he had sued for racial discrimination.

Judge Leonie M. Brinkema gave no indication that she was swayed by the
government's argument that the book had disrupted a crucial operation, or harmed
national security. She said she was most bothered that the information revealed
in ''State of War'' had jeopardized the safety of the Russian scientist, who was
a C.I.A. informant. Of all the types of secrets kept by American intelligence
officers, she said, ''This is the most critical secret.''

She said Mr. Sterling had to be punished to send a message to other officials.
''If you knowingly reveal these secrets, there's going to be a price to be
paid,'' she said.

Mr. Sterling, 47, spoke only briefly to thank the judge and court staff for
treating him kindly as the case dragged on for years. Barry J. Pollack, a lawyer
for Mr. Sterling, said jurors got the verdict wrong when they voted to convict.
''That said, the judge today got it right,'' he said.

Under federal rules, Mr. Sterling will be eligible for release from prison in
just under three years.

The sentence caps a leak investigation that began under President George W. Bush
and became a defining case in the Obama administration's crackdown on government
leaks. Under Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., the Justice Department
prosecuted more people for having unauthorized discussions with reporters than
all prior administrations combined.

For years, Mr. Sterling's case was known most for the Justice Department's
efforts to force Mr. Risen to reveal his source. At the last minute, under
pressure from journalist groups and liberal advocates, Mr. Holder relented and
did not force Mr. Risen to choose between revealing his source or going to jail.
Prosecutors won the case without Mr. Risen's testimony.

Since the conviction, the case has been notable because of the stark differences
in sentences handed down to leakers. Midlevel people like Mr. Sterling have been
charged most aggressively. John C. Kiriakou, a former C.I.A. officer, served
about two years in prison. Two former government contractors, Donald J.
Sachtleben and Stephen J. Kim, are serving prison time. Thomas A. Drake, a
former National Security Agency official, faced the prospect of years in prison
but received a plea deal on a minor charge and avoided serving time after his
lawyers won critical rulings before the trial.

By comparison, the F.B.I. investigated a decorated military leader, retired Gen.
James E. Cartwright, after public reports described a highly classified wave of
American cyberattacks against Iran. But that investigation has stalled because
investigators considered the operation too sensitive to discuss at a public
trial.

Mr. Petraeus, meanwhile, retains his status as an adviser to the Obama
administration despite giving Paula Broadwell, his biographer, who was also his
lover, notebooks containing handwritten classified notes about official
meetings, war strategy, intelligence capabilities and the names of covert
officers. Ms. Broadwell had a security clearance but was not authorized to
receive the information.

Mr. Petraeus also admitted lying to the F.B.I., and the leniency of his plea
deal infuriated many prosecutors and agents.

In court documents filed in Mr. Sterling's case, the Justice Department argued
that Mr. Petraeus's crimes were not comparable. ''None of this classified
information was included in his biography, made public in any other way, or
disclosed by his biographer to any third parties.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/ex-cia-officer-sentenced-in-leak-case-tied-
to-times-reporter.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey A. Sterling, center, with his wife, Holly, and his
lawyer, arriving at court in Alexandria, Va., on Monday. He was convicted in
January of telling a writer about a secret operation and endangering the life of
a C.I.A. informant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (93%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); PRISONS (89%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%);
SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PROBATION (78%); VERDICTS (78%);
LAWYERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%);
DISCRIMINATION (72%); WORLD WAR I (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); RACE & RACISM
(64%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%);
US SENTENCING COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Preakness 2015: American Pharoah, Dortmund and Firing Line Headline Field

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 541 words


Three horses dominated the Kentucky Derby from start to finish, and all three
will be back for the second leg of the Triple Crown, the Preakness Stakes in
Baltimore on Saturday. Though others will be in the gate, too, it is hard to see
a win from anyone other than the big three: American Pharoah, Firing Line and
Dortmund.

The field will not be set until Wednesday, but here is an early look at the
major players, ranked in approximate order from contender to pretender.

It is hard to find fault with American Pharoah. He has won five straight races
and vanquished a strong field in the Kentucky Derby. There is no reason to think
he will not come out firing again on Saturday. From a bettor's standpoint,
though, it might be wise to look elsewhere. There is no guarantee that
everything will go right for him again, and his odds are likely to be quite
short.

Dortmund tried to lead the Derby wire-to-wire, which historically is very
difficult to do. In the end, he tired and finished third, but it was an
impressive effort. The field will be smaller at the Preakness, and the race is a
sixteenth of a mile shorter. He could hang on this time.

Firing Line had lost twice narrowly to Dortmund earlier in his career, but
reversed that in the Derby, and would have won the race if not for the
impressive effort by American Pharoah. He was the second best horse on the day
and should be right in the mix again.

Materiality was the pick of a lot of wiseguys in the Derby after winning the
Florida Derby. But he hesitated at the start and found himself at the back of
the pack, where he does not like to be. All things considered, his sixth place
was not bad; if any horse can surprise one or more of the big three, he is the
one. And with all the attention on the top contenders, his odds should be good.

Stanford skipped the Derby and might be the best of the fresh horses who are
candidates for the Preakness. But like the big three, he prefers to run near the
front of the field, and he would have to improve to keep up with them.

Danzig Moon closed to be fifth in the Derby. The horses he passed were mostly
tiring, so that cannot be seen as too impressive a feat. Still, there are a lot
of front-runners in the Preakness, which could benefit a closer. He could clunk
up to fifth place this week as well.

Competitive Edge is 4 for 4 but has never run beyond a mile. There are those who
think he could be one of those rapidly developing 3-year-olds who improve
drastically in the spring.

Carpe Diem was the third favorite in the Kentucky Derby because many bettors
were impressed by his win in the Blue Grass. But that race was run slowly, and
sure enough, he was exposed badly in the Derby, running 10th and never
contending.

Divining Rod looked good winning the Lexington Stakes, but the field was not
strong, and he finished behind Carpe Diem earlier in the year.

Bodhisattva is another in a long line of winners of the Tesio Stakes at Pimlico
who try to repeat that success in the Preakness. They almost all fail badly.

Tale of Verve is just 1 for 6 lifetime, and that win came in a maiden race.
Forget it.

Grand Bili has run only twice, never in a stakes race and never longer than
seven furlongs. Give his owners points for optimism.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/preakness-2015-american-pharoah-dortmun
d-and-firing-line-head-field.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Russia's Arctic Interests

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 261 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Thawing Ice and Chilly Diplomacy in the Arctic'' (editorial, April 28),
about Western-Russian tensions and Russia's military buildup in the region:

As you note, the Arctic states have been successfully committed to the peaceful
resolution of polar issues for decades, and have prevented disagreements
elsewhere from affecting Arctic interactions.

Agreements and lines of dialogue are firmly in place for handling issues that
arise through negotiations and international law, even potentially contentious
territorial and resource claims.

Regarding Russia's Arctic military buildup, Russia possesses the most Arctic
territory, a huge Arctic coastline, the largest Arctic economy and significant
Arctic energy reserves, and will probably host a major future shipping lane
through the Northern Sea route.

Russian Arctic defense movements and acquisitions are also starting from a very
low baseline given the decrepit state that its Arctic forces fell into after the
fall of the Soviet Union. Russia's military actions should be seen as logical
extensions of sovereignty and governance over a large and important territorial
expanse and a long-overdue refitting of Arctic capabilities.

We should appreciate national interests in the high north and fit Arctic
developments into a robust regional understanding.

ANDREAS KUERSTEN

Washington


The writer is a legal fellow in the International Section, Office of General
Counsel at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. His views do not
represent N.O.A.A. or the United States government.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/russias-arctic-interests.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL
(70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (54%)

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cash for Poor Families

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 132 words


To the Editor:

''Smart Social Programs,'' by Jason Furman (Op-Ed, May 11), correctly points out
that many federal policies have succeeded in reducing child poverty. But he
doesn't mention that child poverty rates are still much higher than in the rest
of the advanced world.

One of the interesting findings he mentions that is reinforced by a number of
studies that go back decades is that more cash income for poor families with
young children clearly leads to improved outcomes. One program America doesn't
consider seriously is unconditional cash outlays to these poor families with
children. These work well in Europe, have not been abused, and directly reduce
child poverty.

JEFF MADRICK

New York


The writer is director of the Rediscovering Government Initiative,  Century
Foundation.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/cash-for-poor-families.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%);
CHILD POVERTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CHILDREN
(87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POVERTY RATES (71%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just Think of Mom as the Family C.E.O.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 280 words



To the Editor:

Today's mother is not only a family's ''designated worrier'' -- the primary
organizer of activities, appointments, social engagements and general needs of
daily living -- as Judith Shulevitz writes (Sunday Review, May 10). A mother
also does most of the work involved in the caregiving of elderly relatives --
not only of her own parents but also her in-laws, and the siblings of both as
well as her own.

This involves direct service as well as the even more onerous task of advocating
for them, untangling red tape, and negotiating and resolving conflicts with and
supervising medical providers and home aides.

The third category of a mother's work is what sociologists call ''emotional
labor'': being acutely sensitive to and addressing her husband's and children's
moods, needs, health, talents, difficulties, annoyances and worries; keeping up
with relatives and friends by email, holiday, birthday and anniversary cards,
Skype and the phone; and coordinating all get-togethers, reunions and travels
with them; and maintaining peace in the home and resolving conflicts in the
family.

The mother's role can be summarized as chief executive: caregiving, emotional
labor and organizing.

With the energy that this role requires, today's mother could run a small
country.

AVIVA CANTOR

New York

To the Editor:

Judith Shulevitz seems to assume that a mother's level of worry is the correct
baseline. But perhaps instead of asking their partners to worry more, mothers
should worry less. Having fathers ramp up their worries only raises the overall
level of anxiety in the family. This strikes me as a poor goal and bad advice.

ERIC CONNALLY

Cambridge, Mass.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/just-think-of-mom-as-the-family-ceo.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KAROLIN SCHNOOR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%);
ANNIVERSARIES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cost Barrier to Medicines

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 201 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Runaway Drug Prices'' (editorial, May 5): If you are truly concerned about
the problems faced by patients seeking access to needed medicines, you would do
well to explore the insurance industry's recent expansion of the use of
specialty tier cost-sharing, in which patients must pay a relatively high
percentage of their drug costs rather than a flat co-payment.

This approach can cost patients thousands of dollars out of pocket, and in
effect limit their access to medicines. Further, this practice injects a third
party between doctor and patient when determining the best course of treatment.

You rightly note that the discovery of breakthrough cures and treatments is a
result of billions of dollars in investments and often involves many failures
along the way. These vast sums must be raised from investors who are willing to
take significant risks. They will do this only if there is an expectation of
reasonable returns.

We need to look at the outdated, cumbersome and inefficient insurance model that
inhibits access to lifesaving treatments and cures. Patients deserve nothing
less.

JIM GREENWOOD

President and Chief Executive

Biotechnology Industry Organization

Washington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/cost-barrier-to-medicines.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); ASSOCIATIONS
& ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

20 Ex-C.I.A. Officials Fault The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 429 words



To the Editor:

In a recent interview in the Lawfare blog discussing his decision to publish the
names of three undercover Central Intelligence Agency officers, Dean Baquet,
executive editor of The New York Times, defended the decision on the grounds
that the benefits of public accountability outweigh the risk to these officers.

We profoundly disagree -- not because we have analyzed this particular case (we
have not), but because in our view he misstates the purpose of cover generally.

Congress overwhelmingly enacted the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of
1982 precisely to protect the dedicated men and women whose lives would be at
risk if their names became widely publicized.

What Congress could not have anticipated at the time, of course, is that any
name published in The Times would reside forever on the Internet, searchable by
any terrorist with a laptop. It is true that certain foreign governments may
know their names, but that is altogether different from making the name
accessible to ISIS, Al Qaeda and every other murderer on the planet.

Officials who work on covert operations do not escape accountability. Their
actions are carefully reviewed by the C.I.A.'s general counsel, the inspector
general, White House officials, congressional overseers and Justice Department
attorneys. Indeed, some of the operations referred to by The Times have been
discussed publicly by the president and are some of the most carefully overseen
in our government.

We respect the right of The Times to investigate and report on the government's
counterterrorism efforts. The media should question policy makers, including
senior politically appointed leaders of the intelligence community, about these
efforts.

But nothing is gained by ''outing'' career operations officers, who carry out
such policies. They operate in the shadows, not because they want to; indeed, a
life under cover can be enormously burdensome to family and loved ones. They
operate in the shadows because we still need a small cadre of professionals who,
when called upon, can operate in secret to protect the country.

This letter, written from Washington, was signed by the following former
directors and deputy directors of the C.I.A.:

Albert M. Calland, Frank Carlucci, John M. Deutch, Robert M. Gates, John Gordon,
Porter Goss, Michael V. Hayden, Bob Inman, Stephen R. Kappes, Richard Kerr, John
McLaughlin, John McMahon, Michael J. Morell, Leon E. Panetta, David H. Petraeus,
William O. Studeman, George J. Tenet, Stansfield Turner, William H. Webster and
R. James Woolsey.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/20-ex-cia-officials-fault-the-times.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%);
BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AL-QAEDA (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HAYDEN (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); ROBERT
M GATES (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing | South; Florida: George ZimmermanIs Injured in Shooting

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 420 words


George Zimmerman, the former neighborhood watch volunteer who fatally shot
Trayvon Martin in 2012, was injured on Monday during a confrontation in Central
Florida with a man who had previously accused him of making threats and
stalking, according to local authorities.

The police said the shooting happened about 12:45 p.m. in Lake Mary, Fla., a
small town near Orlando, and involved Mr. Zimmerman and Matthew Apperson,
according to WESH-TV, the local NBC affiliate.

Mr. Zimmerman's lawyer, Don West, said his client was injured by flying glass
after a motorist fired a gunshot into the passenger's side window of Mr.
Zimmerman's pickup truck, according to TMZ, the celebrity gossip and
entertainment website.

He was treated at a hospital and released, according to WESH-TV, citing a police
spokeswoman.

Mr. Apperson was questioned at the Lake Mary Police Station, where he was
released without charges. After his release, he appeared with his attorney, Mark
E. NeJame, who said his client holds a concealed-carry permit, perceived a
threat and acted in self-defense.

The police in Lake Mary told reporters that Mr. Apperson called 911 and that Mr.
Zimmerman was not the shooter.

Mr. Zimmerman and Mr. Apperson were involved in a road-rage incident in
September, when Mr. Apperson said Zimmerman threatened to shoot him, according
to The Orlando Sentinel. Days later, Mr. Apperson complained that Mr. Zimmerman
was stalking him, according to the report. No charges were filed in those
incidents.

Pictures from the scene show a single bullet hole in the window of Mr.
Zimmerman's pickup.

Bullet hole in George Zimmerman's vehicle: http://t.co/m9veTuogaY
pic.twitter.com/Ne7yGrEnI3 -- News 13 (@MyNews13) May 11, 2015

Kenneth Cornell told CNN he called 911 after a man drove up and told him he had
shot Mr. Zimmerman. The man identified himself as Matthew Apperson and said he
and Mr. Zimmerman had a continuing dispute, Mr. Cornell said.

Mr. Apperson said he fired after Mr. Zimmerman displayed a gun, Mr. Cornell
said.

Mr. Zimmerman fatally shot Mr. Martin, a 17-year-old unarmed black teenager, in
February 2012 in Sanford, Fla., just a few miles from where the shooting
occurred on Monday. After a highly publicized trial, he was acquitted of
second-degree murder in 2013.

He was accused of assaulting his girlfriend twice, in January 2015 and November
2013, but charges were dropped both times after the woman recanted.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/george-zimmerman-injured-by-gunshot-florida
-police-say.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING
(90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); STALKING (90%); MURDER (78%);
CRIME PREVENTION (78%); ROAD RAGE (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); LITIGATION
(75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (75%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT &
BATTERY (73%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (73%); SELF DEFENSE (72%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES
(72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE (61%); ACQUITTAL (60%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Reverse Engineering Birds' Beaks Into Dinosaur Bones

BYLINE: By CARL ZIMMER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; MATTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 1093 words


Birds evolved from dinosaurs 150 million years ago, a slow but thorough
transformation. Their bodies gained aerodynamic feathers, their digits fused
into wings, and they acquired a beak used to gather food.

We can see some details of this evolutionary marvel in the fossil record. Yet
even the most exquisitely preserved fossil can't tell us which pieces of DNA had
to change in order to turn ground-running dinosaurs into modern birds.

Some researchers are now trying to pinpoint those genetic changes with
experiments on chicken embryos. If the scientists succeed, they should
eventually be able to reverse the evolution of birds -- and then they may be
able to engineer animals more at home in ''Jurassic Park'' than in a henhouse.

One group of these scientists, led by Bhart-Anjan Bhullar of Yale University and
Arhat Abzhanov of Harvard University, has spent the past eight years
investigating one piece of bird anatomy in particular: the beak. Now, in a study
published in the journal Evolution, they report that they have found a way to
turn the beaks of chicken embryos back into dinosaur-like snouts.

In interviews, some experts hailed the new research for providing insights into
the evolution of birds. But others were skeptical, arguing that the real genetic
changes behind the bird beak have yet to be discovered.

The beak evolved fairly late in bird evolution, after early birds had already
evolved feathers and powered flight. It originated from a pair of small,
separate plates of bone sitting at the front of the upper jaw. In our own
skulls, these bones -- called premaxillae -- anchor some front teeth.

During the evolution of early birds, the premaxillae stretched out and fused
together to form a strong, lightweight beak. Muscles that anchored the new beak
to the back of the head allowed birds to control this sophisticated tool.

Since then, birds have evolved many uses for beaks. Woodpeckers hammer into
trees to find insects. Pelicans use their beaks like fishnets. Hummingbirds
evolved slender sipping straws.

Dr. Bhullar and Dr. Abzhanov set out to find some of the genetic changes that
turned the dinosaur premaxillae into a beak. To find clues, they looked at
earlier experiments on chicken embryos. These studies have documented how
embryonic cells make certain proteins at certain times.

The scientists were struck by the fact that even before the embryo has a
developed, recognizable face, a large patch of cells in the middle of what will
become the bird's face makes a protein called Fgf8. Later, the region produces
different proteins, called Lef1.

Mice, other studies have shown, also make Fgf8 and Lef1. But mice produce them
in a pair of small, separate cell patches, not a single large patch.

Like the embryos of chickens, those of emus produce the proteins in a single
patch of cells, the scientists learned. But in animals other than birds -- such
as turtles, lizards and crocodiles -- the proteins are usually made in a pair of
small cell patches.

Was it possible, the scientists wondered, that a key step in the evolution of
beaks was a shift from small protein-producing patches to a single large one?
That change might have allowed birds to develop big, fused premaxillae -- the
precursors of beaks.

If the hypothesis was correct, the researchers figured, they might be able to
turn back the clock on evolution. If they caused a chicken embryo to use Fgf8
and Lef1 the way other animals do, it should turn out to be a bird without a
beak.

''It shouldn't produce some kind of monster,'' said Dr. Bhullar. Instead, he and
Dr. Abzhanov predicted, the chickens should develop skulls more like those of
their dinosaur ancestors.

To reverse evolution, the scientists gently wedged a microscopic bead into the
middle of what would become the faces of chicken embryos. The bead released
chemicals into the surrounding tissue that interfere with Fgf8 and Lef1.

As they had predicted, the chicken embryos failed to develop beaks. Instead, the
embryos gained a pair of rounded, unfused bones -- more like what you might have
found on a dinosaur's head.

''I think it's fantastic,'' John R. Horner, a paleontologist at Montana State
University, said of the finding.

In 2009, Dr. Horner predicted that scientists would someday be able to turn
chickens into dinosaur-like forms in a book entitled ''How to Build a Dinosaur:
The New Science of Reverse Evolution'' (co-authored with James Gorman, a science
reporter at The New York Times).

Now researchers are using experiments on embryos not just to understand the
origin of birds, he said, but also a number of major evolutionary transitions.
''It's an exciting time, and I envy people in the beginnings of their careers,''
Dr. Horner said.

Ralph S. Marcucio, a developmental biologist at the University of California,
San Francisco, agreed with Dr. Horner that these experiments held promise, but
said he was not persuaded by the new study.

Dr. Marcucio noted that the scientists used chemicals to block Fgf8 and Lef1
proteins that have toxic side effects and can kill cells. The altered anatomy of
the chicken skulls might not be an example of reverse evolution, he said, just
dying tissue.

Dr. Marcucio also doubted that Fgf8 and Lef1 could have such a big impact on the
beak. Fgf8, for example, disappears from the region that will become the face
long before the premaxillae develop.

''It really makes me suspicious that it's not involved in some kind of switch,''
he said.

Dr. Marcucio predicted that the true story of the origin of beaks would turn out
to be much more complicated than the new experiment suggests, involving other
genes.

''It's a simple kind of thing, but when you look at the actual pieces of data,
it tends to fall apart,'' he said. ''It takes away from the complexity that's
the reality.''

More sophisticated experiments one day may settle this disagreement. If Dr.
Bhullar and Dr. Abzhanov are right, birds must have some special sequence of DNA
that regulates Fgf8 and Lef1 in a peculiar way. Ultimately, it should be
possible to find that sequence.

By looking at alligators and other close living relatives of birds, scientists
may be able to infer the original sequence in the ancestor of birds. If the
ancient DNA can be restored, chicken embryos could once again develop
dinosaur-like snouts instead of beaks.

''I'm enormously eager to find the regulatory changes themselves,'' Dr. Bhullar
said. ''These techniques were in their infancy when I started the project, which
shows you how fast the field is changing.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/reverse-engineering-birds-beaks-into-d
inosaur-bones.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIRDS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%);
ENGINEERING (90%); EVOLUTION THEORY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); RODENTS (89%);
ANIMALS (79%); POULTRY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); INVESTIGATIONS
(76%); DNA (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yankees' Routine: 2 Set Table, 2 Wipe Floor Clean

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 936 words


ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. --  The Yankees rode Michael Pineda's dominating pitching
performance -- he had 16 strikeouts, the most by any pitcher in the major
leagues this season -- to a win over the Baltimore Orioles on Sunday. At other
times, the resurgent power of Mark Teixeira and Alex Rodriguez has carried the
Yankees to victories.

But the backbone of their surprising early-season success -- the Yankees
improved to 21-12, the best record in the American League, with an 11-5 victory
at Tampa Bay on Monday night -- has been their beginning and their end.

That is, the head of the batting order, Jacoby Ellsbury and Brett Gardner, and
the tail end of the bullpen, Dellin Betances and Andrew Miller.

One pairing has been responsible for getting the Yankees early leads and the
other for cementing them.

''When you look at those two sets of two, they've been a big help in getting us
to where we are,'' Manager Joe Girardi said before Monday's win. ''Get a lead
and hold them late -- that's the whole idea.''

The twosomes have been such a significant part of the Yankees' success that the
team has filmed commercials about them and is planning to hold a contest for
fans to choose nicknames for them.

Betances and Miller, who typically pitch the eighth and ninth innings but did
not play on Monday, have yet to allow an earned run this season. And they have
had plenty of opportunities to protect leads thanks to an offense that is
markedly improved from last season, when the Yankees finished 13th in the A.L.
in runs.

Ellsbury and Gardner have met two expectations for hitters at the top of the
order: getting on base and being a distraction once they are there. Ellsbury,
with a .415 on-base percentage, and Gardner, at .393 entering Monday's action,
were third and 11th in the American League. Ellsbury's 11 steals were tied for
the league lead, and Gardner was one behind.

And even though they are both left-handed hitters, Ellsbury, who did not play on
Monday and is batting .341 over all, and Gardner, who went 1 for 5 with three
R.B.I. and is now batting .308, have hit about as well against left-handed
pitchers as against right-handers.

''They really have two leadoff guys,'' Orioles Manager Buck Showalter said over
the weekend. ''Most people are looking for one.''

This is the type of lineup the Yankees envisioned when they signed Ellsbury to a
seven-year, $153 million contract in December 2013. But there was reluctance
last season to move Derek Jeter out of his customary second spot in the order,
and with the Yankees dealing with injuries, Gardner ended up hitting leadoff and
Ellsbury third for most of 2014.

Jeter finished the year batting .256, his lowest mark for a season in which he
played at least 119 games. He also stole 10 bases -- a number that Gardner and
Ellsbury have already reached.

''I know when I get on, pitchers slide-step a lot; they throw over; they pay
attention to me,'' Ellsbury said before Monday's game. ''If it gets them out of
their rhythm, maybe it allows them to miss over the plate a little more. It
doesn't necessarily mean you're going to hit it, but the more times you get a
pitch to hit, the more successful anybody's going to be.''

Ellsbury said he noticed that when he and Gardner were at third and first, the
Orioles would not throw to second if Gardner tried to steal because they did not
want to risk Ellsbury's stealing home.

''Those are the little aspects,'' Ellsbury said. ''When you have speed, when you
disrupt the defense, all those little things play big in a 162-game season.''

Tampa Bay pitcher Chris Archer, who was scheduled to pitch against the Yankees
on Tuesday, echoed that sentiment.

''Anytime there's speed back to back, it puts pressure on the team as a whole,''
Archer said. ''Trying to keep them off balance, not only at the plate but on the
bases, too, is huge for us. Most teams are trying to do that, but they're not
able to because those guys are plus, plus.''

The back end of the Yankees' bullpen has been an even surer bet. The Yankees
made a calculated gamble in signing Miller for four years and $36 million,
knowing that re-signing David Robertson would have cost them more.

If there was any concern that neither Betances or Miller had been a closer --
each had one career save before this season -- it has dissipated. They have
formed a dominant tandem, allowing no earned runs and two total runs in a
combined 35 innings.

Betances, with 30 strikeouts, and Miller, with 26, led the major leagues in
strikeouts by a reliever entering Monday, and the right-handed Betances, at 4-0,
was tied with San Francisco's Santiago Casilla for the most wins by a reliever.
Miller was tied with the Mets' Jeurys Familia for the major league lead in
saves, with 13.

''Left-handed closers are utopia for managers because it negates all the
left-handed bats that come off the bench late in the game,'' said Showalter,
whose team took off in the second half last season after the Orioles'
acquisition of the left-handed Miller from Boston solidified their bullpen.

Showalter added that left-handers were particularly useful at Yankee Stadium,
with its short right-field wall.

Orioles center fielder Adam Jones, who flied out against Miller in a 5-4 loss to
the Yankees on Friday, said of the Yankees' two top relievers: ''If you
eliminate those two and don't let them get in the game, then you increase your
chances of winning. When they get the lead, you know you're going to see them in
the eighth and ninth.''

Thus far it has been a successful formula for the Yankees, from the beginning of
the game to the end.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/baseball/early-in-games-and-late-yankee
s-have-a-pair-of-dominant-players.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacoby Ellsbury, left, and Brett Gardner last month. They have
helped the Yankees to a surprising start. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MCISAAC/GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (58%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (56%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (59%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Wyndham Revamps Its Frequent-Stay Program

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg.

LENGTH: 253 words


Trying to use loyalty points to book free hotel stays, which are often subject
to blackout dates, shifting point minimums and high thresholds, is the bane of
frequent travelers.

Now Wyndham Hotel Group aims to simplify its frequent stay program by offering
benefits sooner and cheaper.

The new Wyndham Rewards program, which starts May 11, will introduce a flat
redemption rate of 15,000 points for a free night at all of its 7,500-plus
hotels. In contrast, most loyalty programs rank hotels in a number of
categories, from budget to luxury, and charge variable redemption rates for
them.

Members of the new Wyndham program, which is free to join, earn 10 points per
dollar spent, or a minimum of 1,000 points per overnight.

Wyndham will also allow members to use their points more quickly. At the
3,000-point threshold, they can cash them in for a discounted hotel room, most
priced between $25 and $95.

The company's previous program charged between 5,000 and 45,000 points per room
in nine tiers. In the new system, lower-end properties are more expensive, but
the upper-end ones are a third of the price.

''We heard from travelers in midrange and economy hotels that it took too long
to collect points, and we wanted to win their loyalty and allow them to
experience higher-end products on the redemption,'' said Josh Lesnick, chief
marketing officer for Wyndham.

Sign up to receive our NYT Living newsletter, a weekly roundup of lifestyle news
from the Style, Travel and Food sections delivered to your inbox.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/travel/wyndham-revamps-its-frequent-stay-progr
am.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%);
BUDGETS (75%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (64%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Eerie Mystery, This Time in France

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


Turns out the French know how to peel an onion too.

The brand of mystery that is inevitably described with some sort of peeling
metaphor has been enjoying a moment lately, with the British ''Broadchurch''
leading the way.

If you like the format -- the mystery grows more complex with each episode as
connections and back stories are revealed -- then try ''Witnesses,'' a tasty
six-episode example from France that recently became available (with subtitles)
on streaming platforms including iTunes, Netflix and Amazon.

There are strange goings-on in coastal Le Tréport in northwest France. Someone
is digging up recently buried bodies and posing them in show houses, ghoulishly
recreating a family scene.

Marie Dompnier plays the smart but skittish Sandra, a detective who investigates
along with a sidekick, Justin (Jan Hammenecker). But her real partner ends up
being Paul, a renowned cop who retired after the death of his wife and a
debilitating car wreck.

Paul is expertly played by Thierry Lhermitte, known in France for comic roles
but who here is a taciturn enigma. Paul is drawn into the case because personal
effects of his appear at the crime scenes, which leads to the assumption that a
criminal he put away is trying to send him a message.

It's eerie with a hint of the supernatural -- several witnesses report seeing a
wolf at pivotal moments -- and paced just right: Those layers are pulled back
patiently, so viewers and actors have time to absorb them.

Ms. Dompnier has an especially rich role. Not only is there tension between her
and Paul, who was one of her instructors when she was training to become a
police officer, but she is also worried about her marriage.

The series also makes fine cinematic use of Le Tréport, especially in a scene
shot on the Funiculaire, a railway that takes riders from the town upward
through a tunnel and to the overlooking cliffs. It is by all accounts a
delightful tourist excursion, but after watching this show you may board it with
a wee bit of trepidation.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/television/review-witnesses-now-streaming
-unpeels-an-eerie-mystery.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Witnesses: Marie Dompnier, left, and Jan Hammenecker
investigate a ghoulish mystery in this series, available through streaming
platforms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEWEN DISTRIBUTION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(57%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Panel Recommends Overhaul at W.H.O.

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 476 words


GENEVA -- The World Health Organization needs structural reform and a radical
change of culture to enable it to cope with future health emergencies, a panel
of experts said in a preliminary report issued Monday that was critical of the
agency's delayed reaction to the Ebola crisis.

''This is a defining moment for the W.H.O.,'' Barbara Stocking, the chairwoman
of the six-member panel, said in Geneva at the release of the report. The study
was commissioned by the United Nations to examine what went wrong in the
response to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, which has resulted in more than
11,000 deaths.

''It is still unclear to the panel why early warnings, approximately from May
through to July 2014, did not result in an effective and adequate response,''
the report says. Although the W.H.O. identified the ''unprecedented'' nature of
the outbreak that\ April, only last August did the agency declare it a public
health emergency, prompting a huge buildup in the international response.

The factors contributing to those delays are expected to be explored in more
detail in the panel's final report, due to be published in July after further
investigation, including in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, the worst-affected
countries.

Among the panel's chief conclusions was that it would be counterproductive to
establish a new United Nations agency to handle health emergencies, as some have
suggested, or that responsibility should be transferred to another United
Nations body. That would require considerable time and resources, it said.

Instead, the report suggested that a new structure be set up in the W.H.O. with
the capacity to deliver a full emergency response.

It will ''need quite a big culture change in member states and the leadership of
the W.H.O. to get it done,'' Ms. Stocking said.

The panel issued an interim report so its recommendations could be considered by
next week's meeting of the World Health Assembly, the W.H.O.'s decision-making
body, and so ''change can be driven forward quickly,'' Ms. Stocking said.

The report called for world leaders to ''give W.H.O. new relevance and empower
it to lead in global health.'' It made clear that for the agency to be
effective, it would require an overhaul of its finances, with an increase in the
core funding it receives from United Nations member states and possibly the
creation of new financial mechanisms, like a contingency fund.

''We certainly don't want our report to be sitting on a shelf and not moving
forward,'' Ms. Stocking said. ''We are very clear we are putting forward a
report for action.''

Although it is an interim document, it sets out ''some very big principles,''
Ms. Stocking said, ''and they are not going to change between now and the final
report.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/who-needs-reforms-in-wake-of-ebol
a-crisis-report-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (90%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS &
POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SIERRA LEONE
(72%); GUINEA (72%); LIBERIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Night and Day, Vincent Herring's New Album

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 354 words


VINCENT HERRING

''Night and Day''

(Smoke Sessions)

The alto saxophonist Vincent Herring projects his sound in a strong, centered
beam, and even his most intense moments suggest a controlled combustion. You
could chalk that up to experience -- Mr. Herring, 50, has been playing seriously
since his teens -- but it probably has as much to do with disposition. There's
footage of him with Horace Silver's band in the 1980s, sounding like he does
now, slashing but calm.

So maybe it's the suggestion of something held in reserve that has kept Mr.
Herring from an A-list solo career. Or maybe it's the idea that he has followed
in the wake of Cannonball Adderley, an alto saxophone hall of famer whose style
he can willfully evoke (not least in the Cannonball Adderley Legacy Band).
Whatever the case, Mr. Herring should have a higher profile, as he confirms with
a smart new album, ''Night and Day.''

As with Mr. Herring's 2013 album -- ''The Uptown Shuffle,'' recorded live at
Smoke Jazz Club and released on the Smoke Sessions label -- the music here puts
a contemporary spin on hard-bop, with a rhythm team of Brandi Disterheft on bass
and Joe Farnsworth on drums. But whereas that album featured a quartet, this one
involves a quintet with the pianist Mike LeDonne and an excellent trumpeter,
Jeremy Pelt, out front.

Mr. Herring and Mr. Pelt have a crisp and jostling rapport, and in moments like
a headlong dash through Donald Byrd's ''Fly, Little Bird, Fly,'' each elevates
the other's game. The meat-and-potatoes repertory -- some ''I Got Rhythm''
changes, some blues, the Cole Porter tune that lends the album its title --
doesn't pose a limitation for them.

And when Mr. Herring tips his hat, as on an original, ''The Adventures of Hyun
Joo Lee,'' named for one of his students and built over a chord sequence by John
Coltrane, he sounds unburdened by expectations. Still, there's no doubting his
sincerity on ''Theme for Jobim,'' composed by a dearly missed former mentor,
Cedar Walton -- or on ''Walton,'' a swinging homage by Mr. LeDonne, which
elicits one of the album's juiciest alto solos.

NATE CHINEN




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-night-and-day-vincent-herrin
gs-new-album.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
(90%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Restaurant Meals: Yes, They Can Be Healthy

BYLINE: By JOSH BARRO, CLAIRE CAIN MILLER, DARCY EVELEIGH, DAVID LEONHARDT, MATT
RUBY and RUMSEY TAYLOR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1171 words


Most meals at American restaurants aren't healthy. They're packed with processed
food and enough calories to cover two or three sensible meals.

Yet it's entirely possible to eat both healthy and tasty restaurant meals. And
because eating out is one of life's great pleasures, we've put together this
guide to smart restaurant eating. It ranges from undeniably healthy meals --
with a rich variety of foods, heavy on fruits and vegetables, light on sugar --
to fast-food meals that are at least better than the alternatives if you find
yourself eating at McDonald's.

Every lunch or dinner here stays under 750 calories -- about one-third the
number many adults should eat in a day -- and many meals are well under; the
breakfasts are under 500 calories. We'll start with some good news: The
restaurant scene has never been better.

Signs of Progress

Don't be confused by Chipotle, Five Guys and other hot chains, which serve
tastier food than McDonald's but still don't focus on health. There's another,
albeit smaller, rising group of restaurants with menus that are both tasty and
healthy.

These chains include Chop't, Lyfe Kitchen, Maoz Vegetarian, Modmarket and Native
Foods Cafe. At these, you can often eat a meal that has a reasonable number of
calories, and a nice array of nutrients, without thinking too hard. Sweetgreen,
one such chain, got its start in Washington, from three Georgetown students
frustrated by the existing restaurant scene.

We expect these kinds of restaurants to continue spreading, perhaps beyond the
largest metro areas, as more Americans look for ways to eat right.

Crucially, these restaurants go heavy on fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Dr. Deborah A. Cohen, an epidemiologist at the RAND Corporation, notes that it
recently convened a group of experts to create performance standards for
restaurant meals. The focus was on two measures above all: a limit of 700
calories and a minimum of a cup and a half of fruits and vegetables.

The next time you're in a traditional chain restaurant, look around the room and
notice the dominant colors of the food. They're probably a combination of browns
and yellows. By comparison, the group of healthy restaurants are full of green,
red and orange. With enough produce and whole grains on your plate, you can eat
some meat, too -- without worrying about it

Hack the Menu

If you're not careful, you can end up eating an entire day's worth of calories
in a single restaurant meal. So it's important not to take restaurants'
definition of portion size literally. (An exception is Pret A Manger, where the
portions are reasonable.)

One approach: Split an entree with a tablemate. If you're dining alone, consider
setting aside some food as soon as it comes, to avoid what psychologists call
''the completion compulsion.'' Save the food for later -- or, if there is no
better option, throw it out, without guilt. Eating food you don't need is a
version of waste.

Another approach: Order no entree. Today's appetizers are sometimes the size of
yesterday's entrees -- and you can often get a filling meal with two appetizers.
The strategy is especially helpful during business meals, when other people at
the table are often ordering two courses and joining them is the natural thing
to do.

Choose condiments and sauces carefully: mustard instead of mayo on a sandwich,
olive oil and vinegar or lemon juice instead of creamy salad dressing. It's easy
to undercut a salad or sandwich with dollops of ranch or Caesar dressing.

Finally, be wary of bread. It's an easy way to consume hundreds of calories
almost unthinkingly. There's a reason both President Obama and Hillary Rodham
Clinton ordered burrito bowls at their recent Chipotle visits: Skipping the
tortilla is one of the few ways to keep a meal there within a healthy calorie
range. Oh, and be especially careful with bagels, which are extravaganzas of
dough. With 75 to 80 calories an ounce and a gradual increase in size over the
years, some exceed 500 calories before you add any cream cheese or lox.

Breakfast Isn't Hard

Eggs are often the key: They're healthier than many people have long feared.
They're also a delicious source of protein when cooked right, and they're
available all over the place. Outside of major metropolitan areas, where
restaurant choices are more limited, egg-based lunches and dinners are a good
way to eat well.

Another encouraging part of breakfast is the addition of oatmeal to the
Starbucks menu, which makes a truly healthful breakfast far easier to find on
the road. Choose the plain over the blueberry-flavored, and don't automatically
add an entire packet of brown sugar. The dried fruit that comes with the oatmeal
already supplies sugar.

Breakfast also shows the importance of beverages: We don't realize how many
calories we're consuming when we drink. It's not just soda that is caloric: A
glass of orange juice can have 170 calories. And beverage calories are often
empty calories, providing few or no nutrients and still leaving you hungry
later. If you drink water, club soda or unsweetened iced tea or coffee, you can
eat more calories. And if you do order a juice with breakfast, consider drinking
only half of it unless it's six ounces or less.

Classic Fast Food

We should tell you that avoiding McDonald's and Burger King altogether will
probably be good for your health. They serve highly processed food, and many
meals there soar above 1,000 calories. But if you eat classic fast food
occasionally, keep in mind that there is a wide variety in the healthfulness, or
lack thereof, of different fast-food meals.

First, remember portion inflation: The original McDonald's burger patty weighed
1.6 ounces, says Lisa Young, an N.Y.U. nutritionist, less than half as large as
a current Quarter Pounder. Stick with a basic burger or chicken sandwich, and
you can remain under 750 calories. Second, make choices: Don't do fries, a soda
and a dessert.

Finally, search for the few vegetables and fruits on the menu. Wendy's,
responding to the salad boom, has started emphasizing its salads in an ad
campaign. If you order one, you can have a dessert and still eat many fewer
calories than is in a typical fast-food meal.

There are even healthier options at Cheesecake Factory, a chain known for
gargantuan portions. Its ''SkinnyLicious'' menu includes more than 50 options
under 590 calories, which means it's longer than the entire menu at many
restaurants. By putting mostly lean protein and fresh vegetables on the plate,
Cheesecake Factory is able to provide a vast quantity of food without a lot of
calories.

And volume can be your ally. ''One of the things you want to think about when
you to go a restaurant is calories, but you also want to make sure you get
enough volume of food so you feel satisfied when you leave,'' says Marlene
Schwartz, the director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at the
University of Connecticut.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN: (700 calories): Veggie pizza (half
portion, 535), 18-ounce Bud Light (165) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)
SWEETGREEN: (615 calories): Quinoa and farro bowl: arugula, chickpeas, feta,
broccoli, almonds, olive oil and lemon juice
DENNY'S: (390 calories): Fit Slam: egg whites with spinach, turkey bacon, an
English muffin and fruit (390), black coffee (0)
 McDONALD'S: (530 calories): McWrap Chicken & Ranch (460), apple slices (two
orders, 30), clementine (40) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRUITS &
VEGETABLES (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); NUTRITION (76%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%); PRET A MANGER (EUROPE) LTD (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH
(65%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(57%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clues on Twitter Show Ties Between Texas Gunman and ISIS Network

BYLINE: By RUKMINI CALLIMACHI; Matthew Rosenberg and Scott Shane contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1402 words


Hours before he drove into a Texas parking lot last week and opened fire with an
assault rifle outside a Prophet Muhammad cartoon contest, Elton Simpson, 30,
logged onto Twitter.

''Follow @_AbuHu55ain,'' Mr. Simpson posted, promoting a Twitter account
believed to belong to Junaid Hussain, a young computer expert from Birmingham,
England, who moved to Syria two years ago to join the Islamic State and has
become one of the extremist group's celebrity hackers.

This seemingly routine shout-out is an intriguing clue to the question of
whether the gunmen, Mr. Simpson and Nadir Soofi, 34, both of Phoenix, were
acting in concert with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, in
carrying out an attack outside a community center in Garland, Tex. The Islamic
State said two days later that the two men, who were killed by officers after
opening fire, were ''soldiers of the Caliphate.'' It was the first time that the
terror group had tried to claim credit for an operation carried out in its name
on American soil.

As the gunmen were driving toward the Curtis Culwell Center, Mr. Hussain logged
onto Twitter himself from half a world away, firing off a series of posts in the
hour before the attack began at 7 p.m. on May 3. One message posted to his
account about 5:45 p.m. seemed to predict imminent violence: ''The knives have
been sharpened, soon we will come to your streets with death and slaughter!''

After the attack, Mr. Hussain was in the first wave of people who praised the
gunmen, before his account was suspended.

Law enforcement officials have not presented any conclusive evidence that the
Islamic State planned or directed the attack. Yet Mr. Simpson appears to have
been part of a network of Islamic State adherents in several countries,
including the group's hub in Syria, who have encouraged attacks and highlighted
the Texas event as a worthy target.

Counterterrorism officials say the case shows how the Islamic State and its
supporters use social media to cheerlead for attacks without engaging in the
secret training, plotting and control that has long characterized Al Qaeda. But
a close look at Mr. Simpson's Twitter connections shows that he had developed a
notable online relationship with some of the Islamic State's best-known
promoters on the Internet, and that they actively encouraged such acts of
terror.

Speaking of the Texas case last week, James B. Comey, the director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, said the distinction between an attack
''inspired'' by a foreign terrorist group and one ''directed'' by the group ''is
breaking down.''

''It's not a useful framework,'' he added.

Mr. Simpson was radicalized years before the Islamic State announced in 2014
that it was creating a caliphate, a unified land for Muslims, and drew global
attention for territorial gains and brutal violence. He was investigated by the
F.B.I. starting in 2006 and was sentenced to probation in 2011 for lying to
investigators. But like many young Muslims drawn by the sensational image of the
Islamic State, he enthusiastically joined its virtual community of supporters.

An analysis of Mr. Simpson's Twitter account by the SITE Intelligence Group,
which tracks extremist statements, found that Mr. Simpson followed more than 400
other accounts, including ''hardcore I.S. fighters from around the world.'' They
included an alleged British fighter for the Islamic State, known as Abu Abdullah
Britani, who according to SITE is believed to be Abu Rahin Aziz, a radical
British national who skipped bail to join the terror group. They also included
an alleged American fighter called Abu Khalid Al-Amriki and numerous female
Islamic State jihadists.

Many of Mr. Simpson's posts announced the new Twitter handles of Islamic State
members whose accounts the social media company had suspended, messages commonly
called ''shout-outs.''

''He was taking part in shout-outs of ISIS accounts that were previously
suspended, and this shows a pretty deep involvement in the network online,''
says J. M. Berger, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and co-author of
a book about the Islamic State. ''He was wired into a legitimate foreign
fighters network.''

Starting last fall, the Islamic State has repeatedly called for attacks in the
West by supporters with no direct connection to its core leadership, and there
have been at least six attacks in Europe, Canada and Australia by gunmen who
appeared to have been inspired by the group. Each attacker left an online trail
similar to that of Mr. Simpson, though not all were in contact with Islamic
State operatives in Syria.

A review of Mr. Simpson's Twitter account shows that he interacted not just with
sympathizers of the Islamic State, but also with fighters believed to be in
Syria and Africa. Some of these fighters later posted on Twitter details of Mr.
Simpson's biography not yet in the public sphere, suggesting that he had shared
details about his life with them.

''The thing that clearly stands out if you peruse the Texas shooter's timeline
is his third to last tweet,'' the one promoting Mr. Hussain, said Daveed
Gartenstein-Ross, a senior fellow who researches extremism at the Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies and who shared a PDF of Mr. Simpson's Twitter
history.

Veryan Khan, who helps run the Terrorism Research and Analysis Consortium, said
that Mr. Simpson probably urged others to follow Mr. Hussain in order to draw
broader attention to his forthcoming attack. ''He wanted to make sure everyone
in those circles knew what he'd done,'' she said. ''It was attention-seeking --
that's what it looks like,'' added Ms. Khan, whose organization tracks some
5,000 Islamic State figures and supporters.

While still living in Birmingham, Mr. Hussain rose to notoriety as a hacker
working under the screen name Tr1Ck, and he was believed to be a core member of
what was called TeaM p0isoN. The team claimed a string of high profile
cyberattacks, hacking into a Scotland Yard conference call on combating hackers
and posting Facebook updates to the pages of its chief executive, Mark
Zuckerberg, and former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.

Mr. Hussain was eventually arrested, and he served a six-month prison sentence
before traveling to Syria. He has since been linked to a number of Islamic State
hacking attacks overseas, though some security officials have doubts about his
role.

Another well-known promoter of the Islamic State who engaged with Mr. Simpson
was a jihadist known on Twitter as Mujahid Miski, believed to be Mohamed
Abdullahi Hassan, a Somali-American from Minnesota. Though Mr. Hassan lives in
Somalia, he has emerged as an influential recruiter for the group.

On April 23, the account Mujahid Miski shared a link on Twitter to a listing for
the Muhammad cartoon contest and goaded his followers to attack it. ''The
brothers from the Charlie Hebdo attack did their part. It's time for brothers in
the #US to do their part,'' he wrote. Among the nine people who retweeted his
call to violence, according to SITE, was Mr. Simpson.

Three days later, Mr. Simpson reached out to Mujahid Miski on Twitter, asking
him to message him privately. Whether they actually communicated, or what they
may have said, is not publicly known. Minutes before Mr. Simpson arrived at the
cartoon event in Garland and began shooting, he went on Twitter one last time to
link the attack to the Islamic State. ''The bro with me and myself have given
bay'ah to Amirul Mu'mineem,'' he wrote, using the vocabulary of the Islamic
State to say that they had given an oath of allegiance to the Emir of the
Believers -- the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

''May Allah accept us as mujahedeen,'' he wrote, adding the hashtag
''#TexasAttack.''

Among those who retweeted this last post was Mr. Hussain, the Islamic State
hacker in Syria. ''Allahu Akbar!!!!'' he wrote. ''2 of our brothers just opened
fire at the Prophet Muhammad (s.a.w) art exhibition in Texas!'' he added, using
the Arabic abbreviation for ''peace be upon him.''

After Mr. Simpson's death, Mujahid Miski tweeted a series of posts, calling Mr.
Simpson ''Mutawakil,'' ''One who has faith,'' a variation on Mr. Simpson's
Twitter handle, ''Atawaakul,'' meaning ''To have faith.''

''I'm gonna miss Mutawakil,'' Mujahid Miski wrote. ''He was truly a man of
wisdom. I'm gonna miss his greeting every morning on twitter.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/twitter-clues-show-ties-between-isis-and-ga
rland-texas-gunman.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elton Simpson went on Twitter one last time on May 3 to link his
attack to the Islamic State.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); ISLAMIC STATE
IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%);
TERRORISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%);
SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%);
DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%)

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (72%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (88%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Title Insurance Scam

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 392 words


When you buy or refinance a home, you have to get title insurance, which
protects both you and the lender if ownership of the property is ever
challenged. Shopping around for title insurance is rare; if you are like most
people, you buy the insurance from a title agent referred to you by the loan
officer or someone else involved in the transaction. All of which makes buyers
of title insurance sitting ducks for abuse. Congress is aware of the situation
-- and is determined to keep things just as they are.

It is no secret, for instance, that many borrowers are overcharged for title
insurance. In 2007, the Government Accountability Office warned that the price
of title policies was inflated by lack of competition in the title-insurance
market, as well as apparently illegal kickbacks paid by title agents to
realtors, mortgage brokers, loan officers and others who sent business their
way.

The 2010 Dodd-Frank law called for cleaning up title insurance, and, in 2014,
regulators from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a rule to carry
out the law. Basically, the rule created a safe harbor from liability for
regulatory violations, but only for loans with closing costs of less than 3
percent of the total loan, including fees to title companies affiliated with
lenders. In effect, the rule uses market incentives to limit title costs by
offering lighter regulation in exchange for keeping costs down.

Congress is resisting. A bipartisan majority in the House recently passed a
Republican bill to exclude title fees from the calculation that determines the
level of regulatory scrutiny. The White House has threatened a veto. But, in the
Senate, Republicans could add the bill to other legislation that Democrats may
want.

The bill ignores evidence of kickbacks unearthed by the consumer bureau and by
New York's Department of Financial Services. The public corruption case against
Dean Skelos, who stepped down Monday as majority leader of the New York State
Senate, and his son Adam, involves title insurance. The elder Mr. Skelos is
alleged to have pressed a real estate executive to send title-related business
to his son, who had worked in insurance. The executive had a title company pay
the son a ''commission'' of $20,000 for no work -- which is another way of
inflating the price paid by consumers for title insurance.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/the-title-insurance-scam.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TITLE INSURANCE (95%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%);
US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSUMER WATCHDOGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%);
INSURANCE FRAUD (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BRIBERY
(88%); INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS
(78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); VETO (76%);
POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%);
CORRUPTION (73%); US DODD FRANK ACT (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER
FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice for Nail Salon Workers

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 673 words


Across the country, countless workers in the nail salon industry, mainly
immigrant women, toil in misery and ill health for meager pay, usually with no
overtime, abused by employers who show little or no consideration for their
safety and well-being. It is a world of long days and toxic chemicals, where the
usual protections of government have failed, at all levels.

In shining a light on one ugly industry, a recent report in The Times has also
illuminated a far larger problem that occurs wherever greedy employers meet
vulnerable workers. Farm laborers, nannies, carwash workers, day laborers,
dishwashers, busboys, construction workers, garment workers, janitors -- it's a
sweatshop economy, and Americans have gotten used to its bounty of cheap
services and goods, basking in ever-cheaper luxury while ignoring the pain and
injustice that make it all possible.

What to do? The problem seems overwhelming. The answer is not boycotts or
scattershot raids or customers guiltily slipping a little more cash to their
manicurists. Cultivating justice in the world of low-wage immigrant labor is
going to take concerted attention and serious effort at all levels of
government, along with increased support for, and greater involvement by, the
workers themselves.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo has announced a task force of New York state agencies to fight
wage theft and health abuses in nail salons. His impulse is decent, and his
ideas are good, like requiring bonding for salons to ensure that workers will be
able to collect stolen pay. But if he wants lasting results, he has to have a
long-term strategy. Workplace enforcement in the immigrant economy is
notoriously haphazard and limited by language barriers. The state needs to hire
many more translators and bilingual inspectors. Workers' rights groups applaud
Mr. Cuomo's announcement, but they are right to press for details, and to ask --
once the state steps in, then what? If workers are not organized, if they lack a
support system, ill-advised crackdowns may leave them worse off than before.

This where the federal government must help. The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration needs better outreach and services to protect women who suffer
from exposure to toxic salon chemicals. These problems are not going to be
solved by lunchroom safety posters, but by stricter standards and enforcement.

The Department of Homeland Security, awash in funding in this age of border
paranoia, has lavished its energies on the wrong immigration violators. What if
it retrained some of its deportation agents as labor inspectors, focusing on
bottom-feeding employers, to build fairer workplaces to benefit all American
workers? At the very least it should protect more whistle-blowers through its
special visa programs for undocumented-immigrant crime victims to make sure no
one is exploited in silence.

Finally, even though a broken immigration system leaves many undocumented
workers vulnerable to abuse and wage theft, they still must be a part of this
solution. Mr. Cuomo's announcement referred to a ''community-based partnership''
with local organizations ''to identify violators and to encourage workers to
come forward.''

This is where government must build upon many years of work by grass-roots labor
organizations. One example is the New York Healthy Nail Salons Coalition, led by
the New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health, and Adhikaar, which
means ''rights'' in Nepali. Adhikaar, based in Queens, has been giving Nepali
nail salon workers health and safety training and encouraging the creation of
''green'' salons using nontoxic products.

Workers' organizations like these play a role in bridging the gaps where
government and law enforcement fall short. Like the ''carwasheros'' in Los
Angeles and New York, the farm workers and street-corner day laborers who have
set up workers' centers across the country to fight for better wages and
workplace safety, the workers of nail salons can stand up for their rights -- as
they should, with our support.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/justice-for-nail-salon-workers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAIL SALONS (91%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); OCCUPATIONAL
HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%);
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN
LABOR (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%);
WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%);
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (71%); APPAREL MFG (70%); BOYCOTTS (69%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%);
LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Deal: What It Would Mean

BYLINE: By KEVIN GRANVILLE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1529 words


Like a huge container ship pushing its way into port, the trade pact known as
the Trans-Pacific Partnership is about to drop anchor in Washington. The
document is weighty and secret, stretching to perhaps 30 chapters, and is still
being negotiated after nearly 10 years of talks. It would set new terms for
trade and business investment among the United States and 11 other Pacific Rim
nations -- a far-flung group with an annual gross domestic product of nearly $28
trillion that represents roughly 40 percent of global G.D.P. and one-third of
world trade.

Supporters say it would be a boon for all the nations involved, that it would
''unlock opportunities'' and ''address vital 21st-century issues within the
global economy,'' and that it is written in a way to encourage more countries,
possibly even China, to sign on. Passage in Congress is one of President Obama's
final goals in office, but he faces stiff opposition from nearly all of his
fellow Democrats.

Opponents in the United States see the pact as mostly a giveaway to business,
encouraging further export of manufacturing jobs to low-wage nations while
limiting competition and encouraging higher prices for pharmaceuticals and other
high-value products by spreading American standards for patent protections to
other countries. A provision allowing multinational corporations to challenge
regulations and court rulings before special tribunals is drawing intense
opposition.

Which Nations Are Involved?

Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru,
Singapore and Vietnam, as well as the United States.

Why This, Why Now?

The pact is a major component of President Obama's ''pivot'' to Asia. It is seen
as a way to bind Pacific trading partners closer to the United States while
raising a challenge to Asia's rising power, China, which has pointedly been
excluded from the deal, at least for now.

It is seen as a means to address a number of festering issues that have become
stumbling blocks as global trade has soared, including e-commerce, financial
services and cross-border Internet communications.

There are also traditional trade issues involved. The United States is eager to
establish formal trade agreements with five of the nations involved -- Japan,
Malaysia, Brunei, New Zealand and Vietnam -- and strengthen Nafta, its current
agreement with Canada and Mexico.

Moreover, as attempts at global trade deals have faltered (such as the World
Trade Organization's Doha round), the Trans-Pacific Partnership is billed as an
''open-architecture'' document written to ease adoption by additional Asian
nations, and to provide a potential template to other initiatives underway, like
the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.

What Are Some of the Issues on the Table?

Tariffs and Quotas Long used to protect domestic industries from cheaper goods
from overseas, tariffs on imports were once a standard, robust feature of trade
policy, and generated much of the revenue for the United States Treasury in the
19th century. After the Depression and World War II, the United States led a
movement toward freer trade.

Today, the United States and most developed countries have few tariffs, but some
remain. The United States, for example, protects the domestic sugar market from
lower-priced global suppliers and imposes tariffs on imported shoes, while Japan
has steep surcharges on agricultural products including rice, beef and dairy.
The pact is an attempt to create a Pacific Rim free-trade zone.

Environmental, Labor and Intellectual Property Standards United States
negotiators stress that the Pacific agreement would seek to level the playing
field by imposing rigorous labor and environmental standards on trading
partners, and supervision of intellectual property rights.

Data Flows The United States wants the Pacific trade pact to address a number of
issues that have arisen since previous agreements were negotiated. One is that
countries agree not to block cross-border transfers of data over the Internet,
and not require that servers be located in the country in order to conduct
business in that country. This proposal has drawn concerns from some countries,
Australia among them, that it could conflict with privacy laws and regulations
against personal data stored offshore.

Services A big aim of the Pacific pact is enhancing opportunities for service
industries, which account for most of the private jobs in the American economy.
The United States has a competitive advantage in a range of services, including
finance, engineering, software, education, legal and information technology.
Although services are not subject to tariffs, nationality requirements and
restrictions on investing are used by many developing countries to protect local
businesses.

State-Owned Businesses United States negotiators have discussed the need to
address favoritism often granted to state-owned business -- those directly or
indirectly owned by the government. Although Vietnam and Malaysia have many such
corporations, the United States has some too (the Postal Service and Fannie Mae,
for example). The final agreement may include terms that seek to insure some
competitive neutrality while keeping the door open to China's future acceptance
of the pact.

Why All the Secrecy?

The office of the United States Trade Representative has said that ''negotiators
need to communicate with each other with a high degree of candor, creativity and
mutual trust. To create the conditions necessary to successfully reach
agreements in complex trade and investment negotiations, governments routinely
keep their proposals and communications with each other confidential.''

But previous trade agreements were shared more openly and despite the secrecy
efforts, portions of the document have been leaking out, through WikiLeaks and
other organizations.

Why Isn't China In on the Talks?

China has never expressed interest in joining the negotiations, but in the past
has viewed the pact with concern, seeing a potential threat as the United States
tries to tighten its relationship with Asian trading partners. But lately, as
the talks have accelerated, senior Chinese officials have sounded more accepting
of the potential deal, and have even hinted that they might want to participate
at some point. At the same time, the deal provides China some cover as it
pursues its own trade agreements in the region, such as the Silk Road initiative
in Central Asia.

United States officials, while making clear that they see the pact as part of an
effort to counter China's influence in the region, say they are hopeful that the
pact's ''open architecture'' eventually prompts China to join, along with other
important economic powers like South Korea.

The Shadow of Nafta, and the Looming Debate in Washington

Nafta, signed by President Bill Clinton in 1993, helped lead to a boom in trade
among the United States, Mexico and Canada. All three countries exported more
goods and services to the other two, cross-border investments grew, and the
United States economy has added millions of jobs since then. But of course not
all those trends were attributable to Nafta, and the benefits were not equal:
The United States had a small trade surplus with Mexico when the pact was
signed, but that quickly became a trade deficit that has widened to more than
$50 billion a year. Critics of Nafta also point out that job growth in the
United States does not account for the loss of jobs to Mexico or Canada; the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. contends about 700,000 United States jobs have been lost or
displaced because of Nafta.

Nafta was a significant victory for President Clinton after a difficult
congressional battle, where he won support from just enough fellow Democrats to
ensure passage. The votes were 234 to 200 in the House, and 61 to 38 in the
Senate.

President Obama can only hope for that kind of outcome. Most Democratic
lawmakers vehemently oppose the Pacific trade deal; unions and progressive
groups have lined up to block approval of a bill, known as Trade Promotion
Authority, that would allow the White House to present the trade package to
Congress for a straight up-or-down vote, without amendments. But President Obama
has formed an unusual alliance with business groups and Republican leaders to
pursue it. Oddsmakers expect a close vote, but say it has a good chance of
passing.

Some further reading on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, from The New York Times
and elsewhere.

â-  A detailed defense of the trade pact from the website of the United States
Trade Representative.

â-  A report on China taking a ''watch and study'' position on the deal.

â-  Senator Elizabeth Warren criticizes the secrecy surrounding the
negotiations. | President Obama says Ms. Warren is ''absolutely wrong'' in her
opposition to the deal.

â-  The Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, on why the pact is
likely to hurt American workers.

â-  The deal is essential for national security reasons: a column by Thomas L.
Friedman.

â-  Room for Debate -- What We've Learned From Nafta: Six concise and varied
viewpoints on why Nafta has been a success, or not.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/unpacking-the-trans-pacific-partnersh
ip-trade-deal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%);
INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING &
FINANCE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%);
US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES
(75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(71%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%);
PATENTS (50%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%);
MEXICO (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%);
AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Torres's New Album, 'Sprinter,' Shows an Artist Opening Up

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words


TORRES

''Sprinter'' (Partisan)

Mackenzie Scott, the songwriter who records as Torres, operates in a primal
realm where memories, scars, traumas and new sensations are all still raw.
''Sprinter,'' her second album, confronts relationships past and present, in
songs that sound bravely open, even if it's not immediately clear what's on her
mind. Her music is blunt, mercurial rock; it can smolder while she considers
exactly where she stands, and it can roar into feedback-edged howls when her
rage or despair boil over. ''If you do not know the darkness, then you're the
one I fear the most,'' she warns after an overpowering buildup in ''New Skin.''

Born in Georgia and now based in Brooklyn, Torres chose seasoned British
collaborators for her studio band. Her drummer and co-producer is Rob Ellis, who
worked with PJ Harvey, as did her bassist, Ian Oliver; Adrian Utley from
Portishead joins her on guitar. The musicians firm up and extend the dynamics
that were already churning on Torres's self-titled 2013 debut album. There's a
sinewy indie-rock band at the core of the songs, while other sounds often emerge
from shadowy fringes.

Torres sings about struggling for and against the Baptist faith she grew up in,
about the bonds and tensions of friends and family, about isolation and about
something like romance. In ''Strange Hellos,'' she tries to sympathize with
someone who has been close to her, then changes her mind as a tsunami of grunge
guitars crashes in: ''What's mine isn't really yours/ But I hope you find what
you're looking for,'' she snarls.

The title song of ''Sprinter,'' a march through gusts of guitar distortion,
revisits childhood lessons in church and comes to an ambiguous realization:
''There's freedom to/ And freedom from,'' she sings, ''And freedom to run/ From
everyone.''

In ''Ferris Wheel,'' a slow waltz floating in an echoey haze, she sings about an
evasive friend and how she longs ''to show you that I've got the sadness too.''
The album's finale, ''The Exchange,'' is even quieter: It's just Torres with a
squeaky acoustic guitar, thinking about her parents and about mortality:
''Mother, Father, I'm underwater,'' she sings, almost tearfully, ''and I don't
think you can pull me out of this.''

But the tone of Torres's songs isn't self-pitying; it's more a matter of
attentiveness, of recognizing consequences. And partway through the album, she
steps away from the personal to the oracular, with lyrics that aren't easily
parsed. In ''Son, You Are No Island,'' she warns a young man about his
immaturity in geographical imagery, within a patient drone that ripples and
thickens. And ''A Proper Polish Welcome'' interweaves ancestry and mythology,
imagining ''Pale legs straddling the sea.'' What's going on isn't clear, but the
passion is unmistakable.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-torress-new-album-sprinter-s
hows-an-artist-opening-up.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Torres's new album, seasoned musicians help her extend the
dynamics heard on her debut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BRACKBILL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); SONG WRITING (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tornado's Destruction Cuts Deep in a Small Texas Town

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Richard Pérez-Peña contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 796 words


VAN, Tex. --  Pete Lucas, 75, sat outside his home in this debris-strewn East
Texas town on Monday and stared at J.E. Rhodes Elementary School next door.

A giant tree had toppled onto a school playground, sparing the yellow twisting
slide. A section of aluminum roofing dangled from the branches of his front-yard
tree. Inside the classrooms, shattered glass, chunks of yellow insulation and
holes in the ceiling clashed with construction-paper drawings, racks of Elmer's
glue and Cat in the Hat stickers. Mr. Lucas and other residents of this town of
2,600 said they were thankful, at least, that the tornado that wrecked Van hit
on Sunday night, when the school buildings and playgrounds were empty.

''If the kids had been here, it would have been devastating,'' Mr. Lucas said.

In a state with a long list of historic and deadly disasters -- hurricanes,
industrial explosions, wildfires -- the tornado that swept through Van on Sunday
seemed rather small scale. Two people were killed, 47 others were sent to
hospitals with injuries and 100 homes were damaged or destroyed in the area, the
authorities said. But in such a small town, 73 miles east of Dallas in Van Zandt
County, the destruction seemed to touch everyone and everything, and to cut
deeper than if it had unfolded in a larger and more urban area.

Two of the town's five schools, Rhodes Elementary and Van Intermediate School,
were heavily damaged. The two people who died, a husband and wife, were more
than just anonymous fatalities. Melinda Sherbert, whose damaged roof was covered
with a blue tarp, saw the wife on Sundays at Van United Methodist Church, where
the woman had worked. The day after the storm, late Monday afternoon, it was not
those she knew well who were on Ms. Sherbert's mind. It was those who were
strangers to her, dozens of them, who had come to her house and cleaned up
debris on her lawn and made repairs.

''It really does give you faith in mankind,'' said Ms. Sherbert, whose mother,
whom she lives with, has called Van home for all but five of her 92 years.
''Neighbors, strangers, everybody. Have we known nine-tenths of the people
working in our yard? No.''

Tornadoes killed at least four people and left dozens injured in North Texas and
Arkansas on Sunday night. In Nashville, Ark., in the southwestern part of the
state, a tornado on Sunday left two people dead -- another married couple, whose
young daughter survived, officials said. In Lake City, in western Iowa, a
tornado tore the roof off a high school while more than 100 people were inside
it for an assembly.

In Van, an official with the National Weather Service said that based on a
damage assessment, the twister on Sunday was a Category 3 on the Enhanced Fujita
scale, which measures tornado strength on a scale of 0 to 5, with 5 being the
most destructive. Three people were still missing, said Chuck Allen, the Van
Zandt County fire marshal and emergency manager, who did not identify the couple
who died. Gov. Greg Abbott declared a state of disaster in Van Zandt and six
other counties, and state law enforcement officials were taking part in search
and rescue efforts.

''It's a terrible thing for a city to come out like we did, but it's a great
thing the way the people have responded,'' Mayor Dean Stone said.

The town's name has nothing to do with a vehicle or with Van Zandt County. Van
was named for two local men, according to the Texas State Historical
Association: a schoolteacher, Henry Vance, who established a post office in town
in 1894, and for a resident named Vannie Tunnel.

V. L. Davidson, 90, who has lived in a corner house for 47 years, hunkered down
in the bathroom as the wind picked up on Sunday night, and he emerged without a
scratch. He was walking outside his house on Monday, in his once-quiet
neighborhood near Rhodes Elementary, in his once-quiet town. A helicopter
circled overhead. The sounds of crunching, roaring and rumbling seemed to blot
out his voice -- chain saws, power crews repairing downed lines, construction
vehicles and the snap and crackle of his footsteps on a street caked with bits
and pieces of trees, debris, glass and shards of his neighbors' homes.

''It happened so fast,'' Mr. Davidson said. ''It wasn't five seconds. I mean,
that was it.''

Mr. Lucas hid underneath a queen-size mattress in a hallway with his wife and
his son. No one was injured, and Mr. Lucas' house had foundation and roof damage
but was spared any major damage. None of the windows of his house even
shattered.

''When I was a kid, we were in one in Broken Arrow, Okla.,'' he said. ''My
auntie told us to put one window up on the east side and one window up on the
west side. We still got them open. They tell you now not to do that. But I still
take old auntie's advice.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/national-weather-service-warns-of-more-seve
re-storms.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman in Van, Tex., on Monday comforted a child outside a
home that was damaged when a tornado struck the town, east of Dallas, on Sunday
night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE STONE/REUTERS)
 Shelby Van Sickle, below, in his home in Van. Officials said 100 houses were
damaged or destroyed in the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANES
(78%); ROOFING MATERIALS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR
(71%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (67%); FIRES (67%); MARRIAGE (64%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swansea Tops Arsenal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | SOCCER; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 72 words


Bafétimbi Gomis gave Swansea an unexpected 1-0 victory over Arsenal when
goal-line technology showed that his late header had crossed the line, to the
surprise of both teams.

Swansea, which is in eighth place, bolstered its chances of qualifying for the
Europa League, but Arsenal remained in third place and missed a chance to
strengthen its hold on an automatic passage into the Champions League rather
than a passage via a playoff.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/soccer/swansea-tops-arsenal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hernandez Charged

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | PRO FOOTBALL; Pg.
11

LENGTH: 198 words


The former New England Patriots player Aaron Hernandez, who was convicted of
murder, has been charged with trying to silence a witness in a separate double
murder case against him by shooting him in the face and leaving him for dead,
prosecutors said Monday.

Hernandez was indicted Friday by a grand jury in Boston on a charge of witness
intimidation, according to the office of the Suffolk County district attorney,
Daniel F. Conley.

Hernandez, 25, was convicted last month of killing Odin Lloyd, who was dating
his fiancÃ©e's sister, in June 2013. He also faces two counts of murder in
Boston, where he is accused of gunning down two men in July 2012 after one
caused him to spill his drink at a nightclub.

The latest charge is connected to the Boston killings. The Suffolk County
district attorney's office said the victim of the intimidation was a witness to
those killings.

â-  The Jets signed quarterback Jake Heaps and fullback J. C. Copeland, who both
participated in rookie minicamp over the weekend as tryout players.

â-  Cornerback Kyle Arrington was released by the New England Patriots.
Arrington, 28, spent the last five seasons in New England, playing in two Super
Bowls.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/football/aaron-hernandez-charged-with-i
ntimidation.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); HOMICIDE (78%); INDICTMENTS
(78%); GRAND JURY (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australian Leads Giro

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | CYCLING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 79 words


Michael Matthews sprinted to victory in the third stage of the Giro d'Italia to
remain in the overall lead. Matthews, of Australia, crossed the line half a
length ahead of Fabio Felline of Italy and Philippe Gilbert of Belgium on a
short but hilly route from Rapallo to Sestri Levante, Italy.

â-  Mark Cavendish earned his second straight win over Peter Sagan in the second
stage of the Tour of California. Cavendish leads Sagan by eight seconds over all
in the eight-day race.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/cycling/australian-leads-giro-ditalia.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%); BELGIUM (69%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assessing the Value of Lung Cancer Screening

BYLINE: By PAULA SPAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE NEW OLD AGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1330 words


You smoked for years. Maybe you still do. Now that Medicare promises to begin
covering lung cancer screening, should you sign up?

That's a difficult question.

The eligibility requirements seem fairly clear-cut: You can receive an annual
low-dose CT scan if youare 55 to 77 years old, have a smoking history of at
least 30 ''pack years'' -- meaning that you smoked a pack a day for 30 years, or
two packs a day for 15, and so on -- and still smoke or quit only within the
past 15 years.

More than 10 million Americans will be eligible for screening, the United States
Preventive Services Task Force, an independent, volunteer panel of national
experts, has estimated, though many of those millions aren't yet Medicare
recipients.

But screening will not help everyone who is eligible, experts warn. Like any
medical test or procedure, it will subject some patients to harm.

''How do you make a blanket coverage decision about something that's a good idea
for some people and not so good for others?'' said Dr. Michael Gould, a
pulmonologist and senior research scientist at Kaiser Permanente Southern
California, and a nonvoting member of Medicare's coverage advisory committee.

That committee voted last year against covering the procedure, saying it found
insufficient evidence of benefit. A few months earlier, the preventive services
task force had come to precisely the opposite conclusion and recommended annual
screening, which made coverage mandatory for private insurers but not for
Medicare.

Overriding its own advisory committee, Medicare approved coverage but decided to
require -- a first -- a ''counseling and shared decision-making visit'' with a
physician or other medical professional before reimbursement for a scan.

''Because the follow-up testing is invasive, biopsies and such, and lung cancer
has such serious mortality and morbidity risks, we wanted to ensure that
Medicare beneficiaries were informed,'' said Dr. Patrick Conway, chief medical
officer at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Lung cancer, overwhelmingly caused by smoking, still causes more deaths than any
other cancer, in part because it is hard to detect at more curable stages.

Unlike lumps in breasts, for example, ''nothing in your lungs allows you to
sense the presence of a nodule or mass,'' said Dr. Douglas Arenberg, director of
the lung cancer screening program at the University of Michigan Medical School.

With treatment, usually surgery, 70 percent to 80 percent of patients with Stage
1 lung cancer, and half of those with Stage 2, survive for at least five years.
But most lung cancer is diagnosed when the disease is more advanced, leading to
lousy overall mortality rates: Just 18 percent of all lung cancer patients
survive for five years.

Pulmonologists have tried for years to find ways to detect lung cancer earlier.
Experiments using ordinary chest X-rays proved disappointing. Then in 2011,
researchers running the National Lung Screening Trial, involving 53,454 smokers
and former smokers ages 55 to 74, reported encouraging findings: Patients who
received a low-dose CT scan annually for three years were 20 percent less likely
to die of lung cancer over an average of 6.5 years than those tested with
X-rays.

Those results led to the preventive services task force's endorsement and,
eventually, to Medicare's approval. ''We're covering evidence-based preventive
services for beneficiaries, which will save lives,'' Dr. Conway said.

How many lives? While the overwhelming number of people with lung cancer are or
were smokers, most smokers don't develop lung cancer. So although a 20 percent
reduction in mortality sounds impressive, it represents a small number of
people.

In the national trial, those screened with chest X-rays had about a 1.7 percent
chance of dying from lung cancer during the study period; in the CT scan group,
it was about 1.4 percent.

For every thousand people screened with a low-dose CT, three fewer died of lung
cancer.

Lay people struggle to grasp these kinds of numbers. ''They look at me and say,
'Doc, just tell me what to do,' '' Dr. Arenberg said. Or they give a
how-can-it-hurt shrug and opt in: Maybe they'll be among the three in 1,000
saved.

The problem is, testing can cause harm, too.

First, a high proportion of those tests will trigger a false alarm. CT scans
can't distinguish well between small nodules that aren't dangerous and those
that become lethal.

In the national trial, close to 40 percent of participants got positive results
from at least one of their three CT scans, but more than 96 percent of these
nodules weren't cancerous.

False positives usually require additional scans, over several years, to
determine whether nodules are malignant. Meanwhile, ''you have to be willing to
live with that uncertainty,'' Dr. Gould said.

Worse, some positive results require more invasive follow-up, particularly
biopsies, which also have risks, though low ones. Twenty to 25 percent of the
time, a biopsy causes a pneumothorax, or collapsed lung, which usually heals on
its own but occasionally requires hospitalization. Biopsies can also produce
false negatives or dangerous bleeding.

For older people, the odds shift somewhat. Their cancer risk rises with age, so
the scan will detect more lung cancer, according to an analysis of the national
trial participants over age 65. But their rate of false positives rose, too,
making invasive diagnostic procedures more likely.

At older ages, these procedures may not be trivial.

Elayne Green, a retiree in Boca Raton, Fla., learned this in 2013, when she was
76. Because she'd smoked for 30 years, before hypnosis helped her stop at 43,
her health care provider recommended lung cancer screening. She agreed and paid
$95 out of pocket. (She wouldn't meet Medicare eligibility requirements now.)

The CT scan found a ''hot spot,'' she was told. Regular follow-up screenings
''felt like a guillotine over my head,'' she said. So Mrs. Green had diagnostic
surgery called wedge resection, which found no cancer but caused considerable
pain.

''I couldn't wear a brassiere for three months,'' she recalled.

Among the 65- to 74-year-olds getting CT scans in the national trial, moreover,
many had other serious health problems -- heart disease, diabetes, hypertension,
pulmonary disease -- which probably contributed to only 55 percent surviving
five years, compared with 64 percent among those under age 65.

Researchers call it ''competing mortality.'' Finding lung cancer is a hollow
victory if patients endure testing and treatment, then die of another illness
before the cancer would have killed them.

Most older adults, especially smokers, have multiple chronic diseases. ''If I
find a teensy lung cancer in a 77-year-old with heart disease, I may not have
done him any favor,'' Dr. Arenberg said.

In fact, if screening finds cancer, some seniors won't withstand the surgery,
usually a lobectomy, that may cure it. The post-surgical death rate in the
national trial was just 1 percent, but that involved major medical centers with
specialized radiologists and surgeons -- the ideal setting.

Nationally, deaths from this operation run two to four times higher, and they
increase with the patient's age. And the trial provides no information on
screening results for those older than 77.

So those required ''shared decision-making visits'' with doctors will involve
lots of very individual questions and judgments. Researchers are developing
decision aids to guide physicians and consumers beginning to struggle with lung
cancer screening. (A University of Michigan team has put a helpful one online at
shouldiscreen.com.) And Medicare has established a registry to see how well
large-scale screening works.

But it is worth remembering that however effective it is, screening can't ward
off disease. It only finds the damage already done.

''The only way to prevent lung cancer or reduce your risk,'' Dr. Gould said,
''is to stop smoking.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/health/on-medicare-and-assessing-the-value-of-
lung-cancer-screening.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE MCQUADE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUNG CANCER (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); CANCER (90%); CANCER
SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS  SCREENING &
TESTING (89%); SMOKING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH
(78%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); HEALTH
INSURANCE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE
COVERAGE (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); PROFESSIONAL WORKERS (68%);
MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); INSURANCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); MEDICAID (58%); EVIDENCE (50%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6324
HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At the Head of Her Class

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words


If the quirky world of New York cabaret were a high school class, Jennifer
Sheehan would qualify for valedictorian, prom queen and the person most likely
to succeed. Her new show, ''Stardust: A Night in the Cosmos,'' which she
performed at 54 Below on Saturday, is a leap forward for a performer who
initially evoked a demure, traditional ingénue playing by the rules.

''A Night in the Cosmos'' is much more than a collection of love songs about
romantic stargazing and the dreamy contemplation of heavenly orbs. It is a
speculative, poetic musical treatise on interstellar travel wound around the
story of Voyager 1, the NASA spacecraft. The program, which began with
''Stairway to the Stars'' and ended with an a cappella rendition of ''Star
Dust,'' is a wonder of craftsmanship that took the audience on an exhilarating
journey into the unknown with Carl Sagan serving as a conceptual space captain.

Accompanying Ms. Sheehan were the pianist James Followell, Steven Bargonetti on
guitar, Jered Egan on bass and Dan Gross on percussion, with Mr. Bargonetti the
crucial textural colorist.

Vocally, Ms. Sheehan is a straightforward pop singer whose strength is her pure,
lovely lower register. She has exquisite taste in songs and their placement in a
set that includes Melody Gardot's ''If the Stars Were Mine''; Joni Mitchell's
''Moon at the Window''; and a passionately sung version of Maxwell Anderson and
Kurt Weill's mind-spinning ''Lost in the Stars.'' Ms. Sheehan also danced in a
sinuous, undulating style for ''Caravan.''

Capping the trip was ''Henya,'' an eerie exploration into ''the blue of me and
you where quietly I'm torn in two,'' with music by Ambrose Akinmusire and lyrics
by Gretchen Parlato. Even the all-purpose feel-good song ''What a Wonderful
World'' took on new life as an evocation of contemplating Earth from afar.

Enthralling is the word.

Jennifer Sheehan appears through May 20 at 54 Below, 254 West 54th Street,
Manhattan; 646-476-3551, 54below.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-jennifer-sheehan-at-54-below
-with-stars-her-eyes.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); POP
& ROCK (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); SPACE EXPLORATION (75%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (75%); SPACECRAFT (69%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Low Oil Prices Are Prompting Drillers to Seek Cost-Saving Innovations

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1134 words


KENEDY, Tex. --  These are lean days in the South Texas oil patch, with
once-bustling roads and hotels now empty as the price of oil has plunged and rig
after rig sits idle.

Still, production has barely declined, a testament to the rapid gains that oil
producers are making in coaxing ever more oil from older wells and the few new
wells they are still drilling -- and doing both while investing far less money.

The Norwegian oil giant Statoil, for instance, is experimenting here in the
Eagle Ford shale field with a host of new drilling tools and techniques.

It is trying out different grades of sand to blast along with water and
chemicals to better loosen the hard rock deep underground and increase a well's
production, and varying the depths of wells to squeeze out even more oil. It is
using new well chokes that technicians can operate remotely from a computer or
even a smartphone to quickly adjust flows to maximize production without
overtaxing pipelines.

''There's a proverb in Norway that says necessity teaches the naked woman how to
knit,'' said Bjorn Otto Sverdrup, a Statoil vice president, as he and another
executive of the Norwegian oil company toured the Eagle Ford shale field the
other day.

The knitting is progressing. Even as the company cut the number of rigs it runs
here from three to two since last year, it has managed to lift production by
one-third, a feat that would have been unimaginable a few years ago.

It has cut the average cost of drilling from $4.5 million to $3.5 million a
well, in part by reducing the time it takes to drill from an average of 21 days
to 17 through better planning and laying off slower crews.

Statoil's example is just one of many for an industry reeling from the collapse
of oil prices since last summer. Companies have laid off thousands of workers,
and some are having trouble paying their debts. They have decommissioned more
than half of the country's oil rig fleet. Companies like Anadarko Petroleum and
EOG Resources have drilled hundreds of wells without completing them, saving
their expenditures on hydraulic fracturing until the price of oil recovers.

But a majority of the major companies are managing to survive by increasingly
using techniques traditionally more common to manufacturing plants than to oil
fields to achieve economies of scale.

In some shale fields where companies typically drill up to eight wells on each
production pad, companies are no longer drilling one well at a time. Using rigs
that can move on tracks or legs, they are drilling and completing several wells
at a time, slashing the time it takes to drill each well.

The result has already been a slower decline in domestic shale oil production
than many experts had expected, and the promise of a spike in output if the
global market price continues to rise as it has in recent weeks.

The Energy Department still expects the average daily production for the year to
be moderately higher than in 2014, rising from 8.7 million barrels a day to 9.2
million.

''We can't control the commodity prices, but we can control the efficiency of
our wells,'' said Ben Mathis, Statoil's Eagle Ford operations manager. ''The
industry has taken this as a wake-up call to get more efficient or get out.''

Using new fiber-optic sensors thousands of feet below the ground, operators are
receiving streams of data allowing them to analyze rocks in real time to make
quick decisions.

The sensors can determine how far a fracturing job is penetrating hard rocks to
plan the spacing of wells more accurately. That way, producers are assured that
one well is not draining oil from another and that no significant section of the
shale is left untapped.

And by keeping track of temperatures, pressure and vibration on equipment that
is out of sight, sensors and advanced software can predict when equipment needs
servicing before it breaks down.

''You are more efficient because you are forced to be more innovative,'' said
Patrick Pouyanné, chief executive of Total, the French oil and gas giant. Mr.
Pouyanné estimated that the break-even price for operating in 75 percent of the
shale oil fields a year ago was $75 a barrel, but that is now down to roughly
$60 because of innovation and lower service company costs. He predicted that the
break-even cost could go as low as $50 before long.

Companies like BP, Chevron and Devon Energy have turned to GE Oil & Gas to help
improve exploration and production controls to save power and keep equipment
running longer and more efficiently.

The company is deploying meters that can determine how much water is mixed with
gas and oil before production even begins. A harder pump rate brings up more
water and oil, but water is expensive to treat at the surface and reinject in
disposal wells. When oil prices are low, the operator can decide not to produce
wells with high water content but save them for completion when prices recover.

Developing new variable-speed controls and algorithms that determine the flow of
wells, GE Oil & Gas has figured out ways to turn on and off pumps that formerly
operated 24 hours a day, cutting fuel consumption by up to 20 percent. With
lower pump use, repair and maintenance costs have fallen enough to bring down
the cost of production by two or three dollars a barrel.

In the case of Whiting Petroleum's Bakken shale holdings in North Dakota, new
speed controls on its well pumps reduced equipment repair downtime by 48 percent
and helped increase the productivity of its wells by 28 percent in recent
months.

''Our industry is very slow to adapt to change, so these shake-ups can be good
for challenging operators to find better ways to do things,'' said Ron Holsey,
general manager for automatization and optimization for GE Oil & Gas.

One of GE Oil & Gas's most active partners in cutting costs is Statoil. Using a
concept the company calls ''the perfect well,'' Statoil collects data from its
own wells and those of partners and competitors and then holds seminars for its
employees to determine which drilling and fracking techniques work best.

Statoil is testing new ways to drill and complete wells more efficiently,
including replacing diesel for power with natural gas coming from the same
field. It is also testing ways to reduce shipments of sand and water in
hydraulic fracturing that break and keep open fissures in shale rocks so oil can
ooze out. One way is to use bubbly liquefied carbon dioxide to replace some of
the water in hydraulic fracturing, a technique Statoil will test this summer in
North Dakota.

''These things we are working on are everlasting,'' said Bill Maloney, the
Statoil executive vice president in charge of development and production in
North America, ''because the perfect well doesn't go away when the price of oil
goes back up.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/energy-environment/drillers-answer-lo
w-oil-prices-with-cost-saving-innovations.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oil wells being tested at a Statoil site near Runge, Tex.
Statoil, a Norwegian company, is experimenting in the Eagle Ford shale field
with a number of new drilling tools and techniques. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL
GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PRICES
(89%); LAYOFFS (87%); OIL & GAS OUTPUT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%);
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); SEWING &
NEEDLECRAFTS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS
(73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (58%); EOG RESOURCES INC (52%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (58%); EOG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%);
NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS213111
DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (58%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE
MINING (58%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (52%);
SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS (52%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remains of 4 Women Found at Site Linked to a Serial Killer

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 372 words


NEW BRITAIN, Conn. --  The remains of four victims have been found in a wooded
area behind a strip mall here in central Connecticut that the authorities
described on Monday as the dumping ground for a person suspected as a serial
killer in seven deaths.

It is the same area where the partial skeletons of three women were found in
2007, the police said.

''This is certainly the burial site,'' Chief James Wardwell of the New Britain
Police Department said.

The authorities did not release the suspect's name but said, without elaborating
on whether the person was in custody, that there was no threat to the public.

If the serial killing theory proves true, the case would rival that of
Connecticut's most notorious serial killer, Michael Ross, who admitted murdering
eight women and girls in Connecticut and New York in the 1980s. He was put to
death in 2005.

One of the newly discovered victims has been identified as Melanie Ruth
Camilini, a mother of two from Seymour, who like the other identified victims
had last been seen in 2003. The authorities said they were still trying to
identify three other victims.

Investigators have returned to the site annually since the skeletons' discovery
in 2007, but a specially trained dog from the Federal Bureau of Investigation
helped locate the newly found victims. Chief Wardwell said testing on the
remains found behind the shopping center on April 28 showed that they belonged
to four new victims.

The partial remains of Diane Cusack, Joyvaline Martinez and Mary Jane Menard
were discovered by a hunter there eight years ago.

Ms. Menard's son, Brian McKinney, said it was sad to know that other families
would be enduring the pain of learning loved ones had been killed, but he was
glad to learn that there was no threat to the public.

''It's a relief to know that it's not going to happen again,'' he said

Ms. Menard's sister, Anna Santiago, said, ''At least we know that pretty soon we
will have justice.''

The chief state's attorney, Kevin T. Kane, said it was a sad day for all of the
families. ''Now they have some answers, but the answers that they have aren't
good, either,'' he said. ''And that's what I hope people pay attention to today,
how sad this really is.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/remains-of-4-women-found-in-connectic
ut-thought-to-be-serial-killers-victims.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); FAMILY (89%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); WOMEN (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); DOGS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Chinese Sailors Come a Long Way in Volvo Ocean Race

BYLINE: By CHRIS MUSELER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1134 words


NEWPORT, R.I. --  The Chinese team in the Volvo Ocean Race could not have
performed worse during a trial run in September, less than a month before the
actual race began.

With France's top ocean racers training the crew, the Dongfeng Race Team watched
a $15,000 sail slide overboard and a Chinese crew member cling to a halyard as
he met the same fate, the line shredding his palms, only to be rescued along
with the sail.

''The French guys were getting loads of grief,'' said Mark Turner, one of the
Chinese team's managers, at a stopover here last week. ''The other teams,
everyone, thought we were irrelevant.''

But Dongfeng, whose crew includes members who had never slept on a sailboat or
spoken English before February 2014, arrived in Newport on Thursday as the
victor of the race's sixth leg, which started in Itajaí, Brazil, on April 19. It
was the second leg the team has won in the nine-leg race around the world, which
covers 11 ports and about 39,000 nautical miles.

Dongfeng is now alone in second place over all, with 17 points, 6 behind Abu
Dhabi Ocean Racing, which finished second in the sixth leg, 3 minutes 25 seconds
behind. Dongfeng has managed this despite a broken mast in the previous leg from
Auckland, New Zealand, to Itajaí that added the maximum number of penalty points
to its score. When the crew members won the third leg sailing into their home
port in Sanya, China, they knew they were onto something.

''The win in China legitimized what we were doing for our sponsors,'' said
Turner, who admitted that he had not initially had high expectations for the
team. ''The Chinese, culturally, want to win. But they also wanted Chinese
sailors aboard. That was at odds with setting up a winning program.''

Turner said it was in the team's contract to have three Chinese sailors as part
of the eight-person crew for each leg. In October, when the Chinese arrived for
the start in Alicante, Spain, the skipper, Charles Caudrelier, refused to take
them on.

''He said it was just plain unsafe,'' Turner said. ''These boats are sailed with
around three people on deck at any one time. There would have been scenarios
where two of the crew had to be Chinese and very inexperienced, and Charles
couldn't handle that.''

From the beginning, Turner said, throwing inexperienced men into such a
demanding and, at times, harrowing race was a ''big ask'' of Caudrelier, 41, a
Frenchman who was part of the Groupama sailing team that won this race in
2011-12.

Liu Xue, known as Black, and three other sailors have been rotating into the two
Chinese spots aboard Dongfeng.

''Our first long training, it was cold, I couldn't eat my meal, the boat was
awful, the food was awful,'' Liu said Friday. ''After this, I said I don't want
to touch a boat anymore. Never.''

Liu left the team with a mix of emotions. But after a month away, he started
missing life on board the boat, and he did not want to let down his crewmates.

''I knew I should hold on to this big chance,'' he said.

Turner said that the fledgling ocean racers were at least ''three Volvos'' away
from even serving as a watch captain, the third-most senior position on a boat,
but he added that their improvement had been inspiring.

One French crew member, Kevin Escoffier, had been doing double shifts for sail
changes during the first two legs, Turner said.

''Over time, the Chinese crew have compensated,'' he said. ''Everyone's focus
has been to transfer as much knowledge as possible. Now we are getting good
results despite a clear handicap.''

Even those improvements do not explain why Dongfeng has consistently been the
fastest team through often temperamental weather. One advantage, according to
some experts, has been the jack-of-all-trades approach in French solo sailing
culture, such as in La Solitaire du Figaro race and multihull oceanic record
sailing.

''It doesn't surprise me one bit that this team is winning legs,'' said Ryan
Breymaier, widely considered America's top short-handed sailor, who has trained
with the French. ''There are no egos with these French sailors. They've all
sailed in the Figaro, alone in identical boats. That's what makes this team a
success.''

He added, referring to the boats used in the Volvo Ocean Race, ''All of them are
capable of sailing a VOR 65 around the world with just two guys.''

Breymaier said that some non-French sailors approached ocean sailing with
professional specialists in trimming, helming and other crew positions. He sees
that approach in some of the other Volvo teams.

Sam Davies, skipper aboard Team SCA, which has an all-female crew, is one of the
few graduates of the Figaro in this edition of the Volvo. Breymaier said that
the recent move to ''one-design,'' or identical VOR 65s, played perfectly into
the skills of the French sailors, who are capable on the bow, up the mast or
behind the helm.

''In a one-design boat, if you're slow, it's your fault,'' said Escoffier, who
pointed out that previous editions of the Volvo had used development classes in
which each boat was different. ''Before, it was easy to say that our boat is not
as good as another's. Part of the reason we are fast in this Volvo is that we
are always searching to find that 0.05-knot advantage. Knowing that there has to
be a solution. That is part of the French Figaro culture.''

Turner said that even though there were sailors in the fleet who were new to the
Volvo, most of the teams were loaded with top professional ocean racers. The
Chinese sailors' contributions, he said, were subtle but becoming a strength.

''They cannot let anyone down. Even between each other,'' Turner said. ''They
are competitive, but there's a feeling of succeeding for their crew members
ashore.''

Escoffier said he was inspired by the spirit of Liu and the other Chinese
sailors.

''Sometimes they say, 'Tomorrow will be better,' '' said Escoffier, who holds
several transoceanic sailing records but is sailing in his first Volvo. ''It's
quite close to a Zen culture. There's no reason tomorrow will be worse than
today. That view helps us all.''

The inexperienced Chinese crew members also appear willing to trust the more
experienced French crew members and to do what is necessary so the team performs
well.

The seventh leg of the Volvo, set to start Saturday on a route from Newport to
Lisbon, 2,800 nautical miles, is the last leg for Dongfeng to showcase the
team's improving long-distance performance before the final two legs, which are
much shorter.

Asked whether he believed there was an advantage to the combination of French
and Chinese sailors, Escoffier was not definitive.

''I don't know enough Chinese people to make a rule,'' he said. ''But with these
guys, for sure, we're making a very nice story.''

The race finishes in Goteborg, Sweden, in June.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/chinese-sailors-come-a-long-way-in-volv
o-ocean-race.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (91%); BOAT RACING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MARINE
VESSELS (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (71%)

COMPANY: GROUPAMA SA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6311 LIFE
INSURANCE (50%)

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (89%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (69%)

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (89%); FRANCE (88%); NEW ZEALAND (79%);
SPAIN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mira Rothenberg, 93, a Therapy Pioneer

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 902 words


Mira Rothenberg, whose experience and commitment to caring for concentration
camp orphans as a college student in Manhattan shaped her pioneering therapy for
autistic and schizophrenic children, died on April 16 in Beverly Hills, Calif.
She was 93.

Her death, from respiratory distress, was confirmed by her son, Akiva Goldsman,
with whom she had been staying.

Ms. Rothenberg and her husband, Tev Goldsman, operated a group home in Brooklyn
for emotionally disturbed children and a summer camp in Sullivan County, N.Y.,
where, she told The New York Times in 1963, ''we try to reach into a child's
hiding place and draw him out.''

''We try to show him that sunlight is not so frightening, and neither is
darkness,'' she said.

All of the campers had been found to have schizophrenia, and half of them did
not speak. ''It's training in everyday living,'' Ms. Rothenberg told The Times.
''You learn to wash, to dress, to scrub your hair. You learn to depend and to be
independent. You learn that it's safe to be a child.''

A 1958 article about her in Coronet magazine, while she was teaching at the
League School for Seriously Disturbed Children in Brooklyn -- and, 19 years
later, her book ''Children With Emerald Eyes: Histories of Extraordinary Boys
and Girls,'' written when she was clinical director of Blueberry Treatment
Centers -- propelled Ms. Rothenberg and her embryonic therapy into prominence
and helped alter public perceptions of mental illness.

A review of the book in a Times education column said, ''These case histories of
a remarkable therapist's work with deeply disturbed children are vivid and
profoundly moving.'' But it also cautioned:

''These are not success stories. Progress is frequently intermittent, resistance
remains high, and the moments of exhilaration and joy are infrequent.''

Mira (pronounced Meera) Kowarski was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, on Jan. 15,
1922, the oldest of three children of Jacob Kowarski, a landlord, and the former
Rose Joffe, a dentist. As anti-Semitism swept Europe, her mother and two younger
siblings fled to the United States. She emigrated to New York on her own in
1939, joining relatives. Her father remained in Lithuania and died in the
Holocaust.

She graduated from Evander Childs High School in the Bronx, studied education
and psychology at Brooklyn College and Columbia University, and enrolled in a
graduate program in psychology at Yeshiva University. She was studying at
Columbia and had volunteered at a local synagogue when she encountered the
orphans who had been rescued from concentration camps in Europe.

Ms. Rothenberg had never intended to become a clinical psychologist. In Europe,
she said, she had studied and performed ballet and actually aspired to be a
cordwainer, because she loved the smell of leather and considered fine shoes to
be works of art.

''That's what I am now is a shoemaker,'' she said in a 1978 interview. ''I try
to put the children together, measure the fit and then give them back.''

She began teaching at the League School, founded by Carl Fenichel, an
influential figure in treating emotionally disturbed children, in 1953. Five
years later, she and two fellow therapists, Zev Spanier and Mr. Goldsman, whom
she would marry, shepherded 11 disturbed children to a remote island in the
Adirondacks for an immersive therapeutic program that, when she was 90, she
recounted in her book ''The Children of Raquette Lake: One Summer That Helped
Change the Course of Treatment for Autism'' (2012).

That experience inspired her and Mr. Goldsman to establish Blueberry Treatment
Centers, which by 1990 was providing services to more than 200 children and
adolescents through its residential and day treatment programs, nursery and
summer camp.

Their son, Akiva, who grew up in the group home in Brooklyn, became a writer,
director and producer and won an Academy Award for his screenplay for ''A
Beautiful Mind,'' the movie, based on a book by Sylvia Nasar, about John Forbes
Nash Jr., the mathematical genius who overcame his struggle with schizophrenia
to win the Nobel Prize for game theory.

Ms. Rothenberg's marriage to Mr. Goldsman ended in divorce in 1970. He died in
2012. Besides her son, she is survived by two granddaughters. It was her son,
Ms. Rothenberg recalled, who had suggested the title of her first book, after he
asked about autistic children when he was 15.

''I said they were like the children we had seen in a science-fiction film who
had eyes that were green and very intense,'' she recalled. ''I said autistic
children feel and see everything, although they don't say anything about it.
After Kivie read the book in galley form, he named it 'Children With Emerald
Eyes.' ''

In his foreword to the 2002 edition, the author and psychologist Peter A. Levine
wrote that Ms. Rothenberg ''has a rare capacity to join with a child at his or
her deepest place of hiding, enticing them back from the citadel they have
erected to protect themselves from a world too confusing, overwhelming or
cruel.''

Ms. Rothenberg would have been the first to acknowledge that not every such
foray was clinically successful. The first autistic youngster she worked with
finally had to be placed in a state hospital.

''I learned,'' she said in 1978, ''that it is especially difficult to forgive
yourself. We all want to be gods. But we are mortals, and knowing that is
sometimes very painful.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/mira-rothenberg-pioneer-in-therapy-fo
r-children-dies-at-93.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mira Rothenberg, in 2012, altered views of mental illness.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LEE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); ORPHANS (89%);
MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%);
HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (78%); HOLOCAUST (73%); COLLEGES &
UNIVERSITIES (73%); AUTISM (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); ANTISEMITISM (60%);
RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); VILNIUS, LITHUANIA (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (90%); LITHUANIA (85%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Must Do More on Civil Rights, Officials Agree

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 476 words


GENEVA -- The United States acknowledged that it needed to do more to uphold
civil rights and improve policing in a review of its human rights record at the
United Nations on Monday, but faced calls for action by states on issues ranging
from the death penalty, torture and targeted killings to mass surveillance by
intelligence agencies.

''We must rededicate ourselves to ensuring that our civil rights laws live up to
our promise,'' James Cadogan, a senior Justice Department official, told the
Human Rights Council in Geneva.

United States authorities brought criminal charges against 400 law enforcement
officials in the last six years, Mr. Cadogan said. But the deaths of Freddie
Gray in Maryland, Michael Brown in Missouri, Eric Garner in New York, Tamir Rice
in Ohio and Walter Scott in South Carolina ''challenge us to do better and work
harder for progress,'' he said.

His comments came as officials from eight federal agencies and the state of
Illinois presented an account of developments in human rights under which the
council reviews all states every four years.

David Bitkower, a deputy assistant attorney general, said intelligence
collection programs in the United States were subject to ''extensive and
effective oversight to prevent abuse'' and were not employed to suppress dissent
or to give businesses a competitive advantage.

Brig. Gen. Richard C. Gross, legal counsel to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, responded to calls from many countries for the closing of the military
prison at Guantánamo Bay, saying that doing so remained a ''national
imperative.'' The number of detainees has dropped to 122 from 240 at the start
of the Obama administration, General Gross said, and 57 more are cleared for
transfer.

Human rights groups, however, said the United States had left largely unanswered
the concerns voiced by states on issues such as the detention of migrants, the
conduct of drone strikes and ratifying core international human rights treaties
on the rights of children, the rights of people with disabilities and on curbing
discrimination against women.

Mary McLeod, acting legal adviser to the State Department acknowledged that the
C.I.A.'s detention and interrogation program had ''crossed the line, we did not
live up to our own values,'' but did not address questions on what action the
United States proposed to take to investigate and prosecute those responsible
for its torture policy and practice or to compensate those who were subjected to
it.

''It was the same old story of the U.S. dragging its feet on taking effective
action to fully implement its human rights obligations,'' Jamil Dakwar, director
of the American Civil Liberties Union's human rights program said.

Follow The New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and
sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/politics/us-must-do-more-on-civil-rights-of
ficials-agree.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%);
UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TORTURE
(89%); MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%);
DISCRIMINATION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%);
INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); GENDER & SEX
DISCRIMINATION (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%);
PRISONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%);
MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Toilet to Tap, Hard to Swallow

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words


FOUNTAIN VALLEY, Calif. -- Water spilled out of a spigot, sparklingly clear,
into a plastic cup. Just 45 minutes earlier, it was effluent, piped over from
Orange County's wastewater treatment plant next door. At a specialized plant, it
then went through several stages of purification that left it cleaner than
anything that flows out of a home faucet or comes in a brand-name bottle.

''It's stripped down to the H, 2 and O,'' said Mike Markus, the general manager
of the county water district. He was not exaggerating. Without the minerals that
give most cities' supply a distinctive flavor, this water tastes of nothing.

As California scrambles for ways to cope with its crippling drought and the
mandatory water restrictions imposed last month by Gov. Jerry Brown, an array of
ideas that were long dismissed as too controversial, expensive or unpleasant are
getting a second look. One is to conserve more water; another is to turn nearby
and abundant sources of water, like the Pacific Ocean, into drinking water
through desalination.

Yet another is to recycle the water Californians have already used. And therein
lies a marketing challenge that can be even greater than the technological one.

Water recycling is common for uses like irrigation; purple pipes in many
California towns deliver water to golf courses, zoos and farms. The West Basin
Municipal Water District, which serves 17 cities in southwestern Los Angeles
County, produces five types of ''designer'' water for such uses as irrigation
and in cooling towers and boilers. At a more grass-roots level, activists
encourage Californians to save ''gray water'' from bathroom sinks, showers, tubs
and washing machines to water their plants and gardens.

Enticing people to drink recycled water, however, requires getting past what
experts call the ''yuck'' factor. Efforts in the 1990s to develop water reuse in
San Diego and Los Angeles were beaten back by activists who denounced what they
called, devastatingly, ''toilet to tap.'' Los Angeles built a $55 million
purification plant in the 1990s, but never used it to produce drinking water;
the water goes to irrigation instead.

But with the special purification plant, which has been operating since 2008,
Orange County swung people to the idea of drinking recycled water. The county
does not run its purified water directly into drinking water treatment plants;
instead, it sends the water underground to replenish the area's aquifers and to
be diluted by the natural water supply. This environmental buffer seems to
provide an emotional buffer for consumers as well.

The $481 million plant opened during a previous drought. ''It made us look like
geniuses,'' Mr. Markus said. The timing is right again. In the midst of the
current drought, the county has completed a $142 million expansion that will
increase capacity by more than 40 percent, to 100 million gallons a day, and at
a fraction of the cost of importing water or desalinating seawater. (A further
expansion to 130 million gallons a day is planned.)

Now water reuse is being tried elsewhere around the country, including parched
cities in Texas that do pipe treated water directly to their water supplies.
Here in California, ''there are agencies considering this all over the state,''
said Jennifer West, the general manager for WateReuse California, a trade
association.

In November, the San Diego City Council voted for a $2.9 billion Pure Water
program to provide a third of the city's daily needs by 2035. The Santa Clara
Valley Water District hopes to meet up to at least 10 percent of its water
demands by 2022 with its project.

And Los Angeles is ready to try again, with plans to provide a quarter of the
city's needs by 2024 with recycled water and captured storm water routed through
aquifers. ''The difference between this and 2000 is everyone wants this to
happen,'' said Marty Adams, who heads the water system for the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power.

The inevitable squeamishness over drinking water that was once waste ignores a
fundamental fact, said George Tchobanoglous, an expert in water reuse and a
professor emeritus at the University of California, Davis: ''When it comes down
to it, water is water,'' he said. ''Everyone who lives downstream on a river is
drinking recycled water.''

The processes at Orange County and most other plants that clean the water
include microfiltration that strains out anything larger than 0.2 microns,
removing almost all suspended solids, bacteria and protozoa.

After that comes reverse osmosis, which involves forcing the water across a
membrane, which removes other impurities, including viruses, pharmaceuticals and
dissolved minerals. A zap with powerful ultraviolet light and a bit of hydrogen
peroxide disinfects further and neutralize other small chemical compounds.

But after all that, 13 percent of adult Americans say they would absolutely
refuse to even try recycled water, according to a recent study in the journal
Judgment and Decision Making. ''A small minority of people are very offended by
this, and can slow it down or stop it because of legal and political forces,''
said Paul Rozin, a psychology professor at the University of Pennsylvania who
studies revulsion and a co-author of the study.

Opponents of reusing water have long had the upper hand, said Paul Slovic, a
professor of psychology at the University of Oregon, because of the ''branding
problem.''

People tend to judge risk emotionally, he said, and a phrase like ''toilet to
tap'' can undercut earnest explanations. ''The water industry has not been good
at marketing reuse,'' he added. But research has shown that highlighting the
benefits of recycled water -- and the need -- can shift emotions to a more
positive reaction and help diminish the sense of risk.

''Under crisis, people accept things that they wouldn't accept otherwise,'' Dr.
Rozin noted.

The cities now considering using recycled water for drinking have watched Orange
County's success carefully. San Diego and the Santa Clara Valley Water District
have opened demonstration plants, and conducted tours and talks.

When the San Diego City Council voted in November to move forward with
purification plans, it had the support of businesses and several environmental
groups. ''We are not so naïve to believe that there aren't customers who have
concerns,'' said Brent Eidson, a spokesman for San Diego's Department of Public
Utilities. ''But at this point we have not seen any organized opposition.''

Wichita Falls and Big Spring, Tex., have put purified water directly into the
drinking supply without incident. Wichita Falls has been using its system since
July 2014.

Russell Schreiber, the city's director of public works, said that some people
have told him, ''I'm not going to drink it.'' His response? ''That's great.
Saves water!'' The city produces nine million gallons a day, and he said people
now stop him to say, ''The water tastes better.''

For the ultimate in recycled water, there is one place to go: the International
Space Station. Aboard the space station, equipment captures liquid from the
onboard toilets and even the moisture from breath and sweat.

Col. Douglas H. Wheelock, who served as commander of the station in 2010, said,
''I drank it for six months, and it was actually quite tasty.'' That did not
keep his colleagues from making light of the situation, however.

''We had a running joke on the station,'' he said. ''Yesterday's coffee is
tomorrow's coffee.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/recycled-drinking-water-getting-past-t
he-yuck-factor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cup of treated drinking water at a plant in Orange County,
Calif. The water is cleaner than that flowing from a home faucet or bottled for
sale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SCHWARTZ) (D1)
  Water treated with lime in a tank, top, in Orange County, Calif. Filtering
membranes, center, at the plant. Above, the building where sewage is treated and
sent on. Before the water is made available for drinking, it is sent underground
to replenish the area's aquifers and to be diluted by the natural water supply.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART PALLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); UTILITIES
INDUSTRY (90%); DROUGHT (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER QUALITY
(89%); IRRIGATION (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES
(78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); PACIFIC OCEAN (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; REACTIONS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 126 words


A Costly Choice

TO THE EDITOR:

Re ''Long-Term Data on Complications Adds to Criticism of Contraceptive
Implant'' (May 4): Before choosing Essure, I researched it for a year and a half
but could find only positive reviews. My first period after the procedure, I
bled for eight weeks straight. After that, my periods stopped. I was in so much
pain, some days I couldn't walk. I had a migraine nearly every day. I couldn't
even hold my children. Tests showed that everything was fine, and every doctor
kept telling me it couldn't be Essure. Finally, I found one who believed me. In
August 2014, at age 32, I had a hysterectomy. Amazingly, once the Essure was
removed my symptoms vanished.

Nicole Newton Gibsonville, N.C.

Email: scitimes@nytimes.com




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/letters-to-the-editor.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (88%); SURGERY &
TRANSPLANTATION (86%); CONTRACEPTION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yanks Bombard Rays With Homers to Get Sabathia a Win

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; YANKEES 11, RAYS 5; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 490 words


ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. --  It was as if the Yankees had looked at the big zero in
C. C. Sabathia's win column and decided there was only one way to get rid of it:
obliterate it with big swings of their bats.

So with one home run after another -- first by Alex Rodriguez, then by Chase
Headley, Carlos Beltran, Brett Gardner and Mark Teixeira -- the Yankees finally
gave Sabathia a modicum of support Monday, beating the Tampa Bay Rays, 11-5.

Sabathia, who missed most of last season with a knee injury, had been charged
with a loss in five of his six starts this year and had not earned a win since
April 24, 2014. The Yankees had scored a combined 13 runs in games he had
started this season.

''He's as big a leader as we have on this team, he's a competitor, and he's
loved in here, so it was great to finally see him get that win,'' said Headley,
whose three-run homer in the fourth broke a 1-1 tie. ''Anytime you have run
support, it makes a pitcher's job a lot easier.''

The win was the Yankees' sixth in seven meetings with the Rays and their fourth
in four games at Tropicana Field, where they have struggled in recent years. The
win also increased their lead in the American League East to four games.

Even with the game appearing out of reach, the Yankees provided some excitement
in the ninth, with Rodriguez stealing second (without a throw) after he was hit
by a pitch and Teixeira following with a two-run blast. The game's last out was
a fly ball fielded by Yankees shortstop Didi Gregorius, who caught the ball
after it hit the stadium's catwalk and was redirected. The ball would have been
in play if it had landed on the ground.

Gregorius, who struggled early in the season, also made a crucial play in the
first, throwing out Steven Souza Jr. at the plate to short-circuit what could
have been a big inning for the Rays.

Sabathia walked the first two Rays he faced, Brandon Guyer and Souza Jr., and
then gave up a fly ball to Evan Longoria that was deep enough to advance both.
Logan Forsythe followed with a drive into the left-center-field gap that bounced
off Gardner's glove for a double.

But Gardner quickly got the ball to Gregorius, and his throw home nabbed Souza,
who had tagged up rather than go halfway to third.

''I was peeking,'' Gregorius said.

Given the reprieve, Sabathia settled into a groove. He retired the next 11
batters he faced and cruised into the seventh inning having allowed three hits.

Sabathia ended up with nine strikeouts but was disappointed with how he
finished, allowing three runs in the seventh, two of them on back-to-back homers
by Forsythe and Joey Butler.

He brushed off the notion that his first win held any special meaning for him.

''It was bothering me more that we hadn't won games that I started or trying to
keep us in games,'' Sabathia said. ''That's my biggest concern, is always trying
to help the team. I think wins will come, and it felt good to get this one.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/baseball/yankees-bombard-rays-with-home
rs-to-get-sabathia-a-win.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chase Headley (12) with Mark Teixeira, right, and Carlos Beltran
after Headley drove them in with a home run in the fourth inning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEVE NESIUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (55%); KNEE
DISORDERS & INJURIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (86%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (56%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (74%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rangers Staying Guarded Despite Mark in Game 7s

BYLINE: By NICK CORASANITI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words


WASHINGTON --  On the back of the Rangers' playoff warm-up T-shirts, there is a
not-so-subtle reminder of last year's Stanley Cup finals shortcoming, and this
year's mission: ''Change the ending.''

After their harrowing 4-3 victory Sunday night, in which they nearly squandered
a three-goal lead and held on for their playoff lives as the Capitals unleashed
a 45-shot barrage, the Rangers moved another game closer to the elusive ending
they seek.

But the Rangers, in one way, find themselves with more of the same. After
fighting back from a deficit of three games to one in the Eastern Conference
semifinals for the second year in a row, the Rangers face yet another Game 7,
their sixth since the 2011-12 season.

The Rangers' locker room retained a workmanlike focus on what it takes to win
these acutely distressing winner-take-all battles: always looking ahead,
manipulating the fear of elimination into confidence and keeping a steely
resolve to get the job done.

''I wouldn't say there's comfort here,'' said defenseman Dan Girardi, who has
played in six Game 7s for the Rangers. ''You can't be comfortable and go out
there and hope you win. I think we've had good success, but we have to bottle
that and whatever we did right and play that much better.''

Center Derek Stepan, who has three assists in the past two games, said he
thought Game 6 was the team's worst game of the series, but it may have taken
that to get the Rangers' offense going. Chris Kreider played the way the Rangers
need him to; his two goals came from playing hard at the net. Rick Nash returned
to the score sheet, finishing a crisp pass from Martin St. Louis to score the
Rangers' third goal.

One player who makes the Rangers comfortable heading into Game 7 is goalie
Henrik Lundqvist. He turned aside 42 of 45 shots, including highlight-reel
post-to-post saves, and showed again that he is at his best when his back is to
the wall.

''There is no doubt that he was a difference-maker on the ice tonight,'' Coach
Alain Vigneault said after the game.

Lundqvist carries the most impressive record on the team. He is 9-0 when facing
elimination at Madison Square Garden since 2008. But after the game, as he sat
drenched in sweat at his locker, he said he was not concerned with the record.

''I never really think about the past,'' said Lundqvist, wearing the Broadway
Hat as the team-voted most valuable player of the game after his 42-save
performance. ''All the people talk about what you've done in the past. It's a
new year, new team, new series. Everything is new. So you just try to be in that
moment and prepare the same way as always and try to play your best.''

But the Rangers do have recent team history on their side: They are 13-3 when
facing elimination since the 2011-12 season, including 5-0 in Game 7s.

''A lot of us have been in this situation, so it's not uncharted territory,''
St. Louis said after the game. ''Just understand that we've been through it
before, and go after it.''

A defining characteristic of this Rangers team has been its ability to avoid
panic.

After the Rangers' Game 4 defeat, when they were staring at a 3-1 deficit and a
Presidents' Trophy season on the brink, Nash refused to stop believing.

''We should believe off the way we've played all year,'' Nash said to reporters.
''Once you stop believing, you might as well pack it in.''

The Capitals, for their part, will also be looking to ''change the ending.''
Their past two trips to the postseason, in 2013 and 2012, were cut short by the
Rangers, both in Game 7s.

''The character of this group, it shows a lot,'' said Alex Ovechkin, who has two
goals and a 3-5 record in Game 7s in his career. ''We're going to come back and
win this series.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/hockey/rangers-find-little-comfort-in-h
istory-of-success-in-game-7s.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rangers are 5-0 in Game 7s since 2011-12, with Dan Girardi
(5) around for each matchup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM HUNGER/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA
REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ICE
HOCKEY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Multiple Colors Can Trick the Mind

BYLINE: By C. CLAIBORNE RAY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Q&A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


Q. I heard that people can't look at a color in one room and then pick it out of
a set of similar colors in the next room. But there are people with perfect
pitch, so are there people with ''perfect hue''?

A. ''The short answer is no,'' said Mark D. Fairchild, director of the program
of color science at the Munsell Color Science Laboratory of Rochester Institute
of Technology.

''Color is almost always judged relative to other colors,'' Dr. Fairchild said,
and the human ability to remember colors over any period of time, or even from
room to room, is extremely poor.

''Based on memory alone, we can probably reliably identify tens of colors, with
some people perhaps able to study hard and get up to a hundred or so,'' he said.
''If we were to learn a systematic way to scale colors, we might be able to get
up to several hundred.''

If colors are compared side by side, however, ''then we can easily distinguish
several thousand colors, and some estimate more than a million,'' Dr. Fairchild
said.

Such ability is somewhat analogous to differentiating tones in hearing, he said.
Almost everyone can distinguish tones when they are compared in close
succession, he said, but only a very small percentage of people have what is
called perfect pitch or absolute pitch: the ability to recall and identify tones
after a considerable period of time, without a reference tone for comparison.

''Unfortunately, color appearance seems to be even more difficult to remember,''
Dr. Fairchild said, ''to the point that we don't speak of anyone as having
perfect hue.''

He also said he believed the effect of context on color appearance to be
substantially larger than the effect of context on the perception of pitch. That
is, he said, ''we can identify the tones in a chord, but we cannot identify the
wavelength makeup of a color.'' question@nytimes.com

Questions of general interest will be answered, but requests for medical advice
cannot be honored and unpublished letters cannot be answered individually.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/multiple-colors-can-trick-the-mind.htm
l

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTORIA ROBERTS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Days Before Prom, a Dress Code Adds to the Stress

BYLINE: By KRISTIN HUSSEY and MARC SANTORA; Kristin Hussey reported from
Shelton, and Marc Santora from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 817 words


SHELTON, Conn. --  As surely as flowers bloom, springtime brings prom drama
around the country. The dates, the dancing, the photos, the cost -- it is all
fraught. And the dresses. Oh, the dresses.

Considering the current state of undress in pop culture and the fashion world,
you might think that in 2015, when it comes to styles for the prom, anything
goes.

Instead, just about anything can be deemed going too far.

Girls have been told to cover up shoulders, knees and backs. They have been
reprimanded for partially exposed stomachs and thighs and excessive cleavage.
They have been ordered to wear jackets, ordered to go home and suspended.

Some schools have even required that students submit photos of their dresses
before they are allowed to buy a ticket to the dance.

Officials at Shelton High School in Connecticut may have been trying to head off
any prom-night dress-code drama, but those efforts appear to have backfired.

On Friday, Beth A. Smith, the headmaster, made an announcement that was intended
to remind students of the dress code for prom. Backless dresses, side cutouts
and bared midriffs were among the styles that would not be permitted. Ms. Smith
urged students to ask a faculty member whether their dress was acceptable.

Reaction was swift. Students were aghast. Parents who had spent hundreds of
dollars on dresses, alterations and coordinating shoes and jewelry cried foul.

Students said Ms. Smith's announcement, and the specific prohibitions, came as a
surprise, and at a late date. The prom is on Saturday. More than 500 students
had bought their $90 tickets as of Monday. Students and parents signed
permission slips that outlined rules and regulations for the prom. Students say
the rules were vague, calling for ''appropriate formal dress'' and warning that
students dressed ''inappropriately'' would be sent home without a refund.

Freeman Burr, the schools superintendent, issued a news release over the weekend
hoping to calm the storm, saying the public school was just restating existing
policy. But the policy may not have been as clear as administrators believed.

Alexis Gerics, a junior, bought her long, black backless dress in early March.
Alexis said that after Ms. Smith's announcement last week she took her cellphone
to the headmaster's office, showed a photo of her dress and asked if it was
acceptable.

Ms. Smith told her the dress was not appropriate, Alexis said. She would have to
wear a camisole underneath the dress if she wanted to attend the prom.

Alexis's mother, Tonny Montalvo, said she did not think the prom dress code
unreasonable. What exasperated her, she said, was that the guidelines were not
explained clearly -- and early.

''They say it's in the student handbook,'' Ms. Montalvo said. ''There's no
specifics anywhere.'' She said she emailed Ms. Smith on Friday to ask how her
daughter's dress could be altered to make it acceptable. She has not yet
received a response.

Speaking outside the school at a hastily arranged news conference on Monday,
Superintendent Burr said: ''Sometimes what we're talking about here is good
judgment. Honestly, I believe this incident has been blown out of proportion.''

About six or seven dresses have been vetoed by administrators so far, he noted.

''We want our young ladies to be dressed beautifully; we want them to be dressed
with class and dignity,'' Mr. Burr said. ''But we are going to draw the line
relative to attire that would be deemed overexposing oneself.''

Danielle Rieder, a junior, said her white strapless dress also got the
thumbs-down from the headmaster on Friday. ''I have cutouts in the back of my
dress so parts of my back are visible, and she said that was inappropriate,''
Danielle said.

Danielle's mother, Fran Rieder, said the prom was already a financial strain to
the family. She and her husband are divorcing, and Ms. Rieder is living with
Danielle's grandmother. The dress and alterations cost $400 on top of the $90
prom ticket, Ms. Rieder said.

The headmaster's announcement, eight days before the prom, left Ms. Rieder and
other parents without many options.

''I scrimped and saved to give my daughter this,'' she said. ''It's beautiful on
her. So I'm hoping they change their minds.''

Ms. Smith did not appear or speak at the news conference, and neither she nor
any of the district's school board members responded to emailed requests for
comment.

The incident is not the first prom-related drama for Shelton High School. In
2011, school officials were criticized when they told a student, James Tate,
that he was banned from the prom after his ''promposal,'' in which he hung a
banner on the school inviting his date to the event.

He was suspended for trespassing after school hours. But after the story gained
attention and brought a wave of sympathy for Mr. Tate, officials reversed the
decision and allowed him to attend the prom after all.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/dress-drama-begins-days-before-prom-f
or-teenagers-in-shelton-conn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Danielle Rieder, above, and Alexis Gerics, both juniors at
Shelton High School in Connecticut, said their prom dresses were rejected by the
school headmaster for being inappropriate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER
CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DRESS CODES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATION (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES
(74%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (50%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sudden Elevation for a Vocal Legislator

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 728 words


ALBANY --  John J. Flanagan was 25 and a second-year law student when his father
-- Assemblyman John Flanagan Sr., a well-respected Republican from Long Island
-- died of a heart attack while jogging near the family's home in Suffolk
County.

It was 1986, and just weeks before an election. But a few days after his
father's death, the younger Mr. Flanagan entered the race, at the urging of
party leaders, and easily won his father's seat.

On Monday, Mr. Flanagan, now 54, once again succeeded a fellow Long Islander at
the urging of his party, though under different circumstances. The occasion was
his election as Senate majority leader, taking over for Dean G. Skelos, who was
arrested last week, along with his son, Adam, on federal corruption charges.

And shortly after his colleagues named him majority leader, Mr. Flanagan -- who
was elected to the Senate in 2002 after 16 years in the Assembly -- seemed to
express some of the same shock as the events in 1986 had inspired.

''You don't always plan for a day like this,'' he said.

For all that, Mr. Flanagan's rise in the Senate has not been completely
unexpected. As chairman of the Education Committee, he has been vocal on various
hot-button issues like prekindergarten, teacher evaluations and the Common Core
education standards, sometimes working with Democrats.

And in recent days, Mr. Flanagan has shown flashes of political sophistication
in his own party, working outward from his base on Long Island -- where nine
Republican state senators, including Mr. Skelos, live -- while reassuring more
conservative upstate Republicans on issues like the Safe Act, Gov. Andrew M.
Cuomo's 2013 gun control law, which he supported but many rural residents abhor.

Mr. Flanagan also seemed cognizant of the troubles that have embroiled other
leaders in Albany involving outside income, including Sheldon Silver, a
Manhattan Democrat who stepped down as Assembly speaker after his arrest in
January; Mr. Silver faces federal charges of taking illegal payments disguised
as legitimate income from practicing law. On Monday, Mr. Flanagan said that he
had resigned last week from a job at Forchelli, Curto, Deegan, Schwartz, Mineo &
Terrana, a major Long Island firm. The firm confirmed his resignation.

One of Mr. Flanagan's law-school classmates, Kevin S. Law, the president of the
Long Island Association, a business group, said the new majority leader mixed a
calm demeanor with a sharp strategic sense. ''Just because he is a gentleman and
everyone knows him as a gentleman, no one should take him lightly at the
negotiating table,'' he said, adding that Mr. Flanagan was ''a pro-business
legislator.''

Mr. Law added that Mr. Flanagan's competitive streak extended to pickup
basketball games on Long Island. ''He can bang the boards,'' he said.

Married with three children and living in East Northport, N.Y., Mr. Flanagan is
known as a fitness enthusiast -- working out at dawn -- and charismatic force on
the North Shore. ''You walk into the room and you know he's there,'' said
Assemblyman Michael Fitzpatrick, a Republican whose district overlaps with Mr.
Flanagan's.

Former colleagues also say Mr. Flanagan is an avid participant in the day-to-day
machinations of government -- his father was known as one of the fiercest
debaters in the Assembly.

''John certainly grew up having a great regard for the legislative process,''
said State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, a Democrat who, like Mr. Flanagan,
was elected to the Assembly from Long Island in 1986. ''And from the beginning,
John was a very hands-on legislator.''

Mr. Flanagan's election was not unanimous. One senator described it as a close
contest between Mr. Flanagan and Senator John A. DeFrancisco, who represents the
Syracuse area. But Mr. DeFrancisco later praised Mr. Flanagan as a unifying
force. ''We all follow John Flanagan,'' he said. ''And we'll do it as a unit.''

For his part, Mr. Flanagan struck an embracing tone in his early hours as
majority leader, saying he would, first and foremost, listen to his colleagues
and constituents. But he also seemed aware of the moment, mentioning his
father's intellect, collegiality and ability ''to get things done.''

''If I can try and continue to be half the man my father was,'' Mr. Flanagan
said in closing, ''I'll be able to say I've done a darn good job in this
position.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/a-sudden-elevation-for-john-j-flanaga
n-a-vocal-legislator.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John J. Flanagan, center, the new State Senate majority leader,
being congratulated by the former leader, Dean G. Skelos, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%);
US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%);
POLITICS (77%); DEATHS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ARRESTS (74%);
FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); GUN CONTROL (73%);
CORRUPTION (69%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); CORE CURRICULUM (64%); BASKETBALL (60%);
RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FORCHELLI CURTO DEEGAN SCHWARTZ MINEO & TERRANA LLP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Details Physical Abuse of Mentally Ill Inmates by Guards in America's
Prisons

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 817 words


Mentally ill inmates in prisons and jails across the United States are subjected
to routine physical abuse by guards, including being doused with chemical
sprays, shocked with electronic stun guns and strapped for hours to chairs or
beds, according to a report by Human Rights Watch to be released on Tuesday.

The mistreatment, the study says, has led to deaths, though the number of
casualties is unclear in part because jails and prisons classify them in various
ways. Also, jails and prisons are not uniformly required to report the use of
force by guards, the study found.

Jamie Fellner, a senior adviser at Human Rights Watch and the report's author,
said the study was the first to take a comprehensive look at use of force by
guards against mentally ill prisoners, to try to understand the dynamics behind
the violence. Ms. Fellner said she spent more than a year interviewing some 125
officials and mental health experts and reviewing hundreds of cases across the
country.

The review found that prisoners suffering from serious mental illnesses, such as
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, are often punished with physical force for
commonplace behaviors including using profanity and banging on cell doors.

''Prisoners with mental disabilities may struggle more than others to adjust to
the extraordinary stresses of incarceration, to follow the rules governing every
aspect of life and to respond promptly to staff orders,'' said the report,
''Callous and Cruel: Use of Force Against Inmates With Mental Disabilities in
U.S. Jails and Prisons.''

The study faulted prisons and jails for failing to offer sufficient mental
health treatment; doing too little to protect mentally ill patients from
physical abuse by staff members, who are often inadequately trained; and having
leadership not sufficiently focused on mental health issues.

The National Institute of Corrections, a federal agency that provides funding
and offers support programs to corrections agencies, said inmates' mental health
was among its highest priorities. The organization said it had hosted a national
meeting in which chief mental health officers from state prisons had met ''to
map out directions for future movement in improving correctional mental health
care,'' according to the organization's website.

Concern about how to care for the mentally ill in jails and prisons has
intensified in recent years as people who may once have been sent to a hospital
where they would have access to treatment are now more likely to be sent to
prisons that lack sufficient psychiatric staff, the report said. There are now
far more people with mental illnesses in prisons and jails than there are in
state psychiatric hospitals.

A Justice Department study found that 75 percent of women and 50 percent of men
in state penitentiaries, and 75 percent of women and 63 percent of men in local
jails, will suffer from a mental health problem requiring services in any given
year.

The Human Rights Watch report detailed the case of Anthony McManus, who was
arrested in Michigan for indecent exposure and starved to death in prison in
2005. At the time of his death at age 38, Mr. McManus weighed 75 pounds.

While incarcerated at the Baraga Maximum Security Facility in Baraga, Mich., Mr.
McManus, who had been found to have schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, would
habitually cover himself in chewed food and feces, according to the report. He
often refused to eat.

The prison lacked a psychiatry department and Mr. McManus had only intermittent
contact with a psychologist, usually through a cell door, the report said. As he
became increasingly disruptive, the report said prison officials would cut off
the cell's water supply and limit his food, but did not allow Mr. McManus to
receive mental health treatment.

Three days before his death, guards pepper-sprayed him when he refused to comply
with their orders to take off his clothes so they could make sure he was not
armed.

A state report concluded that Mr. McManus's extreme weight loss and the
imposition of the water restriction had been the most immediate preventable
contributors to his death.

Wallace Kirby, 58, a community organizer advocate for University Legal Services
in Washington, has spent much of his life in various prisons. Arrested for the
first time at age 12, he received a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia as a
young adult.

During a three-year stint at a Maryland prison during the 1990s, Mr. Kirby, who
was not included in the Human Rights Watch report, said he was frequently beaten
by guards for failing to follow orders. Despite his diagnosis, Mr. Kirby said he
received neither medication nor mental health counseling.

''I was paranoid so I didn't want to go into the yard or to even take a shower,
so they'd come in and bring in the extraction team and they'd beat you,'' he
said, referring to heavily armed prison security personnel.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/mentally-ill-prison-inmates-are-routinely-p
hysically-abused-study-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%);
RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUMAN
RIGHTS (89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (79%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (79%);
PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (79%); HOSPITALS (77%); WOMEN (77%); MEN (73%); MEDICAL
TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS
(68%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rampaging Inmates Kill 2 at a Nebraska Prison Described as Understaffed

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA; Mitch Smith contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 757 words


Two inmates died and several people were injured in rioting at a Nebraska prison
as inmates took over part of the complex for several hours before guards were
able to retake control on Monday.

''Two inmates have been found dead in one of the housing units,'' said Scott R.
Frakes, director of the state Department of Correctional Services. ''The cause
of death is unknown at this time. However, it appears to be caused by other
inmates.''

The inmates who died were identified Monday afternoon as Donald Peacock and Shon
Collins, both 46. The men were serving long sentences for sex crimes, including
sexual assault on a child.

The men were relatively new to prison. Mr. Peacock's sentence began last year,
and Mr. Collins's in 2010. The Nebraska State Patrol is investigating the
deaths.

Inmates took control of two housing units at the prison on Sunday, including
staff offices, though they were not able to breach the units' control centers,
Mr. Frakes said at a news conference. He described damage including several
fires, broken windows and security cameras, water damage, and even a wall that
was torn down.

''A recreation staff member barricaded herself in an office in a gymnasium and
was rescued,'' he said, one of several employees freed by teams sent in to
retake control. He said the staff regained control about 1 a.m.

Violence broke out at the prison, in the southeast corner of the state, on
Sunday about 2:30 p.m., officials said. Staff members saw about 40 inmates
assembled in front of a housing unit. Two staff members who tried to disperse
the group were assaulted by inmates, Mr. Frakes said. They were not seriously
hurt and were able to return to work.

''As the group of inmates became more volatile, staff members were unable to
control them,'' he said. ''The tower officer fired warning shots and then fired
a shot at an inmate, striking him in the leg.''

Violence later broke out in several housing units, he said, adding that he could
not provide a timeline of events. At some point, another inmate was struck by a
rubber bullet, officials said. He and the inmate who was shot were taken to a
hospital for treatment.

Two other inmates were hurt by prisoners, neither one seriously, Mr. Frakes
said.

''The facility is locked down until further notice,'' he said, and the Nebraska
State Patrol was investigating the events.

The riot on Sunday at the prison in Tecumseh, Neb., was the second violent
episode at a Nebraska prison during the weekend. On Saturday, two guards were
injured after ''a series of inmate-on-inmate altercations'' at the Nebraska
State Penitentiary in Lincoln, according to a statement from officials there.
That prison was placed on lockdown as a result.

All of Nebraska's prisons are overcrowded, according to state data, and the
corrections department has faced lawsuits from inmates claiming poor treatment
and dangerous conditions.

The Tecumseh prison, which opened in 2001 and is home to the state's death row,
is the least overcrowded, operating at 105 percent of its capacity last month.
Another facility designed for 160 inmates was housing 536 in April, 335 percent
of its planned capacity.

A more significant concern at Tecumseh is understaffing, said Mike Marvin,
executive director of the Nebraska Association of Public Employees, a union
representing state corrections officers.

Mr. Marvin said Tecumseh's remote location made hiring and retaining guards a
challenge, sometimes leading to limited staffing and mandatory overtime shifts
that he said can create dangerous working conditions.

''People go to work there and then they get stuck working 16-hour days several
days a week,'' Mr. Marvin said. ''And they can't plan any of their family
events, and they quit, which makes the situation worse.''

A state employment website shows the Tecumseh prison is hiring guards for $15.15
an hour.

Mr. Marvin said there had been no prison riot in Nebraska on this scale in
recent memory, but he said he had warned state lawmakers that the prisons had
too many inmates and not enough guards.

''I told them, 'We either build a new prison and staff it, or we find a way to
get this inmate population down, because it's going to explode,''' Mr. Marvin
said.

Danielle Conrad, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Nebraska, said chronic problems include inmate violence, lack of exercise, and
extreme noise.

''There has been really a culture of deliberate indifference when it comes to
conditions of confinement for those in state custody,'' she said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/nebraska-prison-riot.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Armed guards patrolling the grounds of the Tecumseh State
Correctional Institution in Tecumseh, Neb., on Monday. The prison lacks
sufficient guards, a union official contended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI
HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (90%); PRISONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS
(78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%);
SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (69%); CHILD
ABUSE (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (97%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Flow of Hits Interrupted Only for the Occasional Sermon

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 676 words


BALTIMORE --  ''You look around, and the system is broken,'' Prince said about
two hours into his ''Rally 4 Peace'' concert at the Royal Farms Arena here on
Sunday night.

''It's gonna take the young people to fix it this time,'' he continued. ''We
need new ideas, new life. Most of all, we need new peace. And the kind of peace
I'm talking about is spelled p-i-e-c-e. Next time I come to Baltimore, I want to
stay in a hotel owned by one of you.''

Those comments -- during ''Purple Rain'' -- were the most direct sermonizing in
a strong two-and-a-half-hour concert, some of whose proceeds, according to
information from Live Nation, the concert's promoter, would be donated to youth
charities based in Baltimore.

There were special guests, as advertised. One was the rapper Doug E. Fresh,
emerging several times to freestyle and beatbox; another was the singer Estelle,
sharing the vocals on ''Purple Rain''; and another was Miguel, who sang a
modified version of the Staple Singers' ''When Will We Be Paid,'' a song often
interpreted as a call for reparations.

Another guest, briefly, was Marilyn J. Mosby, the state's attorney for
Baltimore. She sat on a leather couch on the left side of the stage, and about
20 minutes into the concert she was led to the center by Prince. She wasn't
introduced by name, and waved before quickly returning to her seat. Prince
turned back to the audience. ''Those who have lost loved ones,'' he said, ''we
are your servants here tonight. They say there's no curfew, so I don't know how
long this is gonna go.''

For the most part, this was a flow of hits from the early '80s to early the
'90s, studded with a few songs of protest and resistance, including
''Baltimore,'' the stolid, upbeat track Prince released online Saturday, which
suggests ''peace is more than the absence of war,'' and ''let's take all the
guns away.'' The song's lyrics contained the only mention of Freddie Gray, whose
death last month from injuries sustained in police custody provoked protests
around the city and the country. Most of the guests, and the commentary,
occurred after the first hour, which was free on the music-streaming service
Tidal.

The concert was announced only last week as a stand-alone event, but was in
keeping with the nature of Prince's current ''Hit 'n' Run'' American tour:
performances around the country whose sites are disclosed with little lead time,
as he did in Europe last year. (Tickets for the Baltimore concert cost $22 to
$497, and the audience looked like a typical Prince crowd, largely middle-aged
and of all races. Many wore something gray, as the concert's flier requested --
presumably to honor Mr. Gray.)

This is all a way for a perennial performer, at 56, to stay spontaneous and
casual, backed by his current band, 3rdeyegirl, and horns and keyboards as
needed. There were a few video backdrops, none spectacular. A simple purple
scrim hung in front of the stage before the show started.

All the rest was what he's good at: hard funk, falsetto ballads, a few
extraordinary guitar solos and exhortations to party. The contentious citywide
curfew here ended a week before Sunday's show, but Prince came back to it
repeatedly to rile the crowd. ''No curfew,'' he said several times, as he
returned for multiple encores.

The concert began with a slow, stomping, almost proto-metal version of ''Let's
Go Crazy.'' It established the notion that no matter how the repertory changed
and the number of musicians expanded through the night, there was a rock band at
the center: the guitarist Donna Grantis, the bassist Ida Nielsen and the drummer
Hannah Ford Welton.

Ms. Grantis took a few compressed solos, but more often, the band served as the
support system for Prince's much less compressed string of actions. Those
included a chaotic, rhythm-propelled synthesizer solo on ''Hot Thing'' and a
couple of guitar solos -- in back-to-back versions of his own ''The One'' and
Muddy Waters's ''Electric Man'' -- that slowly grew from strict, organized blues
toward gestural, intensified flashes of sound.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-prince-royal-farms-arena-bal
timore.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prince performing during his ''Rally 4 Peace'' concert on
Sunday in Baltimore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALSTON SMITH/NPG RECORDS) (C1)
  Prince played a number of his top songs from the early '80s and the early '90s
during a two-and-a-half hour benefit concert, ''Rally 4 Peace,'' at the Royal
Farms Arena in Baltimore. (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS
(89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); WAR REPARATIONS (70%); HOTELS &
MOTELS (69%); STREAMING MEDIA (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Navy Pilot's Death Reflects the Everyday Hazards of the Job

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1344 words


WASHINGTON --  All the Navy recovered after Lt. Nathan Poloski's fighter jet
collided in midair with another Navy jet on a training mission in the western
Pacific in September were his flight helmet and a few bits of debris. The
26-year-old pilot, who was deployed aboard the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson,
died one month before the ship steamed into the Persian Gulf and began launching
combat missions against the Islamic State.

Lieutenant Poloski's body and his F/A-18C Hornet were never found in waters
nearly three miles deep. The other Hornet pilot was rescued after ejecting from
his burning jet. Navy officials concluded that the crash shortly after takeoff
was a tragic accident and assigned no blame.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the United States has focused
largely on the thousands of American casualties suffered in the grinding ground
combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. But while tiny in comparison, the number of
fatal aviation accidents -- in combat and in training -- illustrates the
everyday hazards facing American military pilots and aircrews around the globe.

The Navy's investigation into Lieutenant Poloski's fatal crash -- a copy of
which was obtained by The New York Times through a Freedom of Information Act
request after it was completed last month -- reveals new details about the
collision as well as larger insights into the dangerous business of carrier
operations, even when a ship and its aerial armada are not at war.

What remains a mystery, though, is exactly what caused the accident. It was a
clear afternoon with good visibility. Both pilots were healthy, properly rested
and under no unusual stress. Investigators found no mechanical problems.

The Navy's top aviator concluded in his review of the eight-page accident report
that the two pilots, and several others in the vicinity, should have exercised
more of what the military calls situational awareness, or S.A. -- in this case,
relying not only on an instrument-packed cockpit but also on looking outside to
spot a looming catastrophe.

''While there is no definitive evidence to suggest either pilot's S.A. or lack
thereof directly contributed to this incident, greater S.A. by all parties may
have prevented the collision,'' Vice Adm. Mike Shoemaker, the senior aviator and
an F/A-18C pilot, wrote on April 20 in closing the inquiry. The admiral
broadened the inquiry's original conclusion that admonished only Lieutenant
Poloski for lacking situational awareness.

Lieutenant Poloski, a Naval Academy graduate from Lake Arrowhead, Calif., who
was on his first deployment, became one of four naval aviators to die in
accidents in 2014 -- a roughly average figure for the Navy in the past several
years. Two airmen have died so far in the 10-month campaign against the Islamic
State: an Air Force pilot whose F-16 crashed in Jordan in November and a Marine
who died in October after bailing out of an Osprey aircraft over the Persian
Gulf near Kuwait.

In some cases, military aviation accidents have been spectacles in full public
view. In 1996, Lt. Cmdr. John Stacy Bates's F-14A fighter plunged into a
Nashville suburb, killing him and four other people.

Some accidents have drawn greater scrutiny than others. In October 1994, one of
the Navy's first female fighter pilots, Lt. Kara S. Hultgreen, died in a
training accident off Southern California, rekindling tensions within the
military then over the decision to expand some combat roles for women.

The Navy spent about $100,000 to recover Lieutenant Hultgreen's aircraft, which
was found in water about 4,000 feet deep. Investigators concluded that the
accident had resulted from a combination of pilot error and mechanical failure.

The collision that killed Lieutenant Poloski did not seize any headlines, but it
cast a spotlight on the elite Top Gun fighter pilot fraternity -- roughly 560
carrier-based pilots -- and their operations.

Born in San Diego, Lieutenant Poloski grew up near the Miramar naval air
station. His mother started taking him to Blue Angels air shows before he could
walk, inspiring his lifelong enthusiasm for planes.

Growing up, he could not decide whether to become a fighter pilot or a doctor,
his mother, Miriam Kendrick, said in a telephone interview. He considered
attending medical school after some years in the cockpit, she said.

Like a lot of fighter pilots, Lieutenant Poloski loved fast cars and expensive
motorcycles. A garrulous Southern Californian, he ran marathons, surfed and
snowboarded. But flying was his passion.

''He loved the speed, the thrill, the fact very few people do it,'' Mrs.
Kendrick said. ''He loved everything about it.''

In April 2014, Lieutenant Poloski became a member of Strike Fighter Squadron 94,
the Mighty Shrikes, based in Lemoore, Calif.

Soon after leaving its home port in San Diego last spring, the crew of the Carl
Vinson learned that it would join the fight against the Islamic State in the
fall. Lieutenant Poloski was Jewish and a student of the Holocaust, and reports
of the militants beheading hostages, including Americans, and slaughtering
Shiite Muslims because of their faith stirred something inside the young
aviator, his mother said.

''He told me, 'I'm going to take out those bastards,' '' she said. He never got
the chance.

At 5:37 p.m. on Sept. 12, Lieutenant Poloski's jet roared off the Vinson's
flight deck on a practice bombing mission more than 100 miles out at sea. A
junior pilot, he had just over 221 flight hours in the Hornet. One minute
earlier, an F/A-18C piloted by a Navy commander from another squadron with more
than 2,100 hours in the jet had flown off the same deck to test repairs that had
been made on the plane.

According to the accident report, Lieutenant Poloski accelerated to more than
350 miles per hour, climbing to an altitude of 7,000 feet. About 10 miles from
the carrier, he turned west and slowed to about 300 miles per hour. He was
apparently unaware that the commander, whose name was redacted from the final
report for privacy reasons, had flown a similar route.

Around 5:40 p.m., the two planes collided. The commander told investigators he
was unaware of the collision, feeling only a ''thump'' on his left engine.
Within seconds, his plane was aflame and spinning wildly out of control. He
bailed out and was later plucked from the sea.

Witnesses aboard the Vinson said they saw two fiery objects falling from the
sky. Both planes immediately sank into the sea. Two oil slicks quickly formed on
the surface; each plane was carrying more than 2,000 gallons of jet fuel.

The search for Lieutenant Poloski over the next 36 hours covered more than 3,000
square miles and involved several ships and aircraft as well as satellite
imagery. His recovered helmet ''was damaged, including a crack that extended
from the bottom right side to the crown with one hole halfway up the crack,''
the report said.

Investigators determined that Lieutenant Poloski's plane ''came underneath the
bottom left rear'' of the other fighter jet. Based on that and the helmet,
investigators surmised that he had died of ''massive head trauma.''

There were no onboard devices to warn the pilots of the impending collision.
Controllers on the carrier were focusing on other jets that were landing.
Investigators addressed the lack of situational awareness. ''An overreliance on
technology can be a disadvantage,'' the report said.

Investigators also calculated the cost of the lieutenant's lost plane:
$77,343,287.80.

Six days after the crash, sailors and pilots gathered at the Vinson's hangar
deck for a memorial. Pilots flew a missing man formation -- with one jet absent
-- over the carrier at the end of the ceremony. The Blue Angels, who also fly
F/A-18Cs, the Corvette of the skies, later dedicated one of their shows to
Lieutenant Poloski.

''He persistently displayed his contagious enthusiasm for our unique
profession,'' Cmdr. Michael Langbehn, Lieutenant Poloski's squadron commander,
said in an email. ''He was determined to do what he must to be the best among
us.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/lt-nathan-poloski-navy-death.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A crew directing jet fighters on the flight deck of the
aircraft carrier Carl Vinson in the northern Persian Gulf last year. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lt. Nathan Poloski during a 2013 race in California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT
(90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ
& THE LEVANT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (89%); NAVIES
(89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); ACCIDENT
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%);
TERRORISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS
(54%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Picasso painting smashes auction record selling for $179.4 million in N.Y

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 117 words


May 11 (Reuters) - A Picasso painting smashed the record for the most expensive
artwork ever sold at auction on Monday when it soared to $179.4 million at
Christie's.

The auction house had estimated the 1955 cubist oil "Les femmes d'Alger (Version
"O")" would sell for about $140 million, but several bidders competing via
telephone drove the winning bid to $160 million, for a final price of
$179,365,000 including Christie's commission of just over 12 percent.

Previously the most expensive work sold at auction was Francis Bacon's triptych
"Three Studies of Lucian Freud," which sold for $142.4 million at Christie's in
November 2013. (Reporting by Chris Michaud in New York; Editing by Lisa
Shumaker)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/picasso-painting-smashes-auction-record-s
elling-for-179-4-million-in-ny.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); PAINTING (91%); ART DEALERS (90%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Experts See a 2nd Patz Trial as Inevitable

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 804 words


The Manhattan district attorney remained silent on Monday about whether he will
retry a former store clerk accused of murdering Etan Patz, but former
prosecutors said a second trial is almost inevitable, given that the Patz family
is pushing for one and that the prosecution was one vote shy of a conviction.

Legal experts say in deciding whether to try a second time, the district
attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., will not only take into account the 11-to-1 vote
by the jury but will also review the defense case for unanticipated pieces of
evidence that might change the chances of securing a conviction.

In the end, though, Mr. Hernandez's lawyers had few surprises. And upon hearing
the evidence, the faction in favor of conviction was always in the majority,
during 18 days of deliberations.

''Given the 11-to-1 split in favor of conviction, my suspicion is that the
district attorney will be compelled to retry the case,'' said Paul Callan, a
former Brooklyn prosecutor. Another former prosecutor in Brooklyn and Queens,
Eugene O'Donnell, agreed: ''Having 11 jurors who are willing to convict is
powerful reason to move forward.''

The question facing the jurors in the four-month trial that ended on Friday with
a hung jury seemed simple on the surface but proved to be complex: Did the
accused man, Pedro Hernandez, tell the truth when he confessed to having killed
Etan in 1979?

The defense argued that the confession, which he repeated several times, was a
fiction. They say Mr. Hernandez has a low intelligence score and a personality
disorder that causes him to confuse reality and fantasy. Etan's body was never
found, nor were his belongings. There was no physical evidence to corroborate
Mr. Hernandez's account. At the time, the scene of the crime was never
pinpointed.

Still, Mr. Hernandez's confessions seemed to solve the riddle of how Etan, 6,
vanished while walking from his parents' loft on Prince Street to a bus stop two
blocks away, near the intersection of Prince and West Broadway.

Mr. Hernandez told the authorities, and later several psychiatrists, that he
lured Etan into the basement with a soda, strangled him there and disposed of
his body in a box. He said he left the box in a subterranean passageway next to
a fruit stand a block and a half away.

One juror, Adam Sirois, said he did not believe the prosecution had presented
enough evidence to corroborate the confession and thought it was possible Mr.
Hernandez was so suggestible that while talking to the police he came to believe
he was guilty.

On Friday, Etan's father, Stanley Patz, said he was persuaded during the trial
that Mr. Hernandez had killed Etan. He urged Mr. Vance to try Mr. Hernandez
again. It was the first time Mr. Patz had said he believed prosecutors were
right.

Mr. Patz also made it plain that he no longer believed Jose A. Ramos, an
incarcerated child molester, was responsible for Etan's death. For years, the
Patz family had urged the authorities to pursue Mr. Ramos as a suspect. In fact,
Mr. Hernandez's lawyers presented evidence pointing to Mr. Ramos during the
trial.

That the Patz family strongly supports a retrial and no longer doubts Mr.
Hernandez is the correct man removes one hurdle for Mr. Vance, who would have to
consider the family's desire not to go through a second trial, prosecutors said.
''The family doesn't have to agree, but in a case like this it's something the
prosecution could take into account,'' said Larry Cunningham, a former Bronx
prosecutor who now teaches law at St. John's University.

A second trial is not likely to start until late this year and would differ in
some ways from the first. Jury selection would be an even more lengthy process.
The defense would be likely to look for people like Mr. Sirois, who are
suspicious of the police and willing to believe confessions can be false. The
prosecution might try to impanel people who have a less jaundiced view of the
police and give heavy weight to confessions.

Each side now knows in advance what the other's witnesses would say and has the
transcript of the first trial to use during cross-examinations. ''Each side
knows the other's playbook,'' Mr. Cunningham said.

Because jurors spoke openly about the deliberations, the lead prosecutor, Joan
Illuzzi-Orbon, and the lead defense lawyer, Harvey Fishbein, also have a good
sense of which arguments worked and which fell flat. They can hone their
arguments and better organize the evidence. ''That really gives you a road map
for a retrial,'' said Mr. O'Donnell, who teaches at John Jay College of Criminal
Justice.

In the end, however, the outcome of a second trial will depend on the
perceptions of the 12 jurors. ''There is no question in my mind that a different
jury could look at these facts in an entirely different way,'' Mr. Fishbein said
on Monday.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/second-trial-in-etan-patz-case-is-alm
ost-inevitable-experts-say.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Etan Patz's father, Stanley, above, has urged the Manhattan
district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., below center, to retry Pedro Hernandez,
who is accused of killing Etan, 6, in 1979. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ÁNGEL FRANCO /THE
NEW YORK TIMES
 BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (91%); EVIDENCE (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%);
MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); MISTRIAL (78%); VERDICTS (78%);
PSYCHIATRY (76%); PERSONALITY DISORDERS (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Grisly Find Under a Supermarket Illuminates France's Medieval History

BYLINE: By AURELIEN BREEDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PARIS JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1075 words


PARIS --  Past the racks of hair accessories on the ground floor of the Monoprix
supermarket on the corner of the Rue Réaumur and the Boulevard de Sébastopol in
the Second Arrondissement, there is a door marked staff only.

Slip through that passageway and turn left down a spiraling metal staircase into
the basement. Past pallets of juice and soda bottles, down another flight of
stairs, you will find a grim reminder of Paris's history: a mass grave, with row
upon row of medieval skeletons, 316 in total.

Archaeologists believe the discovery, unearthed in January, is part of the
cemetery of a medieval hospital called the Hôpital de la Trinité that used to
stand nearby. The long-buried mass grave is a reminder that Paris, for all its
surface grandeur, is still replete with undiscovered archaeological treasures,
some grand, others much more grisly.

For archaeologists, though, grisly can be good.

''Each dig is an event, but a cemetery is even better, because you have a real
population at hand,'' said Boris Bove, a historian and professor at the
Université Paris 8 who recently co-wrote a book on the French capital in the
Middle Ages. ''Most of the time, you only stumble upon buildings.''

The skeletons were excavated by a team from France's National Institute for
Preventive Archaeological Research, or Inrap, led by Isabelle Abadie, an
anthropologist and archaeologist.

''There are babies, there are young children, there are teenagers, there are
adults, men, women, elderly people,'' Ms. Abadie said on a recent afternoon at
an Inrap warehouse in La Courneuve, a suburb on the northern outskirts of Paris,
where the skeletal remains are now housed.

''This was a mortality crisis, that much is clear,'' she added, gesturing toward
stacks of crates that contained hundreds of numbered plastic bags, each of them
full of bones tinted brown by the passing of centuries. Nearby, some of the
remains had been carefully washed with water and toothbrushes and left to dry on
metal trays.

Ms. Abadie and her team spent two and a half months excavating the remains from
eight different graves covering more than 1,000 square feet, sometimes up to
five people deep. In the main pit, 175 bodies were neatly aligned head to toe.
Those found in the other, smaller graves were jumbled together -- a sign,
perhaps, of the rush to bury the dead during a worsening epidemic.

DNA testing and carbon dating could take months, so it is too early for Ms.
Abadie to know for sure when or how the bodies came to be buried where they
were. ''It could be the plague, it could be a famine, it can be many things at
this stage -- but there are no traces of trauma, so these aren't deaths linked
to an act of violence or war,'' she said.

Mr. Bove, the historian, said Paris was struck by the plague, like much of
Europe, during the great epidemic of the late 1340s. ''We can't give an absolute
number, but it wouldn't have been unlikely that the city lost a third of its
population,'' he said.

Pierre Vallat, deputy regional director for Inrap, said the Hôpital de la
Trinité was built outside city limits in the early 13th century and had at
different times served as a shelter for the poor and for pilgrims, a place of
religious teaching that put on biblical plays, an infectious disease center and
even a vocational school for children.

Mr. Vallat and Ms. Abadie said the discovery was the first medieval hospital
setting to be excavated in Paris. Being able to study the remains of those who
lived in the capital, not in distant provinces, would yield precious information
on decisions made by those in power and how they affected the population.

''The history of this hospital really bears witness to the whole history of
France,'' Mr. Vallat said. ''This is a total history, not just the history of
the rich and famous. This isn't Versailles.''

The contents of many medieval cemeteries were transferred into the Paris
catacombs in the late 18th century, though some of the remains at this burial
site might have been overlooked when the hospital closed during the French
Revolution and, in 1812, when it was finally dismantled and the site was covered
up by new construction.

The French businessman Félix Potin opened one of Paris's first modern retail
stores at Rue Réaumur and Boulevard de Sébastopol in 1860. After the company was
sold off in the 1990s, that location became the Monoprix, which is still adorned
with decorated balconies and topped by a large gray dome today.

Because Paris has been continuously occupied since the Middle Ages, few places
can easily be excavated. Archaeological digs are rare and initiated only when
construction workers accidentally stumble upon ruins or remains, or when Inrap
comes on sites before work begins to pre-empt potential damage.

''From an archaeological standpoint, Paris is almost like unexploited terrain,''
Mr. Bove said.

In 2013, during construction of a new reception hall at Police Headquarters on
the Île de la Cité, an Inrap team excavated several layers of history, including
the foundations of a 17th-century Barnabite church. In 2006, construction of a
research facility at the Pierre and Marie Curie University on the Left Bank led
to the discovery of remnants of a road and of several houses from the
Gallo-Roman era, which ended in the fifth century.

When management of the Monoprix supermarket decided to renovate the store's
basement, workers came across long-forgotten cellars, and, underneath them, the
skeletons.

Sometimes, digging things up is the only way to reveal what archives cannot. In
the 1980s, when construction of a glass pyramid in the courtyard of the Louvre
uncovered many older portions of the royal palace, it was the first time
archaeologists were able to see the city's 14th-century outer wall, built under
the reign of Charles V.

The real discoveries are still buried, and the French capital's former
inhabitants have left plenty to find, especially in its heart, where inhabitants
piled historical layers on top of each other.

''Paris was originally built around the Seine, on ground that was liable to
flooding,'' said Didier Busson, an archaeologist who works for the city. ''And
when you have to regularly rebuild, you compress the existing soil, which slowly
heightens the ground level.''

In some spots on the Ile de la Cité, Mr. Busson said, ''all of Paris's history
is in a six-meter slice of ground,'' sometimes just below the local supermarket.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/medieval-mass-grave-under-a-paris
-supermarket-shines-a-light-on-citys-past.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A researcher, top, at the site of the mass grave in central
Paris. Isabelle Abadie, left, an anthropologist and archaeologist, and her team
spent two and a half months excavating remains. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENIS
GLIKSMAN/INSTITUT NATIONAL DE RECHERCHES ARCHÉOLOGIQUES PRÉVENTIVES
 GUIA BESANA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); HISTORY (91%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (74%); ADULTS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); RESEARCH
INSTITUTES (65%); DNA TESTING (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); DNA (50%)

COMPANY: MONOPRIX SA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424410 GENERAL LINE GROCERY MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5141
GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (93%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Olives, and a Way of Life, Under Threat

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting from Racale, and
Aurelien Breeden from Paris.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1388 words


RACALE, Italy --  Across the stony heel of Italy, a peninsula ringed by the
blue-green waters of the Mediterranean, olive trees have existed for centuries,
shaping the landscape and producing some of the nation's finest olive oils.
Except now, many of the trees are dying.

Sprinkled among the healthy trees are clusters of sick ones, denuded of leaves
and standing like skeletons, their desiccated branches bereft of olives. The
trees are succumbing to a bacterial outbreak that is sweeping across one of
Italy's most famous olive regions, as families who have manufactured olive oil
for generations now fear ruin, even as officials in the rest of Europe fear a
broader outbreak.

''It is devastating,'' said Enzo Manni, the director of ACLI-Racale, an olive
cooperative in the heart of the outbreak area. ''It is apocalyptic. I compare it
to an earthquake.''

Today, scientists estimate that one million olive trees in the peninsula, known
as the Salento, are infected with the bacterium, Xylella fastidiosa, a figure
that could rise rapidly.

For Italy, which trails only Spain in annual olive oil production, the outbreak
has forced a bitter bargain: To prevent the bacterium from spreading north,
officials are trying to quarantine the outbreak in the lower half of the
Salento, where most of the contaminated trees are, by carving a buffer zone that
would serve as a sort of biological firebreak.

The Italian olive industry endured a terrible 2014 from bad weather and a nasty
infestation of the olive fruit fly. But those are familiar problems. The
bacterial outbreak -- which is believed to have arrived with plants imported
from Costa Rica and has already destroyed citrus trees in Brazil and vineyards
in California -- poses a new danger for all of European agriculture.

In Brussels, the European Commission has backed off earlier proposals to cull
millions of trees in the Salento and instead endorsed the Italian buffer zone as
well as other surveillance ones north of the peninsula. The commission is also
expected to soon enact a policy that would demand swift culling in the case of
any new outbreaks in other regions. And France has moved to protect its
vineyards by banning the importation of certain species of plants from Puglia,
the region of Italy that includes the Salento.

''The most important thing is that the disease doesn't spread to the north,''
Enrico Brivio, a European Commission spokesman, said. Of olive growers in the
Salento, he added: ''We sympathize with them. There are trees that have been
there for hundreds of years. They are like monuments.''

To drive through the southern half of the Salento is to realize that the
hardest-hit areas surround the coastal town of Gallipoli and radiate southward,
toward Racale and then down to the tip of Italy. The bacterium steadily
restricts water flow from the roots of a tree to its branches and leaves. The
olives are not affected, but production gradually diminishes as a tree dies.

''It is like they have a slow stroke,'' said Ettore, a local olive producer who
would give only his first name because he did not want his company to be
associated with the epidemic. ''Slowly, it is as if the blood is no longer
flowing, and the branches dry out and stop producing olives.''

Standing in the middle of a grove, Ettore, 32, and Mr. Manni, the co-op
official, nodded toward a tree with a trunk easily 25 feet in circumference. It
is called the Giant of Alliste, and local growers say it is 1,500 years old (a
figure scientists say is unlikely). It appears healthy, except for one branch in
which the leaves are reddened and curled, an early sign that the bacterium has
struck.

Mr. Manni reached down into a patch of grass, picking through weeds until he
pinched what appeared to be a glob of spit but was actually the protective
casing for the nymph stage of the spittlebug. The spittlebugs will start flying
this month and have served as a primary vector of the outbreak, chewing on the
leaves of infected trees and then carrying the bacterium to other, healthy
trees, like an unseen wildfire. Scientists say no one yet knows the extent of
the outbreak because some infected trees may not yet be showing symptoms.

''There are many,'' Mr. Manni said, pointing to a few globs in the grass.
''Here, here.''

Italian officials, whom olive growers have blamed for reacting too slowly, have
divided the affected region into quarantine areas, with the buffer zone
extending across the peninsula. Infected trees and plants were supposed to be
cut down in one of the quarantine areas north of the buffer zone, while growers
in the contaminated region south of the buffer zone were supposed to prune
infected trees and cut surrounding grasses to better control insects.

But last week, an Italian administrative court suspended olive tree culling in
Puglia. Italy's Agriculture Ministry has appealed the decision, and culling
could resume soon.

Maurizio Martina, Italy's agriculture minister, said that at most, about 35,000
trees could be uprooted under the government plan -- of the estimated 11 million
olive trees in the area. So far, the ministry said, officials had cut down only
six trees, with farmers culling an additional 100 or so. But the culling numbers
could grow far higher assuming the new court ruling is overturned.

''This is a European emergency that we need to address with a uniform
response,'' Mr. Martina said in an emailed response to questions about the
outbreak.

Scientists say a buffer zone may be useful but warn that simply cutting down
infected trees will not solve the problem in southern Salento. ''The only
feasible option is coexistence -- and to create an open sky laboratory in that
area,'' said Donato Boscia, a scientist at Italy's National Research Council.

To some degree, Europe is simply now facing a problem long entrenched in the
Americas. One recent study estimated that Pierce's disease -- a strain of
Xylella that affects grapes and vineyards -- costs California $104 million a
year. Farmers in Brazil, which produces about 60 percent of the global juice
supply, face similar problems.

''They have essentially learned to live with a very high prevalence of
Xylella,'' said Rodrigo Almeida, an associate professor of environmental science
at University of California, Berkeley.

Professor Almeida, who visited the Salento in November 2013, said the genetic
testing of the Italian strain showed a perfect match with a strain in Costa Rica
-- prompting scientists to hypothesize that the outbreak originated several
years ago with imported plants.

Professor Almeida said the buffer zone was a ''worthwhile idea'' but warned that
it was too soon to know how far north the bacterium had traveled. ''It is
difficult to know if it is going to work or not,'' he said.

In southern Salento, growers are alarmed but determined to learn how to adapt to
the presence of the bacterium. It takes seven years or longer for a new tree to
begin producing olives, and farmers were initially furious at reports that the
European Commission wanted to cut down a million or more trees, and possibly
even healthy plants in proximity.

Growers note that about 10 percent of all olive trees in the southern part of
the province are infected -- meaning that about 10 million trees are still
thought to be healthy.

''Our main goal is to save Salento from the bacteria,'' said Giovanni Melcarne,
a producer and head of a consortium of olive growers. ''We need to coexist with
it. Eradication is not a feasible goal.''

The other question is who will cover the economic losses for culled trees. Mr.
Martina, the agriculture minister, recently said 11 million euros (about
$12,260,800) would be made available to compensate growers. But the economic
effect on Puglia could be much worse.

Most of all, olive growers fear that a way of life that has sustained
generations could disappear. Already, production is dropping at many farms in
the region.

''We are scared to go to the fields in the mornings,'' said Pantaleo Piccinno, a
major olive producer who is also president of the local branch of Coldiretti,
one of the country's largest farm associations.

''You leave in the afternoon, and everything looks normal. Then you return in
the morning, and you see the first symptoms,'' he continued.

''It's going to get much worse.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/fear-of-ruin-as-disease-takes-hol
d-of-italys-olive-trees.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Olive trees in Lecce, Italy, showed signs of infection by
Xylella fastidiosa, which has destroyed citrus trees in Brazil and vineyards in
California. (A4)
 The bacterium Xylella fastidiosa, believed to have arrived in plants from Costa
Rica, is leaving olive trees in the Salento barren. Officials are trying to keep
the outbreak from spreading north. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVIDE MONTELEONE FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A6) MAPS: Infected trees are found throughout the heel of Italy.
(Source: Innova Puglia) (A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACTERIA (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS
(85%); OLIVE OIL PROCESSING (78%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (78%); COASTAL AREAS
(76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS
(68%); FIRES (64%)

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%)

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (95%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN
UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Astronomy: Messenger's Magnetic Discovery

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words


Mercury's magnetic field is nearly four billion years old, researchers have
found.

A planet's magnetic field is generated by the flow of liquid iron deep in its
core. While Earth's magnetic field helps shield life here from solar radiation,
Mercury is unlikely to be harboring inhabitants that need protection.

Still, the information is useful because it ''is dating processes in the
interior of the planet, and it basically tells us something about Mercury's
past,'' said Catherine Johnson, a geophysicist at the University of British
Columbia and an author of the new study, published in the journal Science.

Mercury, like all of the planets in our solar system, is just over four and a
half billion years old.

The data were gathered by NASA's Messenger, a small spacecraft that orbited
Mercury for four years before crashing into the planet on April 30. The
spacecraft measured the magnetism of rocks on Mercury's surface.

Dr. Johnson and her colleagues will continue to analyze data from Messenger.
They are also looking forward to a 2016 mission to Mercury known as BepiColombo.
Organized by the European Space Agency, BepiColombo will assume a more circular
orbit around Mercury, as opposed to Messenger's elliptical orbit.

''It will make measurements over the southern hemisphere that Messenger was
unable to do,'' Dr. Johnson said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/space/nasa-mercury-messenger-magnetic-
field.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA/JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY APPLIED PHYSICS
LABORATORY/CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION
(90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); ELECTROMAGNETISM
(78%); PHYSICS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SPACECRAFT
(73%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (73%); WRITERS (70%); SPACE INDUSTRY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON
(59%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (55%)

STATE: MERCURY (98%); EARTH (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evolution: Ancient 'Submarine,' With a Head and Eyes

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


A 500-million-year-old fossilized arthropod found in the Burgess Shale, a fossil
field in the Canadian Rockies, may provide clues to how heads evolved in early
animals. The fossil is a submarine-shaped arthropod, Odaraia alata, of the
Middle Cambrian Period. A paper in Current Biology reports that both Odaraia
alata, originally found about 100 years ago, and another ancient arthropod have
a hard plate, known as the anterior sclerite, and eye-like features that were
connected by nerves to their brains. They may have controlled their vision in
much the same way that modern insects, crustaceans and spiders do.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/submarine-with-a-head-and-eyes-500-mil
lion-years-old.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN BERNARD CARON/ROYAL ONTARIO MUSEUM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (92%); ARTHROPODS (90%); CRUSTACEANS (88%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS
(88%)

STATE: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insects: Beetle Found, No Sign of Relatives

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words


A newly identified beetle species in the wetlands of South Africa has no direct
relatives on the continent, a new study reports.

''To the uninitiated, it looks like yet another black beetle,'' said David
Bilton, an aquatic biologist at Plymouth University in England and an author of
the report, published in Systematic Entomology. ''The thing that's interesting
about this one is that it doesn't have any relatives in the whole of South
Africa.''

The diving beetle, Capelatus prykei, is about two-fifths of an inch long --
large compared with other diving beetles. Although diving beetles are found
worldwide in ponds, lakes, rivers and streams -- there are more than 4,000
species -- DNA analysis revealed that the new species has no relatives in
Africa.

''It's closest relatives are in Australia and New Guinea, and in the
Mediterranean,'' Dr. Bilton said.

The beetle lives in the fynbos, an ecosystem in the Western Cape of South
Africa. The climate is similar to the Mediterranean's, with wet winters and
long, dry summers, contributing to great biodiversity.

The region has also been climatically stable for about nine million years,
making extinctions rare.

The researchers know of only one living population of Capelatus, in Table
Mountain National Park in South Africa. Other populations may have died out
because of urban development, Dr. Bilton said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/beetle-found-no-sign-of-relatives.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (93%); BIOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%);
FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); NATIONAL
PARKS (74%); LAKES (73%); WETLANDS (73%); WRITERS (72%); DNA TESTING (70%);
RIVERS (54%); DNA (54%)

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (72%)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (86%); AFRICA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%);
ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sweeping Tour of Sweden Onstage

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words


''The Nordic Body: Choreographers From the Land of the Midnight Sun'' was one of
the 92nd Street Y's more unusual evenings and not merely because of the free
cocktails provided by the Consulate General of Sweden. On Saturday, as part of
the Y's Dig Dance series, Helena Franzen, Iréne Hultman, My Lindblad and SU-EN
Butoh Company gathered for a 10 p.m. performance -- not exactly midnight, but
close enough -- celebrating Swedish culture.

Leading off was Ms. Hultman, a veteran of the Trisha Brown Dance Company, in
''Untitled 3: Indulgent Dance 1,'' in which she paid homage to Ms. Brown and to
her own devotion to dance. (The previous two ''Untitled'' solos were created in
1988 and the late '90s.) Sweeping across the stage, Ms. Hultman, at once loose
and taut as she dropped into soft pliés with rounded arms only to snap her spine
straight into a composed fourth position, brought spellbinding contrasts to the
foreground. Both vigorous and detailed, embellishing her silky torso with ornate
hands and fingers, she performed to Scarlatti and Kurt Elling's ''Nature Boy''
and spoke, explaining that she wanted to ''dance like you sing in the shower.''

The next offerings were just as intimate and full of precise dancing, of which
the most elegantly embroidered was Ms. Lindblad's ''Where the Magic Happens,'' a
duet for herself -- six months pregnant -- and Stuart Shugg, another Trisha
Brown dancer. Starting in near darkness, the light grew increasingly radiant as
the performers, using their natural momentum in an array of seamless undulations
of tilts and dips, mirrored each other and drew apart. It was spine-tingling:
understated, yet grippingly full of sensation.

''ZOWA ZOWA,'' by the Swedish choreographer and Butoh artist SU-EN, is named
after a Japanese onomatopoeic expression that refers to shuddering or trembling.
Wearing a red dress while making gurgling and fluttering sounds with her mouth,
SU-EN took on the mannerisms of a bird with quivering legs and hands held in
loose fists. Intermittently compelling and rambling, this improvised solo fought
for its shape, just as Ms. Franzen's overlong ''Tremolo,'' set to a score by
Jukka Rintamaki, also struggled to sustain itself.

Ms. Franzen, hovering close to the floor, demonstrated her strength and tenacity
while balancing on the balls of her feet, knees bent, as her articulate spine
guided her into an ongoing chain of precarious shapes. Vaguely alien with
translucent skin blending into her pale hair, Ms. Franzen was, hauntingly, the
human visualization of a tremolo: wavering, unsteady, yet never falling off
course.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/dance/review-the-nordic-body-moves-at-92n
d-street-y.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCERS
(78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION
(84%)

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hawks Regain Offensive Flow and Get Even With Wizards

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; HAWKS 106, WIZARDS 101; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 503 words


WASHINGTON --  Suddenly, the Atlanta Hawks went from being so-so in the playoffs
to looking more like a No. 1 seed.

Returning to the free-flowing offensive style they had used so effectively in
the regular season, the Hawks beat the Washington Wizards, 106-101, on Monday
night to even the teams' second-round series at two games each. Jeff Teague led
Atlanta with 26 points, including a key 3-pointer in the fourth quarter.

''That was midseason form right there,'' the Hawks' Kyle Korver said. ''I
thought we played with just a lot of juice and a lot of energy and a lot of
purpose.''

Washington's Paul Pierce, two days after hitting a buzzer-beater to win Game 3,
missed a 3-point attempt that would have tied the score with less than 10
seconds left.

Al Horford had 18 points and 10 rebounds for the Hawks, and Paul Millsap added
19 points, 6 assists and 5 rebounds. The Wizards' lone All-Star, point guard
John Wall, missed a third consecutive game with a broken left hand.

Game 5 will be Wednesday night at Atlanta.

From the start of Monday's game, the Hawks were back to being the regular-season
version of themselves -- a team that won 60 games -- rather than the
disorganized bunch that had been 5-4 this postseason.

They used backdoor cuts. They drove to the basket. They found the open man.

''That's how we play,'' Millsap said. ''That's how we've been playing all year.
Things we didn't do pretty much all series, we did tonight.''

The Hawks led for most of the game, but Washington cut its deficit to 101-97
with less than two minutes remaining. Teague's 3-pointer with 1 minute 12
seconds left pushed the margin back to 7.

The Wizards were not done, though. After Washington's Bradley Beal blocked a
shot by Dennis Schroder in the lane to keep Atlanta's lead at 104-101, the
Wizards had the ball and called a timeout with 9.5 seconds remaining.

Pierce had an open look at a 3-point shot, but it went off the rim.

The Wizards, seeded fifth in the N.B.A.'s Eastern Conference, entered Monday
with the best record in the postseason at 6-1, including 3-0 at home. And they
got terrific performances from Beal -- who had 34 points, a career playoff high
-- and Pierce. The Wizards made 12 3-pointers, five of them by Pierce, who
finished with 22 points.

When Pierce's inside basket a little under three minutes into the second half
pulled Washington to 65-64, Atlanta responded with a 9-2 run, with all the
points coming from Teague and Pero Antic, pushing its lead back to 10 going into
the fourth quarter.

The Hawks' All-Star quartet -- Teague, Millsap, Horford and Korver -- combined
for 43 points in the first half, only 1 point fewer than they had totaled in all
of Game 3.

Wall, meanwhile, was again limited to cheering on Monday, and the Wizards let
the game get away from them.

''It was a great opportunity for us to go up, 3-1,'' Beal said. ''We won one
game without John. We can do it again.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/basketball/nba-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA HAWKS (94%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (84%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

E.U. Is Ready to Combat Smugglers, Official Says

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from London.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 700 words


UNITED NATIONS --  The top diplomat for the European Union said Monday that the
bloc was prepared to take action against migrant smuggling rings based in Libya
even without the approval of the United Nations Security Council. But the
diplomat also sought to assure critics that the people trying to cross the
Mediterranean would be rescued and given an opportunity to apply for asylum in
Europe.

''Let me explicitly assure you that no refugees or migrants intercepted at sea
will be sent back against their will,'' the diplomat, Federica Mogherini, told
the Security Council.

Ms. Mogherini was at the United Nations seeking a Security Council resolution to
authorize military operations to ''dismantle'' the criminal organizations that
ferry desperate migrants across the Mediterranean, including by rendering their
vessels inoperable.

Rights groups and even some senior United Nations officials have nudged Europe
to offer legal paths to political asylum so migrants do not resort to smuggling
rings and risk abuse and often death.

International law prohibits countries from returning migrants who are fleeing
persecution in their own countries.

Peter D. Sutherland, the United Nations envoy for international migration, told
Council diplomats that any resolution to address the migrant crisis must start
with ''the immediate need to save lives.''

''If we do not frame our response this way, it would represent a moral failure
of the first order,'' he said.

The International Organization for Migration, a 157-member intergovernmental
organization, has said that more than 1,800 people died while trying to cross
the Mediterranean in the first four months of 2015 alone.

A draft resolution, proposed by the European members of the Security Council but
not yet circulated among all 15 members, would authorize European military
operations on international waters, as well as in Libyan waters and on its
shores. These actions would be allowed under Chapter VII of the United Nations
Charter, which authorizes the use of military power to enforce compliance.

The draft resolution authorizes the European operation to inspect vessels
suspected of being used for migrant smuggling.

Council diplomats have said privately in recent days that they are concerned
about the approach, including the prospect of taking any action without consent
from Libya.

Therein lies another diplomatic dilemma: Which Libyan authority?

As for whether the European Union needs Libya's approval, Ms. Mogherini said she
had met with the rival parties battling for control of Libya and sought to
obtain their authorization.

The Libyan ambassador to the United Nations, who represents the internationally
recognized government, has said it does not control the Western coastline, the
departure point for most migrant boats, and is not in position to approve any
European operation.

Council members said that they did not expect to adopt a measure in the coming
days.

Ms. Mogherini said Europe was prepared to act even before getting a green light
from the Council. She said European governments would also expand opportunities
for migrants to reach the continent legally, including as refugees fleeing
conflict.

The largest single group of migrants who have reached Italy and Greece in recent
months are from Syria, followed by Eritreans, many of them children, fleeing a
repressive government.

Some Council diplomats say they want authorization from Libya, but have been
vague over who would give consent.

The potential effects of destroying any smuggler boats are unclear. Migrants who
make their way to Italy are packed into wooden fishing boats that are abandoned
at sea. The shorter passage from Turkey to Greece is often made on inflatable
rafts.

In Brussels, European Union officials said they expected to submit a proposal
this week to distribute migrants across the 28-member bloc, officials said on
Monday, a plan likely to encounter fierce resistance from some national
governments.

The proposal for redistributing migrants would be based on a quota system that
would take into account factors like a country's population, the state of its
economy and its level of joblessness, European officials said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/eu-prepared-to-combat-migrant-smu
gglers-diplomat-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); SMUGGLING (91%); ALIEN SMUGGLING
(90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%);
APPROVALS (89%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); REFUGEES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%);
EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%);
EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (54%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); LIBYA (97%); MEDITERRANEAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER
STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Readers Ask About Abuse of Nail Salon Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Q&A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 917 words


For 13 months, Sarah Maslin Nir investigated the workplace conditions in nail
salons in the New York City area, discovering that manicurists are routinely
underpaid and during their workdays, use nail and beauty products that could
cause serious health conditions. Ms. Nir answered readers' questions on Monday,
during a Facebook Q. and A., on how she reported the two-part series,
''Unvarnished''; what steps government agencies are now taking; and how
consumers can help.

The questions and answers below have been edited and condensed.

Workers' rights

Q. Brittany Harris: Over the weekend, I stopped in my normal salon and asked one
of the workers if she gets paid. She said she does not, but she did say she gets
to keep her tips. Now I feel torn. I could probably help this woman by
continuing to go there and giving big tips. But that would also be contributing
to the larger problem by keeping these salons in business. What do you
recommend?

A. I experienced this myself, and there is no easy answer. But your manicurist
is being deprived of a wage, and the employer is engaging in illegal behavior.
The Labor Department has a hotline for anonymous tips (1-888-469-7365).

Q. Marianna Pataki McMahon: I would like to know if all manicurists need a
license in New York. If so, how do they pass the licensing requirements without
being aware of their rights as workers, the hazards of the job without speaking
at least some English? Are there OSHA laws that protect these workers? Are they
ever enforced?

A. Yes, they must be licensed. The process requires proof of 250 hours of
training courses or the equivalent experience, a physical, a written test and
practical exam. But this is another area where enforcement is lax, according to
my research. There are nearly 30,000 licensed nail technicians in the state,
according to the New York Department of State, but we found that numerous
manicurists work without licenses. Licenses are frequently fabricated, and
bought and sold. I believe the ones who have licenses are more aware of their
rights, but many do not, and are not.

Health concerns

Q. Pat Beckmann Wilson: Are there any polishes available that do not contain
DBP, toluene or formaldehyde chemicals? I avoid artificial nails but do not want
to contribute to the problems for manicurists with these polishes either.

A. Many companies say that their products do not contain these chemicals. But no
premarket oversight exists over what goes into these products, because of the
way federal law is written, so you have to take the company's word for it. There
have been tests that show that even some of these ''free'' products contain the
ingredients.

Q. Bonnie Burt: Would having the manicurists wear masks and gloves help protect
them?

A. Gloves would definitely help with skin irritation and fungal infections
manicurists suffer from, according to experts, but occupational health experts
say that those hospital-style masks do little to ward off the chemicals. Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo announced emergency measures to protect manicurists, and
mandatory gloves and masks are one of the steps, making New York State, I
believe, the first in the country to do so.

Government intervention

Q. Duncan McGonagle: I'm of the opinion that this industry needs to be letter
graded just like the restaurant industry. Because they have such a powerful
lobby, the measure is defeated every time it's introduced in the City Council.
How do you feel about this important issue?

A. The letter-grade bill appears to focus almost solely on the health-related
issues that may affect the consumer, like cleanliness. My investigation appeared
to show that it is manicurists who appear truly at risk, suffering through
endless fungal infections and other skin diseases.

Q. Michael Strauss: Do you think the crackdown Cuomo announced will lead to many
of these illegal immigrants' leaving the salons and entering other off-the-books
enterprises? Cuomo says they won't check immigration status, but that seems to
be difficult for the Labor Department or Immigration to ignore now that they
know where to look.

A. I spoke to the governor's office about this, and they said that to their
knowledge -- though I haven't verified this -- there is no record of
Immigration's ever pursuing people following an investigation into their
employer's not paying them fair wages.

Reporting the series

Q. Linda Cronin-Gross: How did you get the workers to trust you enough to reveal
such very personal and potentially damaging info about themselves?

A. I worked with fabulous translators and reporters who interpreted our
interviews. We would spend a lot of time not asking the questions we wanted
answers to, just listening. The workers wanted to tell their stories, because
they never had been able to. Quiet listening and respect built trust.

Q. Katie Fallon: Were you threatened by any salon owners or thrown out of any
salons?

A. I was thrown out of some salons, but something more interesting happened.
Often when interviewing salon owners in Korean with the help of my translators,
the interviewee would turn to them and say, in Korean, ''Don't tell her what I'm
about to tell you.'' They would appeal to the fact that they were from the same
homeland, and ask for us not to write the story. Of course, as any good
translator would do, my translator would immediately say to me: ''He just said,
'Don't tell her what I'm about to tell you.'''

The complete Q. and A. is at facebook.com/nytimes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/sarah-maslin-nir-times-journalist-ans
wers-readers-questions-on-nail-salons.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A pedicure at a salon on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); NAIL SALONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH &
SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOLUENE (77%); PERSONAL CARE
PRODUCTS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); ALDEHYDES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Imaginary Friend and His Wise Companion

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words


The Irish actor Chris O'Dowd has kept a full and varied schedule the last few
years -- starring in the British cult-favorite sitcom ''The I.T. Crowd,''
playing Brendan Gleeson's antagonist in the grim indie feature ''Calvary,''
voicing Dr. Cockroach in the Nickelodeon series ''Monsters vs. Aliens,'' popping
up in ''Thor: The Dark World.''

But his passion project has clearly been ''Moone Boy,'' the winsome little Irish
comedy he writes (with Nick Vincent Murphy) and stars in. The show's third and
final season, the entirety of which is available on Wednesday on Hulu, is even
more of an O'Dowd production -- he directed all six episodes.

On-screen, Mr. O'Dowd is actually the second banana in this semiautobiographical
show, which is set in the Irish town of Boyle (where he grew up) and by Season 3
has arrived in the early 1990s. He plays Sean Murphy, the towering, eager,
slightly pathetic imaginary friend of young Martin Moone (David Rawle), a
schoolboy whose sunny disposition and complete obliviousness to the opinions of
others are enabled by Sean's dogged encouragement.

Mr. Rawle, now 14, has been marvelous throughout the show's run, and he's on
form in the early episodes of Season 3 as Martin pays a visit to his sketchy
Uncle Danny (Steve Wall) in Dublin and learns the joys of petty shoplifting at
home in Boyle. He moves seamlessly among Martin's customary modes: blissful
dreaminess, nervous scheming and slowly growing alarm when his absurd plans go
sideways.

''Moone Boy'' is at heart a standard chaotic-family sitcom, with Martin under
the thumb of his terminally blasé sisters and the siblings mortified by their
bumbling, well-meaning parents. And its retrospective structure -- narration is
supplied not by the main character but by his imaginary friend -- is reminiscent
of American shows from ''The Wonder Years'' to ''The Goldbergs.''

But the show is more imaginative and detailed than others of its type, with a
loopy idiosyncrasy that trumps synthetic American quirkiness, and its offhand,
seemingly throwaway comic touches come with a dash of Irish poetry. When a
family of travelers moved into the field next door to the Moones in Season 2
(amid many whispered admonitions not to use the word ''Gypsy''), and Martin
received his first kiss from their wise-beyond-her-years daughter, Sean appeared
next to him reciting passionately from the great, bittersweet Irish comedy ''The
Playboy of the Western World.''

The new season -- which, under Mr. O'Dowd's direction, feels a touch more
prosaic than its predecessors -- focuses more on other Moone family members and
on Martin's irrepressibly pompous nonimaginary friend, Padraic. This is all to
the good, given the fine performances of Ian O'Reilly as Padraic and Deirdre
O'Kane and Peter McDonald as Martin's parents. Mr. McDonald's Liam Moone, in
particular, is a winning creation, a clean-cut, mostly mild-mannered Irish
version of Homer Simpson.

The engine of the show remains the relationship between the adult but childlike
and insecure Sean and the immature but wise and impervious Martin, who between
them form one perfectly happy person despite the imperfections of family,
country and decade. As Sean says when Padraic appears to have fled his
squabbling parents: ''Why would anyone run away from Boyle? That just makes no
sense.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/television/moone-boy-a-comedy-series-with
-chris-odowd-on-hulu.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris O'Dowd stars in and directs ''Moone Boy'' on Hulu.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BBC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); POETRY (70%);
SHOPLIFTING (66%)

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's Phone Makers Look to India for Growth

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR and SARITHA RAI; Paul Mozur reported from Hong Kong and
Saritha Rai from Bangalore, India

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words


HONG KONG -- The most important market for Chinese smartphone makers may no
longer be China.

For years, hundreds of millions of Chinese have purchased new smartphones. In
the process they lifted the fortunes of local handset makers, from the well
known like Huawei and Lenovo to the obscure like Coolpad and Gionee.

But the era of fast growth is coming to an end in China, where the research
group IDC said on Monday that phone sales fell 4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the first contraction in six years. IDC expects no growth
in China's smartphone market in 2015.

The saturated Chinese market -- more than 800 million people there use
smartphones, according to IDC -- means fewer new buyers, and a slowing economy
means less spending. So Chinese companies are turning to India, trying to catch
a $14.5 billion market on the way up.

''It is India first for us,'' said Varun Sharma, Coolpad's chief executive of
Indian operations. He said Coolpad, a Shenzhen-based company, planned to use its
patents and manufacturing infrastructure to sell devices ''at $100 price points
for the Indian market and not at $800 or $1,000 price points that global brands
are doing.''

India's smartphone sales are just a fraction of China's. But as one of the
fastest-growing smartphone markets in the world, with hundreds of millions of
potential new customers, India may indicate whether a new generation of Chinese
hardware companies can grow beyond their country's borders.

It is intensely competitive, with more than 150 brands. Among the best-selling
brands are several indigenous companies with an inside track on local phone
habits. Another top seller is a multinational, Samsung, which has deep
experience selling across different cultures.

Xiaomi, the most successful Chinese company in India, owned only 4 percent of
the market in the fourth quarter.

But India is also the only place that has a scale like China's. Indians are
expected to buy 111 million smartphones this year, and 149 million in 2016. And
China's smartphone makers say Chinese and Indian customers have a lot in common:
Both tend to obsess over arcane features and specs, and both are highly
sensitive to cost.

At a bustling Sangeetha Mobiles shop in Bangalore's Koramangala neighborhood,
the 20-year-old store attendant, Murthy Lakshmipathy, took careful aim at those
expectations.

''See the display and the camera,'' he said to customers, holding up a new
handset made by the Chinese vendor Oppo. ''And here, it's all unbreakable
plastic and Gorilla Glass. You won't get any other stylish phone with these
features at this price.''

Many Chinese companies are trying to make their case directly to potential
Indian buyers online. It is a technique pioneered by Xiaomi, which used
e-commerce to overcome difficult-to-manage and expensive storefronts and
distribution deals in China and now India.

So-called flash sales, which offer limited batches of phones to drive up demand
and build brand cachet, have rattled the current top sellers in India, the local
company Micromax and the South Korean giant Samsung, according to analysts.

The tactic is cheap and effective, said Mr. Sharma of Coolpad: ''We don't need
to spend tens of millions of dollars on marketing or building distribution
networks.''

Analysts said companies like his were arriving in their new market at the right
time.

''Chinese manufacturers can find a lot of play in India, which is in the early
phase of growth, and they can fight for meaningful revenues and profits,'' said
Anshul Gupta, a research director at Gartner.

Even so, many Chinese companies have set ambitious targets for themselves.
Coolpad, which will introduce its inexpensive Dazen phone online in coming
weeks, said it aims to sell three million to four million smartphones in one
year, and 15 million to 20 million in three years.

Xiaomi, now worth $45 billion, moved into the top five sellers in India in the
fourth quarter of 2014. Underscoring the company's focus there, the
international vice president and former Google executive Hugo Barra recently
presided over an Apple-like blowout introductory event in New Delhi for its Mi
4i phone, designed specifically for India. The company says it aims to be the
top handset brand in India by 2020.

The smaller Chinese start-up OnePlus, which puts equal emphasis on selling in
China and abroad, began selling its flagship One phone in December, and has sold
200,000 phones already. It is shooting to sell a million devices by the end of
this year.

In the path of those ambitions are a host of Indian rivals, each hoping to use
local knowledge to repeat the success of Chinese phone makers in China.
Micromax, which owns the second-largest share of the Indian market after
Samsung, is already adapting to the Chinese invasion, holding online-only sales
and making some phone models Internet exclusive.

''We have always been the first to identify the gaps in India and have worked
toward addressing them,'' said Micromax's chief executive, Vineet Taneja.

Skirmishes have already erupted. Micromax briefly won a sales injunction against
OnePlus over a contract with the company Cyanogen, the creator of a popular
operating system for phones that run Android by Google. The case has since been
withdrawn. In December, Xiaomi was temporarily blocked from India because of a
patent complaint by the Swedish telecommunications manufacturer Ericsson. And
the Indian government's ''Make in India'' policy began levying hefty duties on
imports in April.

No strangers to intrusive government industrial policies, Chinese companies are
already expanding operations within India. Xiaomi, OnePlus and the early market
entrant Gionee all plan to set up research and development centers there.
OnePlus, Xiaomi and Coolpad also want to produce phones in Indian factories.

One of the most successful Chinese brands in India so far, Xiaomi has gone to
great lengths to create products catering to customers there. Its new Mi 4i
phone costs more than many rivals at about $200, but supports six Indian
languages, with local engineers working to increase that number.

The company has also built an online store that focuses on India's passions of
cricket and Bollywood, and has plans to open 100 stores around the country
before the end of the year.

''We want to become an Indian company,'' Xiaomi's chief executive, Lei Jun, told
a local newspaper after the introduction of the Mi 4i.

One recent convert to a Chinese brand is Anusheel Nahar, a longtime BlackBerry
user, who bought a Lenovo smartphone for 8,500 rupees, or about $140. Mr. Nahar
had never owned a touch-screen phone before, but said the Lenovo device's specs
and cost stood out.

''It was priced right and seemed hardy enough to carry around in my back
pocket,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/technology/chinese-smartphone-makers-try-to-ma
ke-inroads-in-india.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A young Indian with a mobile phone, on a cycle rickshaw in the
old quarter of New Delhi. India's smartphone market is intensely competitive,
with more than 150 brands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANDAN KHANNA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); CONSUMER
ELECTRONICS MFG (92%); ELECTRONICS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST
EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (77%); SALES & SELLING (76%); SALES
FIGURES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE
(71%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

CITY: SHENZHEN, GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%); BANGALORE, KARNATAKA, INDIA (56%); NEW
DELHI, INDIA (56%)

STATE: GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (56%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); INDIA (98%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Police Lives Lost Are the Focus in Mississippi

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words


HATTIESBURG, Miss. --  By the time a single bagpiper marched to the front of
Hattiesburg Hall on Monday afternoon, scores of law enforcement officers from
across Mississippi had lined the walls of the room in a local convention center.
They, along with hundreds of ordinary citizens, had come to remember two young
police officers, to seek solace and, perhaps, to seek meaning.

And at a time when police officers are under extraordinary scrutiny for their
conduct in cities like Baltimore and Ferguson, Mo., the meaning many found in
the deaths Saturday night of Officers Benjamin Deen and Liquori Tate was in what
mourners described as the good work done by the nation's police officers in
often dangerous conditions.

''Officer Deen and Officer Tate were the watchmen on those walls,'' said Gov.
Phil Bryant, a former sheriff's deputy. ''They made the ultimate sacrifice to
protect the people of this city -- some they did not and would not ever know --
because it was their job. It was their duty. It was their code.''

Later, the Rev. Dwayne Higgason, pastor of a nondenominational church here and a
volunteer chaplain for the Hattiesburg Police Department, suggested that police
officers were sometimes being criticized the way soldiers were during the
Vietnam War.

''I believe the average person in America loves and supports police officers,''
Mr. Higgason said in an interview after the service. ''But it's silent support,
and I believe the time for silent support has passed. I believe it's time for us
to be vocal and say, 'Thank you.' ''

He added, ''This is an opportunity for people to realize the importance of
that.''

The memorial service came two days after the two officers were shot to death
during a traffic stop, dealing Hattiesburg a type of civic trauma it had not
felt since 1984, the last time a member of the city's police force was killed in
the line of duty.

And so this city of about 48,000 people turned its focus to how a rite of
policing as routine as a traffic stop was also a reminder of the dangers that
officers encounter daily.

''They've got a dangerous job,'' said Thelma Wash, 77, who can see the shooting
scene from her front door. ''It's really dangerous, and I'll tell you what: If
it wasn't for cops, we wouldn't be able to live.''

Police deaths have been rare here; the killings of Officers Deen and Tate
brought the Police Department's toll of on-duty deaths to six. The city said
that it had previously lost two officers on the same day when, in 1952, Officers
James Everett and M.W. Vinson Jr. were killed after responding to a burglary
call.

According to records maintained by the Officer Down Memorial Page, a nonprofit
that lists the names of police officers killed in the line of duty, the
Hattiesburg Police Department is the only law enforcement agency in Mississippi
to have twice lost two officers in a single day.

Within hours of Saturday's shooting, the authorities arrested two people, Marvin
Banks and Joanie Calloway, and charged them with capital murder. Charges against
her were later reduced to accessory after the fact of capital murder, and two
other people, including Mr. Banks's brother, were charged with crimes connected
to the killings, such as obstruction of justice.

The four suspects appeared in court on Monday afternoon, and jail records showed
that a judge refused to set bond for Marvin Banks, who is suspected of being the
gunman.

But in large measure here on Monday, the suspects were ignored. Some residents
said they did not know the names of the accused, nor how many people had been
arrested. But they were quick to recall biographical details about the officers,
like that Officer Deen was a married father of two who had patrolled with a
police dog, or that Officer Tate had become a police officer less than a year
ago.

Near the scene of the shooting, residents erected a memorial along a fence,
filling it with balloons, flowers and American flags. At midmorning on Monday, a
contingent of Hattiesburg firefighters fastened a fire service shirt to the
fence, and on the ground, small wooden crosses carried the names of the officers
and a simple tribute: ''Served with honor.''

A corresponding tone seemed to course through Hattiesburg, from wealthy
neighborhoods to communities that residents and business owners described as
blighted and troubled. Although the Police Department here has been the subject
of sporadic criticism through the years, many residents said that the ties
between officers and the neighborhoods they patrolled were amiable.

Year after year, they said, they watched as officers died elsewhere in places
like Jackson, the state capital, or New Orleans, the gritty metropolis to the
southwest.

''This is Hattiesburg,'' said Melvin Harrison, a barber whose shop is across
James Street from police headquarters. ''Nobody expects that. Nobody expects
somebody to pull a gun on a cop, shoot a cop or anything.''

On the day Hattiesburg was grieving, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
reported that 51 law enforcement officers nationwide were ''feloniously killed
in the line of duty'' last year, an 89 percent increase from 2013. But the
F.B.I. noted that felonious law enforcement deaths had reached a record low, 27,
in 2013. Between 1980 and 2014, the bureau said, the country recorded an average
of 64 such deaths each year.

Officials here are not yet discussing whether any policy or training changes
could come in the wake of the killings, but some experts said there was little
that could be done to prepare for an assault like the one on Saturday.

''These were well-trained law enforcement officers, I can assure you,'' Governor
Bryant said in an interview in which he described the situation as one brought
on by ''someone of a very cold heart and a murderous nature.''

And during the memorial, policy talk and references to the criticisms police
officers have faced across the country were mostly absent. Instead, supporters
of the officers told of the men's heroics, such as the time when Officer Tate
saved a family from their burning home, and their quirks, like Officer Tate's
penchant for switching on his police siren seemingly at every opportunity.

But as the men's survivors sat in the front row and as officers, including many
from Hattiesburg, crowded into the room, pride and grief were plain.

''What leads a person to put on the uniform and a badge?'' Gregory K. Davis, the
United States attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi, said to
mourners. ''It's more than a passion. It's more than a profession. It's more
than the position, and it's certainly more than a paycheck. It is a higher
calling.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/slain-hattiesburg-mississippi-police-office
rs-are-memorialized.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Youlander Ross, mother of Officer Liquori Tate, on Monday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO/REUTERS) (A1)
 Above, members of the Hattiesburg Fire Department on Monday affixing a shirt to
a makeshift memorial for two slain officers. Left, Robin Deen, widow of one of
the officers, at a service for the two. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDMUND D. FOUNTAIN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%);
SHERIFFS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%);
RELIGION (71%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

PERSON: PHIL BRYANT (57%)

CITY: HATTIESBURG, MS, USA (96%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dip in Oil Prices Takes Steam Out of Market

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 733 words


The stock market took a small step back on Monday, giving up some its big gains
from last week.

Crude oil prices fell, pulling down energy stocks. Exxon Mobil lost 1.7 percent,
the most in the Dow Jones industrial average. The price of oil slipped as
traders weighed declining drilling in the U.S. against rising gasoline supplies
that could crimp demand for crude in the coming weeks. Benchmark U.S. crude fell
14 cents to close at $59.25 a barrel in New York.

The market was coming off its biggest gain in two months on Friday after news
that U.S. employers added 223,000 jobs in April, a solid gain that suggested the
economy may be recovering after a stumbling start to the year.

That sentiment helped cool off demand for bonds on Monday. As a result, the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.26 percent, its highest level of
the year so far, from 2.15 percent late Friday.

''It's a day of digestion after big news and a big move on Friday,'' said Eric
Wiegand, a senior portfolio manager at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.

The Dow fell 85.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to 18,105.17. The Standard & Poor's
500-stock index lost 10.77 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,105.33. The Nasdaq
slipped 9.98 points, or 0.2 percent, to 4,993.57. The three indexes are up for
the month and year.

The indexes barely budged much of the day. Absent major new economic data,
investors mostly focused Monday on the latest corporate deal news and company
earnings.

Noble Energy's $2.1 billion all-stock buyout of rival oil and gas production
company Rosetta Resources failed to impress traders, however. Noble's shares
slumped $3.05, or 6.2 percent, to $46.07. It was the biggest decliner among
S.&P. 500 companies.

The slide in oil prices also hurt stock prices for several other oil producers
and drilling equipment companies. QEP Resources fell $1.13, or 5.2 percent, to
$20.46, while Pioneer Natural Resources slid $6.07, or 3.8 percent, to $152.99.
National Oilwell Varco shed $1.90, or 3.6 percent, to $51.33.

''We have crude down a little bit today and energy stocks are having a tough
time,'' said JJ Kinahan, TD Ameritrade's chief strategist.

The 10 sectors in the S.&P. 500 declined, led by energy stocks. The sector is
down 0.2 percent for the year.

Among U.S. stocks making big moves, better-than-expected quarterly results sent
shares in Actavis and Dean Foods higher. Actavis rose $8.92, or 3 percent, to
$301.74, while Dean Foods gained $1.05, or 6.4 percent, to $17.33.

Monster Beverage surged after a Citi analyst upgraded the energy drink maker.
The stock jumped $5.53, or 4.3 percent, to $134.01.

The rest of this week should provide traders some insight into a key facet of
the U.S. economy: consumer spending. Several major retailers report quarterly
results, including Macy's, J.C. Penney, Nordstrom's and Kohl's. Also, the
government reports its latest monthly tally of retail sales on Wednesday.

''Are the people out there spending money? That's what we need to see next,''
Mr. Kinahan said. ''That's what everybody is having a bit of trouble figuring
out.''

Markets in Europe were mixed as traders looked for progress on the latest
bailout for Greece. European finance ministers met on Monday to discuss the
issue, but emerged without a deal. A debt default would destabilize Greece,
potentially causing it to fall out of the eurozone. France's CAC 40 fell 1.2
percent, while Germany's DAX shed 0.3 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 edged up 0.2
percent.

The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 3 percent after the People's Bank of China
cut interest rates for the third time in half a year, the central bank's latest
bid to shore up sputtering economic growth. Elsewhere in Asia, Japan's Nikkei
225 rose 1.3 percent, while South Korea's Kospi gained 0.6 percent and Hong
Kong's Hang Seng added 0.5 percent.

In other energy futures trading, Brent crude, a benchmark for international oil
used by many U.S. refineries, fell 48 cents to close at $64.91 in London.
Wholesale gasoline fell 0.6 cents to close at $1.986 a gallon, while heating oil
fell 0.9 cent to close at $1.945 a gallon. Natural gas fell 7.8 cents to close
at $2.802 per 1,000 cubic feet.

In metals trading, gold fell $5.90 to $1,183 an ounce, silver fell 15 cents to
$16.31 an ounce and copper fell two cents to $2.90 a pound.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source:
The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute:  Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at
1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL
MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES
(90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL
EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%);
OIL & GAS DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS OUTPUT (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%);
OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); BONDS (77%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(70%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & REPORTS (70%)

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); PIONEER NATURAL
RESOURCES CO (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); NOBLE ENERGY INC (58%); TD
AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (51%); DEAN FOODS CO (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PXD (NYSE) (58%); XOM
(NYSE) (58%); NBL (NYSE) (58%); AMTD (NYSE) (51%); DF (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (69%); NAICS523120
SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%);
NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS
LIQUIDS (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS325110
PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%);
SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS311513
CHEESE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (50%);
NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bomber Expressed Sympathy, Jury Told

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 983 words


BOSTON --  Wearing street clothes, a silver cross dangling from her neck, Sister
Helen Prejean, a Roman Catholic nun and prominent opponent of the death penalty,
testified on Monday that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the convicted Boston Marathon
bomber, had expressed sympathy for his victims.

''He said emphatically, 'No one deserves to suffer like they did,' '' she
testified.

Asked how his voice sounded as he spoke, Sister Prejean, 76, said: ''It had pain
in it, actually, when he said what he did about 'nobody deserves that.' I had
every reason to think he was taking it in and he was genuinely sorry for what he
did.''

The nun -- whose 1993 book, ''Dead Man Walking,'' became the basis for a movie
starring Susan Sarandon -- provided to jurors the first evidence of Mr. Tsarnaev
feeling regret since he was captured and charged with killing three people and
wounding 264 others at the 2013 marathon, as well as killing an M.I.T. police
officer three days later. Describing five meetings that she has had with the
defendant since March at the defense team's request, Sister Prejean portrayed
Mr. Tsarnaev as respectful and receptive to her, even though he had probably
never met a Catholic nun before.

In court, Mr. Tsarnaev's demeanor has been mostly impassive. At one point, he
teared up when one of his aunts sobbed so much on the stand that she could not
testify. But when victims of the attack testified, describing bodies blown to
bits, he slouched in his chair, appearing bored and seldom looked at the
witnesses, including those he maimed or those whose loved ones he killed. He
never took the stand, and as the defense rested its case on Monday, it left the
jury with Sister Prejean's pronouncement that he felt sorry as a last thought
for jurors to contemplate before they return to court Wednesday for closing
arguments.

When those arguments end, the jury will begin deliberations on whether to
sentence Mr. Tsarnaev to death or life in prison.

The jury convicted Mr. Tsarnaev, 21, last month of all charges against him. In
the penalty phase of the trial, the government, which rested its case last
month, has argued for the jury to sentence him to death. The defense has said he
should be sentenced to life in prison without parole.

In her testimony, Sister Prejean never used the word ''remorse'' -- a
symbolically important term that jurors often want to hear from defendants and
that can be a mitigating factor in death penalty cases. It was uttered only by
Miriam Conrad, one of the defense lawyers, who questioned Sister Prejean on the
stand.

Ms. Conrad asked her, for example, whether she would tell the jury that ''he was
truly remorseful'' if she did not believe he was.

''No, I would not,'' the nun said.

But even if she did not utter the word, Sister Prejean's mere presence was
intended to convey remorse and encourage mercy, and the prosecution, which lost
a legal battle to keep her off the stand, did not try to parse her language.

In a brief cross-examination, the prosecution instead underscored that Sister
Prejean is based in New Orleans and is a nationally recognized opponent of the
death penalty -- that is, a witness from outside Massachusetts who has a strong
bias.

''Their cross-examination was to point out what was obvious: She's against the
death penalty, and she'd be up there arguing against it even if it were Adolf
Hitler,'' said David Hoose, a defense lawyer in Northampton, Mass., who has
argued death penalty cases.

Still, Mr. Hoose said, Sister Prejean was a valuable witness because she carries
moral authority and because if Mr. Tsarnaev felt any regret, she could convey
sincerity about it better than he could.

''His lawyers probably felt this is the best we can do in terms of expressing
remorse,'' Mr. Hoose said. ''It may not be enough for some jurors, but maybe
there is one juror who was looking for that, who will say, 'O.K., that's enough
for me.' ''

If only one of the 12 jurors opposes the death penalty, the sentence will be
life in prison.

In the closing days of the trial, one of the most important issues to emerge has
been the situation that Mr. Tsarnaev would face in prison, if he is allowed to
live.

The defense has sought to characterize the prison where he would be sent, if
spared the death penalty, as a brutal place and a sufficient punishment for his
crimes. At the supermax penitentiary in Florence, Colo., the toughest prison in
the federal system, Mr. Tsarnaev would spend 23 hours a day in solitary
confinement.

This approach has put the government in the odd position of suggesting that
conditions there are not so bad. It spent its final rebuttal time on Monday
portraying the prison, known as ADX, as a reasonable place where privileges are
easily earned by inmates, who can write books, make 30 minutes of phone calls a
month and receive and write unlimited letters.

John Oliver, the warden of ADX, who testified for the prosecution, said that in
certain circumstances, an inmate could communicate with the media and might
eventually be transferred to another facility.

The prosecution has appeared exasperated that the defense repeatedly used an
aerial photo to suggest that the prison, covered in snow in the picture, is in a
remote outpost in the Rockies, too far removed from civilization for Mr.
Tsarnaev to be a threat to anyone again.

To counter this impression, prosecutors on Monday half-jokingly asked the
warden, ''Is Florence, Colo., in Siberia?''

The defense suggested that, whether Mr. Tsarnaev could make one phone call or
three, he would always be in danger from other inmates because he was a Muslim
and because he had murdered a child. Among his victims at the marathon was
8-year-old Martin Richard.

Under cross-examination by the defense, Mr. Oliver agreed that it was a badge of
honor among inmates at all prisons, not just ADX, to ''go after'' someone who
had killed a child.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/sister-helen-prejean-says-tsarnaev-shows-re
morse-for-boston-bombing.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sister Helen Prejean leaving court in Boston after testifying
for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on Monday. (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (91%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); CATHOLICS
& CATHOLICISM (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); WITNESSES
(89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%);
RELIGION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); MARATHONS (77%); VERDICTS
(77%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muslims Flee to Malaysia and Indonesia by the Hundreds

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Wai Moe contributed reporting from Yangon, Myanmar;
Joe Cochrane from Jakarta, Indonesia; and Poypiti Amatatham from Bangkok.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 964 words


BANGKOK --  More than 1,000 refugees, including many women and children, came
ashore in Malaysia early on Monday in what appears to be a sign of an
accelerated exodus from western Myanmar and Bangladesh.

The landing of 1,051 people near a hotel beach on the Malaysian resort island of
Langkawi on Monday came after 582 arrived Sunday on the Indonesian island of
Sumatra.

The Malaysian and Indonesian authorities say the refugees are a mix of
Bangladeshis and ethnic Rohingya, a persecuted and stateless Muslim ethnic
minority that inhabits western Myanmar and eastern Bangladesh.

The group that came ashore on Langkawi looked ''very bad,'' said Harrith Kam
Abdullah, the most senior police officer on the island. He said the refugees
would be sent to the Malaysian mainland.

''They landed on a tourist beach,'' Mr. Harrith said in a telephone interview.
The group included 101 women and 52 children, he said.

Peter Athan, the general manager of the Four Points by Sheraton in Langkawi,
said hotels on the island had organized to send food and water for the refugees.

The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said in a report
released Friday that an estimated 25,000 people fled Myanmar and Bangladesh by
boat in the first quarter of this year, twice the number of last year.

The exodus has been spurred by the persecution of the Rohingya, who number
around one million in Myanmar alone. The government of Myanmar rejects them as
citizens, restricts their travel within the country and refuses to call them
Rohingya, preferring the term Bengali, which implies that they belong across the
border in Bangladesh. Bangladesh also rejects the Rohingya as citizens and has
its own refugee camps, both official and unofficial, filled with more than
200,000 Rohingya.

Attacks on Rohingya villages in 2012 and 2013 by Buddhist mobs in Myanmar forced
more than 100,000 Rohingya into refugee camps, where most remain. The violence
has abated, but anti-Muslim sentiment remains potent in Myanmar and is linked to
a large political movement known as 969 that portrays Muslims as a threat to
Buddhism.

The Rohingya pay smugglers to take them to Malaysia, which in recent years has
turned a blind eye to their clandestine immigration.

''This is a ruthless business where smugglers will let them die to set an
example for others,'' said Jeffrey Labovitz, the head of the Thailand operations
of the International Organization for Migration, an intergovernmental
organization that is helping the refugees. ''They are subject to extortion, to
rape, sometimes to murder.''

The smuggling and trafficking were long aided by weak law enforcement in
Thailand, a major transit point in Southeast Asia for the Rohingya and other
migrants. But Thailand has responded to pressure from Europe and the United
States by cracking down on officials suspected of complicity in the
human-smuggling business and by raiding remote jungle camps where Rohingya were
kept in bamboo cages while their families were extorted for money, Thai
officials say.

Over the past week, the Thai authorities have issued 50 arrest warrants for
local officials, politicians, police officers and villagers complicit in the
smuggling and trafficking of Rohingya and other migrants. Nearly 70 police
officers have been transferred from their posts.

The Thai authorities have also unearthed graves containing more than 32 bodies
presumed to be migrants who died in captivity or during the journey.

The crackdown has pushed the trafficking away from Thailand, according to Chris
Lewa, coordinator of the Arakan Project, a human rights group that tracks
migration and human trafficking in the Andaman Sea.

''I think there is a huge amount of people still at sea,'' she said in a phone
interview late Monday.

Her organization has been in touch with families of would-be migrants and other
sources in Malaysia, Myanmar and Bangladesh. An estimate she made a week ago
that 8,000 migrants were currently at sea was most likely too low, she said.

''I think we will see many more thousands coming ashore in the coming days,''
she said. ''I'm also concerned that boats might be abandoned by brokers.''

Mr. Labovitz said that if migrants were stuck at sea on overcrowded boats, their
health could deteriorate.''The longer the trip takes, the worse their conditions
become,'' he said.

The International Organization for Migration found that nearly 2 percent of
2,800 refugees from Bangladesh and Myanmar it screened over the past three years
had beriberi, a disease almost totally eradicated in the developed world and
brought on by severe malnutrition.

Among recent arrivals, Mr. Labovitz said, ''right now we estimate about half of
the people are coming from Myanmar and half from Bangladesh.''

Although many Rohingya have lived in Myanmar for generations and were allowed by
the previous military junta in that country to vote in a 2008 referendum and
2010 elections, government officials insist that they are illegal immigrants
from Bangladesh.

U Zaw Htay, the deputy director general of the Myanmar President's Office, said
in a telephone interview Monday that refugees who landed in Indonesia and
Malaysia ''might not be from Myanmar.''

He ruled out ''internationalizing'' the issue through regional meetings that
Thailand has proposed. He rejected the suggestion that Myanmar was happy to see
the Rohingya go.

''They are not free to go,'' he said. ''But the question is whether the boats
left from Myanmar waters.''

U Kyaw Hla Aung, a Rohingya lawyer and community leader in western Myanmar, said
people were leaving the refugee camps daily to embark on sea journeys.

''It is clear that security forces here are working together with human
traffickers,'' he said. ''If not, those people couldn't leave.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/asia/more-than-1000-refugees-land-on-mal
aysian-resort-island.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Refugees on the Malaysian island of Langkawi on Monday. About
1,600 Bangladeshis and Rohingya have landed there and in Indonesia since Sunday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANAN VATSYAYANA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ISLANDS &
REEFS (90%); RELIGION (89%); SMUGGLING (88%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%);
ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION (78%); RELIEF
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MINORITY GROUPS (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ETHNICITY (70%);
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT
(62%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (62%); EXTORTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%)

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%)

STATE: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%)

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (98%); MYANMAR (97%); INDONESIA (96%); BANGLADESH (95%);
THAILAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%);
ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Turkish Cargo Ship Attacked Off Libyan Coast

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Ceylan Yeginsu contributed reporting from Soma,
Turkey.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 511 words


CAIRO  -- A Turkish cargo ship off the coast of Tobruk, Libya, was attacked by
warplanes and artillery, killing a Turkish officer and injuring members of the
crew, the Turkish Foreign Ministry said on Monday.

The attack was the latest episode of violence among armed factions within Libya
spiraling out to harm foreigners or their interests.

In January, another foreign ship -- a Greek-owned oil tanker -- was bombed in
the same area by forces allied with the internationally recognized government,
based in Tobruk and Bayda.

Meanwhile, Libyan extremists have also recently slaughtered groups of Egyptian
and Ethiopian Christians, gunned down foreigners in a luxury hotel in Tripoli,
and claimed responsibility for several attacks on foreign embassies.

The Turkish government said in a statement on Monday that the ship was attacked
while delivering a cargo of plasterboard to Tobruk from Spain. But a spokesman
for the military forces allied with the Tobruk and Bayda government said on
Monday that the Turkish vessel was bound for Darnah, a stronghold of Islamist
forces.

''We have warned before about approaching Darnah port,'' the spokesman, Mohamed
Hejazi, told Reuters. The government said in January that the Greek tanker it
bombed had also headed for Darnah, about 90 miles west of Tobruk. At least two
crew members were killed.

The Turkish ship may also have been a target because the Tobruk-Bayda government
accuses Ankara of fueling a proxy war playing out across Libya after the
overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

The faction that controls the Tobruk and Bayda government is allied with the
military leader Khalifa Hifter and has the backing of Egypt and the United Arab
Emirates, in what they characterize as a fight against Islamist extremists.

Its main rival, the faction based in Misurata and Tripoli, includes both
moderate and extremist Islamists and has the backing of Qatar and Turkey in what
they characterize as a fight against a return to autocracy. Western diplomats
have said, though, that unlike the other three regional players, Turkey does not
appear to be providing any military aid to its Libyan allies.

A statement from the Turkish Foreign Ministry on Monday stopped short of blaming
any specific side in Libya for the attack on the cargo ship. But all the
artillery in the area where the attack occurred is controlled by the faction
that dominates the Tobruk and Bayda government, and that group also controls
Libya's only operational air forces.

The Turkish statement said that the cargo ship, the Tuna-1, was registered in
the Cook Islands and operated by a Turkish shipping line. The Tuna-1 came under
artillery fire in international waters 13 miles from Tobruk, the statement said,
adding that ''while the ship was trying to leave the area of artillery attack,
it was the target of two additional subsequent air attacks.''

''We strongly protested this heinous attack before the relevant Libyan
authorities,'' the Turkish statement added, calling for ''the necessary legal
procedures against the authors of this attack.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/africa/turkish-cargo-ship-attacked-off-l
ibyan-coast.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%);
OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (89%);
MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%);
DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); RELIGION
(55%); HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); TRIPOLI, LIBYA (90%); ANKARA, TURKEY (58%)

COUNTRY: TURKEY (98%); LIBYA (98%); EGYPT (92%); COOK ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN
(79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hotels View Airbnb as Hardly a Threat, for Now

BYLINE: By JULIE WEED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 991 words


By any measure, Airbnb's growth has been stunning since the company was founded
in 2008. It now has more than a million rooms available in homes, apartments and
even former barns -- more places to sleep than hotel giants like Marriott and
Hilton.

Despite this growth, though, the big hotel chains, at least outwardly, have yet
to take substantial action to counter the potential threat from the upstart
lodging service.

One reason is the strength of the travel market over all. Spending on hotels
this year is projected to be even higher than last year's robust outlays,
according to Douglas Quinby, an analyst for Phocuswright. Other reasons include
the ingrained habits of travelers, particularly older ones and business
travelers on expense accounts, who see no reason to change their ways.

Steve Joyce, the chief executive of Choice Hotels International, which serves
many bargain-hunting travelers, said recently that his brands, which include
Comfort Inn, Sleep Inn and Econolodge, had not seen any effect from Airbnb and
all were expecting strong summer sales.

Kerry Ranson, chairman of the InterContinental Hotels Group Owners Association,
said he did not see Airbnb as a threat or as a competitor. ''It's a short-term
online rental,'' he said.

But there are signs that Airbnb is making inroads with business travelers, a
critical group of customers to the hotel industry. Last summer, Airbnb entered
the corporate market, teaming with Concur, an expense management company, to
allow Airbnb charges to appear directly on a traveler's expense form. Airbnb now
reports that just under 10 percent of its guests are traveling on business.

Mike Oshins, a hospitality management professor at Boston University, said that
travelers working for themselves or small companies were the most likely
professionals to use Airbnb.

''They don't need the concierge and room service,'' he said. ''They just want to
save money.''

Kisha Mays, the chief executive of Just Fearless, a business development company
serving female entrepreneurs, often travels outside the United States and
prefers Airbnb to hotels. Along with the lower price, she appreciates being able
to wash a few items of clothing or eat dinner without going out to a restaurant.
''I want to feel like I am at home instead of in some bleak hotel room,'' she
said.

Other business travelers use Airbnb to find lodging when big trade shows have
filled city hotel rooms.

There is evidence that the greater room supply created by Airbnb has helped
restrain prices that traditional hotels can charge in some markets.

In Austin, Tex., each 10 percent increase in Airbnb listings resulted in a 0.35
percent decrease in monthly hotel room revenue, according to a study by Boston
University. Less expensive hotels and those focused on leisure travelers were
most affected when Airbnb developed in their area, the study found.

And in New York, there is a similar dynamic.

Hotel room price growth in New York has lagged historical levels during the
economic upturn, according to research by Sean Hennessey of New York
University's Tisch Center for Hospitality and Tourism. While some of that is
because of the increase of hotel construction and number of available rooms, he
said, hoteliers also cite the advent of a ''shadow inventory'' including Airbnb
and others as a reason for the price stagnation.

They may not cite Airbnb as a direct competitor, but hotels are taking some
actions as the service grows more popular. Hospitality industry representatives
are asking for laws requiring Airbnb properties to adhere to the same safety
standards that hotels do. Airbnb said it required hosts to follow their local
laws and encouraged all hosts to take some basic steps to keep their homes safe.

Some small hotels are joining the service themselves. When the Box House Hotel
in Brooklyn opened in 2011, it listed rooms on Airbnb along with booking.com and
other websites. ''It's another way for people to find out about us,'' said
Jenneka Hernandez, the general manager. The 57-room hotel lists only its least
expensive rooms on the site, ''because that is what Airbnb customers are looking
for,'' she said.

The eight-room Drift San Jose in Baja California in Mexico books all its
reservations through Airbnb, which allows the property to keep its costs down.

''We don't need a front desk or even a credit card machine,'' said Stu Waddell,
the owner of the hotel.

Grace Bay Resorts on Turks and Caicos lists luxury beachfront rental homes on
Airbnb to ''reach a different market than those of the resort's typical
guests,'' said Nikheel Advani, its chief operating officer.

Marissa Coughlin, a spokeswoman for Airbnb, said the company had no official
partnerships with any hotels, but did not prohibit them from listing rooms on
the site.

At the same time, traditional hotels still enjoy the loyalty of older travelers,
said Glenn Haussman, editor in chief of Hotel Interactive.

''Older travelers as well as business travelers whose companies are paying for
the stay generally want the predictability, the services and the comfort of a
hotel,'' he said.

Hotels also still offer benefits that Airbnb does not, like loyalty points, and
are designed to help guests connect with others at a conference or network in
the hotel lobby or bar.

''I do believe people will sample the service,'' Mr. Haussman said, ''but
converting masses of people permanently is a very tough task.''

At least one hotel group sees Airbnb as expanding the market.

''Our belief is that lodging rental websites are stimulating demand, rather than
displacing existing demand,'' said Ian Carter, the Hilton hotel chain's
president of development, while noting that Hilton Worldwide served a record
number of guests, 140 million, last year.

Still, many analysts and industry experts see trouble ahead for established
chains if they do not treat Airbnb as a competitor. ''They certainly should,''
Mr. Quinby said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/airbnb-grows-to-a-million-rooms-and-h
otel-rivals-are-quiet-for-now.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In her travels, Kisha Mays, the chief executive of Just
Fearless, prefers Airbnb. ''I want to feel like I am at home instead of in some
bleak hotel room,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SALACUSE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%);
ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LODGING (78%); TRAVEL & HOSPITALITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(78%); PRICES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESTAURANTS
(72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); WOMEN (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (58%); CHOICE HOTELS INTERNATIONAL
INC (56%)

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (58%); IHG (LSE) (58%); CHH (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011
HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Asia; India: State's Former Leader Is Cleared

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 489 words


NEW DELHI -- The powerful former chief minister of the southern Indian state of
Tamil Nadu, Jayalalithaa Jayaram, on Monday was cleared of corruption charges on
appeal, paving the way for a possible return to office.

Ms. Jayaram, 67, who served as chief minister until her conviction in September,
had been accused of illegally accumulating about $10 million through shell
companies during her first term in the 1990s, when she stated she earned a
single rupee per month. After 18 years of court proceedings, she was sentenced
in 2014 to four years in prison.

On Monday, the Karnataka High Court reversed a lower court's conviction, which
at the time had been hailed as a blow to political corruption. A search of Ms.
Jayaram's home after the case was filed turned up a gold belt studded with 2,389
diamonds, among other jewels.

''For the prosecution, it is an unexpected event,'' said B. V. Acharya, the
special public prosecutor appointed by the government in Karnataka, where the
case had been moved. ''We normally expect the judgment confirming the lower
court order.''

In the 919-page judgment, Justice C. R. Kumaraswamy acquitted Ms. Jayaram and
three others accused in the case of ''all the charges leveled against them,''
writing that the value of Ms. Jayaram's assets were exaggerated. He wrote that
the previous judgment ''suffers from infirmity, and it is not sustainable in
law.''

The acquittal of Ms. Jayaram, an iron-fisted leader who was once an actress,
will most likely affect the political future of Tamil Nadu, where elections are
due to be held next year.

''It confirms her position as the most important political leader of Tamil
Nadu,'' said A. R. Venkatachalapathy, a professor at the Madras Institute of
Development Studies in Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu.

For supporters, who call her Amma, or mother, her conviction was calamitous.
Senior ministers wept at the swearing-in ceremony of her replacement, and some
supporters reportedly set themselves on fire to protest her conviction.
Supporters of Ms. Jayaram, who was briefly imprisoned before being granted bail,
say that she was framed by her political opposition.

Workers on Monday erupted in joy outside the headquarters of her party, the All
India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, and outside Ms. Jayaram's residence.

''We are very, very, very happy,'' a supporter said, shouting over a delirious
crowd outside Ms. Jayaram's house in an interview with the Indian news channel
NDTV. ''One thing is proved: God is there.''

Mr. Venkatachalapathy said that her acquittal could send a message to other
politicians accused of wrongdoing in India, which has a long history of brazen
corruption among its political leaders.

''I think this is hope for a number of other politicians who are facing charges
under the Prevention of Corruption Act,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/asia/jayalalithaa-jayaram-tamil-nadu-cor
ruption-appeal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%);
APPEALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ACQUITTAL (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION
(78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS
(78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); SENTENCING (77%); CORRECTIONS
(77%); PRISONS (75%); BAIL (72%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (71%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (67%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); CHENNAI, TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%)

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (92%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Hurricanes Taking Super Rugby by Storm

BYLINE: By EMMA STONEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; RUGBY; Pg.

LENGTH: 1105 words


WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- Expect the unexpected. For many years that was the
slogan pushed by the Hurricanes Super Rugby franchise in New Zealand.

Franchise bosses wanted it to promote the exciting, free-flowing,
edge-of-the-seat brand of rugby the team played. What it ultimately came to
reflect was the wildly fluctuating performances and disappointing results from a
team liberally sprinkled with some of New Zealand's biggest stars.

The tag was ditched a few years ago, but the inconsistencies in performance and
results remained -- until this year.

The 2015 Hurricanes have not lost any of the excitement associated with their
predecessors. They have scored some breathtaking, length-of-the field tries this
year, but what they have also done is find a way to win matches when opponents
have not allowed them to play the style of rugby they want.

The 32-24 victory against the Sharks, from South Africa, in Wellington on
Saturday night was a case in point. The Hurricanes scored four tries to claim a
bonus point in the standings under Super Rugby's scoring system, but it was a
physical and bruising match that saw the lead change hands several times before
the New Zealanders landed the knockout blow in the final 10 minutes.

The Sharks have struggled this season and were beaten, 48-15, by the Highlanders
the previous week, also in New Zealand. But they could well have snatched
victory from the Hurricanes but for a disallowed try midway through the second
half.

''I've got to say that it's not very often that you're satisfied to win ugly,
but I'm actually really happy,'' the Hurricanes' first-year coach, Chris Boyd,
said. ''We didn't play particularly well. I think they threw the kitchen sink at
it.''

It was the Hurricanes' 10th victory and leaves them comfortably on top of both
the New Zealand conference and the overall standings with five weeks of the
regular season remaining.

The top six teams over all qualify for the playoffs. The conference winners from
New Zealand, South Africa and Australia take the top three spots, while three
wildcard spots go to the teams with the next best records, regardless of
conference.

The top six now are the Hurricanes (48 points), Stormers (34), Brumbies (33) --
who all lead their respective conferences -- and the Chiefs (38), Highlanders
(34) and Bulls (34).

The Hurricanes captain, Conrad Smith, who has been with the team since 2004,
admits it has been difficult to pinpoint exactly what has made the difference
this year.

''I think there is good maturity within the group. There's a bit of
confidence,'' Smith explained. ''We've had a group that's been together for a
while.''

Smith said the Hurricanes' newfound belief in themselves grew out of recent
disappointments.

''Particularly for me, last year, I thought we should have been better than what
we were,'' he said. ''That carried through and was really motivating for us this
year.''

Boyd and his assistant, John Plumtree, have certainly had an influence, while
the team's All Blacks players -- Smith, Ma'a Nonu, TJ Perenara, Beauden Barrett,
Victor Vito, Cory Jane, Julian Savea, Ben Franks, Dane Coles and Jeremy Thrush
-- have all had an impact, though Barrett is currently out with a knee injury.

The find of the year could be the young fullback Nehe Milner-Skudder, 24, who
has lit up the competition with his attacking runs and ability to beat
defenders.

The Hurricanes' winning run is all the more noteworthy because Boyd has to rest
his All Blacks throughout the season. The New Zealand Rugby Union, as part of
its World Cup preparations, and all five New Zealand franchises have agreed to
rest their All Blacks for two matches in addition to the two bye weeks. The
franchises can choose which players to rest when.

The Hurricanes, generally, have coped with that well. Vito, Coles and Barrett
have missed time because of injury, but against the Sharks the Hurricanes rested
Perenara and Julian Savea and still managed to win.

Injuries and the mandatory rests have certainly hampered the Chiefs, Crusaders
and Highlanders in their push for the playoffs, while the Blues have just had
another poor season and are 13th out of the 15 teams.

The Crusaders, who have a host of All Blacks on their roster, including captain
Richie McCaw, the star flyhalf Dan Carter and the 2013 world player of the year
Kieran Read, are in danger of missing the playoffs for the first time since
2001.

However, their 58-17 thrashing Saturday of the hapless Queensland Reds, who are
last in the overall standings after a season to forget, helped their chances of
making the top six.

The Chiefs have been without their international lock Brodie Retallick for much
of the season because of shoulder injuries, and the franchise has now lost its
star flyhalf, Aaron Cruden. He had surgery on a ruptured anterior cruciate
ligament last Friday and is expected to be out for at least six months, knocking
him out of the World Cup action with the All Blacks.

South Africa has implemented a similar World Cup policy to that of New Zealand.
Springbok players will get between two and four matches off on top of the bye
weeks, while no Springbok player must play more than five consecutive games.

The South Africa conference is a tight battle, with the Stormers, Bulls and
Lions all still in the race for the title. The Sharks and Cheetahs have no hopes
of reaching the playoffs.

The Stormers claimed a 25-24 victory against the Brumbies in Cape Town after
Christian Lealiifano missed a late conversion attempt for the visitors. That
result put the Stormers at the top of the conference, ahead of the Bulls who
have an extra game to play, while the Stormers have a bye this weekend.

The Australian Rugby Union has chosen not to implement a rest policy for its
Wallabies players. But even with their stars like Israel Folau, Kurtley Beale,
Adam Ashley-Cooper and Bernard Foley available every week, the 2014 champions
New South Wales Waratahs have failed to reach their heights of last year.

While they have a better win-loss record than the 6-6 Brumbies, the 7-4
Waratahs' inability to score tries has cost them bonus points this year, and
their inconsistent play has resulted in them currently sitting in seventh place
and out of the playoffs if they started today.

On Saturday they lost for the second time this season to the Western Force, who
had not won a game since beating the Waratahs in the first week and were on a
10-game losing streak.

The Melbourne Rebels have been the surprise team in Australia. Friday's 42-22
victory against the Blues was the Rebels' sixth win of the season, a franchise
record.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/rugby/hurricanes-taking-super-rugby-by-
storm.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(78%); TOURNAMENTS (73%)

CITY: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (93%)

COUNTRY: NEW ZEALAND (97%); AUSTRALIA (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Hand on Deck for Opera Anarchy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WHITE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; OPERA REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 903 words


LONDON -- When an opera company finds itself in trouble, there's always Gilbert
and Sullivan. Having been in serious trouble for months, it was lucky that the
English National Opera had plans for a new production of ''The Pirates of
Penzance,'' which opened on Saturday and has already proved so popular that the
run has been extended. Say what you like about this repertoire, it sells.

But there's an added reason for the box-office excitement. This production,
playing until July 4, is a first attempt at opera by the playwright and film and
stage director Mike Leigh, whose credits include the films ''Mr. Turner'' and
''Secrets & Lies,'' and the play ''Abigail's Party.'' Mr. Leigh also directed
the Gilbert and Sullivan biopic ''Topsy-Turvy.''

''Topsy-Turvy'' was released in 1999, so it has been quite a wait. And although
Mr. Leigh has meanwhile become president of the Sir Arthur Sullivan Society and
the W.S. Gilbert Society, he has never actually worked in lyric theater --
partly because he likes to write his own material, but also because of his
painstaking rehearsal methods, which aren't tailored to opera companies'
schedules.

But English National in recent years has made a point of welcoming established
West End/Broadway/film directors with no opera experience, in the hopes of
bringing fresh vision to a potentially closed world. Although it has been a
high-risk policy -- with flops like Mike Figgis's ''Lucrezia Borgia'' that
failed to recognize the degree to which opera is a self-referencing culture with
its own rules about story-telling, pace and movement -- it has also produced
startling work from mavericks like Terry Gilliam with a natural instinct for the
medium. Mr. Leigh's ''Pirates of Penzance'' proves otherwise.

Of all the Sullivan scores, ''Pirates'' is perhaps the closest to real opera as
opposed to operetta. Its official first performance, in New York, was threatened
by a strike: The musicians demanded extra pay because the music was more
''operatic'' than they had bargained for. But it is still wafer-thin in its
invention and technique, designed to please Victorian bourgeois audiences with
easy tunes and parodies that only demonstrate the vast superiority of the
original over the copy. Much of it is meretricious, only saved by its
relationship with Gilbert's words -- which do have genius, albeit time-locked.

A director working with this repertoire must somehow rise above the music and
unlock the text into contemporary relevance, a hard task. It explains why
Gilbert and Sullivan works better these days as an amateur participation sport
-- the stuff of singalongs in church halls -- rather than a serious undertaking.
Experience suggests that the only viable alternative to the robustness of the
village hall is an extreme one: the supremely slick, sophisticated re-imagining
exemplified by Jonathan Miller's celebrated take on ''The Mikado'' -- first done
for the English National Opera in 1986 and still in repertory around the world.

The problem with Mr. Leigh's ''Pirates'' is that it is neither robust nor
re-imagined with sophisticated brilliance. It is conventionally staged in
19th-century costume much as the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company would have
envisioned -- with the token modernism of a streamlined, semi-abstract set by
Alison Chitty. If there's a message, it's that Gilbert and Sullivan needs no
clever interventions or adornment. And what it appears to be above all, in the
hands of Mr. Leigh, is quietly weird: the quality that no doubt draws him to it.

Given the socially engaged, left-leaning nature of his film and stage work, he's
not everybody's idea of a Gilbert and Sullivan enthusiast. But what he likes is
the ''topsy turvy'' element acknowledged in the title of his film: the sense of
crazily subversive anarchy that rules a piece like ''Pirates,'' where the plot
concerns a band of tender-hearted brigands who drink sherry, love the queen
(Victoria) and turn out to be members of the House of Lords ''gone wrong,'' as
the libretto has it.

Mr. Leigh's reductive presentation style is meant, presumably, to give the
weirdness more exposure. And it does. But at the same time it's low-key and
under-energized, also exposing the bald fact that this is a director who has
never paid his dues in opera and is learning on the job. It's all too
stand-and-sing, with little sense of how to move a chorus -- other than fall
back on the old D'Oyly Carte routines of marching up and down (for men) and
irritatingly unfocused dancing (women).

In the first night's patchy cast, there was a thankfully assertive Pirate King
from Joshua Bloom who lit up the stage whenever he was on it; a deliciously
deadpan Police Sergeant from Jonathan Lemalu; and attractive coloratura singing
from Claudia Boyle as Mabel. But Andrew Shore didn't quite deliver the panache
expected from the very model of a modern Major-General. And though the conductor
David Parry is as safe a pair of hands as Gilbert and Sullivan could ask for,
his panache was on the low side here as well.

Will that matter much to the aficionados scrambling for tickets? Perhaps not.
For them and others, worldwide screenings are planned for May 19 at selected
cinemas, as well as at the London Coliseum.

Pirates of Penzance.  Directed by Mike Leigh. English National Opera. Through
July 4.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/pirates-of-penzance-gives-lift-to-e
nglish-national-opera.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pirates of Penzance: Jonathan Lemalu, center, with the
English National Opera's chorus in this Mike Leigh production in London.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TRISTRAM KENTON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%);
MUSICAL THEATER (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%);
WRITERS (75%); DRAMA FILMS (70%); STRIKES (65%); THEATER (55%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Italian Curves, Italian Cures

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN.

You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 820 words


MILAN --  I was talking to an Italian couple whose daughter had gone to live for
a while in the United States before returning to run a restaurant on Lake Garda.
They have a modest apartment in Santa Margherita on the coast of Liguria. The
garden is bigger than the living quarters, filled with lemon trees (their fruit
as big as baseballs), orange trees and orchids. The couple, now retired, has
time to linger in the fragrant air of the dusk.

In the kitchen, it seemed to me, they have all they need: a machine to slice
wafer-thin prosciutto, a toaster capacious enough for glistening focaccia, a
scale to weigh out 200 grams of pasta. They prepared a rabbit simmered in an
unctuous sauce of olives, pine nuts, sausage and rabbit liver, accompanied by
perfect little cubes of sautéed potatoes that are time-consuming to prepare but
worth every patient flip and stir.

Rabbit is underrated, a culinary victim of prejudice or misplaced affection, but
not by Italians, who consume it often and with gusto.

In any event, my host, Sergio, was recalling visits to the United States to  see
their daughter. There were memorable renderings of ''O Sole Mio'' on gondolas in
Las Vegas (beneath the Rialto Bridge on the ''Grand Canal''), and then there was
the time they were in New Mexico and ''drove for 85 miles in a dead straight
line.''

He looked me: ''Not one curve. Can you believe it?''

I could -- made me think of Highway 101 in California. He couldn't. Life in
Italy is a series of curves to which you adapt. There is zero scope for
autopilot.

Adaptation and adjustment are the name of the game. This can be trying. On the
other hand you can enjoy lemon zest from your own lemons, perhaps with salmon
and those 200 grams of penne.

It was May 1, International Workers' Day, a holiday. Yet, most people were
working, a lot of stores open. I heard the following exchange:

''It's the workers' holiday and everyone is working!''

''Yes, I know, but of course they don't work the rest of the time!''

''That's true.''

There's still a continuous banter in the streets of Italy, as when I lived here
30 years ago. Italy has cherry-picked modernity, taking only so much. Something
in it has resisted the reduction of human interaction to the transactional
minimum. Something in it has resisted the squeezing of the last cent of profit
from every exchange. Something in it recognizes the human need for community and
what a couple of sentences to a stranger can do. There are still innocent smiles
in Italy, something you can only call humility. They don't teach you that at
marketing school. They don't tell you how monotonous self-promotion can become,
how tiresome, and finally inhuman. People return to Italy for its beauty, of
course, but also for a refuge from relentlessness. Conversations veer here and
there in the elasticity of Italian time, loosened from the constraints of time
as a metric of productivity.

At the pharmacy, where it's better to have a prescription but rules can be bent,
I heard this:

''We don't live in Italy.''

''Better that way!''

''Why?''

''Everything is difficult here.''

It is. Efficiency was not one of the cherry-picked items. Arriving at Milan
Linate airport for the first time in decades, I found the same cumbersome buses
from aircraft to terminal. The ATM machine was broken, the Information Desk
unmanned. Strange, the Milan world's fair, Expo 2015, has just opened -- a time,
if any, to spruce things up. The themes of the fair are guaranteeing food
security; combating waste (Italy has much to do); improving nutrition (I can't
see that rabbit being beaten); and preserving the environment.

On opening day, May 1, a bunch of hooded anti-capitalist thugs calling
themselves ''Black bloc'' smashed up the center of Milan in a mindless protest
against Expo-as-capitalist-enterprise. Policemen were beaten, cars set on fire.
Over the following weekend the people of Milan took to the streets armed with
sponges, cloths, solvents and soap, determined to clean up their city. They did,
in short order.

The state is still weak in Italy. But community -- family, friends, city, region
-- is often powerful. Assessments of Italy's condition tend to underestimate the
effectiveness of these hardship-cushioning ties.

Matteo Renzi, the young prime minister, has just pushed through an important
electoral reform law aimed at  ending semi-chronic government instability.
Broadly, it gives the winning party, provided it has 40 percent of the vote, a
bonus that guarantees it 340 seats in the 630-seat chamber. (If no party has 40
percent, there is a runoff between the two largest parties).

Perhaps this will, as Renzi hopes, produce more straight lines -- full five-year
terms for governments. Italy could benefit from that. But there will still be
plenty of curves.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/roger-cohen-italian-curves-italian-cur
es.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS
(89%)

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Singapore's Path to Ending an Old Rivalry

BYLINE: By TASH AW.

Tash Aw is the author of three novels, including, most recently, ''Five Star
Billionaire.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1015 words


SINGAPORE -- Just after 6 o'clock on a Monday morning, and traffic on the
Johor-Singapore Causeway is already busy. In less than an hour, still shrouded
in semi-darkness, the Singapore-bound traffic leading to the 0.7-mile bridge
will have slowed to a crawling pace; in bad weather or on the eve of public
holidays, rush hour queues sometimes last up to two hours. A striking number of
family sedans with Singaporean license plates stream steadily toward the
expressway that leads to the heart of the island republic. Inside the cars,
bleary-eyed schoolchildren contemplate the long day ahead.

As the population of Singapore increases and the cost of living, especially of
housing, remains high, more Singaporeans are choosing to live across the narrow
strait in Malaysia and commute in.

The traffic is a visible sign of reinvigorated links between the two countries,
whose relationship has been punctuated by political tensions despite shared
historical roots and huge bilateral trade. As Singapore celebrates the 50th
anniversary of its independence -- and separation from Malaysia -- the rivalry
between the two neighbors seems finally to be giving way to a greater
recognition of their interdependence.

Last month, the front page of the widely read Today newspaper featured a lavish
spread highlighting the growing trend of Singaporean families relocating to
Iskandar, the 850-square mile special development zone in the southern Malaysian
state of Johor. Established in 2006, Iskandar covers a land area about three
times the size of Singapore; its ambitions rely in large part on its proximity
to its neighbor's mature and continuously expanding economy.

In Iskandar's vast housing developments, landscaped streets in gated townships
with names like Eco Botanic and Iskandar Waterfront are lined with vast two- or
three-story suburban houses with spacious gardens -- what locals call ''landed
property,'' a luxury beyond the means of all but the very richest across the
causeway. A 3,000-square-foot house in Horizon Hills, a development that boasts
a clubhouse, gym and lush golf course, costs around $170,000, the price of a
small government-built Housing and Development Board apartment in Singapore. For
this alone, Singaporeans are prepared to face the daily routine of waking up at
4 a.m. in order to get their children to school on time, and then waiting until
7 p.m. for all family members to have finished work or extracurricular
activities before driving across the causeway again.

Developers are anticipating continued demand. The China-based Country Garden
released 9,000 units at Danga Bay in recent years, and Guangzhou R&F Properties
is starting work on a site that covers an area twice the size of the Danga Bay
site, prompting some to fear an eventual glut. There are the new Legoland
amusement park and the Pinewood film and TV studios, as well as commercial and
retail parks, factories and warehouses. Nursing homes are swelling with demand
from the Singaporean middle class. A two-bed private residence at the City Heart
Care home, complete with personal TV and computers, costs around $675 a month,
half the price of the equivalent in Singapore.

The growing Singaporean presence in Iskandar signals an accelerating détente
between Singapore and Malaysia. Until 1965, the two countries were part of the
same union, first under British colonial rule and then under the fledgling state
of Malaysia. Singapore's painful expulsion from the union in 1965, due to
conflicts between Singapore's leader, the late Lee Kuan Yew, and the Malay-led
UMNO government -- notably over equal rights for various ethnic groups, like
Singapore's ethnic-Chinese majority -- set the tone for decades of squabbling:
about land reclamation in the Johor straits; about territorial rights over Pulau
Batu Puteh/Pedra Branca; about Malaysia's supply of water to Singapore; about
Malaysia's ownership of Singapore's main rail terminal; and, of course, about
the causeway.

Stereotypes are bandied by both sides, with Singaporeans often calling Malaysia
underdeveloped and crime-ridden, and Malaysians saying that Singapore is boring
and ''kiasu,'' a colloquial term that literally translates as ''afraid of
losing'' and refers to an unhealthy competitiveness. In these two food-obsessed
countries, even culinary matters have been cause for quarrel, with a ludicrous
argument over the provenance of Hainanese Chicken Rice, which Singaporeans
consider to be a national dish.

But in recent years, some complicated issues, such as the transfer of Malaysian
rights over Singaporean railways, have been resolved. And as the prime ministers
of the two countries, Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore and Najib Razak of Malaysia,
emerged from a two-day retreat recently, it was clear both were pressing for
increased cooperation. They announced, for example, the construction of a
high-speed rail connection that will eventually cut travel time between Kuala
Lumpur and Singapore to a mere 90 minutes.

In fact, until 2013, Malaysia was Singapore's largest trading partner, with
annual bilateral trade reaching over $90 billion, a figure only recently
superseded by Singapore's trade with China. Yet this longstanding economic
cooperation is rarely acknowledged amid their rivalry -- a legacy of the trauma
of separation in 1965, which cast the two countries as political opposites.

The huge number of people now travelling between Malaysia and Singapore is a
fresh reminder of just how close the two countries fundamentally are. Malaysians
have for many years been relocating to Singapore in search of job opportunities
and higher salaries: According to Singapore's 2010 census, roughly 13 percent of
the resident population is Malaysian. Now it is Singaporeans who are searching
for a gentler pace of life in Malaysia. In moving across the causeway, both
peoples are giving the lie to the prejudices of recent decades by reaffirming
links between their cultures that go back centuries.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/tash-aw-singapores-path-to-ending-an-o
ld-rivalry.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); COMMUTING
(78%); TRAVEL  HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COST
OF LIVING (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); SEDANS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES
(71%); TRENDS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); RELOCATIONS (65%); AMUSEMENT
& THEME PARKS (65%); GOLF (60%)

COMPANY: GUANGZHOU R & F PROPERTIES CO LTD (60%)

TICKER: 2777 (HKSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (60%); SIC6531 REAL
ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (60%)

CITY: GUANGZHOU, GUANGDONG, CHINA (79%)

STATE: GUANGDONG, CHINA (79%)

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (97%); MALAYSIA (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

A Somalian Solution to the Exodus

BYLINE: By MOHAMED ABDULKADIR ALI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 925 words


MOGADISHU, Somalia --  We were sitting in a crammed cafe in the sweltering heat
of a Mogadishu afternoon. The mishmash of conversation, clinking plates and loud
horns from the street outside forced us to speak loudly across our plates of
rice. A 22-year-old man I will call Liban, to protect his identity, sat across
from me. Gangly and bursting with frenetic energy, he was telling me of his
plans to cross the Mediterranean Sea to enter Italy illegally.

The topic came up casually during a conversation about a youth entrepreneurship
summit I was organizing that week. He told me about a friend who introduced him
to a fixer last year, who then connected him with a smuggler. He said his next
step was to get together the last portion of the $4,000 that he would pay for
his journey.

He pulled out a notebook and drew me a map. The plan was straightforward: He
would cross the Ethiopia-Somalia border and meet with smugglers in Ethiopia.
They would take him across the porous Ethiopian border with Sudan and on to
Khartoum. From there, he would begin his journey into Libya. In Tripoli, he
would board a boat and cross the Mediterranean to the Italian island of
Lampedusa.

Sweden was his final destination. His cousin lived in Stockholm and promised to
house him and help him find a job. He circled Sweden emphatically.

When I looked down, I couldn't help but notice the crammed scribbles of
quadratic equations on the opposite page. He was in his final year at
university, hoping to become an engineer.

Two years later, I'm not sure where Liban is. I know he finished his degree in
mathematics and is no longer in Somalia's capital. But whenever I read about the
horrific capsizing of boats loaded with hundreds of migrants off the coast of
Italy, I think of our lunch that day.

I can't help seeing an image of him in a rickety boat out at sea, crammed in
with hundreds of others like cattle, sweltering under an unforgiving sun. I
imagine him gaunt from dehydration, perhaps witnessing his fellow passengers
turning on one another, or worst of all, surrounded by screaming, struggling
migrants as their boat founders.

People often ask me what drives young men like Liban to take a journey that
might very well lead to death. Are the privations of the journey, the abuse of
traffickers and the risk of drowning worth the distant hope of finding a job as
a janitor in Stockholm or picking tomatoes in southern Italy? Why would a young
man, a university graduate, chance everything?

There is a Somali proverb that comes to mind: Poverty is slavery.

In Somalia, there is a population bulge of youths who live in a perpetual limbo
of hopelessness, never moving forward, waiting for opportunities that never
arrive, for a chance to give meaning to their lives. Like many of them, Liban
did not face persecution or danger, just a life without purpose or hope. That is
why he and thousands of others have risked their lives each year, and will
continue to do so despite the recent headlines about hundreds of migrants
drowned.

The European Union seems to be in disarray when it comes to dealing with the
issue. Some Italian officials have called for stopping boats before they depart
Libya, or forcing them to return before they land on Italian shores. Instead of
addressing what is pushing these migrants in the first place, Europe's response
has been to increase the militarization of its maritime borders. The deaths of
thousands of migrants, who are taking more perilous routes to avoid capture,
have been the predictable result.

Addressing the root causes of unauthorized migration is one solution. While some
fled civil war, many more of those who have died were simply seeking a better
life. About two-thirds of Somali youths want to leave the country because they
are unable to find work; in south-central Somalia, which includes the capital,
the figure is as high as 87 percent. It is important to identify the communities
at highest risk of choosing illegal migration and provide them the livelihoods
they so desperately seek.

One successful model has been to train and support young people in starting
their own businesses. Several organizations that promote entrepreneurship now
exist in Somalia, providing young people with a way to earn an income. They
include Shaqodoon, a Somali youth-led organization, and  Silatech, which aims to
support youth entrepreneurs in the Arab world. Silatech has partnered with money
transfer businesses in Somalia to help finance youth start-ups.

On a Pan-African level, the Nigeria-based Tony Elumelu Foundation started a $100
million initiative this year to train and finance an eventual target of 10,000
start-ups across the continent. Of course, youth entrepreneurship initiatives
are not an all-encompassing solution, but they can help reduce the number of
people who risk their lives crossing the dangerous waters of the Mediterranean
in search of work.

In 2013, the European Union pledged 650 million euros ($725 million) to Somalia
as part of $2.4 billion in reconstruction aid from international donors. More of
this money should be used to enable Somalis to earn a living at home.

As long as Somalia's thousands of young people are stifled by poverty and
condemned to hopeless, endless waiting, they will continue to risk their lives
seeking better opportunities on the other side of the Mediterranean.

Mohamed Abdulkadir Ali,  a 2013 New Voices fellow at the Aspen Institute, is the
founder of the Iftiin Foundation, an organization fostering social
entrepreneurship in Somalia.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/a-somalian-solution-to-the-perilous-ex
odus.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); MAMMALS (77%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%)

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (87%); TRIPOLI, LIBYA (57%);
KHARTOUM, SUDAN (55%)

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%)

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (97%); ITALY (92%); ETHIOPIA (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (90%); SWEDEN
(87%); SUDAN (79%); LIBYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutors to Fight Brooklyn Judge's Order for New Trial in '91 Killing

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 540 words


One month after a Brooklyn judge ordered a new trial for a defendant convicted
of a 1991 murder, the Brooklyn district attorney has filed notice that he will
appeal the decision.

The defendant, Rosean S. Hargrave, was released from prison in April, after
Justice ShawnDya L. Simpson of State Supreme Court said his conviction had been
based on flawed detective work. She was especially critical of Louis Scarcella,
a retired New York police homicide detective whose methods came under scrutiny
after The New York Times published articles about problems with his cases.

The office of the district attorney, Kenneth P. Thompson, which filed the notice
of appeal on Friday, said on Monday that it disagreed with the judge's decision.
During a hearing last year on a defense motion for a new trial, prosecutors
seemed to focus on the testimony of an eyewitness, Robert Crosson, who said he
was not pressured by the detectives to identify the defendant.

Mr. Hargrave's lawyer, Pierre Sussman, wrote in an email on Monday that ''the
wrongfulness of this conviction should have been apparent to Kenneth Thompson as
much as it was to the court'' after the hearings on Mr. Hargrave's motion for a
new trial.

''His decision to appeal has a torturous impact on my client and his family.
Rosean has to now think of what it would be like to be sent back to state prison
after already losing 24 years of his life for a crime he did not commit,'' he
wrote, adding that he was confident Mr. Hargrave would prevail on appeal.

Mr. Hargrave had been convicted, along with a co-defendant, John Dwayne Bunn, of
killing Rolando Neischer, an off-duty New York City correction officer during a
carjacking.

The evidence presented at trial included the testimony of Mr. Crosson, another
off-duty correction officer who was sitting in the car with Mr. Neischer when he
was killed. He identified the defendants as the killers, though his first
description to the police of the gunmen differed. Mr. Crosson, said last year
that he stood by his account of the killings.

Mr. Scarcella, testifying at the hearing last year, said he played only a minor
role in the Hargrave case.

But in her ruling last month, Justice Simpson said the conviction was ''based
solely on identification of evidence'' by Detective Scarcella and Detective
Stephen W. Chmil and ''brings into question the due process and reliability in
this trial.''

Justice Simpson also pointed to the lack of physical evidence linking Mr.
Hargrave to the crime -- for example, his fingerprints did not match those in
the car.

Mr. Scarcella has defended his detective work, and noted that prosecutors had
participated in and approved aspects of his investigations.

Mr. Sussman said Mr. Hargrave was adjusting to life outside of prison, ''still
getting used to living according to his own regimen, his own timetable.''

''Old friends and distant family call,'' he continued, ''but he is left
wondering about their motivations when he had been virtually abandoned by them
for 24 years.''

Mr. Bunn, Mr. Hargrave's co-defendant, filed a motion for a new trial the same
day Justice Simpson ordered a new trial for Mr. Hargrave. On Monday, the judge
said that she would issue a decision on that matter in June.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/brooklyn-district-attorney-to-appeal-
new-trial-for-rosean-hargrave.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rosean S. Hargrave, shown in court in April, was released from
prison after serving more than 20 years and granted a new trial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); MURDER (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%);
CORRECTIONS (89%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); DUE PROCESS (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); EYEWITNESSES
(78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CARJACKING (68%);
PUBLISHING (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Emotions High as Killer Gets Life Term

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 607 words


Friends and family members of people killed by Damion Hardy packed one side of a
Brooklyn courtroom on Monday as he was sentenced to life in prison without the
possibility of parole.

After a three-week trial, Mr. Hardy, 40, was convicted last month of six murders
and of running a drug gang out of the Lafayette Gardens housing project in
Bedford-Stuyvesant in the late 1990s and early 2000s.

Though the prison term was not surprising -- Mr. Hardy faced a mandatory life
sentence -- the hearing in Federal District Court was emotional. May Davis spoke
about the day she heard that her son, Ivery Davis (whose name has also been
spelled Ivory), had been killed. Mr. Davis was a rival drug dealer in the
housing project; Mr. Davis's nephew had killed Mr. Hardy's brother, also a drug
dealer.

''I could not wrap my head around the fact that my baby, my only son, is gone,''
Ms. Davis said. ''Seeing mothers with their sons is a constant reminder of what
I will never have the privilege to do again.''

Addressing the defendants, Mr. Hardy and Aaron Granton, who prosecutors said
served as the hit man, Ms. Davis said, ''Ask yourself, was it worth it all?''

Some of the murdered men's family members had been acquaintances of Mr. Hardy's.
''The man responsible for his murder is someone I thought was a friend,'' said
Vanessa Hamilton, whose brother, James Hamilton, another rival drug dealer, was
killed. Ms. Hamilton knew Mr. Hardy well enough, she said, that he had talked to
her child. ''There are days when I close myself off from the world, stay locked
in my room'' to mourn, she said.

Zakia Baum, sister of Darryl and Tyrone Baum, brothers whom prosecutors said Mr.
Hardy had targeted because of their association with Mr. Davis, hit the lectern
with her fist and left the courtroom in tears the first time she tried to speak.
When she returned, she said, ''I'm not going to sit here and pour my heart out
to either World or eBay because I know they don't care,'' she said, referring to
Mr. Hardy and Mr. Granton by their nicknames. ''I feel you are an incredibly
dangerous, selfish, vicious and insecure soul who killed because it empowered
you,'' Ms. Baum said to Mr. Hardy.

Prosecutors portrayed Mr. Hardy as a neighborhood kingpin who dated the rapper
Li'l Kim, ran a profitable drug business and ordered hits on people who crossed
him. ''The defendants wreaked havoc in the Bed-Stuy community of Lafayette
Gardens and beyond,'' a prosecutor, Soumya Dayananda, had told jurors in closing
arguments. ''The ripple effects of the defendants' acts extend to a community
sieged by violence and to families destroyed by grief.''

After his arrest 10 years ago, Mr. Hardy was found to be schizophrenic, and
lawyers argued about his competency to stand trial right up until the trial
started last month. A lawyer for Mr. Hardy, Jean Barrett, said on Monday she
planned to appeal the conviction on the grounds of mental illness, among others.

Asked by Judge Frederic Block if he had anything to say, Mr. Hardy said, ''I am
100 percent completely innocent,'' as someone in the audience said, ''Crazy.''

Mr. Granton dismissed the evidence against him as ''folk tales'' when he stood
to address the courtroom. ''All y'all stood around me and ate candies out of my
pocket and it was cool,'' he said to the victims' families, suggesting that they
had benefited from his position.

''Sit down,'' the victims' families and friends roared back.

Saying that Mr. Hardy would die in prison, Judge Block said, ''I can't think of
a case where it's more justified.''

As the hearing ended, claps of the victims' families and friends filled the
courtroom.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/emotions-run-high-as-damion-hardy-is-
sentenced-to-life-term-for-killings.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (90%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); PRISONS (89%); DRUG
TRAFFICKING (89%); FAMILY (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE
(60%); GANGS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Funneling Patients to Right Places

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 816 words


An unholy racket was coming from our clinic waiting room. It is never what you
would call serene out there, but this degree of noise immediately penetrated
everyone's primal brain: Something was definitely wrong.

Staff members ran toward the clamor, one nurse pushing a wheelchair. The
epicenter of disruption was one small man doubled over in a chair, bellowing
loudly in apparent pain. The secretary said he had staggered in from the
corridor, sunk into the chair and begun to scream.

The other patients, understandably frightened, quickly cleared a circle around
him so that we professionals could do whatever it is we do for people in such
distress.

In situations like this, we function like clockwork. Granted, we didn't know who
this man was, or whether he was having an internal hemorrhage or a temper
tantrum, but we knew without discussion exactly what to do for him. Namely,
bundle him into a wheelchair and get him directly to the emergency room, the
correct place for someone to have whatever catastrophe he was having.

We may do health care, but not his kind, not at that moment, and the sooner he
got to the right place, the better off we all would be.

It is increasingly critical for patients to be sick in the right place, and
increasingly difficult for them to do so. As the great plates of medical care
heave and split in cash-based tectonics, the options are multiplying in
confusing plenty.

There used to be the doctor's office and the hospital. Now we have street corner
wellness centers and urgent care centers, free-standing emergency rooms with no
hospital attached, chain pharmacies with occasional doctors attached, and
nursing practices with no doctors attached.

We have hospitals that have merged and split and merged again into
configurations that put all the cardiologists uptown, all the neurosurgeons
downtown, and all the pediatricians somewhere that keeps changing.

Accordingly, we spend a lot of time and energy getting people to where they need
to be, launching them according to condition, severity and, always, insurance.
Predictable mix-ups occur: Doctors leave insurance plans, patients forget
appointments. Or they see the kidney guy, who sends them to a vascular guy, but
they already have a vascular guy, and then the cardiologist recommends yet
another vascular guy, and now what?

Even so, there is a place for everyone, at least in theory. Getting them all
safely to their destinations gives us a certain feeling of order and
accomplishment, like folding the laundry or making the bed.

The man in our waiting room quieted down as he was urged into the wheelchair.
All his parts appeared to be moving: no broken bones, no evident neurological
events. His blood pressure was fine. By the time he was wheeled out the door, he
looked better. Actually, he looked quite well.

We accomplish most of our patient shuffling with a kind of panicky efficiency.
For trivial and life-threatening circumstances alike, speed is important. That
rash may not be fatal, but the dermatologist should see it before its owner
claws the arm raw (or the rash goes away by itself).

For more serious matters, seconds count: Studies have demonstrated that for
patients with acute heart attacks or strokes, speed saves lives. The time it
takes to open up their blood vessels once they enter a hospital has become a
measure of the quality of care. If rush-hour traffic slows that dash to reach
the correct department, the hospital's ratings may suffer.

Our nurse flew down the hall to the elevator with the wheelchair and the
patient. She returned 10 minutes later, much more slowly, the wheelchair empty,
shaking her head.

It turned out that this man was well known in the emergency room, far too well
known. In fact, he had been ushered off their premises a very short time before
he appeared in our waiting room, having made six emergency room visits over the
previous two days in search of a prescription refill for a powerful narcotic.

He cited unbearable abdominal pain that had been duly and repeatedly evaluated
with all the indicated tests and scans, with no abnormalities found. Finally, a
security guard had urged him with some emphasis to go elsewhere.

Maybe he was addicted, maybe he was dealing, maybe he was mentally ill, probably
he was some combination of the above. But he wasn't sick, at least not as
defined by the compartments we had available to move him to.

We like to think that we have a box for everyone, but we really don't. Some of
the time we spend moving people around would undoubtedly be put to better use
constructing some different places for them to be sick.

The patient went out the emergency room door, into the world, destination
unknown. We all went back to work.

For more fitness, food and wellness news, ''like'' our Facebook page.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/the-importance-of-getting-sick-in-the-r
ight-place/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOUGLAS JONES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS
(89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); CARDIOLOGY
(77%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (64%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS
(51%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); PHARMACIES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Warriors Rout the Grizzlies to Tie Their Series

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; WARRIORS 101, GRIZZLIES 84; Pg.

LENGTH: 533 words


MEMPHIS --  Fans who arrived at FedEx Forum on Monday night discovered more than
18,000 yellow towels draping every seat. Popularly known as Growl Towels, they
featured the phrase ''Believe Memphis'' in sharply angled cursive.

Sure enough, the scene was festive when the Grizzlies took the court for
warm-ups before facing the Golden State Warriors in Game 4 of their Western
Conference semifinal series. And then the game actually started, and all that
belief turned to frustration and then to anger and finally to muted
disappointment.

With their 101-84 victory, the Warriors edged back from the brink of disaster,
evening the series at two games apiece. In the process, they unearthed their
high-octane offense while figuring out a few ways to slow the Grizzlies.

Stephen Curry collected 33 points, 8 rebounds and 5 assists as the Warriors
connected on 14 3-pointers and led by as many as 26. Marc Gasol finished with 19
points and 10 rebounds for the Grizzlies, who shot 37.5 percent from the field
and 22.2 percent from 3-point range.

Game 5 is scheduled for Wednesday night in Oakland, Calif.

A star-studded crowd included Gov. Bill Haslam of Tennessee and Tom Izzo, the
men's basketball coach at Michigan State. Izzo watched as two of his former
players, Zach Randolph of the Grizzlies and Draymond Green of the Warriors,
clashed repeatedly in the paint. Green, booed every time he touched the ball,
had 16 points and 10 rebounds.

Before the game, Warriors Coach Steve Kerr described his team's precarious
situation as a ''moment of truth.'' The Warriors did not face much adversity
during the regular season, and Kerr decided to vary his players' routine ahead
of Game 4.

On Sunday, the Warriors gathered to watch the film of their Game 3. All of it.
Every possession. Every missed shot. Every turnover. The Warriors typically
review isolated clips from the previous game, Kerr said. But this was the first
time all season they watched the entire thing.

''It was important to see the rhythm of the game,'' Kerr said.

At the same time, Kerr knew he needed to make adjustments of his own. One of
them involved concocting a plan to slow the Grizzlies' Tony Allen, who had
created so much havoc through the first three games of the series, particularly
on defense.

Kerr's plan became clear moments after the tip, when Andrew Bogut, the Warriors'
7-foot center, defended Allen on the Grizzlies' opening possession -- except
Bogut did not really defend Allen. Instead, Bogut planted himself in the paint
and dared Allen to shoot from the perimeter.

Allen long ago established himself as one of the league's premier wing
defenders, but his jump shot has more moving parts than a lawn mower, and he
missed his first three 3-point attempts. After the Warriors seized an early 14-9
lead, the Grizzlies called for a timeout, but the tenor of the game had already
been established.

Curry made a 3-pointer in the closing moments of the first quarter for a 28-20
lead. He flexed at his teammates on the bench after dunking for a 47-33 lead.
And when defenders overplayed him, he dumped the ball to teammates. The Warriors
went ahead by 61-44 before halftime, and the Grizzlies never threatened.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/basketball/warriors-rout-the-grizzlies-
to-tie-their-series.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES (94%); WESTERN
ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%)

PERSON: BILL HASLAM (50%)

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA,
CA, USA (57%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA,
USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

University Grades Are Mixed on Research for the Poor

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL HEALTH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 283 words


For the second time, American universities have been ranked by how well they do
global health research. This time only one -- Johns Hopkins -- earned a grade as
high as A minus.

On the first such report card, issued two years ago, Hopkins got a B, and even
that was comparatively good. Back then, the only A minus went to the University
of British Columbia.

This time, Canadian universities are to be ranked separately, as British ones
are. (Oxford got an A plus.) Rankings for Germany, the Netherlands and Brazil
are in the works.

The report cards are issued by Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, a
student-led advocacy group with offices in Washington and Berlin that was
founded after a 2001 struggle by Yale law students to get their university and a
drug company to release jointly held patent rights on an important AIDS drug.

The rankings are only of universities that get large grants for biomedical
research and reflect how much each university focuses on diseases of the poor,
whether it makes any discoveries available cheaply, and whether its research is
accessible by scientists in poor countries, among other factors, said Merith
Basey, the executive director.

The only three B-plus grades this year went to Emory; the University of
Washington, Seattle; and Harvard. They were followed by five B's: the University
of California, San Francisco; Boston University; Case Western; Yale; and Duke.
There were a lot of D's and, for the first time, two F grades: the University of
Cincinnati and Wake Forest.

The grades were sent to the universities before they were released, and none
objected strenuously, Ms. Basey said, although some asked for more detail about
the criteria.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/health/university-grades-are-mixed-on-research
-for-the-poor.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMEDICINE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH
(78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (78%); AIDS & HIV (70%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (70%); ANTIVIRALS
(69%); PATENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%);
BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA
(79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (71%)

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA
(79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (71%); NETHERLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. and Georgia Start Military Exercise Criticized by Russia

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROTH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 643 words


VAZIANI MILITARY BASE, Georgia -- Hundreds of American and Georgian service
members stood at attention on this former Soviet airfield on Monday, as the two
countries began joint military exercises to bolster cooperation between Georgian
forces and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

About 300 American soldiers accompanied by 14 Bradley tanks, transported across
the Black Sea from Romania, are in Georgia for the two-week training exercise,
called Noble Partner.

Under President Vladimir V. Putin, Russia has virulently criticized military
exercises on its borders, and at the opening ceremony on Monday, Georgian
politicians and American diplomats sought to pre-empt any Russian claims of
provocation.

''This training is not directed at anyone or any direct threat,'' meaning
Russia, said Georgia's prime minister, Irakli Garibashvili, addressing a crowd
of about a hundred diplomats and military officers on Monday.

Maj. Vincent Mucker of the United States Army said that the training exercises
were planned before Russia's annexation of Crimea last March and its backing of
separatists in southeast Ukraine.

''This is business as usual between the United States and Georgia,'' Major
Mucker said.

The exercises were the first time that a company of battle armor had been
transported into the Caucasus region across the Black Sea, proving, Major Mucker
said, ''that we can use the Black Sea as a transit corridor.'' Though the
government has set a goal of normalizing relations with Russia, views of Moscow
remain tainted by a 2008 war over the breakaway republics of Abkhazia and South
Ossetia that resulted in a stinging defeat for Georgia.

''If Russia were a normal country, it wouldn't be concerned by 300 guys and a
bunch of Bradleys,'' said Davit Bakradze, a former chairman of Georgia's
Parliament and now an opposition politician, who was at Monday's ceremony. ''But
they think of Georgia as their sphere of influence. This exercise shows that it
clearly is not and that should not be downplayed.''

It is just one in a series of military exercises being held this spring in
countries in Scandinavia, the Baltics, Eastern Europe, and now the Caucasus,
that have one thing in common: their proximity to Russia.

NATO began anti-submarine exercises off the Norwegian coast last week.
Lithuania, a NATO member, is preparing its military for an attack of ''green
men,'' the Russian soldiers without insignia who seized Crimea's airport and
Parliament last spring. In Ukraine, American soldiers are training National
Guard units fighting Russian-backed separatists in the southeast.

Though Mr. Putin has long complained of NATO bases ''spread across the globe,
including near our borders,'' as he said in an interview with a German
television channel last November, the events in Crimea set in motion by Russia
have made NATO and the West more active in the region than it has been in recent
memory.

In a statement on Monday addressing a visit to Russia this week by Secretary of
State John Kerry, the Russian Foreign Ministry noted that ''NATO military
infrastructure, including the growth of armed forces in Eastern Europe, are
being moved toward our borders.''

Capt. David Gabedava, a nine-year veteran of the Georgian military who served in
Afghanistan, said that the 300 Georgian troops would practice taking and holding
a small village of abandoned houses used as a training ground on the base, among
other tasks.

Captain Gabedava was not in Georgia when it fought Russia in 2008.

''Unfortunately,'' he said.

Asked whether he could imagine the NATO rapid reaction force being used against
a Russian threat in Georgia, he said that he ''hoped the politicians would work
it out diplomatically before it came to that.''

''But I am a defender of my motherland,'' he said. ''And if my motherland calls
I will of course come to help.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/europe/us-and-georgia-start-military-exe
rcise-criticized-by-russia.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%);
MILITARY BASES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US ARMY (78%); ARMIES (78%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS
OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TELEVISION
INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
(56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (94%); GEORGIA
(94%); ROMANIA (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORWAY (79%);
LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%);
EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Security at Cartoon Event Is Defended by Police Chief

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 410 words


DALLAS --  Police officials in Garland, Tex., the Dallas suburb where two gunmen
opened fire May 3 outside a contest for caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad,
defended their handling of the event's security at a news conference on Monday
amid questions about whether local officials had been warned by federal
authorities that one of the gunmen posed a threat.

''No information was missed or ignored,'' the Garland police chief, Mitch Bates,
told reporters. ''The identities of the two suspects were not known to us until
many hours after the shooting occurred.''

The comments by Chief Bates came in response to statements by  officials from
the Federal Bureau of Investigation last week about the intelligence that had
been gathered about one of the gunmen, Elton Simpson, 30, of Phoenix. Mr.
Simpson carried out the attack outside the Muhammad Art Exhibit and Contest with
Nadir Soofi, 34, also of Phoenix. Both gunmen were killed by officers.

The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, told reporters in Washington on Thursday
that three hours before the attack, the F.B.I. sent a bulletin to the Garland
police warning them that Mr. Simpson might show up at the event.

''We developed information just hours before the event that Simpson might be
interested in going to Garland,'' Mr. Comey said. On April 23, Mr. Simpson had
referred on Twitter to the planned cartoon contest.

But on Monday, Chief Bates denied that the information in that communication
would have prevented the shooting. He described the bulletin as an email that
was sent a few hours before the event was to start. He said the email, which was
about Mr. Simpson and from an F.B.I. analyst, was sent to members of a federal
Dallas-area joint terrorism task force that includes a Garland police detective.

Chief Bates described the email as ''a general information bulletin'' that ''did
not contain any information that listed Simpson as a potential threat.'' He said
that neither the detective nor anyone in the police command center that was set
up to oversee security of the event and included members of the F.B.I., was
aware of the email before the attack.

''The contents of that email would not have prevented the shooting, nor would it
have changed the law enforcement response in any fashion,'' Chief Bates said. He
did not explain why even a general email about Mr. Simpson and his past behavior
did not trigger more scrutiny. Instead he played down the significance of the
email.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/security-at-muhammad-cartoon-event-in-garla
nd-texas-is-defended-by-police.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); TERRORISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%)

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Buoyant Spirit, Nuanced Shadings and a Dynamic Palette

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 391 words


During a visit to New York last year, the period-instrument ensemble Europa
Galante offered a Vivaldi program showcasing (with distinctive interpretive
touches) the oft-heard ''Four Seasons.'' On Sunday evening at Alice Tully Hall,
they played something far less common: a vivid programmatic work by Carlo Monza,
part of a concert tracing the development of the symphonic genre in Italy and
its impact on a young visitor, Mozart.

The event offered a rare chance to thumb through what could have been Mozart's
childhood photo album: Here he is at 14, hints of his maturity already evident;
here he is at 15, surrounded by the older composers who would prove vital
influences on his development.

Composers jostled for prominence in 1770s Milan. One of the most successful was
Giovanni Battista Sammartini, highly respected by the Mozart family. Europa
Galante, led by the dynamic violinist Fabio Biondi, offered Sammartini's
four-movement Sinfonia in G, the bristling tremolo figures unfolding with
intensity. Monza was one of Sammartini's best students. His ''Tempesta di Mare''
evokes with colorful gestures a turbulent seascape, a subject also conveyed by
Vivaldi in his piece of the same name.

Here and throughout the evening, the ensemble played with buoyant spirit,
nuanced shadings and a wide dynamic palette, as in its rendition of Mozart's
Symphony No. 13 in F, which concluded the program. Written in 1771 during
Mozart's second trip to Italy, the work demonstrates his quick mastery of the
form, with a more advanced use of winds and more confidently articulated themes
than in his more juvenile Symphony No. 11 in D, which opened the concert. That
work, composed in 1770 during Mozart and his father's first trip to Italy, is a
portrait of the composer in truly early adolescence, as is the Symphony No. 10
in G, both given fresh, vibrant performances here.

The program also featured music by Angelo Maria Scaccia and Antonio Brioschi,
now obscure composers who had a major impact as Milan symphonists during their
careers and influenced the development of the classical symphonic style. Mr.
Biondi was the dynamic soloist in Scaccia's Violin Concerto in E flat, with its
hints of Vivaldi. Brioschi was represented by his joyous Sinfonia in D. As an
encore, the ensemble offered the Overture to Gluck's Sinfonia, from
''Ipermestra.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-europa-galante-plays-at-alic
e-tully-hall.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC (78%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%);
ADOLESCENTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dr. Ruth, Visiting City Hall, Discusses Heritage, Not Sex

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 475 words


The second-floor Council chambers of New York City Hall have long been a forum
for expert testimony.

Commissioners fidget. Advocates filibuster. If the walls could talk, they might
ask to be spared another committee hearing.

But on Monday evening, before a standing-room crowd that defied recent
precedent, city lawmakers filed into their seats with uncommon purpose. The
city's foremost octogenarian sex therapist was holding office hours at their
place of business. And she was not to be missed.

''Who knows how many of us would be here today,'' asked the City Council
speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito, ''without Dr. Ruth?''

In fact, Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the famed psychosexual therapist honored on Monday
as part of Jewish Heritage Month, promised to be tame.

During a pre-ceremony interview -- during which she name-checked two lawyers,
introduced two family members and plugged at least two of her books -- Dr.
Westheimer, nearly 87, wandered over to her 24-year-old grandson, Ari, to make a
pledge.

''I'm not talking about the things that I usually talk about, O.K.?'' she said.

He smiled gratefully.

Dr. Westheimer kept her word, to an extent. Standing atop a ''bar mitzvah box,''
which she said she demanded as a condition of attendance, the 4-foot-7 Dr.
Westheimer focused largely on her life in Washington Heights and her work at the
Museum of Jewish Heritage in Lower Manhattan.

It was there that she met Ms. Mark-Viverito, who invited her for the ceremony.

''She said, 'Will you come for Jewish heritage?' '' Dr. Westheimer recalled. ''I
hear the word Jewish. I said, 'Of course.' ''

For her generosity, Ms. Mark-Viverito received a copy of ''The Doctor Is In: Dr.
Ruth on Love, Life, and Joie de Vivre.'' It comes out in June, Dr. Westheimer
reminded the audience helpfully.

Other advice was kept to a minimum, though Dr. Westheimer did move swiftly to
dispel what she called a popular myth.

''You might have heard that Jews don't have good sex,'' she said. ''Ignore that.
Good sexual relations are integral to the Jewish faith.''

While she demurred when asked if she had any particular advice for local
politicians, Dr. Westheimer said, generally, ''They shouldn't do stupid things,
not men and not women,'' adding that the subject was explored in greater depth
in her book, ''Heavenly Sex: Sexuality in the Jewish Tradition.''

Councilman Mark Levine, addressing the crowd, noted that ''a few of our visitors
tonight were hoping you would do a Q. and A.''

It was not to be, at least not publicly. Posing for pictures and signing
autographs after being presented with a proclamation, Dr. Westheimer noted that
the well-wishers often sought nuggets of advice when others were out of earshot.

''Sometimes they whisper questions,'' she said, as a cadre of lawmakers lingered
to see her off. ''But I can't tell you which ones.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/dr-ruth-visiting-city-hall-discusses-
heritage-not-sex.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Ruth Westheimer speaking at the Jewish Heritage Month
Celebration at City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITIES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (90%); ADVICE COLUMNS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TESTIMONY (78%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXPERT WITNESSES (78%); RELIGION (69%);
GRANDCHILDREN (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stop Assaults on Military Campuses

BYLINE: By ASHLEY ANDERSON and ELIZABETH DEUTSCH.

Ashley Anderson and Elizabeth Deutsch are students at Yale Law School, where
they are interns in the Veterans Legal Services Clinic. Ms. Anderson is a
graduate of the Air Force Academy and was an intelligence officer in the Air
Force.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 846 words


SEVERAL years ago, West Point cadets initiated first-year students, including
young women, by teaching them to sing the following chant while marching: ''I
wish that all the ladies were holes in the road and I was a dump truck. I'd fill
'em with my load.'' Years before that, Air Force Academy cadets sang similar
refrains marching to and from training events. One chant described taking a
''chain saw'' to cut a woman ''in two'' so that they could keep ''the bottom
half and give the top to you.'' Two years ago, a West Point investigation
revealed that a cadet on the rugby team had instructed a teammate to ''get your
girl on a leash.''

These incidents expose the entrenched sexism that is tolerated at the three
military services academies overseen by the Department of Defense -- West Point,
the Naval Academy and the Air Force Academy. They also help explain repeated
reports that the academies have not taken complaints of sexual assault and
harassment seriously. The pattern is familiar: Each revelation incites an
outcry, the academies announce reforms and the schools' efforts prove
ineffective. What endures are the chants, and the institutional misogyny they
reveal.

We are student members of a legal clinic at Yale Law School representing a
nonprofit group that aims to eradicate gender discrimination in the military.
The Service Women's Action Network, founded in 2007 by female veterans of the
Marine Corps and the New York Army National Guard, has long objected to the way
apathetic administrators at the service academies have let students get away
with harassment and assault.

Part of the problem is that the military service academies are not subject to
the laws that have helped students at civilian schools force their colleges to
shape up. Title IX requires almost all American schools that receive federal
money to eliminate sex discrimination, including sexual violence. Students can
file complaints with the Department of Education to allege discriminatory
policies or practices on their campuses, including the mishandling of sexual
assault and harassment claims. The Department of Education has opened
investigations into more than 100 schools, helping to set off an important
national conversation on campus assault.

But Congress exempted the service academies when it passed Title IX in 1972.
Perhaps legislators feared imposing Department of Education oversight onto
military affairs. Maybe they failed to even consider the possibility of sex
discrimination at the academies, which did not admit women until four years
later. Whatever the reason, the result of Congress's omission is that the
approximately 2,700 female cadets and midshipmen are deprived of a fundamental
protection necessary for their safety and equality.

Students on military campuses can file individual complaints of sex
discrimination and misconduct within their academies, which are ultimately
decided by various levels within the chain of command. But they have no one to
turn to when their academies mishandle their reports or engage in other
practices that hurt women. If a cadet or midshipman who reports sexual
harassment and discrimination is mistreated by her academy, she can appeal the
decision within the academy system and her chain of command, but she can't
appeal the manner in which such decisions are made. Her civilian peers, by
contrast, can bring such claims to the Department of Education.

As it is, very few cadets and midshipmen come forward to report sex
discrimination, but not because they aren't experiencing it. According to the
Department of Defense's own surveys and data, 8 percent of women at the military
academies were sexually assaulted last year, almost half faced serious sexual
harassment and nearly 90 percent experienced other forms of sexism and
discrimination. Yet fewer than 5 percent of the roughly 1,400 women who were
sexually assaulted or harassed reported what had happened to them within their
existing systems.

There is a simple way for President Obama, in his capacity as commander in
chief, to put an end to this impunity. To provide cadets and midshipmen with a
meaningful way to challenge sex discrimination at their academies, he should
issue an executive order modeled on Title IX's legal protections. This order
would, in effect, borrow Title IX's prohibition against sex discrimination and
create a pathway for Title IX-like complaints within the Defense Department. The
president should also order the Pentagon's inspector general to enforce this
anti-discrimination rule at the academies.

Over the past decade, public outcry about sexual assault on college campuses and
in the military has spurred legal reform. But one group at the intersection of
these issues -- women at the service academies -- are still waiting for
meaningful change. Last year, while announcing a new task force on gender-based
violence on civilian campuses, Mr. Obama spoke to survivors directly: ''I've got
your back,'' he said. Female cadets and midshipmen volunteer to serve our
country -- the president should have their backs, too.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/stop-assaults-on-military-campuses.htm
l

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JENNIFER HEUER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%);
WOMEN (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE
(90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (89%); DISCRIMINATION
(89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (88%);
DISCRIMINATION LAW (86%); US ARMY (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); ARMIES (78%);
AIR FORCES (78%); DISCRIMINATION IN EDUCATION (78%); NAVIES (76%); DEFENSE
DEPARTMENTS (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); VETERANS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); RUGBY (70%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LAWYERS (69%); ATHLETES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
(68%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR FORCE ACADEMY (57%); US AIR FORCE (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Choosing the Battlefield in S.E.C. Cases

BYLINE: By PETER J. HENNING

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; WHITE COLLAR WATCH; Pg.

LENGTH: 1351 words


Lawyers are often accused of elevating procedure over substance, emphasizing the
need to follow the rules over reaching the proper outcome in a case. In dealing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the focus lately has been arguing
about where an action is filed, on the theory that picking the forum can be half
the battle.

The issue is straightforward enough: Should charges of securities fraud and
other violations be conducted in a federal district court or before an
administrative law judge employed by the commission? For cases that have not
been settled, defendants generally prefer to litigate in federal court because
of the rights afforded there, including broad discovery procedures and an
independent federal judge and jury to decide the case. The adoption of the
Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 allows the S.E.C. to seek most remedies in the
administrative forum, which involves a much more expedited proceeding that
generally limits discovery by the parties to the evidence gathered during an
investigation.

The S.E.C. has almost unfettered discretion to choose where a case will be
litigated, much to the chagrin of defense lawyers who complain that an
administrative adjudication deprives their clients of valuable rights. In
response to those complaints, the agency's enforcement division, which is
responsible for recommending to the five commissioners where to file a case,
issued guidance last week about which forum it will chose when a case will be
contested.

Unfortunately, the considerations outlined by the S.E.C. provide scant concrete
information about which forum will decide the case. Indeed, the guidance may
cause even greater consternation among defense lawyers who see the agency
sending the toughest cases to its own judges to develop the law as it prefers
rather than using federal district judges, who may be less amenable to its
arguments.

One consideration described by the S.E.C. is whether a particular remedy is
available only in federal court or in an administrative hearing. For example, an
emergency freezing of assets can be issued only by a federal court, while
barring a broker from the securities industry can be ordered only by an
administrative law judge. Similarly, a claim of a failure to supervise is
limited to an administrative proceeding, while one based on controlling person
liability must be filed in federal court. In effect, the S.E.C. has said that if
circumstances force it to pick a particular forum, then it will do so -- a point
so obvious as to be almost unnecessary to explain.

Similarly, cases against brokers and investment advisers, along with their
employees, have traditionally been pursued in administrative proceedings.
Because certain remedies can be pursued only in that forum, it is the preferred
means to litigate a case, even when there are claims of fraud, rather than going
to a federal court first and then filing a separate administrative complaint.

Another consideration is the ''cost-, resource- and time-effectiveness of
litigation in each forum.'' The benefit of an administrative proceeding is a
quicker resolution because the S.E.C.'s rules generally mandate an initial
decision within no more than 300 days of filing, far quicker than federal court
cases that can take years to resolve.

The S.E.C. appears to view administrative proceedings as roughly equivalent of
federal court actions, pointing to the discovery procedures provided in both,
even if those available in the administrative context are more limited. Defense
lawyers take a different view, however, arguing that discovery is a means to
build the defense case and expose weaknesses in the S.E.C.'s evidence, something
that is much more difficult to do when the administrative forum is chosen.

Perhaps the greatest complaint on this front is the unavailability of a federal
judge to decide the law as an initial matter and a jury to determine whether
there was a violation. The S.E.C.'s guidance makes no mention of the absence of
a jury, or that the first level of appeal are the five commissioners who
approved the filing of the charges in the first place before it ever reaches a
federal court.

The persistent complaint lodged by defendants has been that administrative
proceedings give the S.E.C. too much of a ''home court'' advantage. A recent
Wall Street Journal study found that the S.E.C. won in 90 percent of its cases
before administrative judges from October 2010 to March 2015, compared with 69
percent of the cases filed in federal court during that period.

Whether that demonstrates a major advantage in the administrative forum is open
to question because the S.E.C. has in the past tended to pursue smaller cases
with narrow issues before administrative judges, especially those involving
individual brokers and investment advisers, so the likelihood of success may
have been much higher. Nevertheless, the difference feeds the perception --
whether true or not -- that the S.E.C. picks the forum where it has a better
chance of winning if it can.

The S.E.C.'s final consideration in choosing the forum may well add to the
belief that it wants to control the process. When there are ''unsettled and
complex legal issues'' in a matter, then it will consider whether ''obtaining a
commission decision on such issues, subject to appellate review in the federal
courts, may facilitate development of the law.''

For defense lawyers, this consideration means the S.E.C. wants to decide the
scope of the law first rather than a federal district judge with no ties to the
agency. The initial analysis can take on added weight under the Supreme Court's
decision in Chevron U.S.A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, in which
the Supreme Court said that interpretations of ambiguous laws by an
administrative agency like the S.E.C. should be ''given controlling weight
unless they are arbitrary, capricious, or manifestly contrary to the statute.''

Last November, Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court questioned whether
the S.E.C.'s interpretation of the securities laws is owed such deference when a
violation can result in a criminal prosecution in addition to civil charges for
a violation. He noted that ''legislatures, not executive officers, define
crimes.''

But the S.E.C.'s option to file its case in an administrative forum gives it the
chance to shape the law before it reaches a federal appeals court, and argue
that the judges should defer to its expertise in deciding what constitutes a
violation.

Defendants accused of securities violations in administrative proceedings have
tried to cut off the S.E.C.'s access to that forum by arguing that the use of
administrative judges hired by the agency and the absence of rights to discovery
and a jury violate the Constitution. Federal district courts, however, have
rejected those claims on the ground that any challenge must first be decided by
an administrative judge and the S.E.C. commissioners before it can be considered
by a federal appeals court.

That string of failures has not stopped others from pursuing such claims. Lynn
Tilton, who once described herself as the ''turnaround queen'' and appeared in a
reality television show pilot, ''The Diva of Distressed,'' will go before a
federal district judge in New York on May 11, seeking to stop the S.E.C. from
pursuing administrative charges that she and her firm improperly valued the
assets of -- not surprisingly -- distressed companies.

Defense lawyers will undoubtedly continue to complain about the use of the
administrative forum, but until a federal court steps in to curtail the
practice, there is little that can be done to challenge the S.E.C.'s choice. The
considerations provided by the enforcement division about when it will recommend
proceeding before an administrative judge rather than in federal court shed
little light on how the decision will be made.

The clearest situation may be when the S.E.C. wants to see the law develop in a
particular direction, which means more close cases may go the route of an
administrative proceeding to limit the role played by federal judges.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/choosing-the-battlefield-in-
sec-cases.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%);
AGENCY ADJUDICATION (89%); JUDGES (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (89%);
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); US DODD
FRANK ACT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET &
BANKING REFORM (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Main Street Portfolios Are Investing in Unicorns

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words


With Uber now reportedly valued at $50 billion, there are justifiable worries
that some private start-up technology companies worth $1 billion or more --
known as unicorns -- are in bubble territory.

But don't worry, the thinking goes. Main Street investors won't get hurt as they
did after the dot-com collapse of 2000 because the current crop of highfliers
are privately held by expert investors like venture capitalists. So most
civilians will be fine should things turn south this time.

Here's an open secret: That's fiction.

While public investors and 401(k) contributors have long complained that they
can't get access to shares of hot technology companies before their initial
public offerings, that's actually not the case anymore. Fidelity, T. Rowe Price,
BlackRock and Janus, among others, have been quietly putting shares of private
companies like Uber, Pinterest and SpaceX into their investment funds, hoping to
lift the returns of certain mutual funds.

The good news is that investors across a broad range are able to invest in these
pseudo-private companies, democratizing, to some degree, the investment process.
The bad news is that should the bubble pop, these investors have already bought
shares in the companies at sky-high valuations. And these people may not even
realize it.

An investor in the Fidelity Contrafund, for example, which has a heavy weighting
in technology firms, has small slices of Uber, Dropbox, Airbnb and Pinterest.

Perhaps troubling -- or at least questionable -- is how mutual funds like T.
Rowe Price, Fidelity and BlackRock value these investments in unicorns.

Usually, their funds invest in public companies or publicly traded bonds. It is
easy to determine how much the fund's holdings in a publicly traded company are
worth: The stock has an exact price.

Private company valuations, however, are quite different.

There is no meaningful stock market for these shares. Their values are based on
what a small handful of investors -- usually venture capital firms, private
equity firms or other corporations -- are willing to pay for a stake. Such
investors come with a different risk appetite and motivations than, say, the
average worker looking to save for retirement.

Venture capital firms often take a shoot-the-moon approach, willing to accept a
long list of losers so long as their portfolios include some huge winners. In
the latest issue of The New Yorker magazine, Marc Andreessen describes how only
a small fraction of unicorns will become the next Google or Facebook.

Sometimes, the investor that helps set the new valuation is another company,
like Baidu or Xiaomi, the Chinese Internet and electronic companies, both of
which invested in Uber. Their interest in Uber may be strategic, making the
exact valuation less important. Maybe Baidu, for example, one day hopes to form
a partnership with Uber, so that Uber drivers deliver packages for Baidu? Who
knows?

It's virtually impossible to know exactly how the mutual funds determine the
value of private companies. Not one of the mutual fund companies with which I
spoke was willing to fully explain its methodology.

T. Rowe Price offered this statement: ''Valuations are the responsibility of a
cross-disciplinary valuation committee, which operates independent of portfolio
management.'' The company added: ''The factors we consider include significant
transactions in these securities, new rounds of financing, the company's
financial and operational performance, strategic events impacting the company
and relevant valuations of similar companies.''

Fidelity was equally noncommittal. ''We have a rigorous and thorough fair-market
valuation process for mutual fund holdings,'' the company said. BlackRock
declined to comment.

Many mutual fund companies do not even disclose their stakes in private
companies. For example, many firms disclose only the top 10 investments in their
funds.

Fidelity shows the value of its holding in a particular company -- for example,
it says its Contrafund has a stake in Uber worth $162 million -- but doesn't say
how many shares it owns or how it arrived at that number.

Many mutual funds allow for up to 10 percent of a fund to be invested in what
are called illiquid investments. While it's tough to discern how a mutual fund
has valued an asset, it's often even harder to understand the terms of the deal.

In some cases, people involved in these transactions say, special deals are
struck for preferred shares that include downside protection; some of the deals
include deadlines for the companies to go public and penalties if they don't.
And some mutual funds have sold their private shares even before the start-up
has gone public, people involved in the transactions say.

Some mutual fund managers suggest they like investing in private companies
because they get a better peek under the hood than a public company offers.

Another of the reasons that mutual fund companies say they need to buy into
start-ups is the dearth of I.P.O. opportunities and the increasingly extended
period that start-ups stay private. That's true. But the mutual funds are
creating a self-fulfilling prophecy by making such investments, which provide
disincentives to private companies to go public more quickly.

It is worth noting that these stakes in private companies usually represent a
tiny fraction of a total mutual fund's portfolio. The Fidelity Contrafund says
the $162 million stake in Uber is only 0.145 percent of its entire fund.

So if you're an investor looking for a lot of exposure to unicorn technology
companies, these mutual funds are hardly going to give you a concentrated bet.
And that's probably a good thing.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/main-street-portfolios-are-i
nvesting-in-unicorns.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mutual funds have invested in SpaceX, not yet public.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUBADOUX/FLORIDA TODAY, VIA AP) (B1)
 A Berlin Uber user. Shares in start-ups with high valuations, like the
ride-hailing service, are appearing in mutual funds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM
BERRY/GETTY IMAGES) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL
(89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC
OFFERINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT
PLANS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%);
BOND MARKETS (63%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT
ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Tempur Sealy C.E.O. and Chairman to Resign in Corporate Governance Fight

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 307 words


Days after losing a corporate governance challenge to an activist investor,
Tempur Sealy International announced on Monday that it would overhaul its
management and board.

The mattress maker said that Mark A. Sarvary would resign both as chief
executive and as a director. Both the chairman, P. Andrews McLane, and the head
of the board's corporate governance committee, Christopher A. Masto, will resign
as well.

The company has chosen a new chairman, Francis A. Doyle, and will search for a
new chief executive.

Tempur Sealy's moves were prompted after shareholders backed a campaign by H
Partners, a hedge fund that this year challenged the governance of the company.
The campaign was part of the wave of shareholder activism that has swept over
corporate America, as investors call for huge changes in both management and
strategy.

Those investors have succeeded in changing the courses of companies like Darden
Restaurants, the owner of Olive Garden, and Sotheby's, the famed auction house.
Another prominent challenge, at DuPont, is set to come to a head on Wednesday at
the company's annual meeting.

As recognition of H Partners' victory, Tempur Sealy gave Usman Nabi, a senior
partner at H Partners, a board seat and oversight over the search for a new
chief executive. (The mattress maker's chief operating officer, W. Timothy
Yaggi, will serve as interim chief executive until a permanent replacement is
found.)

''Mr. Nabi brings a strong record of shareholder value creation, including
expertise in C.E.O. recruitment and compensation structuring,'' Mr. Doyle said
in a statement. ''We are committed to working together for the long-term success
of Tempur Sealy.''

The company will also set up what it calls a stockholder liaison committee,
which will be charged with improving communications between its board and its
investors.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/dealbook/tempur-sealy-ceo-and-chairma
n-to-resign-in-corporate-governance-fight.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (92%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%);
SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); MATTRESS MFG (78%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (73%); AUCTIONS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (69%); TEMPUR SEALY INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (69%); TPX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(69%); NAICS337910 MATTRESS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2515 MATTRESSES,
FOUNDATIONS, & CONVERTIBLE BEDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Schools Embrace Demands for Education Data From Classroom to Lunchroom

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1273 words


MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis. --  In this small suburb outside Milwaukee, no one in the
Menomonee Falls School District escapes the rigorous demands of data.

Custodians monitor dirt under bathroom sinks, while the high school cafeteria
supervisor tracks parent and student surveys of lunchroom food preferences.
Administrators record monthly tallies of student disciplinary actions, and
teachers post scatter plot diagrams of quiz scores on classroom walls. Even
kindergartners use brightly colored dots on charts to show how many letters or
short words they can recognize.

Data has become a dirty word in some education circles, seen as a proxy for an
obsessive focus on tracking standardized test scores. But some school districts,
taking a cue from the business world, are fully embracing metrics, recording and
analyzing every scrap of information related to school operations. Their goal is
to help improve everything from school bus routes and classroom cleanliness to
reading comprehension and knowledge of algebraic equations.

On a recent morning at Riverside Elementary School, Alyssa Walter, 7, opened her
first-grade ''data binder,'' in which she recorded progress on reading and math
tasks throughout the year. On one page, she showed a visitor six colored circles
pasted into a drawing of a gumball machine, each dot representing her successful
completion of a three-minute addition quiz.

''I like that it makes school more fun, and I like that you get to keep track of
goals,'' Alyssa said. Even though the quizzes sometimes make her nervous,
looking over the collected charts and graphs ''makes me feel proud of myself,''
she said.

Anything that can be counted or measured will be.

In Jenks, Okla., for example, the school district tracks how often teachers use
photocopiers. With a bump in use, curriculum supervisors may offer teachers help
finding supplemental class materials or with planning lessons further in
advance. After documenting a drop in the size of marching and concert bands, the
Arlington Independent School District, near Dallas, suspended instrument rental
fees. Band participation at the middle and high schools jumped.

Those who advocate more use of data in the classroom say it can give teachers
concrete evidence of what instructional strategies work.

''We've been making most decisions up until now by anecdote or by hunch or who
had the greatest sales pitch or what worked when I was in school,'' said Aimee
Rogstad Guidera, the president of the Data Quality Campaign, a nonprofit
advocacy group. For many teachers, using data, she said, is ''a cultural
shift.''

But critics worry that an increasing focus on metrics could lead schools to play
down intangible factors that enhance learning and inspire students. With many
measurements based on some kind of test, some critics say the drive to collect
more data could exacerbate the testing culture in schools or simply create more
busywork.

Just as doctors need to observe more than blood pressure or cholesterol readings
when treating patients, ''the same is true in education,'' said Pedro Noguera, a
professor of education at New York University. ''If you only look at the
numbers, and you don't probe and look at the learning environment, the culture
of the school or the relationships between teachers and students, you're going
to miss out on a lot.''

Others worry that the relentless collection of data, along with the technology
to handle the information ocean, could lead to privacy violations of students.

Parents say their children may sometimes feel as if they are being reduced to
widgets.

''From a learning perspective for kids, I think it's too numbery,'' said
Kimberly Mackay, whose daughter Hope, 10, is in fourth grade at Shady Lane
Elementary School here. ''They don't always see the big picture.''

Seeing scores posted in the classroom -- albeit anonymously -- sometimes
frustrates her daughter, Ms. Mackay said. ''She sees where her scores fall on
all these charts compared to all these other kids, and then she feels like she
is behind or ahead or right in the middle, so she feels like she's just average
rather than excellent at what she does,'' she said.

Patricia Greco introduced the data-driven approach in the Menomonee Falls School
District, with its 4,200 students, most from middle-income families, when she
became superintendent in 2011.

For her doctoral dissertation, Dr. Greco read the theories of W.Edwards Deming,
a statistician and engineer. Mr. Deming is credited with having helped Japanese
manufacturers raise the quality of their products by using statistical analysis
and soliciting regular feedback from workers and customers.

Under Dr. Greco's leadership, departmental leaders attended classes at a local
technical college, training alongside managers from manufacturing companies or
hospitals. The business influence crops up in jargon, with teachers leading
students in ''plan-do-study-act'' cycles, a popular problem-solving method, and
in student binders full of charts and tables worthy of a boardroom presentation.

Every 45 days, teachers and administrators submit data-rich reports -- filled
with items like bar charts and quiz score records -- to the school board. Once a
week, teachers assemble after school to review data together.

Some parents like the approach because they feel it brings them more in tune
with their children's education. ''I find it really helpful,'' said Erica
Schellhaas, whose daughter, Kylee, 5, is in preschool here at Ben Franklin
Elementary School. ''I know she's learning and she's on track.''

Dr. Greco has emphasized that teachers should not only look at numbers and
scores, but also ask students for input into what kind of instruction works best
for them. For some teachers, that has meant a change in thinking.

David Mahlum, who has taught chemistry at Menomonee Falls High School for two
decades, said his initial thought was ''I don't think the students are going to
tell me anything that I haven't thought of or done before.''

Once he started looking at quiz and homework data to identify where students
were struggling, he also asked them what kinds of lessons they preferred. He
discovered that one group of students learned best with computer simulations
while another liked word problems. When he tailored the class experiences, their
performance improved.

With teachers posting charts of quiz scores on classroom walls, students can see
how they compare with their peers. ''Even though they don't show our names, you
get your test back and you can see how others did in your class,'' said Amari
Hackett, 16. ''That kind of motivated me to do better.''

Amari said that after earning mostly C's and D's during the first semester in
Mr. Mahlum's classes, he was now earning solid C's.

Beyond academics, school officials look at disciplinary data, zeroing in on
problems before they get too big. This year, administrators at North Middle
School noticed a striking uptick in the number of students being sent to the
principal's office for misbehavior.

''We said O.K., time out, we really need to put our finger on this because this
should not be happening,'' said Scott Marty, the associate principal at North
Middle School.

After discussion, teachers and administrators realized that they had stopped
offering incentives like movies or ice-skating or sledding trips for good
behavior -- a response, in part, to parent surveys that suggested such trips
were taking away too much learning time.

The school decided to reinstate some trips. Students were also invited to
suggest other rewards, like a costume day. Behavioral citations subsided.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/school-districts-embrace-business-model-of-
data-collection.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brynn Johnson, 6, a Menomonee Falls kindergartner, working on
an assignment. The district compiles a large amount of data. (A11)
 Marisa Garza, 5, with a board behind her encouraging the ''plan-do-study-act''
cycle, which tests the success of a goal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW NELLES FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS
(90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%);
PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY
EDUCATION (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%);
CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL &
EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES
(72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%)

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (53%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CORRECTION; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 87 words


David Brooks's column on Friday incorrectly attributed a finding that, among
American baby boomers, the son of a senator was 8,500 times more likely to
become a senator than the average boomer man. It was from an essay by Seth
Stephens-Davidowitz, a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, not
from The Upshot, The Times's news analysis site. The column also misstated, in
some copies, the number of elections in the last 35 years without a Bush or a
Clinton on the national ticket. There have been two, not one.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS
(88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


A Sports of The Times column on Thursday, about N.F.L. Commissioner Roger
Goodell's possible response to a report detailing the New England Patriots'
apparent deflation of footballs, erroneously included, in some editions, one
baseball player among those suspended by Fay Vincent when he was commissioner of
Major League Baseball. Pete Rose was suspended by Vincent's predecessor, Bart
Giamatti, not by Vincent.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (88%); BASEBALL (88%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%); MAJOR
LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the 1990 Syracuse
men's lacrosse team that won the national title misstated the relationship of
three lacrosse players who were influenced by Syracuse's style. Ty Thompson is a
cousin to Lyle and Miles Thompson, not a brother.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LACROSSE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words


An article on Friday about St. Louis Cardinals third baseman Matt Carpenter
misidentified the position played in college by Albert Pujols, who, like
Carpenter, was drafted in the 13th round by the Cardinals. Pujols was a
shortstop, not a catcher.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 39 words


The Your Money column on Saturday, about credit cards that offer 2 percent
rewards, misidentified the issuer of the Fidelity Investment Rewards American
Express card. It is issued by a unit of Bank of America, not by American
Express.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT
INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%);
NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES
(58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shortcut to a Climate-Modeling Solution

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1061 words


It is perhaps the most daunting challenge facing experts in both the fields of
climate and computer science -- creating a supercomputer that can accurately
model the future of the planet in a set of equations and how the forces of
climate change will affect it. It is a task that would require running an
immense set of calculations for several weeks and then recalculating them
hundreds of times with different variables.

Such machines will need to be more than 100 times faster than today's most
powerful supercomputers, and ironically, such an effort to better understand the
threat of climate change could actually contribute to global warming. If such a
computer were built using today's technologies, a so-called exascale computer
would consume electricity equivalent to 200,000 homes and might cost $20 million
or more annually to operate.

For that reason, scientists planning the construction of these ultrafast
machines have been stalled while they wait for yet-to-emerge low-power computing
techniques capable of significantly reducing the power requirements for an
exascale computer.

Developing such techniques, however, has been particularly vexing because
virtually every aspect of designing faster computers consumes more electricity
and generates more heat. Computer engineers now believe that sometime between
2020 and 2023 is a likely arrival date for the next generation of
supercomputers.

But Krishna Palem, a computer scientist at Rice University, believes he has
found a shortcut.

He has been stirring debate among computer architects by arguing that a
counterintuitive computer design approach -- one that he originally proposed to
give smartphones longer battery life -- can also be used to build faster and
less power-hungry supercomputers.

Dr. Palem says his method offers a simple and straightforward path around the
energy bottleneck. By stripping away the transistors that are used to add
accuracy, it will be possible to cut the energy demands of calculating while
increasing performance speeds, he claims.

His low-power crusade has recently attracted followers among some climate
scientists. ''Scientific calculations like weather and climate modeling are
generally, inherently inexact,'' Dr. Palem said. ''We've shown that using
inexact computation techniques need not degrade the quality of the
weather-climate simulation.''

Climate models use an immense set of differential equations that simulate the
interaction of physics, fluid motion and chemistry. To create models, scientists
turn the world into a three-dimensional grid and compute the equations.

Current climate models used with supercomputers have cell sizes of about 100
kilometers, representing the climate for that area of Earth's surface. To more
accurately predict the long-term impact of climate change will require shrinking
the cell size to just a single kilometer. Such a model would require more than
200 million cells and roughly three weeks to compute one simulation of climate
change over a century.

Dr. Palem believes his inexact approach is more appropriate for weather and
climate modeling because the vast grids of cells that separately calculate local
effects like cloud formations, wind, pressure and other variables can be
calculated without great accuracy.

''I see it as a necessary tool we need now to move the science forward,'' said
Tim Palmer, a University of Oxford climate physicist. ''We can't do a lab
experiment with the climate. We have to rely on these models which try to encode
the complexity of the climate, and today we are constrained by the size of
computers.''

Dr. Palem says the technologies used to build current supercomputers will be too
costly to create a computer capable of an exaflop -- a billion billion
calculations per second. Rather, he argues, computing the rate of global warming
may be possible with a new kind of computer that would use specialized low-power
chips to solve a portion of the problem.

He describes his approach as ''inexact'' computing. ''This is a lower-energy way
to compute,'' he said.

The stated goal of the engineers who are trying to design an exascale computer
is to stay within a power budget of 30 megawatts. But Andreas Bechtolsheim, a
high-performance computer and network designer, noted that based on current
technology, that would require a tenfold improvement over today's most efficient
designs.

Dr. Palem has been imploring the computing world to back away from its romance
with precision for more than a decade. He has recently developed allies among
climatologists like Dr. Palmer who in the journal Nature recently called on the
climate community to form an international effort to build a machine fast enough
to solve basic questions about the rate of global warming.

''High-energy physicists and astronomers have long appreciated that
international cooperation is crucial for realizing the infrastructure they need
to do cutting-edge science,'' he wrote. ''It is time to recognize that climate
prediction is 'big science' of a similar league.''

Dr. Palem's effort received some help last month when he was awarded a
Guggenheim fellowship to support his research on low-energy computing for
weather and climate modeling.

Not everyone is convinced his computer architecture ideas will be applicable.

''Inexact computing works well for mobile applications where the consequence of
choosing incorrectly is low,'' said John Shalf, department head for computer
science at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. ''For consequential
problems, where inexact results could cause a bridge to be misdesigned, or
erroneous conclusions about the mechanics of climate, the inexactness is
problematic.''

Dr. Palem and Dr. Palmer are attempting to overcome these objections. Earlier
this year at a technical computing conference in Europe, they presented a paper
that claims they can sharply reduce the power needs without compromising the
accuracy of the simulation.

Dr. Palmer said the case for the required investment should be self-evident.

''It's a trivial amount of money when you think of climate impact being in the
trillions of dollars,'' he said. ''It's actually an existential question. If
it's at one end of the spectrum, we can adjust, but if it's at the other end of
the spectrum, we're not going to come out of it unless we cut emissions in the
next decade.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/inexact-computing-global-warming-super
computers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Krishna Palem, a Rice University computer scientist, is
proposing a power-saving supercomputer that might answer basic questions about
global warming. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%);
SUPERCOMPUTERS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); MODELING & SIMULATION
(89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%);
ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); ARCHITECTURAL
SERVICES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (82%)

STATE: EARTH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chris Burden, 69, a Conceptualist With Scars, Dies

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1322 words


Chris Burden, a conceptual artist who in the line of duty had himself shot,
pierced, starved, crucified, electrocuted, cut by glass, kicked down stairs,
locked up, dropped from heights and nearly drowned, though by no means all at
once, died on Sunday at his home in Topanga, Calif. He was 69.

The cause was melanoma, his assistant, Tim Rogeberg, said.

One of the foremost performance artists of the 1970s, Mr. Burden was perhaps the
single best-known practitioner of the subgenre of body art. In that field,
artists documented themselves in still or moving images as they gained or lost
weight, underwent surgery or, in his case, courted genuine danger.

Trained as a Minimalist, Mr. Burden began his career by making art that employed
the most minimal materials possible: segments of his own body. Where traditional
artists had long depicted images on canvas, he became the canvas -- and a highly
distressed canvas at that. The resulting installations, at once intimate and
subversive, polarized the critics: Some dismissed Mr. Burden as a mountebank,
while others praised his explorations of masculinity, martyrdom and the Romantic
ideal of suffering for one's art.

In 2012, Los Angeles Magazine called Mr. Burden ''Modernism's Evel Knievel.''

Among his most famous early works were ''Shoot'' (1971), in which a confederate
shot him in the arm with a .22 rifle from about 15 feet away, and
''Trans-fixed'' (1974), in which Mr. Burden had himself nailed, Christlike, over
the hump of a Volkswagen Beetle.

Images from many of those works are in the collections of major museums
worldwide. It was the subject of a major retrospective, ''Chris Burden: Extreme
Measures,'' at the New Museum in Manhattan, in 2013 and 2014.

In later years, Mr. Burden built immense sculptural installations that, like his
early work, explored the interplay of postmodern technology with postmodern
anxiety.

But it was for his body art that he remained best known. Performed against the
backdrop of the Vietnam War, it evoked early Christian martyrs, latter-day Zen
masters and the violence of the war itself.

''Shoot,'' for instance, was performed the year after the Kent State shootings.
Enacted at a Santa Ana, Calif., gallery, it shocked its audience. It also
shocked Mr. Burden, who had expected only a light grazing. What he received, he
said afterward, ''felt like a truck hit my arm at 80 miles per hour.''

As The New York Times later reported, Mr. Burden was transported to the hospital
''and filed the requisite police report ('accident').''

Its sober concerns notwithstanding, Mr. Burden's work was not lacking in wicked
humor. To some observers, it recalled the gleeful tradition of American
hucksterism à la P. T. Barnum. To others, it celebrated the ability of Mr.
Burden, whose very surname seemed to foreordain a life of professional dolor, to
inscribe himself indelibly into his own work, as artists from J.S. Bach to
(Stuart Davis to Alfred Hitchcock had done before him.

Christopher Lee Burden was born in Boston on April 11, 1946. His father was an
engineer, his mother a biologist and art restorer. He was reared in Cambridge,
Mass., and, thanks to his father's professional travels, in China, Switzerland,
France and Italy.

When Chris Burden was 12, an accident on Elba seemed to prefigure his adult
career. Severely injured in a motor-scooter crash there, he endured emergency
surgery -- performed without anesthesia -- on his left foot. During the long
convalescence that followed, he became deeply interested in visual art,
particularly in photography.

After earning a bachelor's degree from Pomona College, where he studied art,
architecture and physics, Mr. Burden enrolled in the master of fine arts program
at the University of California, Irvine. His first significant performance work,
''Five Day Locker Piece'' (1971), was created for his master's thesis there.

In that work, a kind of human origami installation, Mr. Burden pleated himself
into a 2-by-2-by-3-foot student locker. Above him was a five-gallon jug of
water, from which he could drink through a hose. Below him was a five-gallon
bottle for the water's inevitable outcome. He emerged five days later, and got
his degree.

His other performance pieces include ''Through the Night Softly'' (1973), in
which he crawled, nearly naked, over a field of broken glass; ''Doorway to
Heaven'' (1973), in which he attacked his chest with live electrical wires;
''Movie on the Way Down'' (1973), in which he was suspended, upside-down and
naked, some six feet off the floor and swiftly chopped free, sustaining a bloody
lip; ''Velvet Water'' (1974), in which he submerged his head until he passed
out; ''Kunst Kick'' (1974), in which he was kicked down a flight of stairs at
the Basel Art Fair; and ''White Light/White Heat'' (1975), in which, like a
medieval anchorite, he inhabited a platform for 22 days without eating.

''When I use pain or fear in a work, it seems to energize the situation,'' Mr.
Burden said in a 1975 interview with the film critic Roger Ebert. ''In works
with violent or unpredictable elements, the fear is really the worst part, worse
than the pain. Getting nailed to the Volkswagen, for example, I had no idea what
to expect. But the nails didn't hurt much at all. It was the effect that was
fulfilling.''

By the end of the '70s, Mr. Burden had largely abandoned body art. (''You can't
keep doing the same work over and over, otherwise it's an act,'' he told The
Washington Post, with evident self-knowing humor, in 1982.)

He turned instead to vast engineered sculptural installations that, in a less
corporeal way, also explored the mettle of their constituent parts. They
included ''Urban Light'' (2008), an illuminated forest of more than 200
cast-iron street lamps in front of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art; ''What
My Dad Gave Me,'' a 65-foot ''skyscraper'' fashioned from a Brobdingnagian
Erector set, exhibited at Rockefeller Center in 2008; and ''Ghost Ship,'' a
self-navigating crewless sailboat that made its maiden voyage, between Fair
Isle, Scotland, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, in 2005, and was later
exhibited at the New Museum.

Mr. Burden's first marriage, to Barbara Burden, onto whose nude body he flicked
tiny incendiary devices as part of ''Match Piece,'' a 1972 installation, ended
in divorce. His survivors include his second wife, Nancy Rubins, a sculptor.

In an act whose irony appeared lost on no one, Mr. Burden and Ms. Rubins, both
faculty members at the University of California, Los Angeles, resigned from the
university in protest in 2005. At issue was their displeasure at U.C.L.A.'s
failure to discipline an art student who, as part of a work performed in class,
played Russian roulette with what appeared to be a loaded gun.

If their resignation seemed to suggest that there are limits even to the art of
endurance, Mr. Burden confirmed as much in a 2007 interview with The New Yorker,
in which he looked back on ''Doomed,'' a conceptual piece of his from 1975.

One of Mr. Burden's most discomforting works -- for spectators and for him --
''Doomed'' was performed at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. There, as
museumgoers looked on and a clock ticked away above him, Mr. Burden lay on the
floor beneath a lean-to fashioned from a glass panel.

By prearrangement, he would not move from the spot unless an audience member
intervened. Mindful that works of art are meant to be seen but not touched, no
one did. The performance was a masterly study of the social psychological
phenomenon known as the bystander effect, in which people are less likely to
offer help when many others are present.

Finally, after more than 45 hours, someone handed Mr. Burden a drink of water.
Tired, hungry and dirty, he smashed the clock and left his glassy confines.

Would he otherwise have lain there until he died, The New Yorker asked him in
2007?

''Probably not,'' Mr. Burden replied.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/chris-burden-a-conceptualist-with-scars-d
ies-at-69.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Burden, above, in ''Trans-fixed'' in which he had himself
nailed to a car
below left in front of ''What My Dad Gave Me,'' a 65-foot ''skyscraper''
and his work ''Porsche with Meteorite.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS BURDEN AND
GAGOSIAN GALLERY
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (86%); COURTSHIP & DATING (76%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); CANCER (71%); SURGERY
& TRANSPLANTATION (70%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); SKIN CANCER (57%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Aging's 'Solutions' Outpace Proof They Work

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1127 words


With people worldwide living longer, marketers are seizing on every opportunity
to sell remedies and devices that they claim can enhance memory and other
cognitive functions and perhaps stave off dementia as people age.

Among them are ''all-natural'' herbal supplements like Luminene, with
ingredients that include the antioxidant alpha lipoic acid, the purported brain
stimulant ginkgo biloba, and huperzine A, said to increase levels of the
neurotransmitter acetylcholine; brain-training games on computers and
smartphones; and all manner of puzzles, including crosswords, sudoku and jigsaw,
that give the brain a workout, albeit a sedentary one.

Unfortunately, few such potions and gizmos have been proven to have a
meaningful, sustainable benefit beyond lining the pockets of their sellers.
Before you invest in them, you'd be wise to look for well-designed,
placebo-controlled studies that attest to their ability to promote a youthful
memory and other cognitive functions.

Even the widely acclaimed value of doing crossword puzzles has been called into
question, beyond its unmistakable benefit to one's font of miscellaneous
knowledge. Although there is some evidence that doing crosswords may help to
delay memory decline, Molly Wagster, a neuroscientist at the National Institute
on Aging, said they are best done for personal pleasure, not brain health.
''People who have done puzzles all their lives have no particular cognitive
advantage over anyone else,'' she said.

The institute is one of several scientific organizations sponsoring rigorous
trials of ways to cash in on the brain's lifelong ability to generate new cells
and connections. One such trial, Advanced Cognitive Training for Independent and
Vital Elderly, or Active, was a 10-year follow-up study of 2,832 cognitively
healthy community-dwelling adults 65 and older.

Participants were divided into four groups and randomly assigned to one of three
10-session training programs -- for memory, reasoning and speed of processing --
or to a no-treatment control group, with an additional four booster training
sessions 11 and 35 months later.

A decade later, at an average age of 82, 60 percent of those in the training
programs, compared with 50 percent of the controls, had maintained or improved
their ability to perform activities of daily living. All also had improved their
respective trained functions. Those in the reasoning and speed-of-processing
groups retained those benefits 10 years later, but the effects of memory
training were ultimately lost.

While these results are hardly dramatic, given the aging population, even small
benefits from training programs can greatly increase the number of older people
who remain able to live on their own and enjoy life. Dr. Wagster suggested that
such programs could be conducted at senior centers, Y.M.C.A.s, churches, temples
and other venues that house community events.

There is also research-based evidence that certain computer games can improve
cognitive skills in older people. Dr. Adam Gazzaley, a neuroscientist at the
University of California, San Francisco, and his colleagues demonstrated that a
computer game called NeuroRacer enhanced the ability to multitask, a facility
that typically declines with age. NeuroRacer requires players to steer a car on
a winding, hilly road with the left thumb while watching for signs that randomly
pop up and have to be shot down with a right-hand finger.

Participants aged 60 to 85 who trained on the game for four weeks improved their
ability to focus well enough to outscore untrained 20-year-olds, and they
maintained the benefit for at least six months. Effects of the training
transferred to other cognitive skills known to decline with age: sustained
attention, divided attention and working memory, the researchers reported in the
journal Nature. In addition, physical evidence of the benefit was demonstrated
with electroencephalograph measurements of brain activity that indicate
cognitive control.

Nonetheless, Dr. Gazzaley cautioned against assuming that video games are ''a
guaranteed panacea'' for cognitive decline.

In a systematic review of studies involving cognitive training of older adults
using computerized programs, including many who had no prior experience with
video games or computers, researchers at Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg
School of Public Health reported that cognitively healthy people 55 and older
did not have to be ''technologically savvy in order to successfully complete or
benefit from training.'' The researchers found the results to be as good as or
better -- and less labor-intensive -- than more traditional pencil-and-paper
training programs.

Although it is commonly thought that older adults do not enjoy learning to use
new technology, the researchers noted that the older adults who completed the
computerized training programs ''were positive'' about the experience.

They pointed out that with a growing number of older adults having computers and
access to the Internet, ''cognitive training programs need to take fuller
advantage of these outlets to improve cognitive function and delay cognitive
decline in later life.'' However, the team also called for more and larger
''well-designed randomized controlled trials'' to confirm their findings.

The Institute of Medicine has cautioned consumers to beware of phony or poorly
tested products that claim to ''prevent, slow or reverse the effects of
cognitive aging.'' Consumers should ask: Was the product shown to improve
''performance on real-world tasks''? Are the claims supported by ''high-quality
research'' that has been ''independently verified''? And, most important, how do
the supposed benefits compare with those from actions like physical activity and
social and intellectual engagement?

In addition to engaging in daily physical exercise, consuming a heart-healthy
diet (including dark chocolate!) and trying to get seven hours of sleep a night,
my own memory enhancing strategies include addressing people by name every time
I see them and dialing frequently called phone numbers from memory rather than
using speed dial.

But I also take practical measures to avoid memory lapses: I keep a running
shopping list; post to-do notes in the kitchen where I can't miss them; record
all appointments, with audible alerts, on my smartphone and computer; and
maintain a can't-miss tickle file of upcoming events in date order, with the
dates written in large red numbers.

Related: As We Age, Keys to Remembering Where the Keys Are.For more fitness,
food and wellness news, ''like'' our Facebook page.

This is the second of three columns on cognitive changes with age.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/for-agings-effects-more-solutions-than-
proof-of-success/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY
(89%); AGING (87%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MEMORY
DISORDERS (78%); DEMENTIA (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%);
ADULTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (77%);
BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); AGING
TRENDS (71%); ELDER HEALTH (71%); CALENDARS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES
(70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; India: At Least 25 Die in Bus Plunge

BYLINE: By HARI KUMAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 47 words


At least 25 people died and 30 were injured Monday when an overcrowded bus fell
into a deep gorge in Indian-controlled Jammu and Kashmir. A police official said
the bus, which belonged to a private company, fell more than 150 feet into the
gorge, apparently because of driver error.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/asia/india-dozens-die-in-bus-plunge.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); POLICE FORCES (84%)

STATE: JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (91%); KASHMIR (90%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; Nepal: Officials Seek Escaped Inmates

BYLINE: By BHADRA SHARMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 78 words


Nepalese prison authorities are searching for more than 200 inmates who escaped
after last month's devastating earthquake. Himnath Dawadi, head of the Prison
Management Department, said Monday that 216 prisoners had fled from
Sindhupalchok, one of the worst-affected districts, where the prison was
destroyed, and that four more had escaped from Kathmandu's prison. The
department said 16 prisoners were killed in Kathmandu's central jail after the
building collapsed.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/asia/nepal-officials-seek-escaped-inmate
s.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (93%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); NATURAL DISASTERS (87%)

CITY: KATHMANDU, NEPAL (74%)

COUNTRY: NEPAL (95%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; Egypt: Journalist Sues Al Jazeera

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 121 words


The journalist Mohamed Fahmy, who faces a retrial in Egypt on terrorism charges,
says he has filed a lawsuit in Canada against his employer, Al Jazeera, accusing
it of negligence and seeking $100 million in compensation. At a news conference
in Cairo, Mr. Fahmy, who was acting bureau chief in Egypt for Al Jazeera's
English-language service when he was arrested in 2013, accused the network of
endangering him and his colleagues. ''They don't seem to understand that they
cannot continue to challenge the sovereignty of governments, put the story ahead
of the safety of their employees and assume that they will continue to get away
with it,'' he said. Mr. Fahmy is a naturalized Canadian who gave up his Egyptian
citizenship.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/egypt-journalist-sues-al-jaze
era.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); WRITERS (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); TERRORISM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ARRESTS (73%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; Iran: Blacklisted Airline Buys Planes

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 187 words


An Iranian airline blacklisted under United States sanctions has bought nine
used Airbus passenger planes, in a move that could further complicate the
multilateral talks aimed at resolving Iran's disputed nuclear program by the end
of next month. The Iranian news media reported Sunday that the airline, Mahan
Air, bought the aircraft -- eight Airbus A340s and one A321 -- for an
undisclosed amount from unidentified sellers, and that they were placed into
service last week. The Iranian news accounts described the purchase as an
important boost for the country's civilian aviation industry, which has
struggled for many years because of an aging fleet and American-imposed
restrictions on access to replacement aircraft, parts, technology and service.
Mahan Air was placed on a sanctions list in October 2011 by the Treasury
Department over what it called the airline's support for activities of Iran's
Revolutionary Guards Quds Force and Hezbollah militants. The purchase could
inflame congressional critics of the nuclear talks who contend that Iran cannot
be trusted and that it already is openly flouting the sanctions.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/iran-blacklisted-airline-buys
-planes.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES
(90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEZBOLLAH (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS
(52%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; Egypt: Justice Minister Steps Down

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 75 words


Egypt's justice minister has resigned after raising an uproar by saying in a TV
interview that the children of sanitation workers are too lowly to be successful
judges. In an interview late Sunday with the private Channel 10, Justice
Minister Mahfouz Saber said that if the children of sanitation workers became
judges they would face problems and eventually become depressed and leave. ''A
judge must hail from an appropriate environment,'' he said.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/world/middleeast/egypt-justice-chief-quits-ami
d-uproar.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (91%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (85%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lethal Strain of Avian Flu Makes Its Way East to Indiana

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


A strain of the avian flu that had recently been found only in the Western
United States has been confirmed in a backyard poultry flock in Indiana, the
Agriculture Department said on Monday. The eastward spread is worrying to
farmers and state and federal investigators alike, who had hoped that warmer
weather would help lower the number of infections. Three strains of highly
pathogenic H5 have been identified in North America in this outbreak. The H5N8
strain in Indiana is the same one that had been previously confirmed in the
Pacific flyway, specifically in commercial chicken and turkey farms in
California. Another strain of the H5 virus, H5N2, has been spreading rapidly
across the Midwest in recent weeks and resulted in nearly 30 million birds
either dying or being killed as a result of the outbreak. Canadian authorities
have confirmed the H5N1 strain in British Columbia.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/business/lethal-strain-of-avian-flu-makes-its-
way-east-to-indiana.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIAN INFLUENZA (92%); INFLUENZA (91%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%);
POULTRY (90%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%);
INVESTIGATIONS (87%); VIRUSES (73%); TURKEY PRODUCTION (72%); CHICKEN FARMING
(72%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (56%)

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pennsylvania: Woman Is Accused of Throwing Toddler From Bridge

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | MID-ATLANTIC;
Pg. 16

LENGTH: 102 words


A Pennsylvania woman was charged Monday with homicide after the authorities said
she pushed her 1-year-old son off a bridge into a river. The woman, Johnesha
Perry, 19, was charged in the death of Zymeir Perry of Allentown. The
authorities said Ms. Perry pushed the child over the rail of an Allentown bridge
into the Lehigh River before jumping in herself. Court documents say Ms. Perry
gave her son a kiss before pushing him. The child fell more than 50 feet and was
found about 700 yards downstream. An autopsy found he died from blunt force
trauma and drowning. Ms. Perry's public defender declined to comment.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/pennsylvania-woman-is-accused-of-throwing-t
oddler-from-bridge.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); AUTOPSIES (86%); WOUNDS &
INJURIES (85%)

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (90%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Test Could Spare Patients From Biopsies

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SCIENCE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 89 words


A new type of blood test is starting to transform cancer treatment, sparing some
patients surgical and needle biopsies. The tests, called liquid biopsies,
capture cancer cells or DNA that tumors shed into the blood, instead of taking
tissue from the tumor itself. A lot is still unknown about the value of these
tests, but they amount to the first noninvasive way to repeatedly sample a
cancer so doctors can profile its genes, target drugs to mutations, tell quickly
whether treatment is working, and adjust it as the cancer evolves.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/new-test-could-spare-patients-from-biopsies
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (93%); ONCOLOGY (90%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (90%);
SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); DNA (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Students Seek to Shape Corinthian Colleges Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | EDUCATION; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 127 words


Lawyers for an ad-hoc student group, seeking to represent the interests of about
500,000 former students of the recently collapsed Corinthian Colleges Inc., have
asked that a special committee be formed to press the students' claims and
ensure their participation in bankruptcy proceedings that will affect their
futures. Scott Gautier, bankruptcy counsel for the ad hoc student group,
estimated the students' claims at $25 billion or more, and said that an official
student creditors' committee would help the students focus on redress, including
student loan forgiveness or programs to help them with education and job
placement. ''We believe that collective treatment is not only proper, but the
most efficient and effective way'' to handle the claims, he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/us/former-students-seek-to-shape-corinthian-co
lleges-bankruptcy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%);
INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT
FINANCIAL AID (73%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immunization: The All-Purpose Measles Shot

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 574 words


Here's another reason to get a measles shot: Measles vaccination not only
protects against measles, but reduces childhood deaths from other infections as
well, a new study has found.

Researchers examined data on post-measles infections in the United States,
England and Wales, and Denmark both before and after the measles vaccine became
available in the 1960s. They found a correlation between the number of measles
cases in a given period and the number of deaths from non-measles infectious
diseases in children in the two to three years afterward.

''With mathematical analysis of all of the epidemiological evidence we have,''
said the lead author, Michael J. Mina, who was a postdoctoral researcher at
Princeton when the study was done, ''it seems that when measles was prevalent,
it would go through a population, and that population would be at increased risk
for mortality from other diseases for about 28 months, and in proportion to how
many people were infected with measles.'' The findings were published in
Friday's issue of Science.

That measles depresses the immune response has been known for some time. Animal
studies suggest that measles infection depletes B and T lymphocytes, specialized
white blood cells that produce antibodies that ''remember'' the measles virus,
providing immunity against further attacks.

The immune system then recovers, but for many months after, the cells that
repopulate the system are almost all effective only against the measles virus.
You will never get measles again, but you are temporarily left susceptible to
other diseases.

''The immune system is working fine,'' Dr. Mina explained. ''But the assortment
of stuff it protects against is decreased. Kids have to get re-exposed to other
diseases to gain immunity to them.''

The measles vaccine provides immunity, too, but in a way different from measles
infection. The attenuated live vaccine does not reduce the number of B and T
lymphocytes, so their ability to fight other diseases is preserved.

The researchers calculate that when measles was common, it was a contributor to
as many as half of all childhood deaths from infectious disease in
industrialized countries.

Dr. Mina, now a medical student at Emory University, said that the measles
vaccine has provided a significant added benefit in addition to protecting
against measles. After the vaccine came into use, rates of both measles and
non-measles infections dropped. The reduction in measles cases after the vaccine
was introduced is the main reason for the reduction in rates of other infectious
diseases.

''It's the absence of measles that is driving down mortality from other
diseases,'' he said.

In industrialized countries, it is mainly deaths from respiratory infections
that are prevented by the vaccine; in poor countries, the vaccine primarily
reduces deaths from diarrheal diseases and dysentery. The effect has been
significant, driving childhood infectious disease deaths in Western countries
down to six per 100,000 after the vaccine from 16 per 100,000 before.

''This demonstrates at a new level why measles is not a benign infection. It
puts children at risk for years,'' Dr. Mina said. ''More than anything else, it
demonstrates the importance of getting rid of measles through vaccinations.''

For more fitness, food and wellness news, ''like'' our Facebook page.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/07/measles-may-increase-susceptibility-to-
other-infections/

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEASLES (96%); VACCINES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS
DISEASE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (78%);
VIRUSES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (77%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS
(76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); MATHEMATICS (72%); WRITERS (69%); DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES (65%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); WALES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Childbirth: Safer Option for Breech Babies

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words


For babies in the breech position, cesarean delivery may be a safer choice than
vaginal birth.

A Canadian study of 52,671 breech deliveries, published in the May issue of
Obstetrics & Gynecology, found that compared with C-sections, vaginal deliveries
of breech babies were much more likely to result in an injured infant.

At the same time, they found that vaginal deliveries of breech babies had
increased to 3.9 percent in 2011 from 2.7 percent in 2003.

The large majority of breech babies -- about 88 percent -- were delivered by
planned C-section. But compared with those babies, breech babies delivered by
C-section during labor had 2.79 times the rate of injury, and those delivered
vaginally had 3.6 times the rate.

Some breech babies should not be delivered vaginally in any case, according to
the lead author, Dr. Janet Lyons, an assistant professor of obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of British Columbia. Those who are not full term,
or with feet first instead of buttocks first, or those with birth anomalies like
hydrocephalus are not good candidates. But, she added, there will always be
women who want vaginal delivery of a breech baby.

''The role of the provider,'' she said, ''is to decide who is suited to a
vaginal breech and who is not, and to make sure the woman has all the
information to make a good decision. ''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/06/for-breech-births-c-sections-may-be-the
-safest-choice/

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (96%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); BIRTHS & BIRTH
RATES (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (78%); WRITERS
(73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Extreme Tests Challenge, and Bore

BYLINE: By CHRISTIE ASCHWANDEN.

Christie Aschwanden is the lead science writer at FiveThirtyEight and a frequent
contributor to Science Times.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS; Pg.

LENGTH: 956 words


''Funny thing happened on the way to the Moon: not much,'' wrote the astronaut
Gene Cernan in his memoir about life in NASA's space program.

Space travelers aren't the only ones killing time. During their free climb of
the Dawn Wall in Yosemite National Park in California, Tommy Caldwell and Kevin
Jorgeson spent a large part of many days waiting for shade to hit the wall so
they could begin to climb. One study of explorers scaling a Himalayan peak found
that they spent a mere 4 percent of their time actually climbing.

A yearning for novelty and sensory stimulation may draw people to extreme
activities, but these pursuits inevitably require long periods of boredom, the
psychologists Emma Barrett and Paul Martin write in ''Extreme: Why Some People
Thrive at the Limits,'' (excerpt) an intriguing examination. Dr. Barrett and Dr.
Martin investigate the challenges facing extreme adventurers, and the traits and
skills needed to overcome them.

If tedium is an unexpected challenge, sleep deprivation is all too familiar. As
they orbit Earth, astronauts witness 16 sunrises every day, a disruption to
their circadian rhythms and sleep cycles. (It's no wonder that sleeping pills
are the most commonly used medications in space.) Successful adventurers often
adopt a strategy of tactical napping, the authors note, sleeping in short bursts
when the opportunity arises.

In 2001, Ellen MacArthur crossed the finish line of the Vendée Globe sailing
race having taken 891 naps, an average of 36 minutes each, during her 94-day
solo trip around the world in an 18-meter yacht.

Sleep deprivation can make risky endeavors even more dangerous by compromising
judgment. People are more prone to risk-taking behavior when they're sleep
deprived, yet they fail to recognize their impairment and instead perceive
themselves as more cautious.

A study of participants in a trans-Atlantic sailing race found that sleep
deprivation left them tired to the point of feeling drunk. No surprise, then,
that these sailors made mistakes, like leaving equipment in the wrong place and,
in one instance, causing a collision.

While planning expeditions, extreme adventurers often worry about what could go
wrong. But the anxiety often dissipates once they embark, the authors write, and
some seek high-stakes pursuits as an antidote to ordinary life.

In her autobiography, the record-chasing cave diver Vera van Schaik wrote that
diving helped her escape from a personal life filled with stress and fear:
''Diving was a place of peace and calm in which I excelled.''

One study comparing mountaineers to practitioners of the lower-risk sport of
judo found that the peak climbers had higher baseline levels of anxiety in their
lives, and the intense focus required by their pursuit exerted a calming effect
that judo athletes didn't experience.

Successful adventurers are rarely fearless nor overly afraid. Instead, they
score high in a trait called self-efficacy -- a belief in one's competence.
Psychological assessments of American astronauts in the 1960s found that they
were confident in their ability to overcome realistic threats ''and not given to
dwelling on unrealistic ones,'' Dr. Barrett and Dr. Martin write.

Excelling in risky situations requires a level-headed response when things go
awry because, in the words of the astronaut Chris Hadfield, ''No matter how bad
a situation is, you can always make it worse.''

People who are experienced in functioning in high-stakes environments are more
likely than those who aren't to make correct inferences about dangerous
situations, because they don't just pay attention to details -- they pay
attention to the right details. ''Where an experienced mountaineer notices
different textures of snow, a novice may see only an expanse of whiteness,'' Dr.
Barrett and Dr. Martin write.

Still, even seasoned adventurers can fall victim to cognitive biases that lead
them astray.

Mountaineers are notoriously prone to ''summit fever,'' during which they
misjudge or dismiss risks in their rush to reach a summit. This mistake often
results from ''sunk-cost bias,'' Dr. Barrett and Dr. Martin write: Climbers feel
too heavily invested in the expedition to turn around, even in the face of clear
danger.

The authors convey tales of extreme adventure with the authoritative, detached
voice of experts recounting case studies, insisting -- frustratingly -- on
closing each chapter with an academic summary. But this approach hardly detracts
from the book's appeal. No aspect of extreme adventuring is left unexamined, and
the reader comes away with a deep understanding of why and how people thrive at
the edges.

''Extreme'' ends with a fascinating exploration of how people leave these
pursuits behind. Life-endangering activities often become life-defining ones,
and the decision to move on may lead to an identity crisis.

When the astronaut Buzz Aldrin retired from space travel, he was 39 and ''had
decades in front of him but no idea what to do with them,'' the authors write.
He worked as a flight instructor and did public appearances, but struggled with
depression and alcoholism.

Research shows that the transition to normal life is made easier if the person
receives social support and can create a new identity. That was true for Aldrin,
who credits the support of his third wife and an acceptance of his new role as
an ambassador for space travel with helping him overcome his personal demons and
finally settle into a life after NASA.

Despite the challenges, most people who retire from extreme activities look back
on their adventures with fondness and satisfaction, Dr. Barrett and Dr. Martin
write. When they live to tell the tale, it's usually one of resilience and
personal growth.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/science/review-extreme-emma-barrett-paul-marti
n.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SLEEP (90%);
CLIMBING (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); SPACE &
AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (77%); NATIONAL
PARKS (72%); CAVING (70%); SAILING (69%); BOAT RACING (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); SPORTS (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (62%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); HIMALAYAS (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

War Abroad, Boho Irony at Home

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI.

Follow Michiko Kakutani on Twitter: @michikokakutani

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words


WAR OF THE ENCYCLOPAEDISTSBy Christopher Robinson and Gavin Kovite Illustrated.
433 pages. Scribner. $26.  With an all-volunteer military and Americans at home
being asked to make no real sacrifices, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan opened
up a chasm between soldiers (''the other 1 percent'') and civilians. While
troops were being killed and wounded ''over there,'' life ''back here'' went on
very much the way it had before the Sept. 11 attacks. Many recent fiction and
nonfiction books about those wars have looked at that disconnect by examining
the difficulties that veterans face upon returning home to an oblivious country,
feeling alienated and cut off, and often still reeling from the physical and
emotional traumas of combat.

''War of the Encyclopaedists'' takes a different approach to this subject. This
spirited novel was a collaboration between two friends: Christopher Robinson,
who has an M.F.A. from Hunter College and was a Yale Younger Poets prize
finalist, and Gavin Kovite, an Army lawyer and former infantry platoon leader.
And it features a pair of heroes whose lives in many ways mirror the authors'
own.

Halifax Corderoy is about to start grad school at Boston University; his best
friend, Mickey Montauk, is also about to start grad school, but finds his plans
abruptly sidelined when his National Guard unit is activated and he is deployed
to Baghdad. Their carefree college days together in Seattle, they begin to
realize, have left them ill prepared for the realities of grown-up life. They
also find their friendship complicated by the intense relationships both develop
with an unpredictable woman named Mani -- one falls in love with her; the other
weds her in a marriage of convenience.

In such respects, ''The Encyclopaedists'' seems to be emulating Truffaut's
classic movie ''Jules and Jim.'' It, too, maps a love triangle among two best
friends and a tempestuous woman. It, too, is concerned with the disillusionments
wrought by war and adulthood. It, too, shifts gears from a high-spirited comedy
into something sadder and graver.

''The Encyclopaedists'' doesn't try, as ''Jules and Jim'' does, to trace a
broader arc in its heroes' lives but focuses instead on a pivotal year that will
change Corderoy and Montauk's understanding of themselves. At the same time, it
does an adroit job of conjuring the 20-something bohemian world that they
frequent in Seattle, and later in Boston, a world of millennials whose default
setting is irony -- where artworks and conversations and parties tend to have
quotation marks around them, where artsy cool is both a social lubricant and a
form of emotional armor.

Mr. Robinson and Mr. Kovite similarly use their gifts as social observers to
gently satirize the two other rarefied worlds their heroes traverse. In the case
of Corderoy, the pretentious realm of academia, where a professor warns him that
he is not in grad school ''purely for the pursuit of knowledge,'' but must
become ''intimately familiar with poststructuralism, new historicism,
phenomenology, and hermeneutics'' if he wants to succeed. And in the case of
Montauk, a forward operating base in Baghdad, around fall 2004, where common
sense is often at odds with bureaucratic procedure, where the absurdities of the
American occupation are cloaked in military lingo.

As a lieutenant in charge of a platoon, Montauk struggles to find his footing as
a leader and self-consciously tries to learn how to project authority. He is
soon dealing with more tangible concerns -- the daily reality of I.E.D.s and
ambushes, and the loss of several comrades. The body of his favorite translator,
Aladdin, is found dumped in the Tigris River, and one of his men is seriously
wounded by a suicide bomber while stopping by a souvenir shop ''weighing the
pros and cons of getting a Lawrence of Arabia picture taken'' as a birthday
present for his mother. Many in the platoon were ''losing it around the edges as
the constant trickling of stress carved new and aberrant patterns into their
personalities like underground streams in a limestone cave.''

Montauk and Corderoy stay in touch by editing and re-editing a Wikipedia page
they created about themselves. The page, titled ''The Encyclopaedists,'' starts
out as a sort of tongue-in-cheek joke, and gradually evolves into a mirror of --
and parable about -- their changing lives.

Montauk feels unable to communicate what being a soldier in Baghdad is like to
anyone back home. Mani writes him a letter saying the war seems ''weirdly fake''
to her: ''No one around here even thinks about it except to think how stupid it
is, and how much they're embarrassed by it, and how much they hate Bush, of
course.'' Meanwhile, Corderoy has retreated into a narcissistic, Oblomovian
existence. He pines over Mani, compares his life to ''a mediocre movie,'' even
desultorily contemplates suicide. He soon drops out of grad school and tries
scraping by on money earned by being a medical study guinea pig.

The plotting of this novel can feel ad hoc and overly stage-managed at the same
time, but in a breezy, intimate sort of way. The authors have created an America
and an Iraq in which people seem to cross paths with a startling ease (as
characters do in, say, Larry McMurtry's Old West). Tricia, Corderoy's former
roommate who has gone to Baghdad as a freelance writer, runs into (or contrives
to run into) Montauk, whom she hooked up with one night back in Boston; and her
translator, who is meant to help provide independent confirmation of evidence
relating to Aladdin's murder, turns out to know one of the people at the center
of the investigation.

But if such coincidences and the story's sometimes strained Wikipedia conceit
can be distracting, Mr. Robinson and Mr. Kovite have nonetheless written a
captivating coming-of-age novel that is, by turns, funny and sad and elegiac --
a novel that leaves us with some revealing snapshots of America, both at war and
in denial, and some telling portraits of a couple of millennials trying to grope
their way toward adulthood.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/books/review-war-of-the-encyclopaedists-by-chr
istopher-robinson-and-gavin-kovite.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 The authors Christopher Robinson, left, and Gavin Kovite. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN
POLLOCK) (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
(90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (79%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES
(75%); FICTION LITERATURE (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); SEPTEMBER 11
ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (71%); POETRY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wrigley Feeling Familiar With Bleachers' Return

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 762 words


CHICAGO --  Adorned in Cubs gear -- hat, sweatshirt and jacket -- Al Yellon was
the first in line nearly four hours before the Wrigley Field bleacher gates
opened Monday night. He has sat there regularly since the 1970s, has had season
tickets since the early '90s and rarely misses a game. The bleachers, he said,
were like home.

But with the century-old Wrigley undergoing a multiyear renovation, the
bleachers were closed for the season's first month, and Yellon, who writes a
blog for SB Nation, was relocated to the left-field grandstand. In response, he
and some friends wore buttons they had made reading, ''Bleacher Refugees.'' So
as the gates opened, Yellon began a slow jog up the ramp toward his favorite
spot -- bleacher seating is first come first served -- in the left-field corner.
''Welcome back!'' an usher cried as he ambled by.

Yellon found his seat, dropped his umbrella to claim it and then looked around
and grinned.

''It's like I never left,'' he said. ''And it feels good to be back.''

With the Mets in town to play the Cubs, the new Wrigley bleachers opened Monday
with fresh concrete, new green paint and, for the first time this season, fans.
It is not a complete picture of what the park will look like, as the right-field
seats remain a construction site, with concrete, unfinished wooden facades and
steel beams. But with the left- and center-field bleachers open for business,
and holding about 3,500 fans, Wrigley will start to feel a little more like
Wrigley.

''Hometown crowds, as fun as they are, as hectic as they are, it's been kind of
a bummer not to have them,'' Cubs outfielder Chris Coghlan said.

These new bleachers have undergone a face-lift, and a few hours before the game,
Cubs officials gave members of the news media a tour. Among the changes are
party areas for larger groups of fans, including a ''well'' equipped with stools
just beyond the left-field wall near the line and a deck underneath the new
video board. The right-field seats, expected to open next month, will also have
a new patio area. The new seating options have no name yet, but the Cubs hinted
they might soon have corporate sponsors.

Part of the construction included expanding the stadium's footprint in the
outfield. A wraparound concourse provides new space for concessions beyond the
bleachers and more room for fans. In the future, new clubhouses will be built,
and the bullpens will be shifted under the bleachers. The idea is to keep the
old-school charm while increasing the team's cash flow, as the Red Sox
accomplished with a renovation of Fenway Park from 2002 to 2012.

Wrigley's bleachers were built in 1937, and a young Bill Veeck planted the now
famous ivy on the brick walls. The bleachers were expanded in 2006, by about
1,800 seats. The new construction will add 500 seats once the full bleachers are
open.

As the Cubs and their owners, the Ricketts family, moved forward with the
renovation plans in recent years, the bleachers were a sticking point. Because
they are a city landmark, any changes had to maintain their ''uninterrupted
sweep.'' The rooftop owners across the street have also sued to stop the video
board and signage that they say will block their views.

The Cubs unveiled another video board Monday in right field that measures 2,250
square feet -- not as large as its 3,990-square-foot counterpart in left field.
The early reviews of the video board have been favorable; it has been considered
a welcome injection of technology into the quaint park, making replays available
to fans. Neighbors, though, have complained about the noise, and the Cubs said
Monday that they had run sound tests to ameliorate the issues.

Without any fans this season, the outfield has had a desolate feel. Home run
balls bounced on concrete slabs. ''I guess awkward would probably be the word I
would use,'' Coghlan said.

Jason Motte, a Cubs relief pitcher and a former St. Louis Cardinal, said: ''I've
been coming here for a while as a visitor, and those fans out there will ride
you. So it'll be good to get that home-field advantage going.''

With a steady drizzle falling for much of the afternoon, the day was reminiscent
of another Wrigley milestone: the stadium's first night game, on Aug. 8, 1988.
That game was rained out after a few innings. Yellon was there that night, and
he was heartened on Monday as the skies brightened and the sun emerged as game
time neared.

''Today feels a little like that night because it's the same kind of event at
the park," he said. ''But I like today because it's much sunnier.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/baseball/as-wrigley-bleachers-return-fa
ns-reclaim-familiar-places.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The nearly 4,000-square-foot video board in left field that is
part of the renovation work at Wrigley Field for this season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%);
CONSTRUCTION (76%); RELOCATIONS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); SPONSORSHIP
(60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (84%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: 'Dumb Flesh,' From Blanck Mass

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 316 words


BLANCK MASS

''Dumb Flesh''

(Sacred Bones)

Blanck Mass is the one-man project of Benjamin John Power, who is half of a
rave-y, drone-y English electronica duo founded in 2004 with a name that can't
be published in this newspaper. Four years ago Mr. Power started releasing deep,
beatless soundscapes on his own; both Blanck Mass's first record and his
performances at the time were enveloping, somewhat abstract listening
experiences. Subsequently, and especially now, with ''Dumb Flesh,'' his third
album, he's giving you something you might find familiar or even commercial by
its basic outlines. But he's still got ways to make it uncanny: close, loud and
abrupt.

''Dumb Flesh'' has dance beats almost all the way through it, and grand,
sinister atmospheres made with analog synthesizers; it may remind you of
incidental music to an unsettling movie from the 1980s, with bubbling,
twinkling, echoey or otherwise pneumatic sounds. There's been a vogue for this
kind of thing recently -- soundtracks by John Carpenter and Tangerine Dream and
Vangelis -- and for obvious reasons: the power of repetition and the chill of
dystopia. Mr. Power is manipulating old signifiers. He is experimenting with
ways to warm up cold music.

The album was announced several months ago with some context explaining that its
theme is human frailty. But humanity appears only scrambled or unintelligible: a
modified baby's gurgle (I think) on ''Lung''; a woman's voice, maybe singing a
foreign language, chopped up and quantized in the galloping stomp of ''Dead
Format.'' It's social music, though -- danceable, basically shareable -- up
until ''Detritus,'' the album's last track. Here you have almost three minutes
of gnarled electronic fuzz until a tune starts to push through. Surprise: voices
sing ''ahh!'' as if breaking a seal, and the grandest, most emotional melody of
the whole record begins in earnest.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/review-dumb-flesh-from-blanck-mass.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (88%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

No New Berlin Conductor Chosen

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and KATARINA JOHANNSEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 240 words


Orchestral democracy can be hard. One hundred twenty-three musicians in the
Berlin Philharmonic met for 11 hours on Monday to try to elect a new chief
conductor and artistic director, but failed to agree on a candidate to succeed
Simon Rattle when he leaves the post in 2018.

The Berlin Philharmonic is unusual in the orchestra world because it is
self-governing, and its musicians have the power to choose their chief conductor
-- an illustrious post that has been held in the past by titans including
Wilhelm Furtwängler, Herbert von Karajan and Claudio Abbado. But winning the
position requires getting the votes of a ''clear majority'' of the orchestra's
musicians, which proved elusive after an all-day voting session on Monday.

''There were positive and lively discussions and several rounds of voting, but
unfortunately we were unable to agree on a conductor,'' Peter Riegelbauer, a
member of the orchestra's board, said in a statement, adding that the decision
could take up to another year.

The election seemed to lay bare divisions among the players over what direction
to take, but the orchestra described the mood as constructive, cooperative and
friendly. While there were no clear front-runners, speculation had centered on
about a half-dozen conductors, including Andris Nelsons, the 36-year-old music
director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and Christian Thielemann, 56, the
principal conductor of the Staatskapelle Dresden.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/no-new-conductor-chosen-for-berlin-
philharmonic.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Orioles Get Off to a Winning Start in Return to Camden Yards

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 581 words


Manny Machado and Chris Davis hit first-inning home runs, Ubaldo Jimenez had a
season-high nine strikeouts over seven sharp innings, and the Orioles celebrated
their return to Baltimore with a 5-2 victory over the visiting Toronto Blue Jays
on Monday night.

Adam Jones also homered for the Orioles, who had lost five of six to fall into
last place in the American League East.

Because of rioting and violence in the city, the Orioles last played in front of
their home fans on April 26. Enjoying the comfort of familiar surroundings and
fueled by a spirited crowd announced at 20,468, Baltimore took a quick 3-0 lead
and cruised to the finish behind Jimenez (3-2).

Ezequiel Carrera had two doubles and two runs batted in for the Blue Jays, who
fell to 5-2 against Baltimore this season.

In their previous game at Camden Yards, the Orioles won on April 29 behind
closed doors, a decision made for fan safety.

On Monday, Jimenez gave up two runs, six hits and two walks. His three wins are
one more than he had all last season.

''It felt great,'' Jimenez said. ''It felt good to be back, having some pride.
All of the people that came to the game tonight, they were into the game since
the first pitch. So that definitely motivated us to play.''

PIRATES 4, PHILLIES 3  Gerrit Cole pitched seven effective innings, and Starling
Marte hit a three-run homer as Pittsburgh won in Philadelphia.

Cole (5-1) allowed two runs and six hits, struck out six and walked two, shaking
off his first loss in 10 starts with another good outing. Cole, a right-hander,
had won four straight games before Wednesday's 3-0 home loss to Cincinnati.

Making his first start at Citizens Bank Park, Cole improved to 5-0 in his last
seven road outings.

The Pirates opened a seven-game trip with their fourth win in five games over
all, and their seventh in their last eight against the Phillies dating to last
season.

Gregory Polanco and Chris Stewart had two hits apiece for Pittsburgh, and
Polanco also scored two runs.

Odubel Herrera broke out of a skid with his first major league homer in the
ninth off Pirates closer Mark Melancon, who held on for his eighth save in nine
opportunities. Grady Sizemore had two run-scoring singles for the Phillies.

Philadelphia has dropped 10 of 13 to fall to 11-22 (.333). The start is the
worst start for the Phillies since 1997, when they opened the season by losing
20 of 29 games.

Jerome Williams (2-3) lasted just five innings, giving up three runs and four
hits. He struck out four and walked two.

BREWERS 10, WHITE SOX 7  Elian Herrera hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning
and Khris Davis followed with a solo shot for host Milwaukee.

Herrera, filling in at third for the injured starter Aramis Ramirez, homered for
the second straight night. His shot into the left-field stands off reliever Zach
Duke (1-2) broke a 7-all tie.

Davis followed two batters later with his pinch-hit homer high and deep to left.

RANGERS 8, ROYALS 2  Adrian Beltre hit his 399th career home run, and Thomas
Field hit his first as Texas beat visiting Kansas City.

Prince Fielder also homered for the Rangers to back Colby Lewis (3-2), who beat
the Royals for the first time since 2003 by limiting them to one run and three
hits over seven innings. Lewis struck out five and walked two.

Danny Duffy (2-2) matched his career high with six walks while pitching only
three and two-thirds innings for Kansas City. He struck out four while giving up
six runs and five hits.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/sports/baseball/camden-yards-reopens-for-busin
ess.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); RIOTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA
(86%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (53%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (86%);
OHIO, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Richard Bartlett, Legislator Who Fought New York's Death Penalty, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 489 words


Richard J. Bartlett, an upstate legislator who was instrumental in virtually
abolishing capital punishment in New York State and who, as an administrative
judge, oversaw a reorganization of the state's courts, died on Wednesday at his
home in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 89.

The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Michael, said.

Mr. Bartlett, a Republican assemblyman from Warren County at the time, made his
impact on penal law as chairman of the New York State Temporary Commission on
Revision of the Penal Law and Criminal Code. Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller
appointed him to the post in 1961. In 1965, the commission produced the first
major revisions of the penal law in 80 years and recommended, 8 to 4, that
capital punishment be abolished.

''The social need for the grievous condemnation of the gravest crimes can be
met, as it is met in abolition states, without resort to barbarism of this
kind,'' Mr. Bartlett and a majority of the commission concluded.

There were 21 prisoners on death row in New York at the time. The Legislature
limited the death penalty to people convicted of killing a peace officer acting
in the line of duty and to convicts serving a life sentence who murdered a
prison guard or an inmate in prison or while trying to escape. The bill cleared
the Assembly by a vote of 78 to 67, just two votes more than the constitutional
minimum needed for passage.

New York has not executed anyone since 1963. In 2004, the state's highest court
declared the death penalty unconstitutional.

Before Mr. Bartlett oversaw the merger and modernization of New York's court
system, it was a jumble of fiefs where meting out justice swiftly, even if it
was a priority, appeared to be a bureaucratic impossibility.

He set about overhauling it in 1974, when Chief Judge Charles D. Breitel of the
Court of Appeals named him the first chief administrative judge of a unified
state court system. During Mr. Bartlett's five years in the post, the Office of
Court Administration was established to centralize management of the state's
unwieldy trial court system, and a permanent Judicial Conduct Commission was set
up to hold accountable judges accused of misconduct.

Many of the changes he introduced in New York were embraced by other states.

Richard James Bartlett was born in Glens Falls on Feb. 15, 1926, the son of
George Bartlett, a special agent for an insurance company, and the former
Kathryn McCarthy, a nurse.

He graduated from Georgetown University and Harvard Law School. His wife, the
former Claire Kennedy, died in 2010. Besides his son, he is survived by a
daughter, Amy Bartlett; two grandsons; and a sister, Nancy Bartlett Horne.

Mr. Bartlett represented Warren County in the Assembly from 1959 through 1966.
After serving as chief administrative judge, he became dean of Albany Law School
and rejoined the law firm he co-founded, which is now known as Bartlett,
Pontiff, Stewart & Rhodes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/richard-bartlett-legislator-who-fough
t-new-yorks-death-penalty-dies-at-89.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(90%); PRISONS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); JUDGES (89%); JAIL
SENTENCING (78%); MURDER (78%); SENTENCING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%);
DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (78%);
SUPREME COURTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGAL
ETHICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (76%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); MISCONDUCT (73%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR
DISEASE (57%)

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chopin, Savored in Double Doses

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


The novelist George Sand, who had a volatile 10-year relationship with Chopin,
used to quip to mutual friends in Paris that Chopin was more Polish than Poland.

To Sand and her circle it must have seemed so. Chopin had a lifelong cultural
and emotional connection to his homeland. Yet his father was French, a
translator and educator who moved to Poland, married a Polish woman and raised a
family there. Seeking a musically richer environment, Chopin left Warsaw at 20,
eventually settled in Paris and never set foot in Poland again. He fit
comfortably into the world of Parisian salons. (He died at 39 in 1849.)

Recently, two major pianists, Emanuel Ax and Stephen Hough, explored the French
side of Chopin. That their programs were conceptually so similar was most likely
a coincidence. On Thursday at Alice Tully Hall, Mr. Ax, playing with his
customary elegance and wonderful impetuosity, presented Chopin within the
heritage of French music, offering works by Bizet, Rameau and Debussy in the
first half, and then taking on the four dazzling Chopin scherzos. On Saturday at
Carnegie Hall, Mr. Hough gave technically superb and rhapsodic accounts of the
four Chopin ballades, placing them in the center of a program that began and
ended with Debussy, including two works that, as it happened, Mr. Ax also
played: the 1903 suite ''Estampes'' (''Prints'') and the seductive, dancing and
unabashedly carnal ''L'Isle Joyeuse'' (''The Joyous Island''), completed in
1904.

Mr. Hough, also a composer, is a lively writer who maintains a newsy blog.
Commenting on this program, he describes both Chopin and Debussy as ''inventors
of sonority,'' composers who ''changed the way we hear the sound of the piano.''
I agree. It also strikes me that living in Paris, apart from the cities where
the great Germanic heritage dominated, emboldened Chopin's instincts as a
composer. The imposing shadow of Beethoven the monumental symphonist meant
nothing to Chopin. He reveled in writing sonorous ballades, dreamy nocturnes,
bittersweet mazurkas and personal pieces.

Mr. Ax began with a vibrant account of a rarity: Bizet's ''Variations
Chromatiques,'' an elaborate set of variations on a stern theme, music that nods
to Liszt in its explorations of daring chromatic harmony. He shifted to a
Baroque pioneer of French keyboard music, Rameau, playing articulate, vividly
characterized excerpts from ''Nouvelles Suites de Pièces de Clavecin.'' It was
an inspired idea to play Debussy's stately ''Hommage à Rameau.'' He excelled in
the three pieces of Debussy's ''Estampes,'' especially the whirlwind flights of
''Jardins Sous la Pluie.'' Mr. Ax ended the first half with ''L'Isle Joyeuse,''
keeping the dance reined in at first, then building slowly to the ecstatic final
outbreak.

Debussy, who revered Chopin and loved the milky harmonies and lush colorings of
his piano music, prepared an edition of the composer's works for the publisher
Durand.

Having just heard all that French music, especially the Debussy, I was primed to
detect hints of watery French-style sonorities and lacy textures in the Chopin
scherzos, qualities that came through in Mr. Ax's performances. The first three
are among Chopin's most intensely dramatic, brilliantly pianistic pieces. There
was plenty of fire in Mr. Ax's playing, though he brought silken sound to the
wistfully lyrical middle section of the first scherzo and magisterial beauty to
the contrasting episode of the third. Best of all was the Scherzo No. 4 in E, a
playful piece with a coy theme that keeps breaking into bursts of light chords
leaping up the keyboard and spiraling runs.

Mr. Hough opened with Debussy's ''La Plus que Lente'' (''More Than Slow''), a
piece beholden to French salon music, though Mr. Hough had it sounding sublime
in his refined performance. He gave a richly colorful account of ''Estampes''
and brought charm galore to Debussy's ''Children's Corner'' suite.

In a program note, he suggested that Chopin's ballades are ''epic tales in
scope, if not in length; operas in miniature,'' a quality captured in his
performances. For all the contrasts between frenzied outbursts and lyrical
episodes, a compelling narrative line ran through each piece.

After these recitals the Chopin-Debussy connection seemed undeniable. I'd love
to hear, say, an evening devoted to preludes: one book of Debussy's, and all 24
of Chopin's. Mr. Ax? Mr. Hough? Anyone?




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/arts/music/emanuel-ax-and-stephen-hough-explor
e-the-french-side-of-chopin.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Hough playing Chopin ballades at Carnegie Hall.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER SMITH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%);
WRITERS (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (58%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ask Well: What the Thermometer Reveals, and Then Some

BYLINE: By KAREN WEINTRAUB

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 399 words


Question:

I seem to run a body temperature between 96.7 and 97.5. Does this mean that a
99.9 fever is high for me?

Answer:

While a slightly elevated temperature may be a sign that you are getting sick,
chances are a number of other factors are influencing your body temperature on a
daily basis. As a result, 99.9 degrees Fahrenheit is not considered a fever.

In 1868, the German physician Carl Reinhold August Wunderlich showed that normal
human body temperature averages 98.6. But even then he knew that body
temperature varied from person to person, at different times of day and for many
other reasons besides illness.

Body temperature tends to be about one degree higher during the day than in the
middle of the night, said Matthew Kluger, a retired professor and expert in body
temperature. ''A higher temperature makes us run a bit faster, and I contend
that it also revs up our immune response as well,'' he said.

Eating, exercise, ovulation and being on the pill can all drive up body
temperature as much as a few degrees, as can emotional stress, according to a
2001 Japanese study.

Age tends to drive down temperature, so an older person with a temperature of 99
might be getting sick, while a younger one with the same temperature could be
perfectly healthy, said Jack A. Yanovski, chief of the Section on Growth and
Obesity at the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development in Bethesda, Md.

The method of measurement also matters, with a wider range of normal seen in
oral thermometers compared with rectal or ear thermometers. Room temperature,
whether you've recently had something cold to drink, even whether you're
breathing mostly through your mouth, can also affect oral thermometer readings.

Illness isn't just about having a particular reading on a thermometer, Dr.
Yanovski said, but about having a spectrum of ailments, such as muscle or joint
aches or diarrhea.

A temperature above 100.4, regardless of the normal range for an individual, is
considered a universal sign of fever and suggests an illness. If it is over 104,
the person should seek medical attention.

''The higher the temperature, the greater the chance of a serious infection,''
Dr. Yanovski said.

For more fitness, food and wellness news, ''like'' our Facebook page.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/08/ask-well-is-99-degrees-a-fever/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISTOCK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); THERMAL SENSORS (89%); PHYSICAL FITNESS
(78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); OBESITY (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tony-Nominated Musicals Are (Mostly) Soaring

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 485 words


Three of the four Tony Award nominees for best new musical had their best week
of sales yet at the box office, while one is struggling.

''An American in Paris,'' the dance-heavy adaptation of the 1951 film, continues
to stand out as the commercial hit of the moment, bringing in $1,298,817 last
week, according to Broadway League figures released on Monday. ''Something
Rotten!,'' the Elizabethan-era comedy, also boasted its biggest week yet, with
$903,211 in ticket sales. To call attention to the development, one of the
show's publicists posted a message on Twitter featuring Shakespeare, who is
spoofed in the musical, on a $10 bill (which in real life features Alexander
Hamilton, who is the title character in the presumptive big musical of next
season, ''Hamilton'').

''Fun Home,'' operating in the smallest theater used by a best-new-musical
nominee, brought in $571,495. The show, about the cartoonist Alison Bechdel's
effort to understand her childhood, played to 101-percent-capacity audiences.

By contrast, the fourth best musical nominee, ''The Visit,'' played to
55-percent-capacity audiences, bringing in $208,077.

With theater operators around the country gathering this week for an annual
spring conference, several Tony nominated shows are announcing national tours.

Over the last week, ''The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time,'' a
leading contender for the best play award, said it would begin a national tour
in October of 2016. ''The King and I,'' a contender for the best musical
revival, said that show, initially scheduled to run until July 5, would be
extended indefinitely and begin a national tour in November 2016. And ''On the
Town,'' also a contender for best musical revival, said it, too, would go on
tour next year, with its star Tony Yazbeck, who has been nominated for a Tony as
leading actor in the show.

''An American in Paris'' had earlier announced a tour.

Gina Vernaci, the executive producer of Playhouse Square in Cleveland and the
president of the Independent Presenters Network, cautioned that not all
announced tours actually happen, because some producers are ultimately unable to
secure enough bookings.

She said the plans are probably aimed less at swaying Tony voters than at
getting the attention of the theater operators outside New York.

''It's a crowded marketplace, and this is a way to drive buzz,'' Ms. Vernaci
said. ''It's a second wave to say, 'Hey, we're here'.''

The dynamic can work even for shows that are not contending for awards.
''Finding Neverland,'' which was not nominated for any Tonys, has been eager to
demonstrate that, even if critics were not impressed, the public is: the show
has sold more than $1 million in tickets every week (last week it grossed
$1,041,008) and has also announced a national tour starting next year.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/tony-nominated-musicals-are-mostly-
soaring-at-box-office/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TONY AWARDS (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA
(90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); THEATER (58%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Scary Lucy' Statue Gets a New Home

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 293 words


It was the statue laughed at across the country and around the world, but not in
the way it was intended: a 400-pound bronze sculpture meant to depict Lucille
Ball, the comic actress and ''I Love Lucy'' star, was instead nicknamed ''Scary
Lucy'' for its large, glaring eyes, frightening smile and general lack of
resemblance to the television pioneer. (At least the statue was holding a bottle
of Vitameatavegamin.)

But now a new comedy attraction set to open next year in upstate New York may be
having the last laugh. On Monday, the board of trustees in Celoron, N.Y., the
village that had been the reluctant home of ''Scary Lucy,'' voted unanimously to
allow the National Comedy Center to display this notorious statue after it opens
next year in nearby Jamestown, N.Y.

Tom Benson, the chairman of the National Comedy Center, had asked the Celoron
board for the opportunity to display the widely mocked work of art, and
applauded the decision on Monday.

''We are excited to embrace the statue in a different light,'' Mr. Benson said
in a statement. ''Not as a likeness of Lucille Ball, but as a tribute to what
she was all about -- making people laugh. This piece of comedy history has made
millions of people laugh since going viral.''

Shirley Sanfilippo, the clerk treasurer of Celoron, confirmed the board's
unanimous vote in a telephone interview on Monday. She said that the village
would retain ownership of the statue while it is on display at the National
Comedy Center, and that it must remain in Celoron until a replacement statue is
found. Ms. Sanfilippo said that more than 50 sculptors had offered their
services to create a new Lucille Ball statue.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/lucy-statue-gets-a-new-home/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE POST-JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%);
INTERVIEWS (77%)

CITY: JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Musicals at Public Theater

BYLINE: By SCOTT HELLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words


Familiar collaborators will be front and center next season at the Public
Theater, which will offer two new musicals by composers who have been regular
presences there: ''First Daughter Suite,'' Michael John LaChiusa's sequel of
sorts to his 1993 ''First Lady Suite''; and ''The Total Bent,'' by Stew and
Heidi Rodewald, whose ''Passing Strange'' went from the Public to Broadway in
2008.

The theater on Monday announced its 2015-16 season, which also features the
return of the playwrights Robert O'Hara (''Insurrection: Holding History'') and
Tarell Alvin McCraney (''The Brother/Sister Plays''), and another visit by the
experimental theater troupe Gob Squad (''Super Night Shot'').

Mr. O'Hara's ''Barbecue,'' about a family holding an intervention with an
addicted sister, begins performances Sept. 22; Mr. McCraney's ''Head of
Passes,'' loosely based on the Book of Job and a coproduction with Berkeley
Repertory Theater, starts on March 15.

For the third year running, the Public's season will open with the
musicalization of a classic, staged for free at the Delacorte Theater in Central
Park. This year, the director Lear deBessonet and the composer Todd Almond will
present their take on Homer's ''The Odyssey'' in a Public Works production
running Sept. 4 to 7.

This season's big story at the Public was the acclaimed musical ''Hamilton.''
With that show set to move to Broadway later this summer, its director, Thomas
Kail, will oversee the world premiere of what the Public describes as a
''viciously, deliciously funny new drama'' about the American economy: ''Dry
Powder,'' by Sarah Burgess, which begins performances on March 1.

Like ''First Lady Suite,'' which explored the inner lives of Jacqueline Kennedy,
Eleanor Roosevelt and others, ''First Daughter Suite'' will give musical form to
the stories of Tricia and Julie Nixon, Amy Carter and Patti Davis -- and their
mothers -- among others. Performances begin Oct. 6.

And ''The Total Bent'' -- about a British record producer and a young black
musical prodigy -- starts on May 10. The show was postponed from this season's
Public schedule because its director, Joanna Settle, was ill.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/public-theater-season-will-feature-
new-musicals-by-lachiusa-and-stew/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WRITERS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%);
RECORD INDUSTRY (64%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cleveland Museum Returns Looted Statue

BYLINE: By TOM MASHBERG

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 280 words


The statue of a kneeling Hindu deity with human and monkey features, above,
believed stolen from a jungle-shrouded Khmer temple more than 40 years ago, has
been returned to Cambodia by the Cleveland Museum of Art, which had displayed it
since 1982, officials said on Monday.

The return, on Sunday night, brings to six the number of looted statues from the
10th-century Prasat Chen temple in Preah Vihear Province, in northern Cambodia
near the Thai border, that have been recovered by the government since 2012,
when reports surfaced that the rare sandstone sculptures were in the United
States.

Those items include two large Kneeling Attendants returned by the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in 2013; a massive statue known as Duryodhana returned by
Sotheby's last year after the intervention of federal officials; a companion
statue of the Duryodhana, known as Bhima, returned by the Norton Simon Museum in
Pasadena, Calif., last year; and a smaller statue from the temple, Pandava,
relinquished by Christie's in May 2014.

Cambodian officials have sought the return of the latest item, known as Hanuman,
for two years. Last May, a Cleveland museum official, Sonya Rhie Quintanilla,
told The Plain Dealer newspaper, ''So far, based on my extensive fieldwork in
Cambodia earlier this year, I can report that I did not find any physical
evidence to confirm that the Cleveland Hanuman is from Prasat Chen.''

In a statement on Monday, the museum said physical evidence linking the statue
to a pedestal at Koh Ker combined with provenance research  in Thailand led
officials to change their minds.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/cleveland-museum-returns-ancient-st
atue-to-cambodia/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); SCULPTURE (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); HINDUS &
HINDUISM (78%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agnès Varda to Receive Palme d'Or at Cannes

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 232 words


The French film director Agnès Varda will become the first woman to receive an
honorary Palme d'Or at this year's Cannes film festival, which opens on
Wednesday.

According to a statement on the festival website, the award is given to a
director who has had ''a global impact,'' but has not previously won the award.
It has previously been given to Woody Allen (2002), Clint Eastwood (2009) and
Bernardo Bertolucci (2011). Ms. Varda responded to that illustrious company on
the website, commenting, ''And yet my films have never sold as much as theirs!''

The award will be presented during the closing ceremony on May 24, when the
jury, headed by Joel and Ethan Coen, presents the prizes.

Ms. Varda, 86, was a major figure in the French New Wave, alongside filmmakers
like François Truffaut, Jean-Luc Godard and Claude Chabrol. Among her notable
earlier works are ''Cléo From 5 to 7,'' ''Vagabond'' and ''Jacquot de Nantes.''

She has continued to make films. Writing about one, ''The Beaches of Agnès,'' in
2009, A. O. Scott described her as ''an artist of undiminished vigor, curiosity
and intelligence'' with ''a kind of thrifty, skeptical anarchism of the spirit,
a liberating willingness to find inspiration and even beauty in what might
conventionally be dismissed as rough, ugly or commonplace.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/11/agnes-varda-to-be-honored-at-cannes
/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM FESTIVALS
(90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ARTS
FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Avoid Commencement Clichés

BYLINE: By ARTHUR C. BROOKS.

Arthur C. Brooks is the president of the American Enterprise Institute and a
contributing opinion writer.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 834 words


NATIONWIDE, commencement speakers are preparing remarks to deliver to this
year's crop of college graduates. I was one, and frankly I was a little worried.
I wanted to inspire and uplift, but I was well aware that, more often than not,
graduation addresses are met with blank stares and tepid applause.

Would I encourage the young people to pursue their professional dreams, to find
a fun job, to become an entrepreneur or teacher? All of that seemed like solid
guidance. But when I asked a few of my 20-something colleagues, they warned me
that, while this might sound great to a baby boomer at the podium, to a
millennial audience it's just product advice. It sounds more or less like the
famous unsolicited counsel in the 1967 movie ''The Graduate,'' in which a
middle-aged businessman told the young Ben Braddock (played by Dustin Hoffman):
''I just want to say one word to you. Just one word. Plastics.''

One clue came from looking at how life and career expectations are changing.
Back in the late 1970s, human resource scholars began to notice and write about
four distinct career patterns in the American economy.

In the most conventional career type, which scholars call ''expert'' or ''steady
state,'' a person held the same job and basic duties -- often with the same
company or government agency -- for decades. A second career type was
''linear,'' in which all job changes were upwardly mobile in the same career
path. Each job paid more than the last and had more responsibility, but rarely
deviated from the same basic field. This linear path was the yuppie sine qua
non, the mark of a serious person who climbed the ladder.

The third and fourth models characterized how some younger adults back in the
1980s were seeing their professional lives. The ''transitory'' career featured
no set job or field, and there was little apparent progress in money or
responsibility. Let's call that one ''your mom's worst nightmare.'' The
''spiral'' model looked similar in terms of periodic job and industry changes,
but differed in that these changes were purposive, following changing interests,
circumstances and personal values. In other words, a spiral career served life
purpose more than a product line.

The spiral model was most fascinating to researchers at the time, representing
as it did the new Generation X work force of uninhibited individualists. And
indeed, it described me to a T. After graduating from high school, in 1982, I
dropped out of college after a year, spent a decade on the road as a musician,
dropped back into college, became a college professor teaching economics, and
now lead a Washington think tank. I've spiraled all over the place for 30 years.

What seemed new when I was a high school graduate is now the norm. To be sure,
many young people find only transitory work available during this poor recovery.
But even for those who have done well in the job market, ''paying their dues''
and waiting to rise through some set of professional ranks is laughable. They
feel responsible for their lives, and are in search of the diverse experiences
that will fulfill them. That means frequent career changes and a willingness to
take pay cuts when necessary.

Today's spiraling millennials know intuitively that having a sense of one's
purpose in life is the key to well-being. And research clearly shows they are
right. In a 2009 study published in The Journal of Positive Psychology,
researchers interviewed 806 adolescents, emerging adults and adults about their
purpose in life. A key finding of the study was that being able to articulate a
life purpose was strongly associated with much greater life satisfaction than
failing to do so.

In contrast, purposelessness -- no matter how closely tied to worldly prosperity
-- generally defines a hamster-wheel life, alarmingly bereft of satisfaction.
''Find a fun job'' sounds vaguely Sisyphean. The existentialist philosopher
Jean-Paul Sartre evocatively termed the sensation of purposeless living the
''nausea of existence.'' This nausea is exactly the sensation engendered by
typical career advice.

As I prepared to give my remarks -- I spoke on Saturday to graduates of Ave
Maria University, a Catholic institution in southwestern Florida -- I thought
about the words of Bach. If anyone had the right to dispense product advice, it
was Bach, the creator of more than a thousand published works and considered by
many to be the greatest composer who ever lived. But when asked his approach to
writing music, he said, ''Music's only purpose should be the glory of God and
the recreation of the human spirit.'' Bach was a true man on a mission, and the
two ingredients of his mission were sanctification and service. It is hard to
find a better life purpose than the pursuit of higher consciousness and
benevolence to others.

So here's my advice for anyone asked to give a commencement speech: Avoid
plastics; put purpose ahead of product; emphasize sanctification and service.
Also, keep it under 30 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/opinion/how-to-avoid-commencement-cliches.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (90%);
HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS
(78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); GENERATION X (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); ADULTS
(76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Promoting Luxury Apartments, and Green Building, With a Film

BYLINE: By MATT A. V. CHABAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1045 words


The film shows a man in a leather biker jacket and a woman in an oversize black
parka leaning against the gunwale of a boat, staring up at the huge icebergs
floating by, dressed more for the cobblestones of SoHo than for the shoals of
Greenland. The camera captures their amazement at the drifts of glacial beauty.
Just then -- crack! -- both jump as a piece of ice the size of a townhouse
cascades into the water.

''I wanted to go see firsthand what the effects are of climate change and carbon
emissions,'' the woman in the parka, Veronica Mainetti, said last week while
sitting on a green leather couch inside 60 White Street, a loft building in
TriBeCa. ''To see it, and to hear from the biologists and the climatologists --
and the Greenlanders, what they're going through. I knew we had to do something,
but I was determined to do more.''

So she decided that 60 White, the conversion of an 1869 loft building into
multimillion-dollar apartments and the latest project of her family's
development company, the Sorgente Group, should do its part to save the world.
Ms. Mainetti thought the eight-unit project could have an even bigger impact if
the world knew about it, too. The building is now the star of a documentary,
''Giglio on White,'' about its redevelopment, with Ms. Mainetti co-starring as
the crusader turning environmental anxieties into luxury accommodations one
locally sourced granite countertop at a time.

Equal parts ''An Inconvenient Truth'' and ''This Old House,'' the film follows
Ms. Mainetti and Daniel Fickle, the director and her companion on the trip to
Greenland, as she searches for the most airtight windows, battles with New York
bureaucrats, rattles off statistics (70 percent of the city's energy goes into
its buildings) and makes a side trip to those glaciers.

Only a four-minute trailer exists at the moment, helping to lure buyers of the
$4 million to $10 million apartments, and they will eventually receive a copy of
the film when it is completed next year. But the ambitions are much greater than
marketing.

''We'd love for it to premiere at Tribeca,'' Mr. Fickle said, referring to the
film festival founded by Robert De Niro and held annually a few blocks away.
''Wouldn't that be perfect?'' And then on to an air-conditioned multiplex,
perhaps.

The name ''Giglio on White'' comes from the Giglio brand of environmentally
sensitive condos that Ms. Mainetti hopes to introduce with this project. For
those who might consider luxury real estate and environmental conservation to
get along like an oil slick and water, Ms. Mainetti said that view misses the
point. ''If even one person sees what we've done and changes the way they build,
or live, the movie will have been worth it,'' she said.

''It's not about million-dollar condos,'' she added. ''It's about what comes
after them.''

As unconventional as the film is, the person behind it is even more so. In an
industry propped up as much by testosterone as by steel and concrete, it is
unusual to find a woman at the helm of a major firm.

Ms. Mainetti was born in Rome into a family of Italian developers, though they
got their start here in New York, where her great-grandfather lived for a time
building iron frames for early skyscrapers in Manhattan. Ms. Mainetti returned
to get an architecture degree at Columbia but instead went into the family
business in New York. After the company's first major acquisition in the United
States, the Flatiron Building in 2005, she took over North American operations,
which also include properties in Los Angeles.

The redevelopment of 60 White Street, bought for $23 million in 2010, involves
the conversion of three former commercial buildings, one of which will continue
to house offices, albeit high-end ones, while the other two become condos.

Ms. Mainetti sees preservation as the first step in sustainability. ''By
extending its life, maybe we extend our own,'' she said of the buildings.

When it came time to fill those buildings, she insisted on sourcing everything
locally. The toilets and showers are not from Milan or Tokyo but Sheboygan, Wis.
-- top-of-the-line Kohler models. The slate tiles come from upstate New York,
and the marble is quarried in Danby, Vt.

''People come in here and they ask me if this is Carrara marble, and I say: 'No!
And you know, it's twice as old,' '' she said.

Since it was as important for Ms. Mainetti to document this work as to do it,
she reached out to Mr. Fickle, whom she met a decade ago at an event at the New
York Film Academy, where he was teaching.

''This isn't just the story of the technology and the building,'' Mr. Fickle
said, ''but also the story of her, the drive and the passion of what she wants
to do, to make a difference and change the way we build.''

Beyond the trip to Greenland, he follows her to the quarries in Vermont and a
mill in New York, where old water towers are being turned into paneling for the
penthouse. In between, there are stops at the city's Landmarks Preservation
Commission, where Ms. Mainetti fought for a year to get modern triple-pane
windows approved, and at her own home, where the audience will meet her wife and
3-year-old son.

Mr. Fickle said he wanted the film to have a ''cinematic feel'' that is both
narrative and contemplative, like a Terrence Malick film, while making the
building come alive as its own character.

''Environmentalism can be so dry,'' Mr. Fickle said. ''We want to show it in
everyday life.''

Or at least the everyday life of those who can afford it. Whether or not the
film plays at a theater near you, the practices it highlights just might wind up
next door. Almost every green breakthrough, after all, like solar panels and
hybrid cars, was a luxury good until enough wealthy people bought into it to
create a wider market.

''There is a certain trickle-down effect when it comes to green building,'' said
Russell Unger, director of the Urban Green Council, an advocacy group for
sustainable building in New York. While he is skeptical of the appeal of the
film, he sees the building itself making up for that.

To Ms. Mainetti, there cannot be one without the other.

''We need to lead so it can be possible for everyone to have this,'' she said.

Email: appraisal@nytimes.com

Twitter: @MC_NYC




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/nyregion/greater-aims-than-marketing-with-a-fi
lm-starring-green-luxury-apartments.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Veronica Mainetti, the developer of 60 White Street in TriBeCa,
an environmentally conscious luxury apartment building rendered above left,
inside the building with the filmmaker Daniel Fickle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VUW STUDIO

 MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM
(89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ARTS
FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); FILM FESTIVALS (78%);
CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL
CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); FILM (73%); CONSERVATION
(71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); FESTIVALS (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (58%)

COUNTRY: GREENLAND (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials BREGMAN, DOROTHY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 18 words


BREGMAN--Dorothy. For the past two years Dorothy has been missed and remembered
with love each day. Abe 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WILSON, ELIZABETH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 64 words


WILSON--Elizabeth. The Neighborhood Playhouse is deeply saddened by the loss of
Elizabeth Wilson, an esteemed alumna and member of our community. A remarkable
talent and spirit, Ms. Wilson was, for almost 70 years, an unstoppable force in
the American theatre. Her talent and her kindness will not be soon forgotten.
Board of Directors, The Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (85%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MARCUS, JANET KAHN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 395 words


MARCUS--Janet Kahn, age 80, passed away Wednesday May 6, 2015 after an extended
illness. Janet is a former resident of Newburyport, Massachusetts, where she
lived with her husband, Edward Barz, until his death in 2012, as well as New
York City, New York. Janet was born in Brooklyn, New York on January 22, 1935 to
Edith and Sidney Kahn.

Over the course of her life, her accomplishments were great and her
contributions were significant. She attended Woodmere High School and from there
went on to graduate from Cornell University with honors in 1955. In 1956 she
earned a teaching degree from Harvard University, Phi Kappa Phi. Following a
notable career in publishing in New York City, she changed course and became a
high school teacher, sharing with others her incredible quest for knowledge,
which would remain with her throughout her 80 years. In 1965 she married David
Marcus and moved to White Plains, New York, where their son, Adam, was born.
Despite the challenges of being a new mother, Janet managed to complete a law
degree at Hofstra University with honors in 1977 and pass the New York State Bar
that same year. She worked as a public defender in the Bronx until her
retirement in 1999. She truly helped change the course of many people's lives
and was a crusader of justice and equality. Throughout her years, Janet took
advantage of life to the fullest. She was enthusiastically involved in numerous
community organizations, charities and hobbies. Her friends were many. She loved
tennis, gardening, travel, the arts, and, above all else, learning. She had an
unsurpassed capacity and thirst for knowledge; and, until this past year, served
as a docent at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Massachusetts. She is survived
by her son, Adam D. Marcus, daughter in-law Carrie Marcus and her grandchildren,
Sidney and Rose Marcus. She was a fiercely devoted mother, mother-in-law,
grandmother and friend. She passed peacefully, in the presence of her loved
ones. Funeral Services will be held at the Twomey-LeBlanc and Conte Funeral Home
193 High Street Newburyport, MA 01950 on Friday May 8, 2015 at 2:30pm. There
were will be a private memorial service in Manhattan on Wednesday, May 13th at
12pm. Please contact Adam at amarcust07@gmail.com for further details. In lieu
of flowers, please make donations to Planned Parenthood or The Peabody Essex
Museum. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); TEACHING &
TEACHERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); LAW
SCHOOLS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (75%); GRANDCHILDREN
(72%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI KAPPA PHI (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY
(57%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LOCKWOOD, DONALD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 116 words


LOCKWOOD--Donald. Donald A. Lockwood, of Delray Beach, FL, died May 10 at the
age of 88. He received his B.A. in Mathematics from Columbia College and a
Master's degree in Statistics from Columbia University. He was a consulting
actuary and president of Pension Planning Co. in New York. He was predeceased in
2002 by his beautiful wife Joan whom he adored and was the love of his life. A
Silver Life Master and avid bridge player for over 75 years, Don is survived by
his children Steven and Wanda Lockwood and Lisa and John Winston, and
grandchildren Rachel (Sean), Tracy, Scott and Robbie. Services will be held
Wednesday, May 13 at 10am at Temple Sholom at 300 E. Putnam Ave. in Greenwich,
CT. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (87%); GRANDCHILDREN
(67%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HAUSER, HERBERT DAVID

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 66 words


HAUSER--Herbert David. Born September 14, 1927. BA and MBA from NYU. Credit
Analyst and Vice President at CIT. Longtime resident of Yorktown Heights, NY and
West Yarmouth, MA. Quick wit and lively storyteller. Lover of nature and the
arts. Generous philanthropist. Beloved husband of Doris (nee Socher) for 64
years. Loving father, brother, grandfather, and great-grandfather.
(DOROTUSA.org). 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GRANGER, HELEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 100 words


GRANGER--Helen, known to most as MariElena Granger, passed away on the 23rd of
April surrounded by loved ones in her home. A celebration of her life will be
held noon May 13th at Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South. In
memoriam donations can be made to Give a Jumpstart, 414 Redwood Ave., Corte
Madera, CA 94925 (www.giveajumpstart. org). Wife of the late playwright Percy
Granger, she will be remembered for her joie de vivre, impeccable floral skills,
excellent mothering, and charitable works in Zambia. She is survived by her sons
Andrew and James, and her granddaughter Reece. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (82%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ZAMBIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GARTRELL, REV

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 17 words


GARTRELL--Rev. Leland. 1927-2015. Funeral May 17 3pm Reformed Church New Paltz,
NY. copelandfhnp.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FLICK, STELLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 82 words


FLICK--Stella, on May 10, 2015 in Melville, NY. She was the loving wife of the
late Sol, adoring mother of the late Susan Randy and sister of the late Sam
Hurwitz. She is survived by her devoted sister Jessie Klibaner, beloved son
Jonathan (Barbara) and grandchildren Zach Falb and Alex, Elizabeth and Emily
Flick. She was a world-traveler, mentor to young women and wonderful friend to
many from all walks of life. Services Tuesday, May 12, 2pm at Gutterman's, 8000
Jericho Tpk, Woodbury, NY. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FEINER, RONALD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 137 words


FEINER--Ronald. "Ron" Edward, 72, of New York City, passed away Sunday, May 10,
2015. Born in Brooklyn, son of the late Helen and Sol Feiner. Survived by his
devoted partner Karen Brooks Hopkins, loving children Daniel (Meredith) and
Anna, grandsons Chase and Dylan, brother Joel (Gail), stepson Matt (Annie) and
their three daughters. Practiced entertainment law for over 40 years,
representing clients in theatre, television, film, music, and not-for-profit.
Served on Boards of BAM and St. Ann's Warehouse. Caring, beautiful spirit, great
sense of humor. Gifted artist, doting grandfather. Treasured time in Montauk. A
magical heart. In lieu of flowers, family suggests contributions to Brooklyn
Academy of Music and Mount Sinai Medical Center. Services today, 10am, "The
Riverside" W. 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); GRANDPARENTS (87%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); FILM (69%);
TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths EISERT, DR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 76 words


EISERT--Dr. Jack, born August 15, 1931; died peacefully on May 11, 2015. Retired
dermatologist and Clinical Professor of Dermatology at Columbia Medical School.
He will be deeply missed by his wife Barbara; sons Richard and Douglas;
daughters-in law Sarah Jaffe and Ning Lu and grandchildren Alex and Nat Eisert.
He touched the lives of so many. Memorial Service at Riverside Memorial Chapel,
76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., on Wednesday, May 13, 2015 at 10am. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (84%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DEMISAY, NICHOLAS D.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 103 words


DEMISAY--Nicholas D.,(Owner, operator and Administrator of Clove Lakes Health
Care and Rehabilitation Center) of Staten Island, NY on May 10, 2015. Beloved
husband of Helene. Loving Father of Michael, Peter and Bernadette Demisay. Dear
father-in-law of Carmela and Michelle Renee Demisay. Cherished grandfather of
Michelle) Danielle and Nicole Demisay. Reposing at Harmon Funeral Home, 571
Forest Avenue, Staten Island, New York 10310, Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9pm. Mass of
Christian burial Wednesday 1:00pm at Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mary R.C. Church
(South Hampton, NY). Interment Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mary Cemetery. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths BARKIN, LEONARD, M.D. LEONARD BARKIN, M.D.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 288 words


BARKIN--Leonard, M.D. Leonard Barkin, M.D.,a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst in
New York City, died peacefully at home on May 9, 2015, a week before his 85th
birthday. Len is survived by his spouse, Jacqueline Dryfoos; his son, Edward
Barkin of New York, NY; his brother, Alan Barkin of Menlo Park, CA; his
stepchildren, Carolyn Greenspon of Newton, MA and Michael Greenspon of New York,
NY, and their spouses, Rick Gershberg, and Jennifer Gundlach, respectively, as
well as four grandchildren.

He was predeceased by his first wife, Anya Wajnberg Barkin. Len grew up in the
Bronx and went to Bronx Science High School. He went to New York University for
college and then onto SUNY Downstate College of Medicine, graduating in 1955. He
was a psychiatrist in the Air Force, stationed outside of Tokyo, Japan. He then
returned to New York and finished his training at Albert Einstein Medical Center
in the Bronx. His psychoanalytic training was at SUNY Downstate Medical Center
in Brooklyn. At the time of his death, Len was practicing psychiatry in New York
City, was a clinical professor at New York University and a Training Analyst at
the Institute for Psychoanalytic Education. Psychoanalyst, teacher, supervisor,
reader and author, Len had a mind that never stopped exploring. One of his most
rewarding experiences was creating an interdisciplinary seminar with the English
department at NYU. He was an avid reader of The New York Times, a devotee of
sports radio, loved the theatre, opera, classical music, art, travel and his
country pool. His presence in all our lives will be sorely missed. Donations in
his name can be made to the New York Botanical Gardens where he played as a
child and continued to enjoy as an adult. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); PSYCHOLOGY
(90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); CHILDREN (78%);
TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(74%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); MUSIC (69%); AIR FORCES (68%); RADIO FORMATS (64%);
STEPPARENTS (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO,
JAPAN (54%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ALEXANDER, ROBERT CHARLES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 310 words


ALEXANDER--Robert Charles, 72, died quietly at home after a short bout with
pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his devoted wife of 45 years, Margo, two
loving sons, Nichol and James, their wives, Sarah and Gabriela and two beloved
grandchildren, Madeline and Charles. Bob was born July 7, 1942, in Norman,
Oklahoma to Paul and Ruth Alexander and is survived by his brother John (and
family) of Austin, Texas and his sister, Margaret Ann (and family) of Newton
Upper Falls, Massachusetts.

He leaves behind nieces, nephews, and other young friends and relatives who
always found Bob to be interested in them, their projects and dreams. Bob
graduated in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University in 1965, served in
Guatmala with the Peace Corps and graduated from Harvard Business School with
the highest honors. Possessing an excellent memory he was as likely to quote
Shakespeare as Bob Dylan. An energetic, stubbornly dedicated worker, Bob pursued
key businesses in the ever- changing media and entertainment industries. He
co-founded Streetwise Records, a pioneer in the rap world that has subsequently
become a cult label. His latest project IndiePix, is an independent film
distributor focused on inspiring audiences and talented, passionate film makers.
Bob is remembered by friends and family as a kind, curious and friendly man,
with a broad smile and an optimistic outlook. He brought us endless fascinating
conversations on endless topics, lots of laughter and great love. Our family is
grateful to our loving circle of friends who have supported us through this
painful ten weeks. The funeral is scheduled for Thursday, May 14 at 4pm at The
Church of Heavenly Rest, 2 East 90th Street with a reception to follow. All are
welcome to attend and celebrate Bob's life. In lieu of flowers, please
contribute to The New York Stem Cell Foundation. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); CANCER (73%);
BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW
YORK, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ALEXANDER, ROBERT CHARLES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 55 words


ALEXANDER--Robert Charles. Bob, we will remember you always floating on the
Princess Zeynep without a care in the world. Handsome, spiffy, deeply good -
that smile and those stories! We will miss you dearly. Our love and sympathy to
Margo, Nichol, James, Sarah, Gabriela, Madeline and Charles. Jill, Ken, Zach,
Meredith, and Kiva 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ALEXANDER, ROBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 40 words


ALEXANDER--Robert. The staff and associates of Indiepix deeply mourn the death
of their visionary founder Bob Alexander. His integrity, imagination and
optimism will continue to inspire and enlighten us all. Barnet L. Liberman,
Chairman 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROOS, WILLIAM JOSEPH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 43 words


ROOS--William Joseph, of Honesdale, PA. Died May 9 at age 94. Retired President
of Katz Bros. Department Store. Husband of 64 years of Paula Sparrow Roos.
Father of Liza, Sigmund and Joel. Memorial Services Friday at 2 at Congregation
Beth Israel, Honesdale.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RITCH, MARY BRIDGET

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 54 words


RITCH--Mary Bridget, nee Earhart, January 27, 1933 died May 6, 2015. By her side
was Doris Powe, her domestic partner of 43 years. Mary Ritch was a longtime
resident of Village East Towers in LOISADA. She leaves to remember her John Jay
Ritch of Harrison, New York, Dana Bryant of Brooklyn, New York and friends in
many places.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
