
                               1 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rubio Measure Delivers a Blow to Health Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words


WASHINGTON -- A little-noticed health care provision slipped into a giant
spending law last year has tangled up the Obama administration, sent tremors
through health insurance markets and rattled confidence in the durability of
President Obama's signature health law.

The attack stems from two years of effort by Senator Marco Rubio and others in
Congress to undermine a key financing mechanism in the law. So for all the
Republican talk about dismantling the Affordable Care Act, one Republican
presidential hopeful has actually done something toward achieving that goal.

Mr. Rubio's efforts against the so-called risk corridor provision of the health
law have hardly risen to the forefront of the race for the Republican
presidential nomination, but his plan limiting how much the government can spend
to protect insurance companies against financial losses has shown the
effectiveness of quiet legislative sabotage.

The risk corridors were intended to help some insurance companies if they ended
up with too many new sick people on their rolls and too little cash from
premiums to cover their medical bills in the first three years under the health
law. But because of Mr. Rubio's efforts, the administration says it will pay
only 13 percent of what insurance companies were expecting to receive this year.
The payments were supposed to help insurers cope with the risks they assumed
when they decided to participate in the law's new insurance marketplaces.

Mr. Rubio's talking point is bumper-sticker ready. The payments, he says, are
''a taxpayer-funded bailout for insurance companies.'' But without them,
insurers say, many consumers will face higher premiums and may have to scramble
for other coverage. Already, some insurers have shut down over the unexpected
shortfall.

''Risk corridors have become a political football,'' said Dawn H. Bonder, the
president and chief executive of Health Republic of Oregon, an insurance co-op
that announced in October it would close its doors after learning that it would
receive only $995,000 of the $7.9 million it had expected from the government.
''We were stable, had a growing membership and could have been successful if we
had received those payments. We relied on the payments in pricing our plans, but
the government reneged on its promise. I am disgusted.''

Blue Cross and Blue Shield executives have warned the administration and
Congress that eliminating the federal payments could have a devastating impact
on insurance markets.

Twelve of the 23 nonprofit insurance cooperatives created under the law have
failed, disrupting coverage for more than 700,000 people, and co-op executives
like Ms. Bonder have angrily cited the sharp reduction in federal payments as a
factor in their demise.

But Mr. Rubio is pressing forward, demanding a provision in the final spending
bill now under negotiation that continues the current risk corridor
restrictions, or even eliminates the program altogether. That enormous spending
bill is being worked out as Congress slides toward a deadline of Friday, when
much of the federal government's funding runs out.

''If you want to be involved in the exchanges and you lose money, the American
taxpayer should not have to bail you out,'' Mr. Rubio said on the Senate floor
on Thursday.

A White House spokeswoman, Katie Hill, declined to offer the administration's
position on proposals that she said were still theoretical. ''We are not going
to weigh in on the possible inclusion of proposals floated by members of
Congress'' in potential legislation, she said.

Congress established the program in 2010 to protect insurers against the
uncertainties they faced in setting the level of insurance premiums when they
did not know who would sign up for coverage under the Affordable Care Act. Under
the law, the federal government shares risk with insurers, limiting their gains
and losses on insurance sold in the public marketplaces from 2014 through 2016.
If consumer payments to an insurer exceed the company's medical expenses by a
certain amount, the insurer pays some of that profit to the government. But if
premium payments fall short of medical expenditures by a certain amount, the
insurer is eligible for payments from the government.

The hope was that payments into the program would be in balance with payments
out, shielding taxpayers from responsibility.

Mr. Rubio latched on to the issue in late 2013, recognizing not only the
importance of risk corridors to the operation of the Affordable Care Act but
also the political potency of a program he labeled crony capitalism -- putting
taxpayers ''on the hook for Washington's mistakes,'' as he said when he
reintroduced his risk corridor bill in January.

The ''bailouts'' of big banks and other financial firms during the economic
crisis of 2008 and the rescue of the Big Three automakers that year and the next
remain politically unpopular.

Then the numbers rolled in from the insurance exchanges' first year of
operation: Losses were so steep that insurance-company requests for risk
corridor payments were $2.9 billion, compared with only $362 million paid into
the program by profitable plans.

Mr. Rubio says he ''saved taxpayers $2.5 billion'' -- the difference between
those two amounts -- because his measure prevented the government from using
other sources of money for the risk corridor payments.

The administration has repeatedly told insurers that it will explore other
funding sources to keep its commitment to companies losing money in the
exchanges, but Mr. Rubio effectively tied the hands of federal health officials
this year.

Like many other observers of the health law, the Obama administration initially
failed to appreciate the impact of the Rubio restrictions. Kevin J. Counihan,
the chief executive of the federal insurance marketplace, told state officials
in July that money collected from insurance companies would be ''sufficient to
pay for all risk corridor payments.'' More recently, the administration consoled
insurers by telling them that it would make additional risk corridor payments
from money collected in 2015 and 2016.

But in a new report, the credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's says that money
will not be there.

Mr. Rubio says Mr. Obama compounded his problems by diverting risk corridor
funds to quell a 2013 furor over canceled insurance policies. That year, the
president announced that states could let insurers renew canceled plans and
continue coverage for several years even if those policies did not meet the
requirements of the federal health law.

Insurers were shocked by the sudden change. They had set 2014 premiums on the
assumption that healthy people with old insurance policies would move into the
new marketplace, but Mr. Obama allowed many of them to stay out. In a letter to
state insurance commissioners in November 2013, the administration said ''the
risk corridor program should help ameliorate unanticipated changes in premium
revenue.''

Five days later, Mr. Rubio introduced his bill to kill the risk corridor
program.

Insurers now are lobbying to get more of the money they say they were promised,
or to get relief in some other form.

Mr. Rubio has highlighted the role of Marilyn B. Tavenner, the former Obama
administration official in charge of rolling out HealthCare.gov who is now
president of the trade group America's Health Insurance Plans.

''The former Obama administration official who led the rollout of Obamacare's
exchanges and now runs the health insurance lobby is working with her White
House allies to secure a new bailout by providing more funding for the law's
risk corridor program,'' Mr. Rubio said last week.

Clare Krusing, a spokeswoman for the insurance group, said the federal payments
were not a bailout for the industry, but a way of stabilizing the market and
thus protecting consumers. ''When health plans cannot rely on the government to
meet its obligations,'' she said, ''individuals and families are harmed.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/marco-rubio-obamacare-affordable-c
are-act.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Marco Rubio attached a provision limiting how much the
government can spend to protect insurance companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN
WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE
LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2008 (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
(78%); HEALTH INSURANCE MARKETPLACE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%);
PRICES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(77%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%);
EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6324
HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haute House

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2305 words


Inside the rain-battered tents of last week's Art Basel Miami Beach art and
design fairs, there were bears made from feathers, a painting made from shoes
and shoelaces, and a stabbing incident involving an X-Acto knife that was not a
performance piece. Among these and other, expected curiosities were two
architectural prototypes: an aluminum and steel dining pavilion designed by Zaha
Hadid with Patrik Schumacher, which sprouted like a kind of Martian flower over
a molded timber table and chairs, and a 350-square-foot white box sheathed in
laminated plywood designed by Gluckman Tang as an art pavilion. (It would
certainly make an appropriate container to house one's art fair purchases once
home.)

The structures and other ''bespoke, architectural collectibles,'' as their
developer, Robbie Antonio, called the designs, were for sale through a new
company called Revolution Precrafted Properties that aims to deliver limited
editions of small houses and pavilions designed by big names within a few months
of an order.

Daniel Libeskind, Marcel Wanders, Tom Dixon and others have offered up designs,
including Marmol Radziner, the California-based modernist architectural firm
that has built houses for Tom Ford and members of the Red Hot Chili Peppers.

Mr. Antonio's project takes the promise of prefab -- well-designed,
mass-produced housing that is economical because of its scale -- and turns it on
its head, which is either visionary or confounding, depending on your point of
view. (Cannily, he's described his wares not as ''prefabricated'' but
''precrafted,'' a word that conjures up an artisanal product like a handmade
whiskey.)

It's a collision, too, of other, contradictory themes: the appetites of global
wealthy collectors to amass name-brand luxury products, like limited-edition
furniture, contemporary art and now, perhaps, branded architecture, as well as
the tiny house movement, which is all about living simply and new materials that
address sustainability issues.

Pavilions will cost from $35,000 to more than $450,000; houses, $250,000 to over
$450,000, a price that includes systems like HVAC, kitchens and bathrooms but
not delivery charges. The only instructions Mr. Antonio gave his designers was
to make a structure from 50 to 250 square meters (about 540 to 2,700 square
feet) with components that could fit in a shipping container.

It wasn't just architects he reached out to. (Mr. Antonio said he had signed up
close to 40 designers, including some fashion designers.) David Salle, the
artist, teamed up with Aldo Andreoli, a principal of the Williamsburg
architectural firm AA Studio, to design a series of 12-by-24-foot modules with
tilted roofs for solar panels, a rainwater collection system and metal wall
panels etched with work by Mr. Salle.

Kenny Scharf also received a call. ''But I couldn't get any details or clear
answers about the project, so I just gave up,'' he said. ''It was too vague. He
told me he wanted to pair me up with an architect and gave me a whole list and I
said, 'Sure, I'd love to work with Zaha Hadid, but I'd need a contract defining
how you go forward and what it would entail.'''

Mr. Salle said he agreed to produce a prototype for Revolution to manufacture
that Mr. Salle would then construct on a building site in Marfa, Tex. ''We can
figure out the business stuff later,'' Mr. Salle said. (Mr. Antonio declined to
define the terms of his arrangements with the designers.)

''Our response to the project being so vague was to design to that limitation,''
said Tom Dixon, the British industrial designer, whose 120-square-foot modules
would be constructed of extruded aluminum frames that fit together like Lincoln
Logs, with panels of various materials.

The idea, Mr. Dixon said, is that they could be built by anyone in any location.
''Having seen a few of the other designs,'' he added, ''their ability to be
built in different locations with different skill sets is limited, whereas mine
can be built anywhere by anyone. I think we'll offer three or four different
paneling systems, depending on how hot, cold, windy the site is. Even the frame
could be infilled with local building materials, like bricks in London. I don't
know what I could stick in Miami, candy floss?''

The difficulty with the flat-pack model is it doesn't cross borders very well,
Mr. Dixon said. ''People have different plugs and building codes, which restrict
the use of a universal system for these things,'' he said. ''It would be
impossible from London to specify a system that works for everybody. So mine is
just a frame. I'd be delighted to furnish one or two, but essentially it's a
blank canvas.''

The sum of Revolution's designs are so idiosyncratic, and so wildly different
from one another, the mind boggles a bit imagining their production. (Mr.
Antonio said that he ''intends the business to be disruptive in its
technologies,'' and that the components would be produced by factories in Asia,
Europe and the United States.)

Mr. Libeskind created an amoeba-like pavilion he hopes will made of some sort of
composite material by a 3-D printer. SelgasCano, the Spanish architectural firm,
offered a nifty-looking glass and metal tube shaped like a Quonset hut with
wings and feet. Ron Arad's tea pavilion is also a lovely winged object, sort of
like the Sydney Opera House, made from polymer-coated timber. Ms. Hadid's is a
kind of interstellar blossom.

Revolution Precrafted Properties joins a slim number of design-forward prefab
companies in the United States. This year, Christopher Burch, a co-founder of
Tory Burch, and Ed Mahoney, a custom home builder, began selling glassy,
modernist miniatures up to 480 square feet made in factories in New Jersey and
Shanghai for under $300,000 (their five-year-old company is called Cocoon9).

For eight years or so, Lindal, a 71-year-old kit house company in the Pacific
Northwest, has offered an ''Architects Collaborative Collection,'' including
five designs by Marmol Radziner, for about $200 a square foot (modernist kits
now make up 55 percent of Lindal's sales, or about 150 houses a year, according
to Michael Harris, the architect of the company's modern program).

Since 2005, Dwell magazine, in collaboration with Turkel Design, has been making
its own branded prefab houses that start at $250 a square foot, selling about 25
a year.

Mr. Antonio, a 38-year-old Filipino with a taste for contemporary art, luxury
brands and big-ticket architecture, would seemingly have the relationships and
the resources to produce architecture at any scale.

In his country, he's created entire neighborhoods, in collaboration with Paris
Hilton, Donald J. Trump, Philippe Starck and fashion houses like Missoni and
Versace, building an armada of glass and steel ''hyper-luxury'' projects, as he
puts it, the most ambitious of which is the 60-story Century Spire, a
Libeskind-designed, faceted tower (with interiors by Casa Armani) that will
erupt into three knuckles at its crown when it's finished in 2018. He has also,
he said, invested in shelter housing designed by Shigeru Ban.

''I am obsessed,'' Mr. Antonio said, ''with architecture and design.''
Self-taught in this arena (he has an undergraduate degree in economics from
Northwestern and an M.B.A. from Stanford), Mr. Antonio will tell you proudly
that he has never used an art adviser.

When he's at home in Manila, Mr. Antonio lives in a hulking, 25,000-square-foot
black concrete structure he calls ''Stealth.'' Designed by Rem Koolhaas, the
provocateur architect and urbanist, it includes a public gallery hung with,
among other installations, a collection of portraits of Mr. Antonio by artists
like Mr. Salle, Mr. Scharf, Takashi Murakami, Julian Schnabel and Damien Hirst
(Mr. Hirst rendered the developer as spin art) in a project Mr. Antonio called
''Obsession'' and Vanity Fair named ''The Museum of Me,'' a headline that still
irks, he said recently.

When Mr. Libeskind visited Mr. Antonio there, he declared ''Stealth'' was more
''Robbie than Rem,'' as Mr. Antonio recalled. ''Robbie is very edgy,'' Mr.
Libeskind said. ''He's creative and he's got a vision and he's not somebody who
just sits back and counts the money. He's not wanting the same stuff over and
over.''

There are two dreams embedded in the promise of prefab, said Karrie Jacobs,
founding editor of Dwell magazine, which arguably brought the words design and
prefab back into the conversation in this country when it started in 2000.

''The first dream,'' Ms. Jacobs said, ''is the mass production of quality houses
for everyone, the Bauhaus dream.'' The other is to recast architecture ''from a
process that's more couture to ready-to-wear.''

''That's a lovely dream, and I don't fault him for that,'' she said, ''but it
looks like he's got a whole bunch of different kits. It doesn't look like any of
these designs have any overlap, and that's kind of complicated.''

From its first issue, Dwell encouraged architects to play with the form, with
varying degrees of success, because in the United States, producing
prefabricated, single-family homes economically is stymied by transportation
costs, and the entrenched habits (and union restrictions) of the construction
industry.

''The problem,'' Ms. Jacobs said, ''is that for prefab to be meaningful'' -- to
produce affordable good architecture -- ''it needs industrialists, not
architects. It needs capital money to build real factories. Architects limp
along, but for the most part, they can't make it happen, not for real.''

Allison Arieff, Ms. Jacobs's successor at Dwell and the co-author, with Bryan
Burkhart, of the 2002 book ''Prefab,'' suggested that Revolution's wares might
just as easily be made the old-fashioned way. ''That this project is prefab is a
cute way of getting to it, but it's not an essential way of getting to it,'' she
said. ''It's not saving any money, and it's not trying to disrupt anything. I'm
glad he's giving architects work, though.''

In other countries, well-designed prefabricated housing is a healthier story.
Ikea has been making house modules for years, and selling them in Finland,
Norway and Sweden. And in Japan, where the average life span of a house is 38
years, prefab is an intuitive choice for so-called disposable housing, which is
why Muji, the Japanese housewares company, has teamed up with designers like
Konstantin Grcic, Jasper Morrison and Naoto Fukasawa to create affordable kit
houses.

''Architectural jewelry'' is how Michael Haverland, the Manhattan-based
architect who has designed modernist structures for Calvin Klein and Mr. Salle,
among others, described Mr. Antonio's offerings. ''How much do you want to be
talking about the notion of prefab and how much do you want to talk about these
as art objects which happen to be made in a factory, which doesn't necessarily
mean prefab,'' he said. ''Anyone's custom kitchen done in a millwork shop is
prefab; so are your windows, whether they're made of steel, wood or vinyl. Is
prefab being used as a fashionable term or is it trying to develop and advance
the fundamental tenets of what prefab is supposed to be, which is affordable,
mass production, not couture dwelling?''

A little bit of both, Mr. Antonio would answer. He said that some prototypes may
end up in the master plans of large developments, in Asia and South America, and
that a foundation will be created to ''support homegrown C.S.R.'' -- corporate
social responsibility -- ''efforts and nonprofit third parties,'' according to
Revolution's website.

Nonetheless, it's a proposition that doesn't quite make sense to a few
observers. ''It isn't clear to me why the prototype would be a collectible that
might subsequently be improved in some way for wider distribution, a paradoxical
approach to the industrialization of architecture,'' said Barry Bergdoll, the
former chief curator of architecture at the Museum of Modern Art, where he
organized ''Home Delivery,'' the museum's 2008 exhibition on prefab housing.

''Either one is making a traditional building as a one-off, or one is developing
something'' that can be reproduced, Mr. Bergdoll, now the Meyer Schapiro
professor of art history and archaeology at Columbia, added. ''I can't follow
the logic of reproducing in a limited number other than to make something that
is minimal in size maximum in value, which seems more to belong to the world of
gems than the world of socially responsible architecture.''

Of course, sometimes the opposite is true, when that which is designed for
everyone becomes, through the passage of time, a precious object attainable only
by a few, like the furniture of Charles and Ray Eames, or, more poignantly, the
housing imagined by Jean Prouvé.

After World War II, Prouvé designed a series of tiny, portable houses that could
be mass-produced and quickly assembled to create temporary housing for Europe's
newly homeless population. At Art Basel Miami Beach two years ago, one of the
few that was actually made, his 8 by 8 ''Maison Demontable,'' sold for $2.3
million.

Mr. Haverland was reminded of the 14 outbuildings Philip Johnson planted around
his Glass House -- an eccentric architectural theme park. Johnson made buildings
for sleeping, reading, working, hanging out and contemplating art. There's a
Gehry-like gatehouse, a postmodern library, a glassy sculpture gallery and an
underground painting gallery. Johnson even made a kind of jungle gym, the
Lincoln Kirstein Tower, named for the co-founder of the New York City Ballet, an
elegant 30-foot white tower that the architect was fond of climbing.

At heart, Revolution Precrafted is mostly a collection (with a few exceptions)
of high-end follies, bits of architectural whimsy one could strew around one's
property. You can imagine how certain individuals would want to collect them
all.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/big-names-tiny-homes.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the developer Robbie Antonio, 38, of Revolution
Precrafted Properties. Top, Zaha Hadid's dining pavilion at Art Basel Miami
Beach. Right, a rendering from David Salle and AA Studio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IKE
EDEANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RYAN STONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D16)
Top, aluminum modules by Tom Dixon. Above, a tea pavilion by Ron Arad. Above,
right, Richard Gluckman and Dana Tang in the art pavilion they created at Art
Basel Miami Beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM DIXON
RON ARAD
 RYAN STONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D17) DRAWING: The sphere greenhouse
pavilion from the architect Sou Fujimoto is a collectible sold by Revolution
Precrafted Properties. (DRAWING BY FUJIMOTO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); COLLECTORS &
COLLECTING (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART
COLLECTING (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); ANTIQUES &
COLLECTIBLES (76%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%);
NEW BUSINESSES (68%); HVAC SYSTEMS (68%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (73%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Collector of Prints Tries a New Form

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1007 words


MIAMI BEACH -- One thing Solange Knowles has learned in her brief time in the
spotlight is to deflect assumptions about exactly who she is.

At a party at the Nautilus hotel on the beach Friday night, Ms. Knowles
unexpectedly ditched her signature mix of violently colorful African prints for
a black silk jumpsuit garnished with an outsize bow, its outlines otherwise as
streamlined as a submarine.

It was a departure, she knew. ''One of the most incredible things about being a
woman is being able to express yourself through clothing,'' said Ms. Knowles,
who at 29 has sealed her status as a indie tastemaker with music videos like
''Losing You,'' shot in Cape Town, in which she sang as she swanned about in an
ever-changing wardrobe of raucously mismatched designs.

At the party, though, she was willing to forgo her cultural Cuisinart approach
to dress. ''Sometimes,'' she said, ''you just want to tone it down.''

She stood out just the same, even in an extravagantly eclectic crowd that
included her hosts, Russell Simmons and Rosario Dawson; the lifestyle bloggers
Cipriana and Takenya Quann (the Urban Bush Babes), their towering hairstyles
making statements of their own; and the singer and songwriter Miguel, an
aspiring art collector who had turned up at Art Basel, he said, to actually
scope out the art.

No sooner had Ms. Knowles made her entrance than she was caught in a crush of
microphone-wielding reporters and assorted revelers hoisting cellphones to grab
a shot of her embracing Mr. Simmons and swapping hugs and sisterly banter with
Ms. Dawson.

Most of the guests had waited uncomplaining to see her arrive -- never mind that
she blew in hours past her scheduled 8:45 p.m. wheels down.

Her unapologetic tardiness seemed but the latest assertion of her status as a
performer poised, if not to eclipse the megawattage of her superstar sister,
Beyoncé, then to shine as a pop-culture bellwether in a light of her own.

Extricating herself briefly from the hectic scene, Ms. Knowles dropped onto a
banquette to cool down with a baby pink peach tea Collins. She struggled a bit
to make herself heard above the din of R&B, electronica and hip-hop being spun
by the D.J. Kitty Cash but was otherwise in her element.

The party, given by Bombay Sapphire and Mr. Simmons's Rush Philanthropic Arts
Foundation, was, after all, a celebration of a handful of prizewinning
multicultural artists. Ms. Knowles was keen, having lately acquired a few
artworks of her own.

''The very first piece I actually wanted, I saw on Tumblr,'' she recalled. The
artist was the Nigerian-born Toyin Odutola, whose works often examine
sociopolitical notions of skin color. Love-struck, Ms. Knowles was determined to
acquire one of her pieces.

''I knew nothing about the world of collecting and galleries, so I did a Google
search,'' she said.

Eventually, she tracked Ms. Odutola to the Jack Shainman gallery in Manhattan.
''But her work was sold out before she even had her show,'' Ms. Knowles said.
She added ruefully: ''I know the word 'commission.' I know what it means -- but
I don't really know what it means. I thought I was out of my league.''

It took Ms. Knowles a year, but she finally did get her hands on one of the
artist's canvases. Her mother, Tina Knowles, would no doubt be pleased. ''It was
one of those things that my mom would tell me all the time,'' Ms. Knowles said,
''that I shouldn't have any designer bags until I have art.''

Now she has both.

And revels in that fact. ''There was a time in my life when I was really
relating to more of the cultural significance of wearing prints,'' Ms. Knowles
said, referring mostly to her teenage years, when she first became steeped in
fashion exoticism.

''It was a hot mess,'' she has said of that period, her influences at the time a
potpourri of riotous prints, Harajuku street style (the legacy of a trip to
Tokyo) and reggae.

She has since mixed things up, tempering and refining her style. She was turned
out during New York Fashion Week last fall in looks varying from a
white-on-white Phillip Lim trouser suit to the hot orange Prabal Gurung coat and
dress she wore to that designer's show to the demi sheer emerald green Carolina
Herrera gown she wore to a party at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.

On moving a couple of years ago to New Orleans, where she lives with her
husband, Alan Ferguson, a music video producer, and Julez, her 11-year-old son
by a previous marriage, she felt compelled to rein in her exuberance.

''In my style, I went completely opposite,'' she recalled. ''Prints draw a lot
of attention, and I wanted to blend in with the city.''

She is more often intent, though, on making a statement. ''Fashion is
political,'' she said, her words coming out in a rush. ''Even in my connection
to prints, I've been making a political statement.''

By no means has she sworn off her trademark corona of natural hair and the
African-inflected look that prompted the editors of Fashizblack, a style
magazine, to enthuse, ''She is daring, she's bold and she's one of a kind,''
adding: ''She's a muse. Our muse.''

Ms. Knowles embraces the role. ''I'm incredibly humbled when women say I'm an
influence,'' said the star whose fashion and music inspirations have included
Missy Elliott, Erykah Badu and Björk.

Ms. Knowles is just as impressed by the women of Brooklyn, where she lives a
part of each year. ''They are everyday women you see walk down any street,'' she
said. ''So many of them have been just killing it. They're style icons for me.''

''So many times in society black women try and blend in,'' she added. By
contrast, she is determined, at least some of the time, to flag her difference.

''I've always tried to find a way to feel closer to my natural self, to express
my overall blackness,'' she said, all conviction. ''The moment I wear what I
wear, you can see me.

''There is no way to avoid seeing me.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/solange-knowles-art-basel-miami-beach.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a party in Miami Beach, Solange Knowles replaced her usual
colorful African prints with a black silk jumpsuit adorned with an outsize bow.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BEACHES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); ART
COLLECTING (77%); MUSIC (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); RAP MUSIC (74%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); JAZZ &
BLUES (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (70%); SONG WRITING
(69%); CHARITIES (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (79%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (58%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yahoo Balks at Battle With Taxman by Spinning Off Core Business

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  Even after the Internal Revenue Service refused in September
to grant its blessing to Yahoo's proposed tax-free spinoff of its $32 billion
stake in the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, Marissa Mayer was determined to
go forward with the deal. In late October, Ms. Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive,
told shareholders that the plan was on track, and the preparations were still
continuing last month.

Yet last week, when Yahoo's board met to review the planned January spinoff, it
decided to call off the deal. On Wednesday, the board announced that Yahoo would
pursue a spinoff of its core Internet business instead, leaving the Alibaba
stock in the old company.

Although Yahoo's board said it still believed that the company would prevail in
any tax dispute, too many people on Wall Street were worried that challenging
Uncle Sam over a possible $10 billion tax bill was just too big a risk, and
those fears were depressing Yahoo's stock price.

''It was clear that it was causing a certain amount of market uncertainty,'' Ms.
Mayer said on Wednesday in a joint interview with the board chairman, Maynard
Webb. ''Audits and challenges can be raised over five to seven years.''

Mr. Webb said that after a day and a half of meetings, the nine-member board
concluded that it could minimize the tax bill and achieve the same goal --
separating the Alibaba investment from the rest of Yahoo -- by reversing the
direction of the transaction.

''We have been through God knows how many meetings and discussions on this all
the way through the process,'' he said. ''We are convinced as a board that we
are very undervalued today, and that the best way to unlock value is to separate
out the Alibaba proceeds from the operating business and focus on the continued
turnaround in the operating business.''

The new Yahoo will be two companies: One will have a 15 percent stake in
Alibaba, and the other will have everything else, including search, email, the
Tumblr social media service, various sites like Yahoo Finance, and Yahoo's $8.7
billion stake in Yahoo Japan.

Ms. Mayer said she was ''deeply committed'' to Yahoo and planned to stay and run
Yahoo's core businesses. ''I am committed to seeing it through,'' she said.

Mr. Webb said the board was ''solidly behind Marissa'' and her strategy.

Many details of the new spinoff plan remain to be worked out, including who will
run the Alibaba shell company and whether the new transaction will incur taxes.

The change in approach comes at a cost: It will add at least a year and a host
of complexities to what was already a difficult process.

Mr. Webb said the board determined that another alternative -- selling the
company -- was not the right choice.

''If someone came in today and made offers on what the core or operating
business is worth today, it would probably be a lowball offer,'' he said.

Some investors, notably the Starboard Value hedge fund, disagreed with the
board's belief that the company would have won a tax fight over the original
plan.

''The tax attorneys were telling them one thing, and the market was telling them
something else,'' said Ben Schachter, an analyst with Macquarie Securities.
''They decided to succumb to the shareholder pressure.''

Starboard declined to comment.

The new plan carries its own risks. Besides the additional delay, many of
Yahoo's contracts, including its agreements with bondholders and Yahoo Japan,
will have to be renegotiated before the deal can proceed.

Reflecting those risks, Yahoo stock closed at $34.40, down 1.3 percent, on
Wednesday.

Under the revised plan, Yahoo shareholders would still end up with stock in two
companies.

''We are accomplishing the exact same thing in a reverse form,'' Yahoo's chief
financial officer, Ken Goldman, said during a conference call with analysts.

Mark May, an Internet analyst with Citigroup, estimated the fair market value of
Yahoo's stock under the new plan at $40 a share, compared with $32 if Yahoo had
proceeded with the original strategy.

But he downgraded the stock on Wednesday, noting that there was little upside
for investors, given the risks.

That stark difference in Wall Street's view of the alternatives helped drive the
board's decision.

Separately, Yahoo said that one of its directors, Max Levchin, had resigned to
focus on his duties as chief executive of Affirm, an online lending company. The
board has no plans to replace him and will shrink to eight members.

The change in Yahoo's strategy is the latest effort by Ms. Mayer to assuage
shareholders.

Ms. Mayer, who was hired in 2012 to turn around Yahoo, had planned to spin off
the company's 15 percent stake in Alibaba, bundled with a
small-business-services unit, into a new company called Aabaco. She then planned
to focus on improving the company's core business, the sale of advertising that
is shown to the roughly one billion users of Yahoo's apps and websites.

Ms. Mayer is now effectively back to square one. Yahoo's core Internet
operations are struggling, even though Ms. Mayer has made dozens of
acquisitions, added original video and magazine-style content, and released new
apps.

The shares in Alibaba remain Yahoo's most lucrative asset, with the company's
stake in Yahoo Japan a distant second. The rest of Yahoo is worth $3 billion to
$8 billion, according to analysts' estimates.

Much of the back-and-forth over Yahoo's strategy has had to do with taxes. Yahoo
shareholders want to reap the gains that the company has made from its Alibaba
stock, which it bought a decade ago for a relative pittance. A spinoff of
Alibaba shares into a separate entity would have helped mitigate the capital
gains tax bill, but the move became less appealing after the I.R.S. said it
might crack down on such transactions.

Starboard Value had been agitating for a sale of Yahoo's core business instead,
and it sent a letter to the company last month in which it laid out its reasons.
In essence, Starboard said that while selling the core business would probably
incur some capital gains taxes, those taxes would be lower and more certain than
the $10 billion tax bill that could be due from the Alibaba spinoff if the
I.R.S. successfully challenged the structure of the deal.

Yahoo's shift in strategy comes as Ms. Mayer and her husband, Zachary Bogue, are
expecting the birth of twin daughters this month. She has said she plans to take
a ''limited time away'' for maternity leave and will be ''working throughout.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/technology/yahoo-alibaba-spinoff.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief, and Marc Benioff, center, head of
Salesforce, on a panel last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIJAH NOUVELAGE/REUTERS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); INCOME
TAX (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
(77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (62%);
EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (92%); YAHOO JAPAN CORP
(52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); BABA (NYSE) (92%); 4689 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%);
NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (52%);
SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (90%); MARC BENIOFF (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Martin Shkreli Bought Sole Wu-Tang Clan Album, Report Says

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; NYTNow; Pg.

LENGTH: 479 words


A pharmaceutical executive who came under fire for increasing the price of an
antiparasitic drug by more than 5,000 percent is the mystery buyer of the only
known copy of the new Wu-Tang Clan album that was auctioned off for millions of
dollars, a report said on Wednesday.

Bloomberg Business quoted the executive, Martin Shkreli, the 32-year-old founder
of Turing Pharmaceuticals, as saying that the deal for the album, ''The Wu --
Once Upon a Time in Shaolin,'' was closed before the drug-pricing controversy
erupted. Mr. Shkreli drew public outrage for increasing the price of the drug
Daraprim to $750 from $13.50 per pill.

''I was a little worried that they were going to walk out of the deal,'' Mr.
Shkreli was quoted by Bloomberg Business about the album purchase. ''But by then
we'd closed. The whole kind of thing since then has been just kind of 'Well, do
we want to announce it's him? Do we not want to announce it's him?' ''

The article reported that ''someone familiar with the deal'' said the Wu-Tang
Clan sold him the album for $2 million.

Furor erupted in September after Mr. Shkreli's company acquired the rights to
Daraprim and raised its price overnight.

He drew the wrath of consumers, became a talking point in the presidential
campaign, and spurred federal and state inquiries along with a dialogue about
controlling rising drug prices. The pill's increase is likely to take a
pummeling at a Senate committee hearing into skyrocketing drug prices on
Wednesday.

Wu-Tang Clan announced in 2014 that it would press just one copy of the 31-track
double album the band had worked on quietly for six years and make it available
for purchase to only one person. Last month, the online auction house, Paddle8,
announced that it had sold the album for millions. It did not name the buyer.

''The ultimate buyer is a private American collector,'' Paddle8 said then. ''The
buyer and seller agreed to the sale in May, and spent months finalizing
contracts and devising new legal protections for a distinctive work whose value
depends on its singularity.''

The Bloomberg Business article quoted an emailed statement by the album's
producer as saying: ''The sale of Once Upon a Time in Shaolin was agreed upon in
May, well before Martin Skhreli's [sic] business practices came to light. We
decided to give a significant portion of the proceeds to charity.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Shkreli retweeted the Bloomberg Business article and posted a
live-stream of himself at his desk while listening to music and talking about
work, with a suggestion that he might play the album.

If there is a curious gap in your favorite artist's discography, well, now you
know why. -- Martin Shkreli (@MartinShkreli) December 9, 2015

Live streaming. Talking music, drugs and stuff. May play something special.
https://t.co/Ez8X7Bon7v -- Martin Shkreli (@MartinShkreli) December 9, 2015




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/martin-shkreli-wu-tang-clan-alb
um.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUCTIONS
(89%); PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS
INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: MARTIN SHKRELI (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walmart Prepares to Enter Mobile Payments Business

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words


Walmart is jumping into the crowded mobile payments business with a service
called Walmart Pay, the retailer's bid to gain the upper hand from the tech
giants Apple, Samsung and Google in the next generation of consumer convenience.

The company said it would start accepting Walmart Pay, which will be integrated
into its existing smartphone app, this month at stores in its home market around
Bentonville, Ark. A rollout at its 4,600 stores nationwide is to follow early
next year.

''Soon, customers can leave only with their keys and smartphone to shop at their
local Walmart,'' said Neil Ashe, Walmart's e-commerce chief. ''It's fast, easy
and secure.''

Based on QR code technology, Walmart's new payment system is meant to allow for
a smoother trek through checkout lines, and to bridge the retailer's e-commerce
and in-store shopping experience.

Walmart Pay also presents a fresh challenge to front-runners in mobile payments,
none of which have gained overwhelming traction with users so far. One obstacle
has been the slow growth in the number of merchants that support near-field
communication technology, or N.F.C., on which systems like Apple Pay and
Google's Android Pay are based.

Both Apple and Google have found that persuading shoppers to switch from using
physical credit cards or cash is tough. A survey released by the consumer data
firm InfoScout found Apple Pay use to be at its lowest rate since the firm
started tracking its usage. Shoppers used it this past Black Friday for only 2.7
percent of eligible transactions.

''When Apple released Apple Pay, the idea was that we're now moving forward with
N.F.C., and that's the way all mobile payments will be transacted,'' said James
Wester, a global payments expert at IDC Financial Insights.

''But now, we're beginning to see that no, that's probably not the way it's
going to develop, and it's not something we're just going to give over to Apple
or Google,'' Mr. Wester said. ''Nobody's won yet. There's just been no
overwhelming support for anybody. So at this point, it's still anybody's game.''

Walmart Pay comes after years of efforts by the retailer to create a mobile
payment system for its stores, which do not accept existing options like Apple
Pay or Samsung Pay.

Walmart has been a primary member of the Merchant Customer Exchange, or M.C.X.,
a consortium of retailers that vowed to develop a payment system that would
compete with credit cards and reduce the fees retailers pay to card companies.

But those efforts, begun in 2012, have been overtaken by Apple and others that
have teamed up with the credit card companies to get a jump-start on mobile
payment. In the meantime, M.C.X.'s payment app, CurrentC, remains in the testing
phase.

Walmart's new payment system will be a further blow to MCX, which also involves
Target, CVS and 7-Eleven. Mr. Ashe said Walmart remained committed to the
project but declined to give any updates on when CurrentC might become widely
available.

And in a change of strategy for Walmart, its new payment app does not seek to
bypass credit card companies. Walmart Pay instead acts more like a gateway to a
variety of payment options, including credit cards and even other mobile payment
systems. Analysts said that Walmart's decision to start a service that allowed
for credit card payments meant that it had probably negotiated better fees with
the card companies. (Walmart declined to disclose the transaction fees it pays.)

Daniel Eckert, senior vice president for services at Walmart U.S., said Walmart
Pay's compatibility was its strength. Apple Pay, in comparison, works only on
the iPhone 6 and models issued afterward, while Samsung Pay works only on the
Samsung Galaxy S6 smartphone.

''When you look at these things, the customer has constraints put upon them, and
that creates frictions and seams in the shopping experience,'' Mr. Eckert said.
''But Walmart Pay works with any smartphone and almost any payment type.''

To use Walmart Pay, shoppers will first need to download the Walmart app and
register one payment method -- a credit card, for example, or a Walmart gift
card. The 22 million active users of Walmart's app can simply start using
Walmart Pay without re-entering their payment details, the retailer said.

At the cash register, Mr. Eckert said, shoppers open the Walmart app on their
smartphones and activate the camera function from within the app. With the
camera, they scan a QR code displayed at the register, which connects their
phones to the baskets they are about to check out.

''And once that happens, literally, the customer is done,'' he said. ''They can
put their phone away. Once the transaction's complete, we total up the register,
and the customer can leave.''

Walmart Pay's success, said Mr. Wester, the IDC global payments expert, will
hinge on whether shoppers find the new system worth their while to activate for
every purchase. To entice shoppers to pay digitally, Walmart is linking the
payment service with the its app's other functions, like its popular price
comparison tool.

There are also concerns over security. QR code technology is relatively secure,
because Walmart Pay does not store payment information on shoppers' smartphones,
and that information is not transmitted at the cash register. But of course, the
retailer stores such data on its servers.

''How easy is it for a consumer to use something that is basically replacing a
credit card, which is still very easy to use?'' he said. ''The consumer
experience -- that's where these systems all live or die.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/walmart-prepares-to-enter-mobile-paym
ents-business.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers this past Black Friday at the checkout counters of a
Walmart store in Rogers, Ark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUNNAR RATHBUN/INVISION, VIA
WALMART) (B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE PAYMENTS (92%); RETAILERS (91%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%);
CREDIT CARDS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); NEAR FIELD
COMMUNICATIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); APPLE INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT
DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT &
SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE
MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%);
SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572
COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS519130
INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

President's Party in Venezuela Is Riven by Conflict After Rout

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Patricia Torres contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1220 words


CARACAS, Venezuela --  There they were, two of the gray-haired confidants of
Hugo Chávez, Venezuela's late leftist leader, voicing their indignation at the
government bumbling that led to Sunday's stinging electoral defeat of his United
Socialist Party.

''We are facing a disaster,'' said Héctor Navarro, a former cabinet minister.
''This is not the time to act like an ostrich.''

But in the middle of the news conference on Wednesday, with dozens of
journalists jammed into a dingy meeting room in a downtown hotel, a shrill siren
wailed and in burst a band of agitators, some in the red shirts of Mr. Chávez's
die-hard supporters.

''You are traitors to the revolution!'' shouted one man.

''Rats! You are sewer rats!'' shrilled another.

And they began to chant the name of President Nicolás Maduro.

Handed its biggest setback at the ballot box in 17 years -- with the opposition
winning control of the National Assembly for the first time, and by a wide
margin -- Chavismo, the movement founded by Mr. Chávez, has turned inward to
attack its own.

''This type of defeat creates a lot of internal tensions,'' said Margarita López
Maya, a historian. ''Chavismo does not have much capacity to process this type
of conflict. It's not used to that. It doesn't have a real democratic character
or disposition for debate or tolerating dissidents.''

In his last televised speech to the nation in December 2012, Mr. Chávez called
on his followers to preserve the movement's unity above all else.

Yet since his death the following March, after a long battle with cancer, the
top levels of government have increasingly been split among rival factions -- a
splintering that the election debacle seems likely to widen.

''Chávez was in charge,'' said Jorge Giordani, the late president's longtime
planning minister and economic guru, who spoke at the news conference with Mr.
Navarro. ''Now everyone is in charge. Because there is a crisis of power.''

He said that each faction inside the government was looking to defend its own
interests ''with their knives between their teeth.''

He warned that things would get worse after the election. ''There are even more
groups!'' he shouted. ''Because no one can stand it anymore!''

After the Maduro supporters burst in, Mr. Giordani walked down a back staircase,
through a kitchen and into a restaurant of the hotel where the news conference
took place. One man called for a broom to bar the restaurant's doors to protect
Mr. Giordani. Then he was shepherded out a back door and into the street where
he met up with Mr. Navarro. Both men, leftist icons in their time, were fired
from the government after Mr. Maduro was elected to replace Mr. Chávez.

They are among a small number of former officials who have openly criticized Mr.
Maduro's leadership -- and been ostracized for doing so. Mr. Navarro was kicked
out of the top ranks of the United Socialist Party for defending Mr. Giordani
after he had released a letter critical of the government.

On Tuesday, neither of them mentioned Mr. Maduro by name, although they
repeatedly appeared to allude to him in their criticism.

They accused the government of widespread corruption and nepotism, and Mr.
Navarro said that he and Mr. Giordani had repeatedly warned that Mr. Chávez's
movement was headed in the wrong direction.

But to hear Mr. Maduro talk, Chavismo's historic losses were not his fault.

The president was praised for going on television immediately after the initial
results were announced early Monday to accept his party's defeat -- the
opposition won a commanding two-thirds of the seats in the National Assembly.
But since then he has done virtually nothing to suggest that he accepts
responsibility for the loss or intends to work with the opposition-controlled
Assembly, which is to be sworn in Jan. 5.

His tone has turned ominous. In a speech outside the presidential palace on
Wednesday, Mr. Maduro cast the opposition victory as a victory for ''the fascist
right wing,'' with Mr. Chávez's leftist revolution on the other side. ''Either
we get out of this quagmire through the route of revolution or Venezuela will
enter into a great conflict that will affect all of Latin America and the
Caribbean,'' he said.

The night before, on his weekly television program, he outlined a series of
steps he would take to block the incoming legislature from pursuing its agenda.

He vowed to sign a decree barring the firing of public employees for the next
three years and said he would block the incoming lawmakers from freeing
political prisoners like Leopoldo López, a political party leader who was
sentenced to 13 years in prison for his role in antigovernment protests last
year.

The election hinged on the nation's disastrous economy, with triple-digit
inflation, a deep recession, shortages and long lines to buy food and other
basics.

But rather than acknowledge errors in government policy, Mr. Maduro has blamed
the defeat on what he has called an economic war waged against the government by
shadowy capitalist enemies. That is a continuation of the party's main message
during the campaign, which failed to persuade voters.

And he has continued the scare tactics used during the campaign, accusing the
opposition of planning to revoke a law protecting workers' rights and to
eliminate social programs -- which the incoming lawmakers have denied they
intend to do.

Rather than propose changes to economic policy, Mr. Maduro suggested on Tuesday
that the problem was that the party had not gotten its message across, and he
said he would print and distribute up to three million posters of Mr. Chávez to
cheer up his followers.

But there were more menacing signs as well.

''I ask anyone who is thinking of holding a press conference, think of the
morale of the people,'' Mr. Maduro said during his Tuesday program, apparently a
reference to the news conference called for the next day by Mr. Giordani and Mr.
Navarro. Then he stared and pointed into the camera and said: ''That's for you.
He knows who I'm taking about. Don't go dividing the people.''

He said he had doubts about whether to continue a housing program because some
of the people who had received government-built apartments were ''celebrating
and dancing over the opposition victory.''

There were other moments that seemed to reflect pure pique.

Appearing on Mr. Maduro's television program, Diosdado Cabello, the current head
of the National Assembly, said he would transfer the ownership of a television
station and a radio station operated by the Assembly to the employees who work
there. The move was meant to prevent the incoming lawmakers from taking over the
stations, which currently operate as blatant propaganda arms for the socialist
party and the Maduro government.

Mr. Maduro also announced that he had signed a decree to transfer to a
foundation ownership of the Caracas fort where Mr. Chávez's tomb is on display
and which has been converted into a shrine to the leader -- to keep the new
Assembly from trying to close it.

At one point during the program, Mr. Maduro, his vice president, the defense
minister and a group of uniformed military officers all stood around Mr.
Chávez's tomb with their hands resting palms down on its stone surface, in an
unsettling image that evoked a séance.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/americas/venezuelas-defeated-ruling-part
y-riven-by-conflict-and-scorn.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a rally Wednesday, President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela cast
his party's recent loss as a victory for ''the fascist right wing.'' (PHOTOGRAPH
BY FERNANDO LLANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS
(75%); HISTORY (65%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

CITY: CARACAS, VENEZUELA (73%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); VENEZUELA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

What to Watch Thursday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 474 words


We're still just kids at heart when Tom Hanks, Tim Allen and company celebrate
the 20th anniversary of ''Toy Story.'' Michael Bublé croons in the holidays in
Tinseltown. And Dolly Parton remembers her Tennessee childhood and a gift that
changed everything.

What's on TV

TOY STORY AT 20: TO INFINITY AND BEYOND 8 p.m. on ABC. You've got a friend in
us: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Annie Potts, John Ratzenberger, the songwriter Randy
Newman and the director John Lasseter celebrate the 20th anniversary of Pixar
Animation Studios' ''Toy Story.'' This heart-tugger -- about Woody, a cowboy
doll who grows jealous when Buzz Lightyear, a swaggering spaceman figure, takes
his place on the bed of their young owner -- follows at 9. In 1995, Janet
Maslin, writing in The New York Times, called it ''the sweetest and savviest
film of the year.'' (Image: Woody and Buzz Lightyear)

MICHAEL BUBLÉ'S CHRISTMAS IN HOLLYWOOD 8 p.m. on NBC. Celine Dion, Sharon Jones
and the Dap-Kings, and Tori Kelly help Mr. Bublé celebrate his favorite holiday
with renditions of ''Here Comes Santa Claus,'' ''Jingle Bells,'' ''White
Christmas,'' ''Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas'' and his new song, ''The
More You Give (The More You'll Have).'' Gigi Hadid, Kylie Jenner, Jay Leno, Eva
Longoria, William Shatner and Blake Shelton provide comic relief. (Image: Mr.
Bublé)

THE BIG BANG THEORY 8 p.m. on CBS. Sheldon has an earworm.

BONES 8 p.m. on Fox. Brennan and Booth go undercover at an Old West-style
shooting competition before investigating a police officer's murder that strikes
a little too close to home.

DAFT PUNK UNCHAINED 9 p.m. on Showtime. Kanye West, Pharrell Williams and Nile
Rodgers speculate on the covert career of Thomas Bangalter and Guy-Manuel de
Homem-Christo, the French musicians who make up this masked electronic duo.

DOLLY PARTON'S COAT OF MANY COLORS (2015) 9 p.m. on NBC. Ms. Parton harks back
to her roots in the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee, circa 1955, in this tale
about a raggedy patchwork coat that helped set her on the path toward success.
Alyvia Alyn Lind plays Ms. Parton at 9 years old, Jennifer Nettles is her
mother, Ricky Schroder her father and Gerald McRaney her grandfather. (Image:
Ms. Parton)

BILLY ON THE STREET 10:30 p.m. on TruTV. Will Ferrell ambushes New Yorkers with
Christmas presents and holiday cheer. Rachel Dratch takes on an obstacle course
called ''Leah Remini's Escape From Scientology.''

What's Streaming

THE FORBIDDEN ROOM (2015) on Fandor. Guy Maddin's phantasmagoria honors classic
cinema with whimsical vignettes about a doomed submarine crew, a lost woodsman,
skeleton women, vampire bananas and colliding blimps. ''Is 'The Forbidden Room'
an infantile Freudian joke?'' Stephen Holden asked in The Times about Mr.
Maddin's 11th feature. ''Yes, it's that and a lot more.'' (Image: a scene)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/television/what-to-watch-thursday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DISNEY/PIXAR
VIVIAN ZINK/NBC
 KINO LORBER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); SONG
WRITING (75%); ANIMATION (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); MUSIC (70%);
ANIMATED FILMS (70%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (69%); MURDER (67%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (64%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (50%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

COMPANY: ALLEN & CO INC (92%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%);
NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE &
VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%)

PERSON: DOLLY PARTON (92%); TOM HANKS (88%); WILL FERRELL (79%); EVA LONGORIA
(76%); PHARRELL WILLIAMS (72%); JOHN LASSETER (72%); JAY LENO (56%); CELINE DION
(55%); KANYE WEST (50%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Gilded Shine Wears Off

BYLINE: By HALA DROUBI, JULIE CRESWELL and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Hala Droubi
reported from Dubai and Julie Creswell and Nelson D. Schwartz from New York. Jad
Mouawad contributed reporting from New York, and Ceylan Yeginsu and Safak Timur
contributed reporting from Istanbul.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words


DUBAI, United Arab Emirates --  At Lifestyle, an inexpensive home furnishings
store tucked inside the Mall of the Emirates here, shoppers on Wednesday
examined lamps and picked up picture frames.

But they did not see any Trump Home mirrors or lotion dispensers.

Just hours after the Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump called
for a ban on the entry of Muslims into the United States, one of his Middle
Eastern business partners, the Dubai-based Landmark Group, responded by removing
all Trump-branded products from the shelves of its Lifestyle retail stores.

In the Middle East, as in other parts of the world, the foundation of Mr.
Trump's business is his name, a brand that for many there is synonymous with
American success and luxury. Regarding the Middle East as a critical avenue for
growth, the Trump Organization signed numerous deals in recent years to put the
Trump brand on upscale golf courses and residences in Dubai, hotel properties in
Turkey, and home furnishings, accessories and décor sold in stores across the
region.

But the value of the Trump name in the world's vast Muslim population has been
thrown into question since he made his comments.

''I now feel ashamed to live in a building associated with such a vile man,''
said Melek Toprak, 38, who lives with her sister at Trump Towers Istanbul, an
asymmetrical glass commercial and residential complex developed by the Turkish
billionaire Aydin Dogan that soars over the city's central business district.

''He insulted 1.8 billion Muslims worldwide, and he has business in the Arab
world,'' Khalaf al-Habtoor, another Middle Eastern billionaire, said in an
interview. ''He will lose because respectable Muslims will refuse to work with
him.''

Mr. Khalaf, the head of a conglomerate based in the United Arab Emirates, says
he regrets writing an article this summer in which he supported Mr. Trump, who
remains the Republican presidential front-runner in most polls.

Unbowed, Mr. Trump says he is not worried about the impact his comments may have
in terms of canceled visits to his golf courses and hotels, or lost business at
stores that sell Trump-branded merchandise.

Instead, Mr. Trump insists he has been told by his Muslim friends and Middle
Eastern business partners that they are grateful he has addressed a difficult
subject that other world leaders would just as soon avoid.

''I have so many friends who are Muslim, they are thankful that I've been able
to bring it up,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''It is a subject they say
everybody else is afraid to bring up.''

Mr. Trump said he envisioned barring Muslims from entering the United States
only as a temporary measure.

''This can go rapidly, and I expect it should,'' he said. ''We're really talking
about a limited period of time.''

Still, Mr. Trump said if he lost business because Muslim customers or others
were angry about his statements, he would be prepared to live with that. ''This
is much more important than any single thing,'' he said. ''This is far more
important than anything I'm doing.''

It is not the first time Mr. Trump's incendiary remarks in this election season
may have cost his business interests. Mr. Trump's anti-immigration stance cost
him millions, if not tens of millions, of dollars in lost licensing and other
deals.

Mr. Trump has been down this road before. This summer, the Professional Golfers
Association of America canceled its Grand Slam of Golf tournament at Trump
National Golf Club Los Angeles, following Mr. Trump's statement that Mexican
immigrants were bringing crime and drugs into the United States and committing
rape.

NBC labeled those comments derogatory and dropped him as host of ''The Celebrity
Apprentice'' in June while also canceling plans to broadcast the Miss USA
pageant, which at the time was part of a joint venture between Mr. Trump and the
network.

But with Mr. Trump showing more staying power politically than many experts had
anticipated and his popularity growing in parts of the electorate, some
businesses that once sought to distance themselves now fear losing out. Last
month, despite protests, Mr. Trump was invited to host the NBC program
''Saturday Night Live.''

One Middle Eastern business leader said on Wednesday that he did not think Mr.
Trump even believed what he was saying.

''Look, Donald is my friend, and we have been friends for a long time,'' said
Akbar al-Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways. ''I think it is an
exercise only to gain political mileage. Nothing more. This is the opportune
time to excite more extremist people so that they could give him their votes.''

So far, only one of Mr. Trump's business partners with roots in the Middle East,
the Landmark Group, has distanced itself from him.

One afternoon this week, a black-and-cream bedroom set and a sleek dining room
table from the Trump Home by Dorya collection were still on display alongside
upscale brands like Ralph Lauren and Versace in an Aati showroom in the Karama
area of Dubai.

The Trump Home galleries opened only a few months ago at the retailer, which is
operated by Al Tayer Group of Dubai.

One of Mr. Trump's biggest and most prominent relationships in the area is with
Damac Properties, which is building Akoya, a 42-million-square-foot development
that includes the Trump International Golf Club Dubai, luxury Trump Prvt
mansions and villas, and a Trump Spa & Wellness Center. Damac did not respond to
an email seeking comment about its relationship with Mr. Trump.

Just how far Mr. Trump's comments will reverberate among Muslims in the Middle
East and beyond is not yet clear.

On Wednesday, Guray Guraz, a 43-year-old Turkish teacher sitting at a restaurant
in Trump Towers Istanbul, weighed Mr. Trump's comments.

''I think he is an idiot, but it does not prevent me from coming here,'' he
said. ''I do not feel very happy that he gave his name to this building, and
when he made those remarks, I was expecting a protest in front of this building.
But either people are not aware of the situation or they do not care.''

Ultimately, Mr. Trump's stance could boomerang, not just overseas but in the
United States as well, critics said.

''The comments are very unfortunate because they have the potential to dampen
foreign trade,'' said Gordon Gray, executive vice president of the National-U.S.
Arab Chamber of Commerce. ''To adopt a posture that would hurt economic activity
is shortsighted, at best.''

Mr. Gray said he had not heard any other business leaders welcoming the idea of
a ban on Muslims entering the country, notwithstanding Mr. Trump's claims.

''The people with whom I've spoken are offended, and their concern is calibrated
to the degree they think Mr. Trump might be elected president,'' he said. ''I've
not yet met anyone who agrees with him. But it's possible that he's a
billionaire and people tell him what he wants to hear.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/donald-trump-loses-luster-when-words-
reach-the-middle-east.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman near Trump Towers Istanbul. ''I now feel ashamed to
live in a building associated with such a vile man,'' a resident of the complex
said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZAN KOSE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A billboard advertising the Trump International Golf Club Dubai, part of a
development that also features Trump-branded villas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARIM
SAHIB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS
(90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BRANDING (89%); RELIGION (89%); RETAILERS (78%);
SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY
(75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); AYDIN DOGAN (51%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%)

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (94%);
TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Venezuela, a Triumph for the Opposition

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 444 words


On Sunday, voters in Venezuela delivered a stinging rebuke to Nicolás Maduro and
his ruling party by electing a coalition of opposition lawmakers to Parliament
that is large enough to challenge his socialist policies and could conceivably
cut short his term in office.

The opposition's landslide victory underscored how strongly many Venezuelans
yearn for an alternative to Mr. Maduro's abysmal leadership. Opposition
politicians showed remarkable faith in the country's democratic process -- the
turnout was a remarkable 74 percent of eligible voters -- even as the government
jailed their leaders, kept others off the ballot, and sought to limit press
coverage of rival parties.

The outcome marked the first major political shift in Venezuela since 1999, when
the populist Hugo Chávez upended the country's power structure in what he billed
as a socialist revolution. Coming as it does after the election in Argentina of
Mauricio Macri, a dark-horse candidate who defeated a leftist opponent, the
Venezuelan election offered further proof of the diminishing appeal of leftist
leaders in Latin America.

Mr. Maduro has accepted the results, but has vowed to fight his opponents, whom
he disparaged as ''bad guys.'' The opposition exceeded expectations by securing
112 seats in the 167-seat body, a margin that in theory gives it considerable
oversight over the executive branch.

Even so, there are well-grounded fears among opposition leaders that Mr. Maduro
could take steps to weaken the authority of the legislative branch before the
new Parliament convenes in January. Like his predecessor, Mr. Chávez, Mr. Maduro
has packed the courts and virtually all other powerful institutions with
loyalists.

One big question facing the opposition is what to do with its new majority. One
alternative is to try to govern jointly with Mr. Maduro's party. The other is to
try to unseat him by using its two-thirds majority to order a referendum on Mr.
Maduro's leadership.

Leaders within the opposition have yet to outline a set of comprehensive reforms
to start mending the Venezuelan economy, which is reeling from the drop in the
price of oil, and to fix other problems. On Mr. Maduro's watch, the Venezuelan
economy has been in a tailspin resulting from unsustainable subsidies,
triple-digit inflation and an astonishingly distorted currency exchange system
that gives special advantages to the ruling class.

Given these fundamental problems, the wiser course would be to attempt to work
collaboratively with Mr. Maduro's party on the most urgent matters at hand. A
confrontational approach involving a referendum would almost certainly
destabilize the country more.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/in-venezuela-a-triumph-for-the-opposit
ion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%);
POLITICS (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CURRENCIES (50%)

PERSON: MAURICIO MACRI (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); ARGENTINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Trump Effect, and How It Spreads

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 629 words


Go ahead, deplore Donald Trump. Despise his message. Reject his appeals to
exclusion and hatred. But do not make the mistake of treating him as a solitary
phenomenon, a singular celebrity narcissist who has somehow, all alone, brought
his party and its politics to the brink of fascism.

He is the leading Republican candidate for president. He has been for months.
The things he says are outrageous, by design, but they were not spawned, nor
have they flourished, in isolation.

The Republican rivals rushing to distance themselves from his latest
inflammatory proposal -- a faith-based wall around the country -- have been
peddling their own nativist policies for months or years. They have been
harshening their campaign speeches and immigration proposals in response to the
Trump effect. Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush want to allow only Christian refugees from
Syria to enter the country, and Mr. Cruz has introduced legislation to allow
states to opt out of refugee resettlement.

And party officials around the country, attuned to the power of fear, have
developed homegrown versions of the Trump approach. In 31 states, governors --
most but not all Republicans -- have formed an axis of ignorance, declaring
their borders closed to refugees fleeing the Islamic State in Syria. In Texas,
Gov. Greg Abbott has sued the federal government and a nonprofit relief agency
to keep refugees out. Indiana's refusal forced one family to seek refuge in
Connecticut. Georgia is seeking to deny displaced Syrians federal benefits, like
food stamps, and keep their children out of school.

Civil rights organizations -- the American Civil Liberties Union, the National
Immigration Law Center and the Southern Poverty Law Center -- are defending the
displaced against blatant discrimination. That it is even necessary to protect
the victims of Islamic extremism from being victimized again, in the United
States, is a national disgrace.

This is the force that Mr. Trump feeds on and that propels him. It is bigger
than he is, and toxic. Not a vote has been cast in the 2016 presidential race.
But serious damage is already being done to the country, to its reputation
overseas, by a man who is seen as speaking for America and twisting its message
of tolerance and welcome, and by the candidates who trail him and are competing
for his voters.

Mr. Trump has not deported anyone, nor locked up or otherwise brutalized any
Muslims, immigrants or others. The danger next year, of course, is giving him
the power to do so. And the danger right now is allowing him to legitimize the
hatred that he so skillfully exploits, and to revive the old American tendency,
in frightening times, toward vicious treatment of the weak and outsiders.

The internment of Japanese-Americans in World War II, as some Republicans have
either forgotten or never understood, was a dark episode in American history. It
is remembered today with regret, as something the nation struggled with, learned
from, and moved beyond. But there are millions of Muslims who have good reason
to fear that the darkness is falling again.

The time to renounce Mr. Trump's views was the day he entered the race, calling
Mexico an exporter of criminals and rapists. He played to the politics of
nativism and fear that was evident last year, when a wave of Central American
mothers and children, fleeing gang-and-drug warfare to the Texas border,
presented themselves upon the mercy of the United States, and were met with
derision and hysteria.

The racism behind the agenda of the right wing on immigrants and foreigners has
long been plain as day. Mr. Trump makes it even plainer. After his remarks on
Muslims, how many of Mr. Trump's rivals have said they would reject his
candidacy if he won the nomination? As of Wednesday, none.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/the-trump-effect-and-how-it-spreads.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (91%); REFUGEES (91%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); IMMIGRATION
(89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (89%);
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); DISPLACED PERSONS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%);
LITIGATION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); PUBLIC
HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL
BORDERS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); RESETTLEMENT & REPATRIATION (69%); ASIAN
AMERICANS (69%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (68%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (66%);
WORLD WAR II (66%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (65%); FOOD STAMPS (64%);
POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); HISTORY (60%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%); JEB BUSH (79%); GREG ABBOTT (79%)

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Fails to Block Entry of Syrian Refugees

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 559 words


HOUSTON --  Texas officials escalated their effort on Wednesday to bar Syrian
refugees from resettling in the state, asking a federal judge to stop the
scheduled arrival of a group of refugees on Thursday.

The action ultimately failed. The judge declined to grant the state's request
for a temporary restraining order, allowing the refugees to continue their plans
to resettle here.

Last week, Texas became the first state to try to stop Syrian refugee
resettlements by suing federal officials. Gov. Greg Abbott and other Texas
Republican leaders have called on the Obama administration to stop accepting
Syrian refugees and to stop sending them to Texas after the attacks in Paris
last month. The effort is part of a push by Republicans to block the refugees
because of security concerns.

In its case on Wednesday, lawyers in the Texas attorney general's office had
asked Judge David C. Godbey of Federal District Court in Dallas to prevent nine
Syrian refugees from resettling in Houston on Thursday while the lawsuit against
federal officials proceeded. The refugees include a family of eight -- six of
whom are children ages 6 to 15 -- and a 26-year-old woman whose mother lives in
the Houston area.

In court documents, the Texas attorney general, Kenneth Paxton Jr., wrote that
Texas had ''reasonable concerns about the safety and security of the state's
citizens'' with the anticipated arrival of the nine refugees.

The documents pointed to statements made on Monday by Representative Michael
McCaul of Texas, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, that
''individuals tied to terrorist groups in Syria have already attempted to gain
access to our country through the U.S. refugee program.''

They also cited testimony by Robert J. Bodisch, the deputy director of homeland
security with the Texas Department of Public Safety, who said there was reason
to believe the Islamic State ''will exploit the refugee program.'' None of the
statements cited by Texas referred to the specific backgrounds of the nine
refugees.

In denying the state's request, Judge Godbey found that Texas failed to show
''that any terrorists actually have infiltrated the refugee program, much less
that these particular refugees are terrorists intent on causing harm.''

Lawyers for the Justice Department called the state's security concerns
''speculative and uninformed'' in previous court filings. Lawyers for a
nonprofit relief group that was also sued by Texas, the International Rescue
Committee, said no state had the authority to bar refugees who had been vetted
and admitted by the federal government.

''We are pleased that the court refused to let the state of Texas interfere with
humanitarian aid to people fleeing war and violence,'' said Rebecca L.
Robertson, the legal and policy director for the American Civil Liberties Union
of Texas and one of the lawyers representing the International Rescue Committee.

There are 21 Syrian refugees expected to arrive in Dallas and Houston this week.

Texas sought a temporary restraining order last week to block the refugees'
entry. The state later withdrew it, allowing two Syrian families to arrive in
Dallas and Houston on Monday and Tuesday after the federal government provided
more information about them But on Wednesday, lawyers for Texas argued that a
new restraining order was warranted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/texas-fails-to-block-entry-of-syrian-refuge
es.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); RESETTLEMENT & REPATRIATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(90%); JUDGES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%);
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN
IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%);
CHILDREN (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (57%);
RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: GREG ABBOTT (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); MICHAEL T MCCAUL (55%)

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Restoring Gmail After an Attack

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Q&A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words



Q. Does Google have a precise protocol for restoring a hacked Gmail account?

A. Google has two plans of action for compromised Gmail accounts, and the one
you use depends on whether you can still sign into the hacked account. Even if
you suspect that your account has been hacked, try logging in anyway. Warning
signs of a hijacked email account can include friends complaining of suspicious
messages from your address, logins from unknown gadgets shown on the Recently
Used Devices area of your account activity page (myaccount.google.com), missing
contacts or messages, or even Gmail's own security alerts based on your last
account activity.

If you can still get into your account, immediately change your Gmail password.
While you are in your Gmail security settings, turn on two-step verification,
which requires both a password and a code (sent to your smartphone) to log into
your account -- an extra step that stops those who merely crack your password.
Google's Gmail Help site has a security checklist that offers further
suggestions, and the federal government's site for Internet awareness,
OnGuardOnline.gov, has a few safety tips as well.

If you cannot get into your account, fill out the account recovery form on the
Gmail Help site. It may take a frustrating bit of time to regain control of your
account, but once you do, re-evaluate your Gmail security settings to update the
recovery options you can use (like an alternative email address or a mobile
phone number) to regain access to your account if someone else tries to steal
it. To avoid losing your address book from a compromised account, you should
also consider exporting your Gmail contacts to a backup file for safekeeping.

Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to
QandA@nytimes.com This column will answer questions of general interest, but
letters cannot be answered individually.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); SMARTPHONES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES
(68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Warriors Set to Take On the Lakers (of the '70s)

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 701 words


When the Golden State Warriors improved their record to 16-0 last month, they
were officially off to the best start in N.B.A. history. After Tuesday night's
131-123 victory over the Indiana Pacers, they stand at 23-0, and greater
milestones are in sight.

A small, speedy lineup that few teams can stop, good defense, a record pace of
3-point shooting and, of course, Stephen Curry have made the Warriors as
impressive a team as any since the Chicago Bulls of 1995-96. A statistical model
developed by 538.com projects that the Warriors will match that team's 72-10
record.

Sometimes it does not appear that the Warriors will lose even 10 games. It may
be time to start thinking about the granddaddy of all streaks, the 33-game run
by the 1971-72 Lakers.

The Warriors' current string of 27 straight regular-season wins (23 this season
and four at the end of last season) is tied for second on the N.B.A. list with a
streak by the Miami Heat, who won 27 straight in LeBron James's second season
with the team.

After losing in the finals to the Dallas Mavericks in James's debut year with
Miami, the Heat seemed like just another good team. When their streak began in
February 2013, they were 29-14, the best record in the Eastern Conference but
only the fourth best in the league.

They did not lose again until the end of March, finishing the season on a 37-2
run, with the triumvirate of James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh ripping through
the league. The streak finally ended in Chicago, but the Heat finished a
league-best 66-16 and went on to win the title, James's first.

The Warriors can surpass the Heat with a win in Boston on Friday night. Then the
formidable 33-game streak by the Lakers will loom. After a 6-3 start, the Lakers
began winning in early November 1971 and did not lose until the new year. With a
lineup that included the Hall of Famers Wilt Chamberlain, Jerry West and Gail
Goodrich, the Lakers swept to the longest winning streak in major North American
team sports.

They finally lost to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Oscar Robertson and the Milwaukee
Bucks, but they wound up 69-13 and cruised through the playoffs with only three
losses for their first title since moving to Los Angeles in 1960.

The Warriors would match that streak with a 33rd straight win of their own, at
home on Christmas Day against James and the Cleveland Cavaliers. The Warriors
could break it three days later against the Sacramento Kings.

If you decline to count the Warriors' four wins at the end of last season, the
tying and breaking dates would be Jan. 2 and 4.

Though no pro team matches the Lakers' streak, every league has its own
impressive run.

The Indianapolis Colts won the last nine regular-season games of 2008 and reeled
off 14 straight to start 2009 to set the N.F.L. record of 23. Perhaps the streak
is not more celebrated because the team failed to win the Super Bowl in either
year.

The Chicago Cubs' record streak of 21 wins came at a crucial time in September
1935 and took them from third place to the pennant. The American League record
of 20 was set by the Oakland Athletics in 2002 and was immortalized in the film
''Moneyball.''

In 1992-93, the Pittsburgh Penguins set an N.H.L. record with 17 straight wins,
spurred by the return of Mario Lemieux from radiation treatment for Hodgkin's
disease. The M.L.S. record is 15 straight wins by the Los Angeles Galaxy,
spanning the 1997 and 1998 seasons.

In top-level college sports, the streaks are even longer. Perhaps the most
famous is Oklahoma's 47 straight football wins, running from the third game of
the 1953 season until November 1957.

In 2010, the Connecticut women's basketball team stretched its record streak to
90 games, surpassing the venerable 88-game run of the U.C.L.A. men from 1971 to
1974.

But as impressive as those team streaks are, individual winning streaks can be
even longer. Edwin Moses did not lose a 400-meter hurdles race in a decade,
running off 122 victories in a row before  losing in 1987.

But Moses's string pales next to that of Jahangir Khan, a Pakistani squash star
of the 1980s, who won 555 straight matches. The Warriors could break that
streak, too, as long as they avoid losing before 2022.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/basketball/golden-state-warriors-streak
-inches-closer-to-lakers-33-gamer.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Golden State's Stephen Curry in November. He helped the
Warriors set an N.B.A. record with a 16-0 start. The team is now 23-0, with 27
straight regular season wins in a streak dating to last season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) (B11)
 The 1971-72 Lakers, led by the Hall of Famers Wilt Chamberlain, left, and Jerry
West, right, won 33 straight games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (60%); STATISTICAL METHOD
(55%)

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
(93%); INDIANA PACERS (58%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); MIAMI HEAT (55%); DALLAS
MAVERICKS (55%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (79%)

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA
(79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Internet Is Breaking the Outrage Meter

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO.

Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words


Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton said this week that we should think about
shutting down parts of the Internet to stop terrorist groups from inspiring and
recruiting followers in distant lands. Mr. Trump even suggested an expert who'd
be perfect for the job: ''We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different
people that really understand what's happening, and we have to talk to them --
maybe, in certain areas, closing that Internet up in some way,'' he said on
Monday in South Carolina.

Many online responded to Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton with jeers, pointing out
both constitutional and technical limits to their plans. Mr. Gates, the
Microsoft co-founder who now spends much of his time on philanthropy, has as
much power to close down the Internet as he does to fix Mr. Trump's hair.

Yet I had a different reaction to Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton's fantasy of a
world in which you could just shut down parts of the Internet that you didn't
like: Sure, it's impossible, but just imagine if we could do it, just for a bit.
Wouldn't it have been kind of a pleasant dream world, in these overheated last
few weeks, to have lived free of social media?

Hear me out. If you've logged on to Twitter and Facebook in the waning weeks of
2015, you've surely noticed that the Internet now seems to be on constant boil.
Your social feed has always been loud, shrill, reflexive and ugly, but this year
everything has been turned up to 11. The Islamic State's use of the Internet is
perhaps only the most dangerous manifestation of what, this year, became an
inescapable fact of online life: The extremists of all stripes are ascendant,
and just about everywhere you look, much of the Internet is terrible.

''The academic in me says that discourse norms have shifted,'' said Susan
Benesch, a faculty associate at Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet & Society
and the director of the Dangerous Speech Project, an effort to study speech that
leads to violence. ''It's become so common to figuratively walk through garbage
and violent imagery online that people have accepted it in a way. And it's
become so noisy that you have to shout more loudly, and more shockingly, to be
heard.''

You might argue that the angst online is merely a reflection of the news.
Terrorism, intractable warfare, mass shootings, a hyperpartisan presidential
race, police brutality, institutional racism and the protests over it have
dominated the headlines. It's only natural that the Internet would get a little
out of control over that barrage.

But there's also a way in which social networks seem to be feeding a cycle of
action and reaction. In just about every news event, the Internet's reaction to
the situation becomes a follow-on part of the story, so that much of the media
establishment becomes trapped in escalating, infinite loops of 140-character,
knee-jerk insta-reaction.

''Presidential elections have always been pretty nasty, but these days the
mudslinging is omnipresent in a way that's never been the case before,'' said
Whitney Phillips, an assistant professor of literary studies and writing at
Mercer University, who is the author of ''This Is Why We Can't Have Nice
Things,'' a study of online ''trolling.'' ''When Donald Trump says something
that I would consider insane, it's not just that it gets reported on by one or
two or three outlets, but it becomes this wave of iterative content on top of
content on top of content in your feed, taking over everything you see.''

The spiraling feedback loop is exhausting and rarely illuminating. The news
brims with instantly produced ''hot takes'' and a raft of fact-free assertions.
Everyone -- yours truly included -- is always on guard for the next opportunity
to meme-ify outrage: What crazy thing did Trump/Obama/The New York Times/The New
York Post/Rush Limbaugh/etc. say now, and what clever quip can you fit into a
tweet to quickly begin collecting likes?

There is little room for indulging nuance, complexity, or flirting with the
middle ground. In every issue, you are either with one aggrieved group or the
other, and the more stridently you can express your disdain -- short of hurling
profanities at the president on TV, which will earn you a brief suspension --
the better reaction you'll get.

You don't have to look far beyond the past week or two to find examples of this
dynamic. Last week, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, and his wife,
Dr. Priscilla Chan, announced they were giving away about $45 billion to
celebrate the birth of their daughter. Within 10 minutes, Twitter erupted in
skepticism over their motives. In a couple of hours after that, there were pro-
and anti- pieces across the blogs, produced, apparently, by people who'd
previously been moonlighting as experts in philanthropy. Not a lot of it was
instructive; I spoke to several philanthropy experts who told me it was too
early to pass judgment on the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. But nothing is too
early for the Internet.

And this is just a tepid example. More explosive news sets off more extreme
reactions. When Erick Erickson, the right-wing commentator, saw that The New
York Times had published a rare front-page editorial arguing for gun control
last week, he didn't bother to write a point-by-point rebuttal. He just got a
paper, shot a bunch of holes in it, and posted the photo on Twitter. That's
enough to pass for valuable discussion on the Internet in 2015.

The Internet wasn't supposed to be this ugly. In its earliest days its pioneers
harbored grand ideas about the web's expanding our democratic discourse.

''We will create a civilization of the Mind in Cyberspace,'' wrote John Perry
Barlow, the Internet freedom activist and former Grateful Dead lyricist, in his
1996 ''Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace,'' which took the form of a
letter to the governments of the old ''industrial world.'' He concluded with a
hopeful idea: that the new online world would be ''more humane and fair than the
world your governments have made before.''

In an article published in The Times last week, Eric Schmidt, Google's executive
chairman, noted that some of Mr. Barlow's grand ideas have been realized. The
Internet has arguably fostered education, democracy and economic prosperity in
many parts of the world.

But nearly 20 years after Mr. Barlow's declaration, it's obvious the effect that
the Internet has had on the world's discourse has been more mixed. ''Reading
Barlow's declaration now is like reading some 19th-century romantic manifesto,''
said Ms. Benesch, of Harvard. ''It makes the mistaken assumption that with
greater capacity to communicate and to reach people automatically comes a
better, nicer, kinder communication.''

This year, more than ever, we learned that wasn't true. The Internet can make
how we talk to one another better or worse. And for now, and maybe for the
foreseeable future, we're leaning toward worse.

By the way, following Mr. Trump's suggestion, I reached out to a representative
for Mr. Gates to see if he'd be willing to help close parts of the Internet. Mr.
Gates declined to comment. Sorry, Donald: We're on our own.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/technology/shut-down-internet-donald-trump-hil
lary-clinton.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Gates being introduced at Microsoft's annual shareholders'
meeting last week in Bellevue, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SOCIAL
MEDIA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); INTERNET &
WWW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (65%);
POLICE MISCONDUCT (64%); SHOOTINGS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BILL GATES (87%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chief of Sprout Is Leaving the Company

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 378 words


Cindy Whitehead, who oversaw a long, but ultimately successful, effort to bring
to market the first prescription drug to enhance women's sexual drive, is
leaving her post as chief executive of Sprout Pharmaceuticals.

In August, the Food and Drug Administration approved Sprout's Addyi, often
referred to as the ''little pink pill,'' after rejecting it in 2010 and in 2013
on concerns about side effects and limited effectiveness.

Shortly after the approval, Sprout, which was privately held, agreed to be
acquired by Valeant Pharmaceuticals for $1 billion.

''Thanks to the efforts of Cindy and her team, Valeant has the opportunity to
make Addyi broadly available to patients in need of this important medical
treatment,'' Valeant's senior vice president for investor relations, Laurie
Little, said in a statement. ''Having built a team to take Addyi to market, we
mutually agreed that it was the right time to transition to new leadership for
the next phase of global commercialization.''

After Addyi, also known as flibanserin, was initially rejected by the F.D.A.,
the pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim dropped it. Ms. Whitehead and
her husband, Robert, both pharmaceutical industry veterans, formed Sprout in
2011 to acquire it.

For the Whiteheads and other executives, the Valeant acquisition was a financial
coup. But the drug has gotten off to a slow start. In the weeks after its
October debut, just a few hundred prescriptions were filed for Addyi, according
to Bloomberg.

That is in sharp contrast to the introduction of Pfizer's Viagra, the so-called
little blue pill aimed at treating erectile dysfunction in men. Viagra was a
blockbuster from the start in 1998 and last year Pfizer sold nearly $1.7 billion
of it.

With financial help from Sprout, women's groups and other supporters started a
campaign to win F.D.A. approval for Addyi, noting that the agency had approved
comparable treatments for men.

Sprout's effort succeeded but the F.D.A.'s approval came with a boxed warning,
alerting patients not to take the drug with alcohol. Women with impaired liver
function were also advised not to take it.

Ms. Whitehead will continue to consult with Valeant and Sprout executives after
her departure, according to the statement from Valeant.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/chief-of-sprout-is-leaving-the-compan
y.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cindy Whitehead brought the ''little pink pill'' to market.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPROUT PHARMACEUTICALS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
(90%); APPROVALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL
DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (78%); WOMEN (78%); US FDA APPROVALS
(77%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%);
UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (91%); VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (90%);
ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC (57%); BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%); VRX (TSX) (90%); VRX (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL
MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%);
NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836
BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG
PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Is Trump's Plan Legal?

BYLINE: By PETER J. SPIRO.

Peter J. Spiro is a professor of immigration and constitutional law at Temple
University.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 908 words


Philadelphia -- DONALD J. TRUMP'S reprehensible call to bar Muslim immigrants
from entering the United States tracks an exam question I've been giving my
immigration law students since Sept. 11. Would such a proposal be
constitutional? The answer is not what you might think -- but it also raises the
issue of what, exactly, we mean when we say something is ''constitutional'' in
the first place.

In the ordinary, non-immigration world of constitutional law, the Trump scheme
would be blatantly unconstitutional, a clear violation of both equal protection
and religious freedom (he had originally called for barring American Muslims
living abroad from re-entering the country as well; he has since dropped that
clearly unconstitutional notion). But under a line of rulings from the Supreme
Court dating back more than a century, that's irrelevant. As the court observed
in its 1977 decision in Fiallo v. Bell, ''In the exercise of its broad power
over immigration and naturalization, Congress regularly makes rules that would
be unacceptable if applied to citizens.''

The court has given the political branches the judicial equivalent of a blank
check to regulate immigration as they see fit. This posture of extreme deference
is known as the ''plenary power'' doctrine. It dates back to the 1889 decision
in the Chinese Exclusion case, in which the court upheld the exclusion of
Chinese laborers based on their nationality.

Unlike other bygone constitutional curiosities that offend our contemporary
sensibilities, the Chinese Exclusion case has never been overturned. More recent
decisions have upheld discrimination against immigrants based on gender and
illegitimacy that would never have survived equal protection scrutiny in the
domestic context. Likewise, courts have rejected the assertion of First
Amendment free speech protections by noncitizens.

Nor has the Supreme Court ever struck down an immigration classification, even
ones based on race. As late as 1965, a federal appeals court upheld a measure
that counted a Brazilian citizen of Japanese descent as Asian for the purposes
of immigration quotas.

In the context of noncitizens seeking initial entry into the United States, due
process protections don't apply, either. This past June, the court upheld the
denial of a visa for the spouse of an American citizen based on the government's
say-so, with no supporting evidence.

The courts have justified this constitutional exceptionalism on the grounds that
immigration law implicates foreign relations and national security -- even in
the absence of a specific, plausible foreign policy rationale. The 1977 Fiallo
case, for instance, involved a father seeking the admission of his
out-of-wedlock son from the French West Indies -- hardly the stuff of national
interest.

Indeed, contrary to the conventional understanding, President Trump could
implement the scheme on his own, without Congress's approval. The Immigration
and Nationality Act gives the president the authority to suspend the entry of
''any class of aliens'' on his finding that their entry would be ''detrimental
to the interests of the United States.'' President Obama has used this to the
better end of excluding serious human rights violators.

But here's the interesting thing: Just because Mr. Trump's proposal has a
judicial pedigree, that doesn't make it ''constitutional'' in a broader sense.
The Constitution and the courts are not synonymous, nor do the courts have a
monopoly on constitutional interpretation. Politicians, the legal community,
scholars and the public at large are all a part of our continuing constitutional
conversation. Clear popular consensus can establish constitutional norms, with
or without the courts.

The leading example comes out of the internment of Japanese-Americans during
World War II. The Supreme Court upheld the internment in its 1944 Korematsu
decision, and that ruling has never been judicially reversed. Technically, it
remains good law. But it has been effectively overridden by other actors, and in
the court of public opinion. A formal apology and payment of reparations,
enacted by Congress and signed into law by Ronald Reagan in 1988, supplies the
formal evidence. Korematsu continues to provoke popular shame.

We may be seeing that same shame at work today. Mr. Trump's plan has triggered
an uproar across the partisan divide. Perhaps a religion-based immigration bar
may be consistent with court-made doctrine. But it doesn't reflect our deeper,
broadly assimilated understandings of the Constitution.

The fact that many Americans seem to assume Mr. Trump's proposal is
unconstitutional means that the courts need to catch up with the public on
immigration. We don't tolerate discrimination on the basis of national origin in
hiring, housing or public accommodation. But discrimination on the basis of
nationality, often capricious, even illogical, is a central feature of
immigration law.

If you were born in the Philippines and are seeking to join a sibling who has
American citizenship, for example, your wait in line is 10 years longer than
almost everyone else's. There may be good reasons for some of these different
approaches. But the Supreme Court shouldn't be rubber-stamping them.

The court won't get to rule on the Trump scheme. It now needs to take the cue
from the rest of us and bring its reading of the Constitution in line with the
public's own, more progressive constitutional norms.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/trumps-anti-muslim-plan-is-awful-and-c
onstitutional.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%);
IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%);
SUPREME COURTS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%);
RELIGION (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW
(78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); DUE PROCESS (77%); FREEDOM
OF SPEECH (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF
RELIGION (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (61%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Soccer; Arsenal Reaches Round of 16

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 531 words


Arsenal saved its best performance for the last game of the Champions League
group stage, advancing to the round of 16 with a remarkable 3-0 victory at
Olympiakos on Wednesday. Chelsea also advanced on a good night for English
soccer with a 2-0 win at home over Porto.

''I told you before that it would be the greatest escape,'' Arsenal Coach Arsène
Wenger said.

Both Arsenal and Chelsea were trying to avoid following in the footsteps of
Manchester United, which was eliminated on Tuesday.

Roma's 0-0 draw against visiting BATE Borisov was just enough to allow Roma to
edge Bayer Leverkusen for second place in its group. Leverkusen could not manage
more than a 1-1 draw at home against Barcelona as Lionel Messi scored his 80th
goal in the tournament.

The Belgian club Gent advanced in its first Champions League campaign after
winning at home against Zenit St. Petersburg, 2-1, a result that eliminated
Valencia, which lost at home to Lyon, 2-0.

Bayern Munich, which had already qualified for the round of 16, earned a 2-0 win
at Dinamo Zagreb with a pair of goals by striker Robert Lewandowski.

Dynamo Kiev advanced thanks to a 1-0 win in Ukraine over Maccabi Tel Aviv. The
game was played in an empty stadium in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, as part of
Dynamo's punishment for racist attacks by its fans in October.

M.L.S. INCREASES SALARIES M.L.S. will allow teams to spend $37 million more on
player salaries in the next two seasons in an effort to improve talent.

M.L.S. said each team would be able to spend an additional $800,000 in so-called
targeted allocation money in both the 2016 and 2017 seasons. The money can be
used to sign or re-sign players who earn more than the maximum salary budget
charge but are not high-priced designated players.

The league will also allow teams to spend $125,000 each year on homegrown
players.

The money must be spent within four transfer windows.

SWANSEA FIRES MANAGER Swansea fired its manager, Garry Monk, amid a slump in the
Premier League, ending his two-year stint in charge, during which he guided the
club to its highest finish in the league, England's top division.

Unbeaten in the first four games of the season, Swansea has won just one of its
last 11 games, its most recent a 3-0 loss at home against Leicester on Saturday.

Monk had been with Swansea for more than 11 years, first as a defender and then
as manager since February 2014, when he replaced Michael Laudrup. Huw Jenkins,
the club's chairman, said he made the decision with a ''heavy heart.''

2 AFRICAN TEAMS QUALIFY Algeria and Nigeria secured spots in the soccer
tournament at the Rio Olympics, leaving South Africa and Senegal to fight for
the third and final qualifying place this weekend.

Algeria earned a convincing 2-1 victory over South Africa, and Nigeria defeated
Senegal, 1-0, in the eight-nation African qualifying competition in Dakar,
Senegal.

Senegal, which beat South Africa in the opening match of the tournament, must do
so again Saturday in the third-place game to secure a second straight appearance
at the Olympics. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/soccer/roundup-chelsea-arsenal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS
(89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%);
SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (70%); BUDGETS (69%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (57%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (79%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (78%)

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (70%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (92%); ENGLAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (70%); NIGERIA
(66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Officials Pin Hopes on Medical School to Replace Lost Jobs

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1048 words


New Jersey was once so chock-full of thriving pharmaceutical companies that it
was known as America's medicine chest. But that dominance eroded as one major
drug company after another abandoned corporate campuses that had provided
thousands of high-paying jobs.

The exodus has left officials in the state scrambling to find ways to fill the
voids. Hotels? Condos? Yet another shopping mall?

Instead of going down any of those predictable paths, officials in the North
Jersey communities of Nutley and Clifton are pinning their hopes on something
completely different: the state's first private medical school in more than 60
years.

The school, a joint venture of Seton Hall University and Hackensack University
Health Network, would be the anchor tenant of a 119-acre site that for decades
had been occupied by Hoffman-La Roche, a pioneering pharmaceutical company now
known as Roche. In 2012, the company, which employed 5,000 people in 40
buildings on the campus as recently as 2009, announced it would shutter the site
and shift the remaining workers elsewhere.

Local officials, anxious about replacing all of those jobs and one of their
biggest local taxpayers, hope to surround the medical school with related
businesses and a hotel and conference center.

''We believe it's the catalyst to make the rest of the acreage into something
really great,'' said James Anzaldi, the longtime mayor of Clifton. ''Clifton
made the statement: We don't want a shopping mall. We frowned upon any big-box
stores or anything like that.''

The project received a financial lift last month when the New Jersey Economic
Development Authority approved tax credits that could be worth $16.9 million
over 10 years. But its planners still intend to seek additional public financing
for the project, which they estimate will require as much as $100 million to get
up and running.

In late June, Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, vetoed a $20 million grant for
the school that Democrats in the State Senate had included in the budget. But a
spokesman for the governor, Kevin Roberts, said Mr. Christie still supported the
school and was not opposed to public financing for it.

Robert C. Garrett, the president of Hackensack University Health Network, said
the school would serve New Jersey by helping to alleviate a shortage of doctors
in the state and stemming the trend of students' leaving for medical schools in
other states and never returning. New Jersey, he said, has about 2,500 fewer
doctors than it needs, a shortfall that would become more acute without the
school.

In addition, Mr. Garrett said, ''this project will create jobs and provide
economic stimulus'' to the communities whose border it straddles. He said the
school would fill up gradually, starting in the fall of 2017. From a charter
class of about 50 students, enrollment would eventually grow to about 500, he
said.

Seton Hall intends to start moving some of its related departments, including
its College of Nursing and its School of Health and Medical Sciences, to the
Nutley campus in 2017, said Erik Lillquist, the university's associate provost
for academic projects. Having future nurses and doctors training together would
put the school on the leading edge of ''interprofessional education,'' which he
said is ''the real trend in medical education.''

But before the medical school can start accepting its first students, it must
obtain accreditation from the Liaison Committee on Medical Education. It must
meet a dozen standards, including the appointment of a dean.

''The goal we're still aiming for is fall of 2017 but that's all dependent upon
accreditation, and accreditation for medical schools is not easy,'' Mr.
Lillquist said.

While the school would be New Jersey's only private four-year medical school, it
would not be a first for Seton Hall. The university created a medical school in
Jersey City in the mid-1950s, but sold it to the state in 1964. That school was
known as the New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry. It moved to Newark in
the late 1960s and became part of Rutgers, the state university of New Jersey,
two years ago.

Now, Rutgers has a medical school and Seton Hall does not. But officials of
Seton Hall and the Hackensack health network ''are both putting up a
considerable amount of money'' to change that, Mr. Lillquist said.

The school's application to the Economic Development Authority said construction
costs would be about $75 million. It also projected that 271 permanent jobs
would be created and estimated the net benefit to the state over 20 years at
$67.6 million.

''You don't start a medical school to make money,'' Mr. Lillquist said, noting
that both institutions operate on a nonprofit basis. ''We make investments to
fulfill our educational and health care missions.''

That nonprofit status, which often provides tax exemptions, has complicated
matters for local officials in Nutley and Clifton, which together received more
than $13 million in annual property taxes from Roche. As alluring as the state's
only private medical school may sound, the communities still need to try to
replace the tax revenue that left with Roche.

Mr. Anzaldi, the mayor of Clifton, said the school's planners were negotiating
with local governments on the size of payments they would make in lieu of taxes.
The buildings the school would occupy make up ''a small sliver'' of the Roche
campus, Mr. Lillquist said, and they sit on the border of the two municipalities
and two counties. Nutley Township is in Essex County and the City of Clifton is
in Passaic County.

''We will pay an appropriate, mutually agreed-upon amount of taxes,'' Mr.
Lillquist said.

Local officials hope that the developer that acquires the campus from Roche will
fill the rest of it with for-profit ventures that will pay their fair share of
taxes, Mr. Anzaldi said. Darien Wilson, a spokeswoman for Roche, said the
company was ''in discussions'' on the sale of the property and hoped to complete
a sale ''by the end of the year.''

For his part, Mr. Anzaldi said, he saw no reason the school plan would not bear
fruit.

''When Roche first announced that they were leaving, I said we're going to take
this lemon and make lemonade,'' he said. ''Now, I think we're going to get some
high-end lemonade.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/seton-hall-plans-medical-school-on-fo
rmer-site-of-drug-company.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: What would become the lobby of New Jersey's first private
medical school in more than 60 years, on the former Hoffman-La Roche
pharmaceutical company site in Nutley, N.J. (A33)
 Hoffman-La Roche, now known as Roche, announced the closing of its 119-acre
campus in Nutley and Clifton, N.J., in 2012. The company had employed 5,000
people there in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); JOB CREATION
(77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES
(77%); GOVERNORS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS
(76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); BUDGETS
(71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); VETO
(69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX CREDITS (66%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%);
ECONOMIC STIMULUS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (66%); HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC
(56%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Re-Examining Race and College Admissions

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Q. AND A.; Pg.

LENGTH: 768 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Wednesday returns to the question of the role
race may place in admissions decisions at public colleges and universities. Here
is a look at how the case twice made its way to the court and how changes in the
court's personnel may affect its outcome.

Q. What is the case about?

A. In 2008, the University of Texas at Austin denied admission to Abigail
Fisher, a white woman. She said that she would have gotten in had it not been
for the university's practice of taking account of race in admissions decisions.
Three-quarters of applicants from Texas are admitted under a program that
guarantees admission to roughly the top 10 percent of students in every high
school in the state. The remaining Texas students and those from elsewhere are
considered under standards that take account of academic achievement and other
factors, including race and ethnicity. Ms. Fisher sued over that second part of
the admissions plan, saying that it violated the Constitution's equal protection
clause.

Q. What does Ms. Fisher want?

A. As a legal matter, she wants to do away with racial preferences in admissions
decisions at the university. But to have standing to sue, she must also show
that she has a personal stake in the question. Given that she has graduated,
from Louisiana State University in 2012, that may not be easy.

Ms. Fisher says she is out $100 in application fees; the university responds
that the fees would not have been refunded even if she had gotten in. Though the
question of Ms. Fisher's standing is debated at length in the briefs, the
Supreme Court has so far shown little interest in the issue. It was not
mentioned in the decision the court issued the first time it ruled in the case,
in 2013.

Q. What happened last time?

A. The justices first heard arguments in the case in October 2012. The
deliberations that followed were unusually fraught, Joan Biskupic reported last
year in a book on Justice Sonia Sotomayor. In the end, a fiery draft dissent
from Justice Sotomayor helped pave the way for a short, wan compromise decision
in June 2013. By a 7-to-1 vote (Justice Elena Kagan has recused herself because
she worked on the case as United States solicitor general), the court returned
the case to a federal appeals court, instructing it to take a more careful look
at the Texas program.

Last year, the appeals court upheld the program for a second time. In June, the
Supreme Court agreed to take another look at the case. Justice Sotomayor may
have less to work with this time, as it appears that she used at least parts of
her draft in a published dissent from the court's 2014 decision upholding
Michigan's ban on affirmative action.

Q. Who will hear the case?

A. Without Justice Kagan, there will be only eight justices on the bench. A
4-to-4 tie would automatically uphold the appeals court's decision.

Q. What has happened since the last major affirmative action case?

A. In 2003, by a 5-to-4 vote, the court upheld the admissions plan at the
University of Michigan's law school. Writing for the majority in the case,
Grutter v. Bollinger, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said the school could not use
quotas but could consider race as one factor of many in order to construct a
diverse student body. Saying that the Constitution ordinarily forbids the
government from sorting people by race, she suggested that this exception would
last for 25 years.

We are about halfway there. But Justice O'Connor retired in 2006 and was
replaced by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who has voted with the court's more
conservative justices in decisions involving race.

As usual, the crucial vote belongs to the member of the court at its ideological
center, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. His views on when the government can take
account of race are not always easy to pin down, but he has never voted to
uphold an affirmative action program.

Q. How significant will the court's ruling be?

A. It is possible that the court will reaffirm the 2003 decision, but that is
not the most likely outcome. The court may strike down only Texas' program,
which has an idiosyncratic mix of race-neutral and race-conscious elements.

Or it may say that the Constitution forbids the use of race in admissions
decisions at public colleges and universities nationwide. A Supreme Court
decision forbidding the use of race in admission at public universities would
almost certainly also mean that affirmative action would be banned at most
private ones as well, as Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids racial
discrimination in programs that receive federal money.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/re-examining-race-and-college-admi
ssions.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); SUPREME
COURTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%);
APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (89%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
(78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS
(78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%);
EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); LAWYERS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); STANDING TO SUE
(71%); ETHNICITY (68%); RACE & RACISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (78%); ELENA KAGAN (58%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Skeptical of Weighing Race in College Entry

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words


WASHINGTON --  An affirmative action plan at the University of Texas seemed to
be in trouble at the Supreme Court on Wednesday. By the end of an unusually long
and tense argument, a majority of the justices appeared unpersuaded that the
plan was constitutional.

A ruling against the university could imperil affirmative action at colleges and
universities around the nation.

In a remark that drew muted gasps in the courtroom, Justice Antonin Scalia said
that minority students with inferior academic credentials may be better off at
''a less advanced school, a slower-track school where they do well.''

''I don't think it stands to reason that it's a good thing for the University of
Texas to admit as many blacks as possible,'' he added.

It remains conceivable that the court could avoid ruling on the question for a
second time. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who almost certainly holds the crucial
vote and has never voted to uphold an affirmative action plan, spent almost all
of his time exploring whether the university should be allowed to submit more
evidence to justify its use of race in accepting students.

Justice Kennedy seemed frustrated at the prospect of having to decide the case,
which the court largely ducked in a previous encounter in 2013. ''We're just
arguing the same case,'' he said. ''It's as if nothing had happened.''

The case, Fisher v. University of Texas, No. 14-981, was brought by Abigail
Fisher, a white student who says the University of Texas denied her admission in
2008 because of her race. She has since graduated from Louisiana State
University.

Several of the court's conservative justices subjected the lawyers defending the
Texas plan to a barrage of skeptical questions. As usual, Justice Clarence
Thomas said nothing, but he is an adamant opponent of affirmative action.
Justice Scalia's questions were particularly hostile to racial preferences,
which he said could leave minority students worse off. ''Most of the black
scientists in this country don't come from schools like the University of
Texas,'' he said. ''They come from lesser schools where they do not feel that
they're being pushed ahead in classes that are too fast for them.''

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. questioned the value of diversity in at least
some academic settings. ''What unique perspective does a minority student bring
to a physics class?'' he asked.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. focused on unusual features of the Texas admissions
plan, which grants automatic admission to the University of Texas at Austin to
students in the state who graduate in roughly the top 10 percent of their high
school class. That part of the program, which accounts for 75 percent of the
student body, does not directly consider race but increases racial diversity
largely because many high schools in the state are not diverse.

For the remaining students, the plan takes account of race as one factor among
many, the approach used by many selective colleges and universities nationwide.
Ms. Fisher sought admission under the second part of the plan.

Justice Alito said the first part of the plan should suffice to produce
educational diversity.

''Your underlying claim,'' he told Gregory G. Garre, a lawyer for the
university, ''is that there is something deficient about the top-10 admittees.''

Justice Alito added that the top-10 program helped underprivileged students in a
way the race-conscious admissions did not. ''The reason for adopting affirmative
action in the first place,'' he said, ''was because there are people who have
been severely disadvantaged through discrimination and lack of wealth, and they
should be given a benefit in admission.''

But Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the top-10 program was itself problematic.
''It seems to me that it is so obviously driven by one thing only, and that
thing is race,'' she said. ''It's totally dependent upon having racially
segregated neighborhoods, racially segregated schools, and it operates as a
disincentive for a minority student to step out of that segregated community and
attempt to get an integrated education.''

Justice Elena Kagan was recused from the case because she had worked on it as
solicitor general of the United States. The three remaining liberals asked
questions in nervous and exasperated tones.

''People in the universities and elsewhere are worried,'' Justice Stephen G.
Breyer said, that the Supreme Court will ''kill affirmative action through a
death by a thousand cuts.''

Justice Sonia Sotomayor said race was not the predominant factor in the
university's race-conscious admissions decisions. ''I thought that what they're
looking for is leaders in diversity, not just of race, but of experiences
generally,'' she said.

Supreme Court arguments usually last an hour. But on Wednesday, Chief Justice
Roberts announced that the court was adding another 25 minutes, and in the end,
the argument lasted 95 minutes.

The lawyers defending the Texas plan said the court's ruling, expected by June,
would be timely and far-reaching.

''Now is not the time and this is not the case to roll back student body
diversity in America,'' Mr. Garre said.

Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who argued in favor of the Texas plan,
said, ''What the court is going to say in this case obviously is going to apply
eventually to every university in the country.''

The last time the court considered the case, in 2013, it avoided giving a direct
answer about the constitutionality of the Texas program, and it returned the
case to an appeals court for reconsideration.

The 2013 decision, decided by a 7-to-1 vote, was a compromise, Justice Breyer
said on Wednesday. ''That opinion by seven people reflected no one's views
perfectly,'' he said.

Justice Kennedy did not seem eager to issue a definitive ruling now, either, and
he asked the lawyers whether the trial court should instead collect more
evidence.

''The litigants, and frankly this court,'' he said, ''have been denied the
advantage and the perspective that would be gained if there would be additional
fact-finding.''

Late in the argument, though, he seemed to back off the idea.

''All of the colloquy so far indicates to me,'' Justice Kennedy told Mr. Garre,
''that if you had a remand, you would not have put in much different or much
more evidence than we have in the record right now.''

The Supreme Court's decision to revisit the case this term struck many
supporters of affirmative action as an ominous sign, one suggesting that a
12-year-old societal compromise was in peril.

In 2003, in Grutter v. Bollinger, the court said that public colleges and
universities could not use a point system to increase minority enrollment but
could take race into account in vaguer ways to ensure academic diversity. Though
the usual constitutional rule is that the government cannot classify people by
race, the 2003 decision said the court would make a limited exception for public
colleges and universities for roughly 25 years.

''Are we going to hit the deadline?'' Chief Justice Roberts asked Mr. Garre.
''We're talking about giving you the extraordinary power to consider race in
making important decisions.''

Mr. Garre responded, ''I'm not here to give you a date.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/supreme-court-to-revisit-case-that
-may-alter-affirmative-action.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abigail Fisher, who says the University of Texas at Austin
denied her admission because of her race, spoke at the Supreme Court.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN
EDUCATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%);
MINORITY GROUPS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
ADMISSIONS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HIGH
SCHOOLS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); RACE & RACISM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (94%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); ANTONIN SCALIA (78%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (73%); SAMUEL
ALITO (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Dress Code: Valentino

BYLINE: By JACOB BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; SCENE CITY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 499 words


At what was billed as ''an evening honoring Valentino'' at Lincoln Center on
Monday, it should not come as a surprise that many guests wore Valentino.

Keira Knightley was decked out in a one-shoulder Valentino dress with pleating
down the body. Liv Tyler's black dress with green floral prints went all the way
to the floor.

Was it hers? ''After tonight it is,'' she said with a smile.

In 2013, Hearst began sponsoring an annual event at Alice Tully Hall, with the
money going to the Lincoln Center Corporate Fund, which supports resident arts
groups on the organization's Upper West Side campus.

The honor given out is called the Women's Leadership Award, although so far, it
has only gone to dress designers (Karl Lagerfeld in year one, Stella McCartney
in year two), a possible indication that the main objective is to bring a whole
lot of glittery people under one roof.

And certainly, that was accomplished in its third year. There was Glenda Bailey,
the editor of Harper's Bazaar, a host. Nearby was Joan Collins, one of the few
stars not decked out in Valentino.

''It's from my favorite department store,'' she said of her dress, which came
from Selfridges and shined brighter than an oil tycoon's Cadillac, befitting her
image as the queen of ''Dynasty.'' ''I'm not the right shape for a borrowed
dress.''

Anyway, Ms. Collins looked terrific.

Shortly after 7 p.m., guests moved into the theater, where Ms. Bailey and Ms.
Knightley spoke in superlatives about the Valentino designers Maria Grazia
Chiuri and Pierpaolo Piccioli, who took over the label in 2008, shortly after
the retirement of the company's founder, Valentino Garavani, and have since
become darlings of the fashion world.

Then came a short film about the designers, showing shots of majestic Rome,
along with Ms. Chiuri and Mr. Piccioli working with their seamstresses, using
lots of red and black fabrics, which were cut into fancy Pre-Raphaelite
inspired, floor-sweeping gowns.

After a short speech from the designers, saying how honored they were to be
recognized at a cultural institution as storied as Lincoln Center, Bruce Willis
took the stage to introduce a woman worthy of her own superlatives: Debbie
Harry, style icon, sex symbol, cult star, pioneer.

Over the next 20 minutes, she serenaded the crowd with Blondie hits like ''The
Tide Is High'' and ''Heart of Glass,'' which she performed with a troupe of
Juilliard students on cellos and violins as her musicians.

Mr. Piccioli was among the first in the crowd to stand up and start dancing in
the aisle. ''We grew up with Deborah Harry,'' he said afterward, as guests moved
out front for a late supper. ''It's so punk rock to have her here in couture.''

He had even made sure to get a selfie with her.

''Of course I did,'' he said, whipping out his phone to show it off to a guest.
''She's so cool.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/style/debbie-harry-keira-knightley-valentino.h
tml

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top left, Debbie Harry and Giancarlo Giammetti of Valentino
top right, Bruce Willis and, at right, Emma Willis
above, admiring the work that earned the Lincoln Center Corporate Fund's Women's
Leadership Award, which was presented Monday night.
From left, the actress Diane Kruger, Joan Collins, and Seth Meyers with Keira
Knightley, one of the evening's speakers.
Left, from left, Ivanka Trump, Leonard Lauder and Tommy and Dee Hilfiger
right, from left, Steven Swartz, Hearst's president
Glenda Bailey
the honorees, Pierpaolo Piccioli and Maria Grazia Chiuri
 and Jed Bernstein, Lincoln Center's president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA SMEYNE
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%);
FILM (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); SPONSORSHIP
(70%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (62%); MUSIC (60%); THEATER (50%)

COMPANY: SELFRIDGES PLC (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%)

PERSON: KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (89%); BRUCE WILLIS (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Petition in Britain Calls for Trump to Be Denied Entry to Country

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 509 words


LONDON --  More than 360,000 people, angered by Donald J. Trump's call to ban
the entry of Muslims into the United States, have signed a petition accusing him
of hate speech and asking the British government to bar him from the country.

So many people have signed the online petition that Parliament is now required
to consider debating the matter.

The text of the petition, titled ''Block Donald J. Trump from U.K. entry,''
cited British laws against hate speech.

''The U.K. has banned entry to many individuals for hate speech,'' it says.
''The same principles should apply to everyone who wishes to enter the U.K. If
the United Kingdom is to continue applying the 'unacceptable behavior' criteria
to those who wish to enter its borders, it must be fairly applied to the rich as
well as poor, and the weak as well as powerful.''

The petition is limited to citizens and residents of Britain, although there is
no effort to verify the status of signers, who are asked to provide a British
address and to check a box that reads, ''I am a British citizen or U.K.
resident.''

Although Mr. Trump, a Republican presidential candidate, received support from
some conservative commentators, his call for the United States to shut its
borders to Muslims has prompted an outcry by leading political and cultural
figures across the political spectrum around the world.

Prime Minister David Cameron has denounced Mr. Trump's position as ''divisive,
unhelpful and quite simply wrong,'' while in Egypt he was castigated by the
country's highest religious authority.

Britain, like other European countries, has been grappling with how to tame the
threat of Islamic radicalism, and critics have condemned Mr. Trump's comments
for their potential to further inflame tensions.

Politicians and law enforcement officials here were especially outraged by
comments by Mr. Trump, who leads in most polls, in an interview on the MSNBC
program ''Morning Joe.'' The candidate said parts of London and Paris were so
''radicalized'' that the police were afraid for their own lives.

Tulip Siddiq, a member of Parliament for the opposition Labour party, was quoted
by the BBC as saying that Mr. Trump should be refused entry into Britain. She
called him ''poisonous.''

''I would say to him, You are not welcome in our country, in the same way that
you want to ban people like me going into your country,'' Ms. Siddiq said.

But George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, said that though he found
the remarks objectionable, it would be better to respond to them with robust
democratic debate rather than a ban.

In Scotland, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has withdrawn Mr. Trump's status as
a business ambassador to Scotland, the BBC reported, while  Robert Gordon
University in Aberdeen has stripped Mr. Trump of an honorary degree it bestowed
upon him in 2010 in recognition of his business achievements.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/donald-trump-muslims-british-peti
tion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETITIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES
(76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (70%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (90%); DAVID CAMERON (77%); GEORGE OSBORNE (57%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); EUROPE
(79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Afghans Tell Their Leader: Don't Smile in Pakistan

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND and MUJIB MASHAL; Rod Nordland reported from Islamabad,
and Mujib Mashal from Kabul, Afghanistan. Ihsanullah Tipu Mehsud contributed
reporting from Islamabad.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 701 words


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan --  Afghan political leaders publicly warned President
Ashraf Ghani not to smile when he came to Pakistan for a global conference on
Wednesday, but he soon found that to be hard going.

As the Afghan president stepped off his plane at the Islamabad airport, he was
surprised to discover that the greeting party far exceeded the demands of
protocol, with the Pakistani prime minister and all of the country's military
chiefs on the red carpet along with many other dignitaries, as an honor guard
blasted off a 21-gun salute.

It was the sort of welcome normally reserved for visits from prominent Pakistani
allies like the president of China or the king of Saudi Arabia -- not the leader
of the country next door that has been in a war of words, and from time to time
guns, with Pakistan for years now, with a turn for the worse in recent months.

Mr. Ghani had been under intense domestic pressure not even to come, even though
he was the co-host, with Pakistan, of an event about Afghanistan called the
Heart of Asia conference, attended by every other country in South and Central
Asia. The welcome was a clear indication that Pakistan wants to mend the frayed
relationship.

As many Afghans watched on television, Mr. Ghani did smile a bit at the airport,
and he profusely thanked the Pakistani prime minister for the warm welcome. But
in a speech to his hosts later, he again grimly criticized Pakistan for doing
too little to deprive the Taliban of safe havens here.

''We are fighting on behalf of all of you, but we are the ones who are suffering
some of the worst atrocities,'' Mr. Ghani said.

Mr. Ghani suffered major political damage when he announced plans early this
year to repair relations with the Pakistanis, in an effort to start peace talks
that the Pakistanis said they were willing to facilitate. Then, over the summer,
the Afghans discovered that the Pakistanis had been arranging for them to, in
effect, negotiate with a dead man, as news leaked out that the Taliban leader
Mullah Muhammad Omar had been dead for at least two years.

Many felt the leak about Mullah Omar's death was a deliberate play by the
country's National Directorate of Security, which has long opposed better
relations with Pakistan before the Pakistanis change their policies toward
Afghanistan. Scuttling the talks led Mr. Ghani to reject his earlier efforts to
reconcile with Pakistan.

Only in recent weeks have there been some early, tentative steps to restart
peace talks with the Taliban, a process that Afghanistan's Western allies say
requires Pakistan's support.

But Mr. Ghani's government had demanded a series of guarantees from Pakistan
before resuming warmer relations, none of which it had received. Hence the
pressure on him not to attend Wednesday's one-day conference, which was billed
as an attempt to promote economic and security cooperation among Afghanistan and
its neighbors. The exact demands are not known, but are believed to include
guarantees to remove Taliban safe havens in Pakistan, improve treatment of
Afghan refugees, and end the treatment of Taliban wounded in Pakistani
hospitals.

The United States government had pressed hard for Mr. Ghani not to boycott the
meeting.

Pakistani officials also had demands of their own, including that Afghanistan
stop allowing Pakistani Taliban fighters to use sanctuaries on its side of the
border, and stop officials' frequent condemnation of Pakistan.

The daylong meeting included sideline negotiations with the Americans and
Chinese, as well as a meeting between the Indian and Pakistani foreign
ministers.

Afterward, a joint statement from Afghanistan, Pakistan and the United States
called for immediate efforts to restart peace talks between the Afghan
government and the Taliban. The time between now and April, when fighting
usually intensifies with warming weather, was discussed as the best window of
opportunity to make progress.

At a news conference, the Afghan foreign minister, Salahuddin Rabbani, held out
hope for the efforts on peace talks. ''We very much hope that this effort will
result in a result-oriented peace process where we see some policy moves in the
coming weeks,'' Mr. Rabbani said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/afghanistan-pakistan-ashraf-ghani-v
isit.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE
& GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: ASHRAF GHANI AHMADZAI (92%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (54%)

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (90%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (98%); PAKISTAN (98%); ASIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%);
SOUTH CENTRAL ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arab-Israeli Parliament Member Sees Prospect for Peace

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 515 words


A prominent Arab-Israeli member of Israel's Parliament whose party alliance made
strong gains in the last election expressed optimism on Wednesday about the
future of a more inclusive Israeli democracy and the creation of a Palestinian
state.

Despite the recent spikes in violence, polarization and the paralyzed peace
process in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Parliament member, Ayman Odeh,
said he was hopeful in part because his alliance of Arab parties, known as the
Joint List, had done so well in the March voting, an achievement that captured
widespread attention.

The Joint List won 13 seats, making it the third-largest voting bloc in the
120-seat Parliament and a potentially influential opposition force in Israel's
complicated matrix of political alliances.

While a coalition of conservative and religious parties loyal to Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu won a majority of seats and returned him to power, support
for the Joint List candidates among Israel's 1.7 million Arab citizens -- 20
percent of the population -- was one of the striking outcomes of the vote.

''We are living proof that Arabs and Jews can refuse to be enemies,'' Mr. Odeh,
40, a lawyer from the northern city of Haifa who views the Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X as role models, said in an interview with The New
York Times, speaking in a mix of English and Hebrew.

Although Mr. Odeh said the Joint List candidates captured only about 10,000
Jewish votes, ''many parts of the Jewish population were able for the first time
to hear us.''

An ardent opponent of Mr. Netanyahu and the Israeli occupation of Palestinian
lands since the 1967 war, Mr. Odeh described the Israeli prime minister as ''the
main problem'' in the Israeli-Palestinian impasse.

He rejected suggestions by some Israeli politicians that an independent
Palestine is impossible.

''There is no other solution'' except a Palestinian state side by side with
Israel, he said. ''Israel cannot be a democracy if it occupies land of other
people.''

Mr. Odeh also said that as a legislator, he would push for greater rights and
improved livelihoods among his fellow Arab-Israelis, who are in many cases
poorer and less educated than Israeli Jews.

''We are a large minority,'' Mr. Odeh said, and the future of Israeli society
''can't be without us.''

Mr. Odeh said that while the Joint List did not envision any possible future
governing coalition with the Zionist Union, Israel's leading opposition party,
''we are willing to see all the options.''

Mr. Odeh was visiting New York as part of his first trip to the United States as
a member of Israel's Parliament, the Knesset, with an itinerary that included
meetings in Washington with lawmakers like Representative Keith Ellison,
Democrat of Minnesota, and Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia.

He also met with diplomats at the United Nations and is attending a Manhattan
conference on Israel starting Sunday sponsored by Haaretz, the Israeli
newspaper, and the New Israel Fund, an organization that advocates pluralism and
minority rights in Israel.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/israeli-arab-lawmaker-admirer
-of-civil-rights-heroes-visits-america.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS
(90%); POLITICS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%);
CONSERVATISM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%);
INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); MINORITY
GROUPS (73%); RELIGION (68%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Eye on Trump, Obama Calls for an End to Bigotry

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 723 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama on Wednesday called for Americans to reject
''bigotry in all its forms'' and keep pressing for equality ''no matter what
ugliness might bubble up,'' appearing to use the 150th anniversary of the
constitutional amendment abolishing slavery to challenge the incendiary
anti-Muslim politics espoused by Donald J. Trump.

At a ceremony at the Capitol attended by congressional leaders and civil rights
activists, Mr. Obama sought to place the end of slavery in the broader context
of the nation's troubled history, saying the issue ''was never simply about
civil rights; it was about the meaning of America, the kind of country we wanted
to be.''

But he also made subtle reference to the roiling political debate that is
consuming the 2016 presidential race, implicitly rebuking Mr. Trump, the
Republican front-runner in the polls, who has proposed temporarily barring
foreign Muslims from entering the United States.

''Our freedom is bound up with the freedom of others, regardless of what they
look like, or where they come from, or what their last name is or what faith
they practice,'' Mr. Obama said in the Capitol Visitor Center's Emancipation
Hall, filled with statues and busts of human rights leaders including Sojourner
Truth.

His voice rose considerably as he mentioned ''faith,'' and many attendees,
including Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader,
gave him a standing ovation at the reference. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the
Democratic leader, however, remained seated, along with Speaker Paul D. Ryan of
Wisconsin and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.

''We betray the efforts of the past if we fail to push back against bigotry in
all its forms,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We betray our most noble past as well if we
were to deny the possibility of movement, the possibility of progress -- if we
were to let cynicism consume us and fear overwhelm us, if we lost hope.''

The president did not mention Mr. Trump in his remarks. The White House said Mr.
Obama had not intended to speak directly to Mr. Trump in his speech, nor had any
language been ''newly inserted'' to respond to one individual.

''This is quite consistent with the message the president has been delivering
for a number of years,'' said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary,
when asked about the comments during a briefing with reporters. ''It stands in
quite stark contrast to the language, message and values that is being
promulgated not only by Mr. Trump, but by a variety of Republican candidates in
the presidential field.''

The ceremony drew congressional leaders from both parties, as well as a group of
black lawmakers who took turns recounting the process by which the 13th
Amendment was passed in Congress and then ratified by the states, reaching the
requisite three-fourths of the states on Dec. 6, 1865, when Georgia ratified it.

''At long last, we stopped poisoning the soul of our country with the atrocity
of slavery,'' Ms. Pelosi said.

Mr. Ryan noted that black soldiers fought in segregated forces during the Civil
War and said the simple wording of the 43-word amendment belied its
significance. ''We have witnessed true greatness in this country,'' he said.
''And when we ratified the 13th Amendment, we committed ourselves to building a
country just as great.''

In his remarks, Mr. Obama returned to themes he has sounded throughout his
presidency -- but with increasing frequency during his second term --
acknowledging the painful legacy and lingering scars of slavery and racial
discrimination, as well as the potential for moving beyond them that he has come
to embody as the nation's first black president.

''That's what we celebrate today, the long arc of progress,'' Mr. Obama said.
''Progress that is never assured, never guaranteed, but always possible, always
there to be earned, no matter how stuck we might seem sometimes, however divided
or despairing we might appear, no matter what ugliness might bubble up.''

He said Americans would ''do a disservice'' to those who fought for an end to
slavery ''were we to deny that the scars of our nation's original sin are still
with us today.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/president-obama-thirteenth-amendme
nt-slavery-bigotry-donald-trump.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke at Emancipation Hall on Wednesday, noting
the 150th anniversary of the amendment abolishing slavery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); HUMAN
RIGHTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SLAVERY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(76%); RELIGION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); POLITICAL
DEBATES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL
(56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%); HARRY REID (56%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Manziel Calls His Benching 'a Hard Lesson'

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 489 words


Speaking to reporters for the first time since being demoted last month for
off-the-field behavior, Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel did not apologize for
his actions, offered no promises and said he felt fortunate to be back in the
starting lineup for this weekend's game against San Francisco.

''I was forced to learn a hard lesson,'' he said. ''I had to learn the hard way,
and I'm lucky to be back in the position that I'm in and being the starter
again, so I'm definitely not taking that lightly. That's for sure.''

Browns Coach Mike Pettine punished Manziel after a video surfaced of Manziel
holding a champagne bottle and rapping profane lyrics at a club in Austin, Tex.

Manziel's start on Sunday will be his first since he passed for a career-high
372 yards against Pittsburgh on Nov. 15.

REVIS ATTENDS PRACTICE Cornerback Darrelle Revis rejoined his Jets teammates,
attending practice for the first time since sustaining a concussion Nov. 22.

''He ran a little bit on the side,'' Coach Todd Bowles said, ''so that was
encouraging.''

Revis has missed two games while going through the N.F.L.'s concussion protocol,
and it was uncertain if he would be cleared in time to play against Tennessee on
Sunday.

KELLY REBUTS RUMORS Eagles Coach Chip Kelly said running back DeMarco Murray was
unhappy that he had only eight carries in a win over the New England Patriots on
Sunday, but Kelly denied rumors that Murray had undercut coaches by speaking
with the team's owner, Jeffrey Lurie.

Kelly rebutted the notion that Murray had sought out Lurie, saying that Murray,
the N.F.L's rushing leader last season, simply sat next to Lurie on the plane
ride home from Massachusetts.

Murray played only 14 snaps in the game.

''He only got 14 snaps, but the offense as a whole only got 50 snaps,'' Kelly
said. ''The offense was just not on the field a lot.''

BRONCOS' MANNING THROWS Peyton Manning threw indoors on his own for the first
time in three and a half weeks.

Manning has been sidelined since Nov. 15 with a torn plantar fascia in his left
foot, sore ribs and a sore throwing shoulder.

Brock Osweiler, who is 3-0 in Manning's place, will make his fourth start when
the Broncos host the Raiders on Sunday.

INGRAM'S SEASON OVER The Saints placed running back Mark Ingram on injured
reserve, ending his season. Ingram is the team's leader in yards from scrimmage
with 1,174 this season, including 769 yards rushing. He also rushed for six
touchdowns.

RAMS LOSE TWO DEFENDERS The Rams lost two defensive stalwarts for the rest of
the season, with end Robert Quinn set to have back surgery and safety T. J.
McDonald headed for a shoulder procedure.

INJURED JAGUAR MAY PLAY Jaguars linebacker Paul Posluszny had surgery to repair
a broken right hand but was not ruled out against Indianapolis.

A TITAN RETURNS Tennessee running back Dexter McCluster returned to practice
after missing two games with an injured right knee.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/football/nfl-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); CONCUSSIONS (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); BRAIN INJURIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES
(54%)

PERSON: PEYTON MANNING (79%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (56%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (76%); NORTHEAST USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Willing to Use Attack Helicopters to Help Iraqis Fight ISIS

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER, MATTHEW ROSENBERG and MICHAEL R. GORDON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 995 words


WASHINGTON --  The United States is prepared to deploy attack helicopters and
additional advisers to help Iraqi forces in their long-running battle to retake
the city of Ramadi from the Islamic State, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter
said Wednesday.

For several months now, the Iraqi security forces have been advancing on the
city, cordoning it off and surrounding it. It has been a slog, Pentagon
officials say, because of entrenched Islamic State positions.

But as the forces make what they have billed as their final push into the city
center, which will entail urban warfare, defense officials say they are
considering the use of American attack helicopters. Such a move would deepen
American involvement in the war and could bring helicopter pilots under
increased risk from ground fire, but the Pentagon views it as a necessary step.

''The United States is prepared to assist the Iraqi Army with additional unique
capabilities to help them finish the job, including attack helicopters and
accompanying advisers, if circumstances dictate and if requested by Prime
Minister Abadi,'' Mr. Carter told a hearing Wednesday of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, referring to Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq.

But officials said they did not envision using the American helicopters until
the effort to retake Ramadi reached a critical point and such a move would be
necessary to finish the job.

An American military official, who asked not to be identified because he was
discussing internal deliberations, said the offer to provide Apache helicopters
and field advisers had recently been conveyed privately to Mr. Abadi. Mr. Abadi
-- who is under pressure from hard-line Shiite politicians backed by Iran not to
accept an expanded American role in Iraq -- neither accepted nor rejected the
proposal, suggesting that he would weigh the offer on a case-by-case basis,
according to American and Iraqi officials.

Currently, the American trainers and advisers who have been working with Iraqi
troops stay on bases in Iraq. If advisers were to be deployed in the field, they
would be attached to select Iraqi brigades.

David H. Petraeus, the former United States commander, has told Congress that
the United States should consider advising Iraqi forces in the field at the
brigade level.

The Obama administration and the Abadi government are each walking tightropes in
order to navigate the fight against the Islamic State amid the Shiite-Sunni
divide in Iraq.

Shiite militia leaders and politicians who are close to Iran seem to be more
concerned with limiting the scope of the American involvement in Iraq than in
having the Iraqi government quickly retake Ramadi, the capital of
Sunni-dominated Anbar Province. But the United States is concerned that the
Iraqi offensive, which is being carried out by the Iraqi Army, may drag on.

Obama administration officials debated in June whether American Apache attack
helicopters should be used to retake Ramadi, but the White House only recently
decided to offer that option to the Iraqis.

On Tuesday, Iraqi security forces recaptured a onetime military police
headquarters in northern Ramadi from the Islamic State, a Pentagon official
said, and Iraq's joint military command said that Iraqi forces, aided by
American airstrikes, had retaken 60 percent of Ramadi. But Iraqi forces have yet
to cross the river into the city center, where the real urban combat is expected
to take place.

Iraqi forces have dropped leaflets on Ramadi urging residents to flee via the
south.

Ramadi fell to the Islamic State in May after Iraqi forces withdrew en masse, an
embarrassment that caused Mr. Carter to openly question their will to fight. In
July, Iraqi forces began the slow grind to retake the city, and they have worked
to isolate and cordon it off since.

Retaking the Sunni heartland city is viewed as a key to the administration's
efforts to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

''There is some risk in using attack helicopters,'' said a senior Defense
Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''But it is one
that we're willing to do because we think it's important to help finish the
fighting in Ramadi. It's going to take time, but we're willing to do that next
step.''

Pentagon officials said that the United States was pushing its allies in Europe
and the Persian Gulf to provide more than just attack aircraft in the fight
against the Islamic State, specifically looking for them to provide Special
Operations troops in Syria, as well as security training for moderate forces
fighting the Islamic State.

''We're asking them to step it up in our efforts in Syria, in particular,'' the
official said.

During the hearing, Mr. Carter expressed frustration with Sunni Arab allies who
he said could do more to help with the effort against the Islamic State. ''I,
too, wish that particularly the Sunni Arab nations of the gulf would do more,''
Mr. Carter said.

Pentagon officials attributed the recent Iraqi successes in Ramadi to new
equipment provided by the United States and a shift in training to emphasize
combat engineering rather than counterinsurgency.

During the hearing, Mr. Carter got into the usual back and forth with Senator
John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who has pushed for more American troops to
be sent to fight the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.

''There are 20,000 to 30,000 of them,'' Mr. McCain said. ''They are not giants.
Somebody is going to have to convince me that air power alone'' is enough to
defeat the militant Sunni extremist group.

Mr. Carter countered that a large American deployment could do more harm that
good. ''By seeming to Americanize the conflicts in Iraq and Syria,'' he said,
''we could well turn those fighting ISIL or inclined to resist their rule into
fighting us instead.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/islamic-state-ramadi-fight.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A member of the Iraqi security forces on Monday near Ramadi,
where the army has been advancing on Islamic State militants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
AHMAD AL-RUBAYE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE
LEVANT (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE
DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (87%); PRIME MINISTERS
(87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); DEFENSE &
MILITARY POLICY (71%)

PERSON: HAIDER AL-ABADI (92%); ASHTON CARTER (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS (52%); BARACK
OBAMA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trucker Cited for Running Light in Mayor's Path

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 249 words


Call it failure to yield to a mayor.

A truck driver found himself pulled over by Mayor Bill de Blasio's security
detail on Wednesday morning after he allegedly ran a red light -- and was
heading toward the path of the mayor, who was about to step into a crosswalk on
his way to an appointment in Midwood, Brooklyn.

Mr. de Blasio, who has made traffic safety an early priority of his
administration, flagged the violation to his police detail, a member of which
flipped on the lights and sirens of a mayoral S.U.V. The truck promptly pulled
to the side of the road.

The episode, described by officials in City Hall, led to the truck's owner and
its driver receiving citations for 13 violations total, including defective
lights, an improperly secured muffler and failure to yield to a pedestrian (a
particularly powerful one).

A spokesman for the mayor identified the truck's driver as Franky Matarrese and
its owner as Rav Aphraemov. Neither could immediately be reached for comment.

The spokesman, Peter Kadushin, said that the truck was uninsured and bore a
license plate from a dealership. He said that the driver's license did not
permit him to drive a truck. The episode was reported online on Wednesday by The
Daily News.

Law enforcement and public safety have been focuses of Mr. de Blasio's
administration in recent months. ''The mayor frequently alerts commissioners or
agencies when he travels around the city and sees problems that need immediate
attention,'' Mr. Kadushin said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/trucker-cited-for-running-light-in-ma
yor-bill-de-blasios-path.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%);
CITIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY (76%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thursday's Matchup: Vikings (8-4) at Cardinals (10-2)

BYLINE: By BRETT MICHAEL DYKES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 196 words


8:25 p.m. Eastern, NFL Network

Line: Cardinals by 8 ½

The Packers trailed the Lions by 17-0 last Thursday and looked well on their way
to their fifth loss in six games. Three days later, the Vikings faced the
Seahawks at home with a chance to take control of the N.F.C. North.

Green Bay went on to beat Detroit with a Hail Mary, and Minnesota was crushed,
38-7, dropping into a tie for the division lead with the Packers.

''We're not quite as good as we think we are,'' Vikings Coach Mike Zimmer told
reporters. Adrian Peterson said he thought the team had been ''outcoached'' in
addition to being outplayed.

Minnesota also lost perhaps its three best defensive players -- safety Harrison
Smith, linebacker Anthony Barr and nose tackle Linval Joseph -- and all three
have been ruled out for Thursday's game against the Cardinals.

Arizona's N.F.L.-best offense is led by Carson Palmer, who has a full complement
of weapons now that receivers John Brown and Michael Floyd appear back to full
health. The rookie David Johnson could also be poised for a solid game. He had
99 rushing yards and two catches for 21 yards and a score on Sunday in his first
start.

Pick: Cardinals




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/football/minnesota-vikings-at-arizona-c
ardinals.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arizona's Carson Palmer, against St. Louis on Sunday, leads the
N.F.L.'s top offense. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASEN VINLOVE/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA
REUTERS) GRAPHICS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (94%); MINNESOTA
VIKINGS (93%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (91%); DETROIT LIONS (84%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS
(58%)

PERSON: CARSON PALMER (92%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cruz the Gruff Taking a Turn at Being Nice

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words


HARLAN, Iowa --  Senator Ted Cruz had been at it for several minutes, offering
handshakes and uneasy smiles, when he encountered an apparent holdout in the
crowd.

Mr. Cruz squatted. He squinted. He had heard something about a toy collection.
And so, about three feet above the floor of an American Legion hall here, the
senator began his questioning.

''You have lots of toys?'' he asked 3-year-old Isaac Josselyn. Nothing.

''What's your favorite toy?'' More silence.

''Do you have a dinosaur?'''

''Do you have a fire truck?''

''You have a toy monkey?''

Isaac stared blankly.

''A toy monkey!'' Mr. Cruz shouted, revving for a punch line no one understood.
''You know what that means? You get to be the monkey in the house!''

Isaac shuffled away. Mr. Cruz turned quickly to an adult well-wisher. ''I'm glad
you're here,'' he said softly.

Less than two months before voting begins, Mr. Cruz, of Texas, has vaulted into
the Republican presidential race's top tier as the consummate Washington bomb
thrower -- wagging fingers, pounding lecterns and gleefully accumulating enemies
in both parties.

Now comes the hard part: making friends.

As his crowds swell in Iowa and he battles with Donald J. Trump to lock down the
party's more conservative voters, Mr. Cruz -- appraised as grating and pompous
as a matter of bipartisan consensus -- is working diligently at the simple task
of establishing human connections.

It is a bigger lift than it might seem. Mr. Cruz appears keenly aware of his
charm deficit, acknowledging in private that his retail campaigning skills can
lag behind his grasp of policy. At a debate in October, he became perhaps the
first candidate in modern history to declare himself unappealing bar company.

''If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy,'' he said,
when asked to name a weakness. ''But if you want someone to drive you home, I
will get the job done and I will get you home.''

Mr. Cruz, a college debating champion, seems to be taking an almost academic
approach to achieving likability, that know-it-when-you-see-it magnetism that
has for decades been central to campaign fortunes.

While many candidates stick to their stump speech script, a Cruz performance can
appear obsessively calibrated, down to the dramatic pauses deployed identically
from event to event.

He is folksy by memorization, ticking off tales of college football woe or a
drawling West Texas farmer with the precision of mass repetition.

He does voices, recreating extended scenes, with multiple characters, from ''The
Simpsons'' and ''The Princess Bride'' before students and churchgoers.

His vocabulary can seem culled from another era, flecked with flourishes like
''Jiminy Cricket!''

He occasionally tells uncomfortable sex jokes, recalling the 50-cent condoms
available in his college bathroom or musing about his great-grandparents' 17
children: ''They were Irish Catholic. They didn't know what else to do on a
Saturday night.''

Some key phrases, like ''simple flat tax'' and ''Reagan revolution,'' are
growled for effect. He almost always transitions to the audience participation
segment of the program with the same line: ''I'm happy to answer or dodge any
questions.''

When voters descend for photographs, an aide often whispers stage directions in
Mr. Cruz's ear -- ''girl to your left,'' ''over here,'' ''we've got to go'' --
calling to mind the television show ''Veep.''

As cameras click, his lower lip quivers as he smiles, as if allergic to the top,
settling into a sort of smirk. His eyes narrow in parallel.

Event attendees are almost universally grateful to meet Mr. Cruz, admiring the
fights he has waged in Washington and his frequent invocation of his faith.
Still, even firm supporters often strain to define his personal appeal.

''His memory is fantastic,'' said Bernard Beary, 57, of Chariton, Iowa.

''He's just cool,'' said Marlene Harder, 63, from Butterfield, Minn.

''You're the greatest on earth,'' Mary Jane Narigon, Mr. Cruz's chairwoman for
Ringgold County, Iowa, said simply as the candidate entered a pizza shop in
Mount Ayr recently.

A Cruz spokeswoman, Catherine Frazier, disputed her boss's uncharitable
self-assessment from the debate, citing enjoyable social outings with him. She
suggested that Americans would increasingly come to appreciate his personality,
and his patience.

''Cruz is a candidate who voters want to sit down with and spend time with,''
Ms. Frazier said, noting that unlike some competitors, he regularly took
questions from all comers at his events and stayed afterward until he had met
everyone.

Elsewhere, though, Mr. Cruz's disposition has rarely been described warmly. A
college roommate has said he would prefer as president anyone else in the United
States, chosen at random from a phone book. In 2013, three months into Mr.
Cruz's tenure, Foreign Policy magazine identified him as both ''the most hated
man in the Senate'' and ''the human equivalent of one of those flower-squirters
that clowns wear on their lapels.''

Relations have not improved. Congressional colleagues are as likely to cite his
arrogance as his ideological tilt when explaining their disdain. Some have
likened a private conversation with Mr. Cruz to watching Fox News without any
cameras. There is no off switch, no apparent thirst for collegiality.

''Ronald Reagan had a personality that enabled him to persuade people of diverse
ideologies to support his point of view,'' said Josh Holmes, the former chief to
staff to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. ''Ted Cruz persuades people who
share his ideology to oppose his point of view.''

On the trail, Mr. Cruz coyly presents his Senate reputation as a positive.
Arriving to cheers at an Iowa stop recently, he observed, ''That's a little
different from the reception I get in Washington.''

But while it is clear that he has taken care to harness some Capitol Hill
reflexes -- avoiding becoming confrontational, for instance, when approached by
a disagreeable questioner -- others have been difficult to shake.

Mr. Cruz has a habit of speaking apocalyptically, even when responding to the
questions of children.

In New Hampshire in March, he appeared to rouse a 3-year-old girl when he
declared that the world was ''on fire.''

''The world's on fire?'' she asked.

''The world is on fire, yes,'' Mr. Cruz replied. ''Your world is on fire. But
you know what? Your mommy's here and everyone's here to make sure that the world
you grow up in is even better.''

In Lamoni, Iowa, last month, when a 12-year-old girl asked about Syrian
refugees, Mr. Cruz revisited the trope.

''The Middle East is on fire,'' he began.

If nothing else, as he zips through early-voting states, working to establish
eye contact and fine-tune anecdotes, Mr. Cruz's persistence is clear. A recent
day in Iowa began with a midmorning event in Sioux City and ended, some 14 hours
later, as Mr. Cruz took questions and signed autographs after a religious forum
in Des Moines. Rivals like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida had long since slipped
out.

As the room began to empty, an 8-year-old named Grace presented Mr. Cruz a
chance at redemption with the nonvoting set. He asked her age and complimented
her hat, observing that it featured a character from the movie ''Frozen.''

''Can I get a fist bump?'' Mr. Cruz asked. Grace obliged.

''Whoosh!'' the senator said, stretching his fingers on contact to simulate an
explosion.

Grace walked off smiling. The space was nearly bare now, and an aide signaled
that it was safe to wrap up.

''Excellent,'' Mr. Cruz said, finding himself alone again.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/after-making-enemies-ted-cruz-work
s-at-making-friends.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has built his political career
on his gruff manner, is now trying hard to become more likable. Left, in Newton,
Iowa, last month, he showed Sally Vandall, 5, a photo of his daughters on the
back of his book. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SCOTT MORGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%);
VOTERS & VOTING (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES
(69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (66%); HISTORY (61%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (58%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (93%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Thomas Piketty to India's Elite: 'Learn From History'

BYLINE: By MANU JOSEPH.

Manu Joseph is author of the novel ''The Illicit Happiness of Other People.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM INDIA; Pg.

LENGTH: 646 words


MUMBAI, India -- Many people in the room were seeking Thomas Piketty's
attention, but what caught his eye was a small photograph of Bill Gates in a
newspaper. ''My friend,'' he said with a chuckle.

In his recent, celebrated book, ''Capital in the Twenty-First Century,'' Mr.
Piketty, a French economist, argues that billionaires should be taxed heavily,
as a way of dealing with the growing inequality that he sees as being as harmful
for the economy as for society. Mr. Gates, he said, had wished to meet him, but
invited him ''to another planet,'' by which Mr. Piketty meant someplace outside
Europe. ''So we Skyped.''

Yet, Mr. Piketty seemed happy to be on another planet last week, visiting Mumbai
for a major cultural event, Times Litfest, where he gave a lecture on India as a
vastly unequal place. Afterward, he was mobbed by fans, some of whom introduced
themselves by way of the American universities they had attended. ''Harvard,''
one man said. ''Harvard,'' the man's wife, too, said.

After he fled to the authors' lounge, Mr. Piketty told me that he found the
elite of India ''hypocritical'' for urging their government to address
inequality by pouring resources into economic development, like building
infrastructure or helping selected industries. This is self-serving, he says,
and only increases the gap between the rich and the poor. In his opinion,
governments should find the means to invest more in social welfare, like primary
education and health care.

Before the world wars, he said, ''the French elite used to say the same things
that the Indian elite now say, that inequality would be reduced with rising
development.'' But after the wars, he said, the French began to see that direct
investment in welfare was the way forward.

''I hope the Indian elite learn from the stupid mistakes of the other elites,''
he said. ''Learn from history.''

India is just emerging from what many regard as a catastrophic experiment in a
type of socialism, the sort that economists like Amartya Sen, the Nobel
laureate, say was not socialism in the first place, because it neglected health
care and primary education. What the Indian elite learned from that history was
to fear and loathe the idea of the welfare state.

In 1991, India reached the nadir of an economic crisis that forced it, in
exchange for a financial rescue from the International Monetary Fund, to begin
liberalizing its economy along the free market lines that were championed then
by Washington. In the years that followed, the rich and the educated benefited
the most, though the poor are better off today than they were before those
changes.

Having prospered in recent decades, the Indian elite have faith in this economic
model. But there is also a wide acceptance that India's inadequate investments
in education and health are holding the nation back.

''The problems India is trying to solve are problems other countries are trying
to solve,'' Mr. Piketty had said during his lecture. ''India is trying to solve
very complicated problems.''

Mr. Piketty sees the harmful effects of inequality behind many of the world's
problems today. After the recent attacks in Paris, he said that gross inequality
in the Middle East might have contributed to terrorism, though that could not be
the only factor. It cannot explain why India's 180 million Muslims, most of them
poor, have so far been a moderate population. Or why so many militant leaders,
like Osama bin Laden, often emerge from the economic elite, or at least from the
middle class.

''The reasons for terrorism are complex,'' he told me.

Mr. Piketty himself is a rich man now, his book having sold more than a million
copies. Has that led him to acquire any new sympathies for the rich?

''I pay 60 percent as tax,'' he said. ''I would like to pay 90 percent.'' He
grew a bit thoughtful and said, ''I would like to pay 95 percent.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/thomas-piketty-inequality-india-mum
bai.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY
EDUCATION (86%); WRITERS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%);
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(67%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY FOX INC (58%)

TICKER: FOX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS
(58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%)

CITY: MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (88%)

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (88%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anthony and Knicks Have No Shot in Utah

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; JAZZ 106, KNICKS 85; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 820 words


SALT LAKE CITY --  Carmelo Anthony reclined on a padded seat Wednesday morning,
speaking of his shooting touch as an impermanent entity, a feeling that comes
and goes without much warning.

''Some days the rhythm is kind of there,'' he said as the Knicks wound down
their morning shootaround, ''and some days the rhythm is not.''

That night, the Knicks lost to the Utah Jazz, 106-85, and it was clear within
moments of the opening tipoff that Anthony's shooting rhythm had not made it to
Salt Lake City.

Anthony heaved up two shots within the first 65 seconds and missed them both.
The Knicks had already fallen behind, 23-8, when Anthony launched his third
attempt, from 21 feet, which clanged wide. With about four minutes left in the
quarter, Anthony drew a shooting foul in the paint, but he made only one of his
two free throws.

It went like that all night. One minute later, Anthony brought the ball up the
court and pulled up at the top of the 3-point arc for his fourth field-goal
attempt, which missed well short. A minute after that, he took a seat on the
bench and watched as the Knicks finished the quarter on the wrong end of a 29-11
score.

The game was over, and there were still three full periods left to play. Anthony
scored just 12 points while shooting 3 of 11 from the field and had four
turnovers.

''Personally, as a competitor, it kind of gets frustrating because I know I put
so much work in on those parts of my game,'' Anthony said Monday morning of his
recent play. ''When it doesn't work out, I kind of beat myself up.''

The frustration kept building as the Knicks, who were starting a three-game
trip, lost for the seventh time in nine games.

After the game, Coach Derek Fisher said the Knicks needed to disregard their
early success this season and ''make sure we're approaching this as though we're
not that good yet.''

In Anthony's previous five games before Wednesday, he shot 36.6 percent from the
field and 33.3 percent from 3-point range and averaged 17.2 points, 5.4 rebounds
and 3.4 assists in 32.3 minutes per game. He missed one game in that span
because of illness.

Speaking before the game, Fisher played down the important of shooting
percentages.

''Quite frankly, at times we haven't played well offensively, and that's going
to affect field-goal percentages,'' Fisher said of Anthony. ''He's doing
everything we're asking him to do. And we just have to keep working at it.''

To be sure, it was not just Anthony. The Knicks, as a whole, were atrocious.

They shot 31 of 78 (39.7 percent) as a team. Kristaps Porzingis made 2 of 8 from
the field and finished with 4 points and 3 rebounds in 13 minutes.

The Jazz, on the other hand, got 24 points from Gordon Hayward and 20 from
Derrick Favors and shot 39 of 80 (48.8 percent) as a team.

''They played probably their best game so far this season, and we played our
worst game,'' Anthony said afterward. ''Anytime you dig yourself a hole that
early, it's hard to fight that battle.''

Anthony scored 5 points at the free-throw line, another area of irritation for
him  Wednesday morning. Two days after receiving a technical foul after arguing
with a referee over a perceived noncall, he expressed displeasure with what he
described as a dearth of foul calls in his favor.

''I always get fouled,'' he said after the team's morning workout.

Before Wednesday's game, Anthony was averaging 0.310 free-throw attempts per
field-goal attempts this season, far below his career average of 0.383. The
figure reflected a general downward trend in his 13 N.B.A. seasons. Before the
game, he was averaging 5.7 free-throw attempts per game, which ranked 19th in
the league.

To Anthony, it has not been enough. As he sees it, his physical style and
willingness to sacrifice his body in the paint have been drawing all sorts of
contact that has gone unpenalized.

''You play so hard, you work so hard, and then you don't benefit from that,'' he
said. ''Then you look at other guys that you touch, or you look at them wrong,
and they get fouls. So it's a frustrating thing for me as a guy who likes to go
to the basket and likes to play in the paint and likes to be physical and play
physical.''

Anthony was asked if he had ever heard an explanation from officials. He said
that he had heard on multiple occasions that he was one of the most difficult
players in the league to referee, and that his aggressive moves often made it
unclear which player was creating contact.

It did not help, Anthony said, that his size and strength allowed him to stay in
motion, while weaker, lighter players might stop upon feeling contact and earn a
whistle. Anthony said flopping was common in the league, but he explained with a
smile that he did not know how to do it.

''I won't even look right trying to do that,'' he said of playacting. ''I won't
even feel right trying to do that move.''

But not much has felt right for Anthony lately.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/basketball/utah-jazz-beat-new-york-knic
ks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Knicks' Kristaps Porzingis, shooting against Derrick Favors,
finished with only 4 points. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (77%); SPORT FISHING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UTAH JAZZ (57%)

PERSON: CARMELO ANTHONY (92%)

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (89%)

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Left Behind No Longer

BYLINE: By DAVID L. KIRP.

David L. Kirp is a professor of public policy at the University of California,
Berkeley, and a senior fellow at the Learning Policy Institute.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 943 words


THE No Child Left Behind law will soon be consigned to the dustbin of history.
With a rare display of bipartisanship, Congress has overhauled federal education
policy. The law's successor, the Every Student Succeeds Act, is headed for the
president's desk, and he has signaled his intention to sign it.

Good riddance to a misbegotten law. Will its replacement be any better?

No Child Left Behind, on the books since 2002, was supposed to close achievement
gaps for disadvantaged students (racial and ethnic minorities, low-income
students, youngsters with special needs and English learners) and to eliminate
what President George W. Bush decried as ''the soft bigotry of low
expectations.'' The goal was audacious -- by 2014, the law decreed, 100 percent
of students would perform at grade level.

Instead, things have gotten worse by almost every measure. SAT scores have
declined, as have the scores of American students, compared with their
counterparts in other nations, on the PISA (Program for International Student
Assessment) exam. The rate of progress on the National Assessment of Educational
Progress, the nation's report card, was actually higher, both over all and for
specific demographic groups, during the decade before No Child Left Behind than
after it was passed.

At the same time, the law's aspiration morphed into a high-stakes target for
accountability -- not for the politicians, with their unachievable demands, but
for school officials who were given an impossible burden of meeting annual
testing goals. Under the law, schools that didn't make ''adequate yearly
progress'' faced ever more draconian sanctions, including wholesale
reorganization and closings.

As a result, public schools have turned into pressure cookers. Teachers are
pushed to improve test results. A vanishingly small amount of time is spent on
art, music and sports, because they aren't part of the testing regime. Students
have become test-taking robots, sitting through as many as 20 standardized exams
a year.

The Obama administration initially acted as if the miracle of 2014, with every
student proficient in math and reading, would come to pass. But in 2012, when it
became clear that the achievement gap wasn't about to vanish, the Department of
Education started giving waivers to states that wanted to devise their own
definition of adequate yearly progress. While almost every state has gotten an
official permission slip, federal bureaucrats retained the final word on whether
a state's plan would pass muster, and those waivers were conditioned on
commitments to adopt administration-approved education reforms. In effect the
department has been relying on waivers to rewrite No Child Left Behind.

The Every Student Succeeds Act shifts, for the first time since the Reagan
years, the balance of power in education away from Washington and back to the
states. That's a welcome about-face.

No longer can the Department of Education deploy the power of the purse, as it
did with ''Race to the Top'' challenge grants, to prod states into adopting
dubious policies like using students' standardized test scores to judge teachers
or expanding the number of charter schools. Now those decisions are left to the
states.

The dread ''annual yearly progress'' requirement is gone, as are the escalating
series of consequences inflicted on school districts that don't measure up.
States must intervene to help the weakest 5 percent of all schools, high schools
that graduate fewer than 67 percent of their students on time (the national norm
exceeds 80 percent) and schools where a subgroup of students ''consistently
underperforms.'' But the states, not Washington, determine how to turn things
around. That's accountability with a needed dollop of flexibility.

While states are still required to test students annually in reading and math
from third to eighth grade, and at least once in high school, they have a freer
hand in designing those tests. What's more, those standardized tests count for
less in evaluating schools. At least one other measure of academic improvement,
like graduation rates and, for nonnative speakers, proficiency in English, must
be included. And a student performance measure, like grit or school climate, has
to be part of the evaluation equation. This multipronged approach should make it
easier for educators to replace some drill-and-kill memorization with more
hands-on learning and critical thinking.

Civil rights groups have been tepid in their support for the legislation because
they fear that some states will revert to the neglect of minority students that
drove Congress to pass No Child Left Behind. They have history on their side:
''Leave it to the states'' was disastrous for minority students. Will this time
be different? The new law maintains the old requirement that test scores be made
public and that those results be disaggregated. As a result, we'll know where
the most vulnerable students are. There will be still be fights over
accountability, but those will be at the state level, and advocates will need to
keep up the pressure for equity.

Hope springs eternal in school reform, only to be followed by disappointment.
(Announcing his education bill, Lyndon B. Johnson declared his education plan
the ''passport from poverty.'' Clearly, that didn't work.) Rewriting the
standards of evaluation and giving states freer rein in bailing out weak
schools, as this law does, is a good day's work inside the Beltway, but it's no
guarantee that the quality of teaching and learning will change. Making those
improvements will take hard work on the part of committed educators and parents.
Stay tuned.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/why-the-new-education-law-is-good-for-
children-left-behind.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREW DEGRAFF)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (91%); EDUCATION LAW (91%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PUBLIC
POLICY (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY &
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS (78%); POOR
POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING
(78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS
(77%); SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAMS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MINORITY GROUPS
(75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); ETHNICITY
(70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); RACE & RACISM (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kerry in Familiar Spot: Trying to Coax Deal in Meeting's Closing Days

BYLINE: By CORAL DAVENPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE NEGOTIATIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1102 words


PARIS --  For the second time this year, Secretary of State John Kerry has
settled into a grand capital of Europe for talks that could shape the globe, not
to mention his own reputation, for decades to come.

Five months after the conclusion of the successful Iranian nuclear negotiations
in Vienna, he is here at the climate summit meeting in Paris teetering somewhere
between triumph and failure.

A completed deal would be Mr. Kerry's final shot at influencing the planet's
future trajectory of dangerous atmospheric warming. But if a deal falls apart,
or is viewed as weak and toothless -- a significant possibility in the next few
days -- then that failure will be part of Mr. Kerry's legacy as he prepares to
leave public office after years of work on the issue.

Mr. Kerry will remain through the week to the bitter end.

''If I weren't here I would fault myself for not trying to talk to someone who
could make the difference,'' he said in an interview on Tuesday in the
red-velvet bar of his hotel in the elegant Place Vendôme neighborhood of Paris.

Asked why he planned to spend the coming days locked in climate negotiations
when he was also worrying about Syria, the Islamic State and other international
pressures, Mr. Kerry made a comparison to the Iran talks. ''It's similar in the
sense that you have to stay at it,'' he said. ''If you're not present, bad
things can happen. If you're not there, there can be a sudden shift in the
negotiations and you can lose everything if you're not ready to head it off at
the pass.''

Mr. Kerry also reflected on his own decades-long attention to climate policy and
his many frustrations on the issue. The most stinging failures came in 2009 and
2010 when, as a senator from Massachusetts and chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, Mr. Kerry led ultimately futile efforts to push a sweeping climate
change bill on Capitol Hill.

At a major climate change summit meeting in Copenhagen in 2009, Mr. Kerry worked
behind the scenes to help President Obama broker a treaty, but the effort
collapsed without a legally binding outcome.

This week's meeting in Paris is essentially a do-over of those Copenhagen talks,
convened at a moment when scientists say the dangerous impacts of climate change
have already started sweeping the planet.

''There's a feeling of Sisyphus pushing the rock up the mountain,'' Mr. Kerry
acknowledged.

Behind the scenes at the State Department, Mr. Kerry has led a systematic,
top-down push to create an agencywide focus on global warming and has made
fighting climate change a critical part of his agenda.

Last year, he played a crucial role in brokering a breakthrough deal between Mr.
Obama and President Xi Jinping of China in which the leaders of the world's two
largest polluting economies pledged to cut their greenhouse gas emissions.

That deal was seen as paving the way for the proposed agreement now on the table
here in Paris, where 185 countries representing more than 90 percent of the
global economy's greenhouse gas pollution have put forth similar pledges.

But in the homestretch of negotiating it is unclear how tough the deal will be.

A draft that emerged Wednesday lacked any clear provisions requiring governments
to monitor and verify their emissions cuts. India and China in particular have
been opposed to such provisions, but absent them the deal could be little more
than a gesture of good will.

But Mr. Kerry says he is undaunted, and that he wants to broker a deal in Paris
and to leave behind a State Department that is focused on the issue.

''My hope is by the end of next year we'll have this institutionalized in the
State Department,'' he said. ''It will inevitably be a foreign policy issue and
a national security issue.''

Mr. Kerry, who was the Democratic nominee for president in 2004, added:
''There's no way, I'm convinced, that anybody can be elected president of the
U.S. unless they have an understanding of and commitment to this issue. I don't
think the American people are going to elect somebody who isn't prepared to
embrace reality.''

Mr. Kerry's supporters applaud him. ''John has redefined the role of secretary
of state -- he has put climate change front and center,'' said Tim Wirth,
president of the United Nations Foundation and a former Democratic senator from
Colorado.

Not everyone agrees, particularly some Republicans.

''Secretary Kerry is merely reflecting his boss' own distorted view that climate
change is a greater threat to Americans than ISIS or homegrown terror,'' said
Senator John Barrasso, a Wyoming Republican, a member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee and a leading critic of Mr. Obama's climate change agenda.
''It is disturbing that, just days after the deadliest terrorist attack on
American soil since 9/11, the president dispatches key members of his cabinet to
a global climate conference. Secretary Kerry should be working with the
president to develop a global strategy to destroy ISIS and protect the homeland,
not entering into climate agreements that weaken our economy.''

Even during the Iran talks, Mr. Kerry had his mind on a global warming agenda.
His counterpart in those negotiations, Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz,
recalled that ''in the interstices of the Iran negotiations, we would talk about
climate change, and how we would approach it.''

Mr. Kerry has attended nearly every climate summit meeting dating to the first
one in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, and since then has forged dozens of relationships
with international climate change negotiators. Before arriving in Paris, he had
phone calls with many of them.

''I've gotten to know Minister Xie -- we've had many airport lunches,'' he said
of China's climate change minister, Xie Zhenhua.

In India, Mr. Kerry has worked with Piyush Goyal, the Indian minister of power,
coal and new and renewable energy, as well as Sushma Swaraj, the Indian external
affairs secretary.

On Tuesday, Mr. Kerry spoke by phone with Deputy Crown Prince Mohammad bin
Salman, of Saudi Arabia, a country that is seen as a possible spoiler of a
climate deal.

Though the foundation of the Saudi economy could be threatened by an accord
intended to turn the world away from fossil fuels like oil, Saudi Arabia is a
desert nation that could also experience more devastating heat as a result of
global warming.

''I think the Saudis want an agreement,'' Mr. Kerry said.

Zou Ji, a Chinese climate negotiator, recalled meeting with Mr. Kerry in 2010 in
a restaurant in Beijing. ''He reached out to me,'' he said. ''He was very
serious, and he has spent a lot of time working on this.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/kerry-in-familiar-spot-trying-to-c
oax-deal-in-meetings-closing-days.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry, in Paris this week, said, ''If I
weren't here I would fault myself for not trying to talk to someone who could
make the difference.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%);
CLIMATOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS
(78%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE
& TECHNOLOGY (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%);
UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Archenemy of High Rent Says He's Out of Politics

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 472 words


Jimmy McMillan, the whiskered political showman who became a viral Internet star
when he ran for governor of New York in 2010 as a candidate of the Rent Is Too
Damn High Party, has announced his retirement from the political arena, citing a
lack of public support for his agenda.

In a news release infused with misspellings and other errors that was dated
Tuesday, Mr. McMillan said voters had been ''totally brainwashed'' and
criticized Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio, both Democrats, for
not securing ''a rent reduction for the people in the cities of Brooklyn, Bronx,
Staten Island, Manhattan and Queens.''

''Rent is too damn high is an international crisis,'' he wrote. ''There are many
questions the people should ask themselves. I which them the best -- I'm out.''

The news release said the Rent Is Too Damn High Party was ''for sale, trademark
and all,'' and listed a Manhattan lawyer, Vincent Imbesi, as a point of contact.

Mr. McMillan, a Vietnam veteran who received disability payments from the
government, never received significant support at the ballot box in his repeated
campaigns for office. In his 2010 campaign, he won about 41,000 votes out of
more than four million cast.

But Mr. McMillan, who has also run for mayor of New York City, received his
moment in the spotlight in a governor's race that Mr. Cuomo dominated from the
start.

In a move intended to minimize the influence of his Republican opponent, Carl P.
Paladino, Mr. Cuomo insisted that a televised debate include all of the
minor-party candidates running for governor. Mr. McMillan, a fast-talking
performer in Dickensian costume, was a breakout star.

A ''Rent Is Too Damn High'' music video followed, along with appearances on
cable television -- a plot twist that may have presaged, in some respects, the
rise of other populist entertainer-cum-candidates, like Donald J. Trump.

With fame came scrutiny of Mr. McMillan, who acknowledged to The New York Times
that he had lived rent-free for at least a decade, and made derogatory comments
about Jews in an interview with The Daily News.

Mr. Imbesi, whose law firm has worked with Mr. McMillan, confirmed that Mr.
McMillan hoped to gain financially by stepping back from his one-man political
party.

Mr. Imbesi said he and Mr. McMillan had discussed ''the potential sale of
everything, to somebody, or the licensing of the use of the name'' of the
well-branded minor party. He said Mr. McMillan, who is 69, had health problems
and was no longer a young man.

The lawyer said he was uncertain if Mr. McMillan had decided that he would never
seek public office again.

A Twitter account associated with Mr. McMillan, @Rentisto, seemed to be more
definitive, posting in a message on Sunday that the party's founder ''decided to
walk away due to the -0- zero support of the people.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/jimmy-mcmillan-rent-is-too-damn-high-
candidate-is-retiring-from-politics.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jimmy McMillan in his 2010 bid for governor of New York.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%);
GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MAYORS (78%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); LAWYERS (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY
(66%); MUSIC (63%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (78%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Derek Jeter's Postgame Report

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1096 words


''Now he's the competition,'' said Efraim Grinberg, the chief executive of
Movado watches, chiding a reporter in his company's West 39th Street showroom on
Tuesday, waiting for Derek Jeter to arrive.

Mr. Grinberg was referring to the longtime shortstop's new position: that of a
new media mogul.

Last year, Mr. Jeter unveiled The Players' Tribune, a sports news and commentary
site that showcases first-person dispatches by famous athletes who want to share
their thoughts, unfiltered by reporters. Fellow superstars like Russell Wilson
and Danica Patrick serve as senior editors.

While it's never easy to come up with a second act when your first act is being
Derek Jeter, Mr. Jeter, known as the Captain, seems to be swinging for the
fences.

In addition to a much-discussed post last year in which Blake Griffin, the Los
Angeles Clippers forward, compared his team's former owner Donald Sterling to a
''weird uncle,'' the site scored a major scoop in November with Kobe Bryant's
retirement announcement, served up in the form of a poem called ''Dear
Basketball.''

The site has also explored more-troubling topics; an essay by the former hockey
player Patrick O'Sullivan discussed his abusive childhood.

But at the Movado showroom, few in the crowd appeared to give thought to Mr.
Jeter's foray into journalism.

About 40 local high school students, dressed in baggy Sunday-best suits and
black evening dresses, had turned out for the Movado-hosted Night of Discovery,
an annual educational event and celebration for teenagers in ''Jeter's
Leaders.'' The program is sponsored by his Turn 2 Foundation, which has awarded
more than $20 million to help turn students away from drugs and alcohol, and
toward academics and a healthy lifestyle.

While the putative stars of the evening were Bryan Carter, a Juilliard-trained
jazz prodigy, and Chloe Coscarelli, a former winner on the Food Network's
''Cupcake Wars,'' the students seemed most eager just to share oxygen with Mr.
Jeter.

They did not have to wait long. Around 4:30 p.m., he strode through the elevator
doors with his trademark pigeon-toed gait, flanked by an entourage of one: his
sister, Sharlee Jeter, the foundation's president.

For former professional athletes, the first years after the cheering fades can
be tough, as they battle expanding waistlines and existential questions about
their future.

At 41, however, Mr. Jeter hardly looked like a man mired in midlife crisis.
Fourteen months removed from his last game in pinstripes, he carried himself
with the poise of a Joffrey principal dancer, and looked fit enough in a
charcoal Nigel Curtiss suit to execute his patented jump-throw to first.

Naturally, on his left wrist, the longtime Movado brand ambassador flashed the
company's new Museum Sport Motion smart-watch (although it is questionable how
much extra bling a man with five World Series rings actually needs).

Handlers had sent out word that Mr. Jeter, forever the bachelor, would not
discuss reports that he had proposed to his girlfriend, the model Hannah Davis.
Even so, Mr. Jeter still radiates the assurance of a Namath-level stud (a point
not lost on electronic devices; this reporter's iPhone, enlisted to record the
proceedings, kept auto-correcting ''Jeter'' to ''heterosexual'').

''I keep getting asked, Do I miss playing?'' he said as Mr. Carter's quintet
gigged after the event. ''I don't. I think I put everything into a 20-year
career and was ready to move on. You know, I'm excited about doing other things,
starting a whole other career.''

Mr. Jeter said that not playing 162 games a season, plus playoffs, allows him to
spend more time on the foundation, which he started unusually early in his
career, during his rookie season in 1996.

''I was a Dave Winfield fan -- Dave was one of the first athletes to start his
own foundation,'' said Mr. Jeter, the son of a substance abuse counselor. ''When
I was younger, I told my parents, when I made it, I'm going to do the same
thing.''

Seated beside him, Ms. Jeter joked that she hoped her brother was not going to
be overly present, now that he had more time on his hands. ''We still want to
see each other for Christmas,'' she said.

For his part, Mr. Jeter countered that he tries not to be an overbearing boss.
''I listen well,'' he said. ''I'm pretty good at knowing what I don't know.''

When it was suggested he might have picked up management pointers from his old
boss (that is, the Boss, as in the imperious George Steinbrenner), Mr. Jeter
stared blankly, as if ignoring a pitch in the dirt.

During his playing career, Mr. Jeter, known for his statesmanlike handling of
the news media, knew how to duck beanball questions like that. In fact, he would
counsel teammates on how loose lips could tear a team apart, he said.

That press-leery attitude was part of the inspiration for The Players' Tribune.

''If anyone thinks that the relationship between athletes and media isn't
fractured a little bit, then I think they're lying to you,'' Mr. Jeter said. ''I
know, speaking with athletes, not only in baseball, but in other sports, a lot
of the times they are -- I don't want to say afraid -- but they're a little
hesitant to speak their minds and be open and honest, because they're afraid of
how things are going to be twisted.''

''My idea,'' he said, ''was to give them a place and the tools to be able to
speak and communicate exactly how they wanted to do it, to really initiate
conversation. We're not trying to eliminate the media, we're just trying to
complement the media.''

Even so, some media outlets have criticized Mr. Jeter's direct-to-consumer media
approach, saying that it leads to more spin and obfuscation by the jocks, as
opposed to cross-examination and fact-checking by seasoned sports reporters.

He answered that argument with an eye roll. ''Why can't you ask them about the
article that they wrote?'' he said. ''You can still ask them questions. I mean,
Kobe released his letter and did a press conference, what, two hours later?''

As a founder who remains ''very, very, very, very'' involved in the site, he
said, he takes such questions seriously. The site has his name on it. It has to
live up to his standards. That said, he does not find himself hunched over a
computer, massaging copy, to ensure greatness.

''I don't edit stories,'' he said, flashing his cover-boy smile. ''Like I said,
I'm very good at knowing what I don't know.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/derek-jeter-on-his-second-act-as-a-spo
rts-media-mogul.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Derek Jeter at an event sponsored by Movado to honor ''Jeter's
Leaders,'' a part of his Turn 2 Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(89%); SPORTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%);
BASKETBALL (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS
(66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (64%); DANCERS (61%); DANCE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (56%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (93%); DONALD STERLING (79%); KOBE BRYANT (56%); DANICA
PATRICK (55%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making Sense of Trump's Call to 'Close Up' the Internet

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 573 words


It is not clear what Donald Trump actually meant on Monday when he conjured up
the idea of getting Bill Gates to help ''close up'' the Internet.

Mr. Trump hasn't elaborated yet, and Mr. Gates, who stepped down as Microsoft's
chairman last year, is spending most of his days at the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation.

However, since he remains a technology adviser to the company's current chief
executive, Satya Nadella, you could imagine Mr. Gates returning to Redmond,
Wash., where Microsoft is based, and the two of them going down into the
basement at Microsoft HQ and pulling the plug.

The problem is that the Internet's backbone doesn't run through Redmond, and it
never did.

There was a time, of course, in the 1990s when it seemed as if Microsoft ran the
Internet, when the company got into antitrust trouble with the United States
Justice Department. But that was business control -- to an extent. It was never
technical control.

In 1993, John Gilmore, a freedom-of-speech activist and one of the founders of
the Electronic Frontier Foundation, was quoted as saying, ''The Net interprets
censorship as damage and routes around it.''

He was referring to the basic design of a computer network that was intended to
have no central control and no single point of failure. There is no one plug to
pull or server to block. That decentralized structure has created headaches for
anyone trying to control communications in cyberspace.

Of course, Mr. Trump was probably not asking Mr. Gates to shut down the
Internet, but looking for some way to deny it to the Islamic State and its
allies as a propaganda and communications tool.

Mr. Trump's suggestion touches upon a long-running debate regarding the Internet
and censorship. Instead of Bill Gates, he might receive better advice from Li
Keqiang, the prime minister of China, which has put a great deal of energy into
''closing up'' the Internet, including barring electronic distribution of The
New York Times.

Perhaps an anti-Islamic State wall -- a bit like China's ''Great Firewall'' that
controls Internet traffic in and out of the country -- would be the perfect
companion to Mr. Trump's proposal for a physical wall along the United States'
southern border.

Mr. Trump could benefit from reading ''Shockwave Rider,'' a 1975 science fiction
novel written by John Brunner. Mr. Brunner's novel is best known for coining the
term ''worm'' for a malicious computer program that could move under its own
power from computer to computer via a network.

Computer worms became widely known in the real world in 1988 when a young
computer science graduate student, Robert Tappan Morris, let one loose and --
because of a programming error -- briefly created a monumental traffic jam that
brought the Internet, then brand new, briefly to its knees.

Mr. Brunner's novel imagines a totalitarian government that exercises its power
through a computer network that gives it control over the population. In the
novel, the protagonist, who is a member of a rebel group, lets the worm loose in
the network, putting the government in a bind. The only way it can destroy the
worm is to bring down the network and in the process undermine its power.

If that were done to the real Internet, bringing down the network might
displease Mr. Trump, who at last count had 5.15 million followers on Twitter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/08/why-donald-trumps-call-to-close-up-the-
internet-is-science-fiction/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER
NETWORKS (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (89%); CENSORSHIP (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE
(77%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (70%); COMPUTER SCIENCE
(70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (67%); NOVELS & SHORT
STORIES (63%); RELIGION (63%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION (63%); SCIENCE FICTION
LITERATURE (60%); FICTION LITERATURE (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%); JUSTICE
DEPARTMENTS (53%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
(56%); ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(90%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (91%); BILL GATES (90%); SATYA NADELLA (73%); LI KEQIANG
(64%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TV's Holiday Comfort Food

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words


At the very least, the War on Christmas is not being waged on television.

As streaming and technology tear apart so many rules that governed television
for decades, one tradition has endured, and might be stronger than ever: With
December here, viewers are getting a regular dose of all things holiday. Frosty
and Rudolph are still plugging away, as is Bill Murray in a Christmas
song-and-dance special recently released on Netflix. Many of the networks, NBC
chief among them, may as well wrap their network logos in holly and poinsettias.

There's a reason for this, particularly for the broadcast networks. Many
prime-time series have finished their first-half runs for the season, and
advertisers are desperately trying to get their commercials on the air. If
there's one thing that people still reliably tune in to, and those ad folks pay
for, it's holiday television.

NBC's December prime-time lineup is dominated by holiday fare -- standbys like
the tree lighting at Rockefeller Center, a prime-time ''Saturday Night Live''
Christmas special and a Michael Bublé special -- and family-centric programming,
like an Adele concert and the musical ''The Wiz Live!,'' which the network says
does particularly well when Christmas trees and menorahs are all lit up.

''We started talking about it a couple of years ago,'' said Robert Greenblatt,
the chairman of NBC Entertainment. ''It was jump-started by 'The Sound of
Music,' where we went, 'Oooh, there's a big audience available for special stuff
when you're near the holidays.' We know that Thanksgiving specials and Christmas
specials -- Rudolph, Charlie Brown -- rate really well, so a couple of years
ago, we started building up that strategy.''

Last week, 11.5 million viewers watched  ''The Wiz Live!,'' NBC's third live
musical in three years. That was more than two million viewers better than the
audience for last year's live musical, ''Peter Pan,'' and it was NBC's biggest
non-football-related viewership night since September. (''The Sound of Music''
was the network's first live musical installment and fared the best with 18.6
million viewers).

On Thursday, NBC will air ''Coat of Many Colors,'' a TV movie featuring Dolly
Parton. The plot does not revolve around Christmas, but the network only
considered airing it in December, and a trailer for the movie shows Ms. Parton
decked out in red and sitting in a sleigh. As she put it at a media event, ''I'm
just hoping that during the holiday season, this will be my great gift to the
public to say, 'Hey, do sit down with your family, do watch this show.'''

ABC has ''The Great Holiday Baking Show,'' an adaptation of the popular ''The
Great British Bake Off,'' that airs on Monday nights for four weeks. The
network's other holiday-specific limited series, ''The Great Christmas Light
Fight,'' had an audience three times larger than a Fox special on Monday night,
''TV's Funniest Animated Stars.'' On Wednesday, Fox had its own music special,
''Taraji and Terrence's White Hot Holidays,'' featuring Taraji P. Henson and
Terrence Howard, the stars of the network's hit ''Empire.''

Some of the holiday fare is a byproduct of necessity. The networks have mostly
stopped airing reruns for regularly scheduled shows because of poor ratings. As
a result, many popular prime-time shows reach their midseason breaks earlier
than they used to. NBC's new hit ''Blindspot'' had its fall finale right before
Thanksgiving; ABC's Thursday night lineup of ''Grey's Anatomy,'' ''Scandal'' and
''How to Get Away With Murder,'' ended in mid-November. So what to put on in
December?

''You got to keep the lights on every single month,'' Mr. Greenblatt said.

December is a critical month, he explained, in which to promote January
premieres. And though viewership is gradually receding as the year winds down,
the month remains ''one of the biggest in terms of advertising dollars,'' said
Brad Adgate, a former executive at Horizon Media, a media buying company.

Enter the specials, and the holiday programming, some of it decades old. ABC's
broadcast of ''A Charlie Brown Christmas'' on Nov. 30 had 7.3 million viewers,
its highest total in three years.

''Even in an era of fragmented television, you don't have to market those
shows,'' Mr. Adgate said. ''When someone says Charlie Brown's on, it resonates
with millions of viewers.''

(Mr. Greenblatt boasted about how NBC stole ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas''
''very stealthily'' from ABC this year. It had 5.6 million viewers on Dec. 2.)

The popularity of holiday programming is, of course, not limited to the
broadcast networks. The Hallmark Channel's December lineup is dominated by
Christmas specials, and on Dec. 4, Netflix rolled out ''A Very Murray
Christmas.'' Directed by Sofia Coppola and starring Bill Murray, the special
features a slew of cameos (Miley Cyrus, George Clooney and Amy Poehler, among
others) and endless holiday songs (''Baby, It's Cold Outside,'' ''Silent
Night,'' ''Sleigh Ride'' and ''Fairytale of New York'' are just a sampling).

Netflix is not the only streaming service with the holiday spirit. At a media
event earlier this year, Mindy Kaling, the star of Hulu's ''The Mindy Project,''
said, ''Maybe it's getting old-fashioned, but I love a Christmas episode airing
in December.'' And that's what her viewers will be getting. Hulu rolls out
episodes on a weekly basis, as opposed to Netflix's binge-inducing,
drop-it-all-at-once method, and ''The Mindy Project'' Christmas episode reached
the service on Tuesday.

The show, however, is a bit of an outlier. As one-off specials and traditional
holiday programs increasingly populate the December TV landscape, holiday-themed
episodes like Ms. Kaling's for regularly running shows are no longer de rigueur.
NBC is without a holiday-specific episode for any of its series; Fox will have
just two in December, in ''The Last Man on Earth'' and ''Brooklyn Nine-Nine.''

ABC will run holiday episodes for several comedies, while CBS will do it for
almost half of its series, including dramas like ''Scorpion'' and ''NCIS: Los
Angeles.'' For that show, the holiday theme will include a North Korean spy
being hit by a truck carrying Christmas trees.

''We usually request our shows do it,'' said Kelly Kahl, a senior executive vice
president for prime time at CBS. ''It's a thank you to the fans, a nod to the
people who tune in every week.''

Or, as television executives are quickly figuring out when it comes to anything
holiday, every year.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/television/christmas-shows-are-tvs-decemb
er-comfort-food.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the specials and limited series on television this month
are, clockwise from top left, ''Adele Live in New York City,'' on NBC
''The Great Christmas Light Fight,'' on ABC
''Michael Bublé's Christmas in Hollywood,'' on NBC
and ''The Great Holiday Baking Show,'' adapted from a British show, on ABC.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/NBC
DONALD RAGER/ABC
VIVIAN ZINK/NBC
MICHAEL BOURDILLON/ABC) (C1)
 Adele during her ''Live in New York City'' concert from Radio City Music Hall,
being shown on Monday night on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/NBC) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION
(90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); MUSIC (89%);
HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION
MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); LATE
NIGHT TELEVISION (73%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); NETFLIX INC (58%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841
VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

PERSON: DOLLY PARTON (79%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Republicans Denounce Obama's Handling of Bergdahl Prisoner Exchange

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1159 words


WASHINGTON --  After months of secret talks in early 2014 on a potential deal to
swap five Taliban detainees at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, for a captive American
soldier, Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, an agreement seemed near that May. But the chief
American negotiator sent an email to the Pentagon warning that any leak could
scuttle it.

''There is great concern all around about possible leaks,'' the negotiator,
Stephen W. Preston, then the general counsel of the Pentagon, wrote, according
to an email cited by a new report. ''This concern is exacerbated by the prospect
of notification to our overseers'' in Congress.

Twenty-nine days later, Islamist militants in Afghanistan turned over Sergeant
Bergdahl, and only then, less than three hours before the American military put
the five Taliban detainees on a plane to Qatar, did the Pentagon tell
congressional leaders what was happening. But a statute restricting detainee
transfers says that lawmakers must be told 30 days beforehand.

The news of the prisoner exchange, and the Obama administration's failure to
comply with the 30-day notice statute, set off a legal and political uproar and
an investigation by the House Armed Services Committee. On Thursday, the
committee's Republican members will make public a report, obtained by The New
York Times, that sheds new light on the administration's secret maneuvers before
the swap and portrays the deal as both reckless and illegal.

A Pentagon spokesman, Cmdr. Gary Ross, defended the prisoner exchange, saying
that security arrangements with Qatar had substantially mitigated any threat
posed by the five former detainees.

''We have an unwavering commitment and patriotic duty to leave no man or woman
in uniform behind on the battlefield,'' he said. ''We had a near-term
opportunity to save Sergeant Bergdahl's life, and we were committed to using
every tool at our disposal to secure his safe return.''

The committee's 98-page report cites numerous internal Pentagon emails and
closed-door testimony by military officials. It provides many new details about
the diplomatic efforts to reach the deal, including the pace of meetings and
trips by Mr. Preston to negotiate the security arrangements, like monitoring and
travel restrictions, that Qatar would impose on the former detainees.

At the time, there were rumors that on-again, off-again talks about a prisoner
exchange, which had broken down several years earlier, might be underway again,
but the administration repeatedly suggested to reporters and to Congress that
nothing significant was going on. It did this in part by emphasizing that there
were no ''direct talks'' with the Taliban. This was ''obfuscatory,'' the report
said, since preparations were underway for indirect talks, with Qatar as an
intermediary.

''The committee staff's conversation with department representatives, coupled
with the White House's public demurral, left the committee with the impression
that recent news stories were wrong and no recent or relevant activities had
taken place in connection with a potential swap,'' the report said.

Sergeant Bergdahl had left his base in Afghanistan without permission in 2009
and had been captured by insurgents, who held him in horrific conditions. The
prisoner swap was politically controversial, with some critics saying it was a
bad deal because it required letting dangerous Taliban detainees out of
Guantánamo and because it might provide an incentive for further kidnappings of
soldiers.

The military is weighing whether to prosecute Sergeant Bergdahl in a
court-martial on a desertion charge, although the chief investigators
recommended that he serve no jail time.

The new report largely ignores Sergeant Bergdahl's complex case, focusing
instead on the Taliban part of the deal. Among its details is information about
how the Qatari attorney general came to the Indian Treaty Room in the Eisenhower
Executive Office Building next to the White House and signed the security
agreement on May 12, 2014, a step that was, at the time, unknown to Congress or
the public.

Around the same time, the report said, the Qataris told the Americans that
Sergeant Bergdahl's health was declining, and that the Taliban's ''interest in
keeping Sergeant Bergdahl alive'' and its enthusiasm for the swap were waning.
The Qataris warned that if news of the pending exchange leaked out, ''the wheels
come off.''

But the report expressed strong objections to the Obama administration's
decision not to keep the congressional oversight committees fully informed. It
noted that the Armed Services Committee ''routinely receives briefings about
sensitive military operations before they occur.''

The report also shows that the Pentagon officials who normally plan transfers of
lower-level detainees were largely sidelined in planning for the resettlement of
the higher-level Taliban detainees in Qatar. It suggested that the secrecy and
unusual process indicated that the administration's motive was in part to avoid
controversy that might disrupt its ability to rid itself of five harder-core
detainees, making it easier to fulfill Mr. Obama's goal of closing the
Guantánamo prison.

None of the internal emails cited by the majority report corroborate that claim.
In their dissenting report, the Democratic committee members agreed that it was
lamentable that the executive branch had not obeyed the 30-day notice law. But
they strongly objected to the Republican members' broader conclusions, which it
dismissed as ''accusatory speculation.''

The Republican report also addresses legal arguments by the Obama administration
that its violation of the statute was lawful because the statute was an
unconstitutional constraint on President Obama's commander-in-chief powers, at
least when applied to a prisoner exchange deal in which any delay or leak could
have endangered a captive American soldier's life.

The report rejected those arguments as ''evasive legal gymnastics.'' The
constitutional debate is important because of the precedent set by the transfer.
Former advisers to Mr. Obama have argued that he has executive power to override
other parts of the congressional transfer restrictions in order to close the
Guantánamo prison before he leaves office in January 2017.

But the Democratic report said the constitutional issues were far murkier than
the Republican report suggested and emphasized that the swap had saved an
American soldier.

''As gravely disappointed as we may be over the administration's failure to
comply with a statutory notice requirement, the majority's nakedly partisan
effort to indict the administration and to second guess its decisions, in
hindsight, while simultaneously expressing relief that the benefit of Sergeant
Bergdahl's safe return was in fact achieved, is as unfair as it is wrong,'' it
said.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/house-republicans-denounce-obamas-
handling-of-prisoner-exchange.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mohammad Nabi Omari, one of the five Taliban detainees exchanged
for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, in Qatar in June 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NUNN.ASIA/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); LAWYERS (69%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); QATAR (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Congress That Doesn't Want to Weigh In on War

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1103 words


WASHINGTON --  Shortly after Paul D. Ryan became speaker, the chairmen of the
House Armed Services and Intelligence Committees went to him with a difficult
request: to help them put a bill on the House floor to authorize a war against
the Islamic State extremist group.

''When we send troops into battle, they need to know that they have the full
backing of the government,'' said Representative Mac Thornberry, Republican of
Texas and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.

But Congress refuses to do what many lawmakers believe is its constitutional
obligation: debate the meaning of war and vote on whether to authorize it.

Mr. Ryan, while sympathetic to the argument that Congress has a responsibility
to weigh in on military action abroad, told Mr. Thornberry and others that
voting to authorize war was something very few members of Congress wanted to do.

Instead, the House has voted to limit a refugee program for Syrians and to put
some restrictions on visas for visitors from friendly nations. Lawmakers in the
House and Senate are considering a host of other antiterrorism measures.

''I'm tired of pretending we're not at war and pushing the responsibility
somewhere else,'' said Senator Dan Coats, Republican of Indiana and one of the
few senators on record in favor of a vote. ''You're asking our sons and
daughters to take up our cause, and every person who is here has to decide with
their own conscience if that's something we're going to do.''

In an address from the Oval Office on Sunday night, President Obama again asked
Congress to officially authorize the use of military force abroad. While White
House officials have repeatedly said he does not need that authorization, which
was previously granted after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the
administration is seeking to project a united front with Congress against the
terrorist threat.

''For over a year, I have ordered our military to take thousands of airstrikes
against ISIL targets,'' Mr. Obama said, using an acronym for the Islamic State.
''I think it's time for Congress to vote, to demonstrate that the American
people are united and committed to this fight.''

But Democrats and Republicans are largely resisting his call. A bipartisan
measure in the Senate has gained no support from members other than the two who
wrote it, and a more conservative version offered by Senator Lindsey Graham of
South Carolina has only a handful of Republican backers.

Republicans are loath to give Mr. Obama more authority because they are highly
critical of his strategy in Syria, and Democrats are still stinging from the
vote in 2002 to authorize the war in Iraq. Even among supporters, there are
partisan divisions, with Democrats preferring a measure that would limit the
president's authority and Republicans preferring to allow a more robust use of
force.

Members of both parties, especially the Republicans who control Congress, fear
that a high-profile debate followed by a failed vote to authorize force would be
a disastrous public display of division, perhaps emboldening enemies abroad.
Lawmakers and Mr. Obama were embarrassed in 2013 when Congress did not authorize
airstrikes against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.

''There are not many things that we do that are more important,'' said Senator
Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who has been pushing for a measure for months
with Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia. Mr. Flake said that most members
of Congress simply did not want to take a tough vote. ''That is the most
accurate explanation there is,'' he said. ''It's unfortunate, but I think that's
it.''

Mr. Flake and others believe that after the recent attacks in Paris and in San
Bernardino, Calif., and with the new push from Mr. Obama, Congress may feel
pressure to step up in the new year.

''I think it's a very good idea,'' said Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New
York. ''All we've been hearing from the Republican side is that the president is
not doing enough, so an A.U.M.F. forces Republicans to outline their
proposals.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Kaine pressed the issue with Defense Secretary Ashton B.
Carter on Capitol Hill. ''I think it is desirable,'' Mr. Carter said. ''And by
the way, it's a signal of resolve to our enemies.''

Congress voted to authorize force both in 2001, to respond to the terrorist
attacks, and in 2002, for the invasion of Iraq. The Obama administration has
long said that those measures provide all the authority it needs for new uses of
force, and many lawmakers agree.

When the administration asked for another vote last year, Speaker John A.
Boehner was eager to help, but Republicans rejected the wording offered by the
White House. ''They came up with this goofy language that no one can define,''
Mr. Thornberry said.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed a resolution authorizing military
force against the Islamic State for up to three years but limiting ground combat
operations to ''defined circumstances.'' It never made it to the Senate floor.

Interest may be growing in the House, where members are expected to offer
another bipartisan measure this week. ''We owe our constituents, and
particularly the brave Americans who wear the uniform, an honest debate about
the nature of the threat we face and the strength, determination and resilience
that will be required of all Americans to defeat ISIL,'' said Representative
Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, who is running for the Senate and is an
Iraq war veteran. ''Congress owes them a vote on authorizing the use of military
force against ISIL.''

Congressional authorization of force generally applies to a specific nation,
like Iraq, not to a broad region or a mobile threat like the one the Islamic
State presents. ''This is a very tight rope for the Obama administration to be
walking,'' said Nora Bensahel, a military policy analyst at American
University's School of International Service.

''When the initial draft was sent to the Hill, the big criticism was that it was
too open-ended in terms of what he would authorize,'' Ms. Bensahel said. ''And
he said, 'We just want support that reflects a new era of a constant and ongoing
shift in threat.' That is not a political comment. It reflects the fact that
radical Islamic terror groups have been morphing and changing.''

''The debate is not something that individual citizens will get excited about,''
she added, ''but it is a fundamental part of our political process.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/a-congress-that-doesnt-want-to-wei
gh-in-on-war.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Mac Thornberry, Republican of Texas and chairman
of the Armed Services Committee, spoke at a hearing Dec. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP
SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES
(90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ISLAMIC
STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS
(89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); CONSERVATISM
(77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%);
RELIGION (72%); REFUGEES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); MAC THORNBERRY (88%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); LINDSEY
GRAHAM (58%); DAN COATS (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regulator Is Said to Fine Fiat Chrysler $70 Million

BYLINE: By DANIELLE IVORY and BILL VLASIC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words


Fiat Chrysler is expected to pay the federal government as much as $70 million
in penalties for significantly underreporting the number of death and injury
claims tied to potential defects in its cars, according to a person briefed on
the fine.

The penalty, expected to be announced as early as Thursday, is the second time
this year that the automaker would pay a multimillion-dollar fine in relation to
safety problems.

In July, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration levied a penalty
against the company that could reach $105 million over its handling of multiple
recalls affecting more than 11 million vehicles.

A Chrysler spokesman declined to comment as did the auto safety agency.

In September, regulators at the safety agency said Fiat Chrysler had failed to
disclose claims that blamed vehicle defects for serious deaths and injuries, as
is required by law under a system called Early Warning Reporting.

At the time, the agency's administrator, Mark Rosekind, said that early
information pointed to flaws in the automaker's systems for gathering and
reporting the data and characterized those flaws as representing ''a significant
failure to meet a manufacturer's safety responsibilities.''

Now, the agency has completed its investigation and settled on a penalty. The
maximum penalty under the law is $35 million, so the $70 million most likely
represents two violations.

The death and injury disclosure system is aimed at helping regulators identify
potential defects. It was put in place in 2000, after a wave of highway
rollovers in Ford Explorers with Firestone tires.

A former head of the safety agency said the Fiat Chrysler penalty is overdue.

''Chrysler has been violating the law with impunity for too long,'' said Joan
Claybrook, a former administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration and a longtime consumer safety advocate. ''I'm surprised it's
only $70 million.''

The penalty is only the latest in a series of escalating fines issued by the
safety agency.

In October, regulators imposed a record penalty on Takata, the Japanese supplier
that produces defective airbags whose components can rupture violently, sending
metal flying at passengers. In that case, Takata could pay as much as $130
million if it does not live up to the terms of its agreement with the safety
agency.

And in January, Honda agreed to pay $70 million in fines for significantly
underreporting death and injury claims under the Early Warning Reporting system.
In that case, more than 1,700 deaths and injuries over an 11-year period were
not reported to regulators. At the time, the penalty was the largest ever
imposed on an automaker by the safety agency. Honda's penalty followed one
imposed in October 2014 on Ferrari, for $3.5 million, because it failed to
submit any Early Warning reports on fatal accidents.

The agency is currently authorized to impose a maximum fine of $35 million for
each violation, though that number is set to increase. Congress recently passed
a transportation bill that would allow the agency to levy a fine capped at $105
million, but the change won't go into effect until the agency has issued a final
rule, according to the legislation.

''Chrysler just made it in under the wire,'' Ms. Claybrook said, referring the
penalty.

The cap was criticized by many lawmakers last year when regulators imposed a
penalty of $35 million on G.M. after it failed to report for more than a decade
a deadly ignition defect. At the time, the defect was linked to 13 deaths. It is
now linked to at least 124.

The penalty was reported by Reuters and The Wall Street Journal.

It could come just days after the highway safety agency's announcement that it
will overhaul a rating system for cars that has for years awarded high marks to
almost all vehicles. The action is another move against the auto industry for
the agency, which came under withering criticism last year from lawmakers in
congressional hearings for not being aggressive enough on the industry it is
charged with overseeing.

Last September, an investigation by The New York Times found that, during the
last decade, the agency had often been slow to identify and act on safety
defects, and reluctant to use its full legal powers against automakers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/regulator-is-said-to-fine-fiat-chrysl
er-dollar70-million.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%);
AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); ROAD
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%);
CONSUMER LAW (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%);
AGREEMENTS (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%);
PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%)

COMPANY: FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (92%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: FCAU (NYSE) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); 5108 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES &
PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%);
NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (54%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER
TUBES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Fantasy Football Week 14: Vikings at Cardinals

BYLINE: By JASON SABLICH and JUSTIN SABLICH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 349 words


Fantasy football analysis for Thursday night's game between the Minnesota
Vikings and the Arizona Cardinals. Check back Friday for analysis on Sunday's
games and Monday's matchup between the Giants and the Miami Dolphins. You can
also follow the Sablich brothers on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy.

Vikings (8-4) at Cardinals (10-2)

8:30 p.m. Eastern. Line: Cardinals by 6.5.

Quarterback

Carson Palmer (ARI) -- Three of his last four opponents, the Seahawks, the
Bengals and the Rams, currently rank in the bottom 10 of fantasy points allowed
per game, yet he had at least 22 fantasy points against each of those teams. The
Vikings also rank in the bottom 10 at 16.1 F.P.P.G., but just yielded four total
touchdowns to Russell Wilson, and Palmer's consistency should keep him in
lineups Thursday night.

Teddy Bridgewater (MIN) -- With a total of 7.6 fantasy points in his last two
games, and a matchup against the sixth toughest opponent for fantasy
quarterbacks (15.0 F.P.P.G.), you can safely ignore Bridgewater this week.

Running Back

David Johnson (ARI) -- On paper, the Vikings are the ninth toughest matchup for
fantasy backs, but they have yielded at least 100 rushing yards to an opposing
runner in each of the last three games. Johnson looked stellar as the Cardinals'
new lead back last weekend, with 120 total yards and a receiving touchdown.
He'll lead the way once again with Andre Ellington missing

Adrian Peterson (MIN) -- The Cardinals rank fourth in the N.F.L. against the run
(89.0 Y.P.G.) and have allowed the seventh fewest F.P.P.G. at 15.6.

Wide Receiver

Larry Fitzgerald/Michael Floyd/John Brown (ARI) -- All three are seeing enough
targets from Palmer to be effective in fantasy, but it's tough to predict which
player will stand out from week to week. Fitzgerald's numbers in particular have
suffered of late, as he has only one touchdown in his last seven games.

The Sablich Brothers have provided award-winning fantasy football advice for The
Times since 2010. For additional fantasy analysis, visit 5thdownfantasy.com and
follow them on Twitter @5thdownfantasy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/fantasy-football-week-14-vikings-at-car
dinals.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FANTASY SPORTS (94%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES
(89%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA VIKINGS (94%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (84%); MIAMI DOLPHINS
(58%)

PERSON: CARSON PALMER (79%)

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators Condemn Price Rises for Drugs

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 907 words


Senators from both parties on Wednesday denounced huge overnight price increases
for decades-old drugs that have been made by some pharmaceutical companies
lately, calling them unconscionable and detrimental to patients.

''These companies are to ethical pharmaceutical companies as a loan shark is to
a bank,'' said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, quoting an unnamed
industry specialist with whom she had spoken. She discussed the matter at a
hearing of the Senate's Special Committee on Aging, which she leads.

The hearing focused on two companies in particular, Turing Pharmaceuticals,
which acquired an old drug for a parasitic infection and raised the price to
$750 a pill from $13.50, and Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which has
sharply increased the prices of various drugs it has acquired, including two
used by hospitals to treat serious heart conditions.

The chief executives of these companies were not at the hearing, but that did
not stop them from being criticized. Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, the
ranking Democrat on the committee, mocked Martin Shkreli, the chief executive of
Turing, by calling him ''Mr. Wu-Tang.'' That was a reference to the news that
Mr. Shkreli, 32, a former hedge fund manager, was revealed as the mystery buyer
of the only known copy of a new album by Wu-Tang Clan.

Most of the hearing, which was described as the first in a series, was devoted
to looking at the impact of the sudden price increases on doctors, patients and
hospitals.

Erin R. Fox, director of the drug information service at University of Utah
Health Care, said that the price of Isuprel, a heart drug acquired by Valeant
early this year, was now $2,700 a vial compared with $440 before the acquisition
and $50 two years ago. The hospital system would have had to spend $1.6 million
extra a year just on that drug, she said, unless it curtailed it use.

So Isuprel was removed from the crash carts that are used in emergencies, Ms.
Fox said, though it is still available from the pharmacy if doctors really need
it. ''Our physicians are incredibly frustrated'' that they have to think twice
about using the drug, she said.

Dr. David Kimberlin, a pediatric infectious disease specialist at the University
of Alabama at Birmingham, recounted a case in which a baby needed Daraprim, the
drug acquired by Turing, which increased its price to $750 a pill. Daraprim,
acquired in August, treats toxoplasmosis, a parasitic infection that can cause
blindness and brain damage.

Since Daraprim is a pill, it had to be turned into a liquid form that a baby
could swallow. But the compounding pharmacy the hospital relied on to do that
could not obtain the drug because of new restrictions Turing had placed on
distribution. The huge price increase, which would bring the cost of a yearlong
course of treatment for a baby to more than $69,000 from $1,200, was also a
deterrent.

''Babies' lives literally hang in the balance here,'' Dr. Kimberlin said. He
said that infectious disease societies had surveyed members and found more than
30 cases in which people had trouble obtaining Daraprim promptly.

In a statement, Turing said it was committed to developing innovative therapies
and was making sure that no patient was denied access to Daraprim. Valeant said
in a statement that ''broad conclusions about the company's pricing cannot be
drawn from any one drug'' and that most hospitals use small amounts of Isuprel,
limiting any impact of price increases.

Ms. Fox and others who testified said that companies like Turing and Valeant
were able to increase prices so rapidly because of a lack of competition in the
market for generic drugs, which stemmed in part from consolidation in that
industry. The lack of competition plus manufacturing problems have led to
shortages and price increases for antibiotics, anesthetics and some other drugs
that are more widely used than Daraprim and Isuprel.

Various suggestions were made for dealing with the issue. Gerard Anderson, a
professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said the Food
and Drug Administration should expedite approval of generic drugs for economic
reasons.

Daraprim and Isuprel have no patent protection but there are no generic
competitors either, because the market was small until the big price hikes. If a
generic company wanted to enter now, it could take two to three years to get
F.D.A. approval. But if that time could be reduced to six months, it would
provide a deterrent to huge price hikes, he said.

Express Scripts, the largest pharmacy benefit manager, is encouraging use of an
alternative to Daraprim that is made by a compounding pharmacy and sells for
about $1 a pill. But witnesses at the hearing were reluctant to recommend more
use of compounding to save money because such drugs are not approved by the
F.D.A. and have had safety issues in the past.

''Compounding should not be a blanket, one-size-fits-all solution,'' said Ms.
Fox of the University of Utah.

Mark Merritt, chief of the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, which
represents pharmacy benefit managers, called for a watch list of drugs with no
generic competition that would be vulnerable to huge price increases. He said
there were about 200 such drugs.

''The hedge funds have these lists, the government may as well too,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/senators-condemn-big-price-increases-
for-drugs.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); PRICE CHANGES
(90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG
(89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS
(78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PRICES (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HEART DISEASE (75%); BUSINESS ETHICS
(73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PEDIATRICS (73%); COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES (73%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (70%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); COLLEGES
& UNIVERSITIES (64%); AGING (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); BLINDNESS (50%)

COMPANY: VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC
(70%)

TICKER: VRX (TSX) (91%); VRX (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%);
NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%)

PERSON: MARTIN SHKRELI (79%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (59%); SUSAN COLLINS (59%)

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Approves Dengue Fever Vaccine

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words


A dengue fever vaccine developed by the French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi has
been approved for use by Mexico, the first approval in the world for any vaccine
for the disease, which afflicts tens of millions of people around the world and
is becoming an increasing threat.

Sanofi said in a news release Wednesday that the vaccine, which it is calling
Dengvaxia, was approved by Mexico's Federal Commission for the Protection
against Sanitary Risk for prevention of dengue in people 9 to 45 years old
living in endemic areas.

''We are making dengue the next vaccine-preventable disease,'' Olivier Charmeil,
executive vice president for vaccines at Sanofi, said in an interview.

But it is still uncertain how widely the vaccine will be deployed, both in
Mexico and other countries, because of limits to its effectiveness and national
budgets.

Also known as breakbone fever, dengue can cause high temperature and intense
joint and muscle pain. In severe cases, it causes hemorrhagic fever, which is
marked by bleeding and shock and can be fatal.

A viral disease that is transmitted by mosquitoes, the number of cases has been
increasing sharply and the disease has been spreading out of its traditional
home in developing countries in the tropics and subtropics. There is now an
outbreak in Hawaii, and there was one last year in Tokyo, the first one in Japan
in nearly 70 years. The Florida Keys had some cases in 2009 for the first time
in decades.

In clinical trials, the vaccine reduced the risk of developing dengue by about
60 percent, which some experts have said is less effective than desired. The
vaccine seems least effective in children younger than 9, particularly those
younger than 6, and may even increase their risk of having more severe disease
in the long run, according to a longer term follow-up from the clinical trials.

''The bumpy road to a vaccine-based solution for dengue continues,'' Cameron P.
Simmons of the University of Melbourne in Australia, wrote in a commentary in
the New England Journal of Medicine in September.

But Sanofi itself and some other experts said that that level of effectiveness
would be welcomed, given that there is now no treatment for dengue. In one trial
involving children 9 to 16 in Latin America and the Caribbean, the vaccine
reduced the risk of hospitalization from dengue by 80 percent.

An estimated 50 million to 100 million people a year are sickened by dengue,
though that might be an underestimate. One study said about 400 million people
are infected each year, with about 100 million of them feeling sick to some
degree.

Mr. Charmeil said the vaccine would be available early next year in Mexico for
people who want to buy it for themselves, though the price has not yet been
announced. But much greater use would come if the government decides to deploy a
public vaccination campaign. The government has not decided what to do yet.

Mr. Charmeil said that by the end of this month, Sanofi will have applied for
approval in 20 countries in Latin America and Asia. He said the company already
had 2 million doses available and by 2017 should have the capacity to make 100
million doses a year, should that much be needed.

Mr. Charmeil said the price of the vaccine would be reasonable based on its
value. He said the world now spends $9 billion treating dengue and almost as
much to control mosquitoes. He declined to estimate the sales of Dengvaxia but
said he would not dispute estimates by others that sales could reach $1 billion
a year.

Sanofi has been hurt by declining sales in its big diabetes drug business, the
result of new competition and heavier discounting by manufacturers.

Dengvaxia is a live virus vaccine consisting of an attenuated yellow fever virus
genetically engineered to produce proteins from the dengue virus and stimulate
the body's immune system to make antibodies to those proteins. The vaccine works
against all four subtypes of the dengue virus, but better for some subtypes than
others. Others are developing dengue vaccines but are thought to be at least a
few years behind Sanofi.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/first-dengue-fever-vaccine-approved-b
y-mexico.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); DENGUE FEVER (92%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE
(91%); VACCINES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%);
PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG
(89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (78%); TROPICAL
DISEASES (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); CLINICAL TRIALS (78%);
MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (78%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%);
INTERVIEWS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BUDGETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS
(71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (96%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (96%); SANF (BIT) (96%); SAN (PAR) (96%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ)
(96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%);
NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (96%)

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS
(79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Possible Suitors for Yahoo

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SABA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 380 words


Yahoo's core business might fit with Barry Diller's menagerie.

The company said on Wednesday that it was scrapping plans to spin off its stake
in the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba and that it might instead separate out
its division that houses search, advertising and the like. Mr. Diller's
IAC/InterActive, with assorted online endeavors, could be a logical home, as
might Verizon, the owner of AOL.

Yahoo said it had not determined whether to sell anything. Yet if the board does
spin out the advertising and search unit, the company could be ripe for a
takeover. Yahoo is worth about $33 billion, but most of its value lies with its
equity position in Alibaba. The search and ad business is worth only about $3
billion, according to Jefferies.

Talk of a deal has been going on ever since Yahoo rebuffed Microsoft's $44.6
billion offer in 2008. The firm has been floundering for several years, and a
revolving door in the executive suite -- there have been six chief executives in
the last decade -- has made it tough for the company to change strategy.

There are plenty of potential buyers, however. Yahoo would probably fit right in
with IAC's various aging Internet businesses. They include Ask.com -- formerly
Ask Jeeves, a Yahoo competitor -- About.com and CityGrid. IAC said on Wednesday
that it was creating IAC Publishing, which it called a ''new digital operating
entity'' that would combine online brands like The Daily Beast and About.com to
reach an estimated 100 million monthly customers in the United States. Yahoo has
200 million visitors, according to the Internet tracking company comScore.

Don't count out Verizon, either. Its chief financial officer, Francis J. Shammo,
said during an investor conference on Monday that the wireless carrier would
consider buying Yahoo's search and ad business. Verizon paid $4.4 billion in
June for AOL, another limping Internet brand.

There has been lots of talk in recent years about how Yahoo and AOL might make a
good marriage, reaching far more customers together than they do in total
separately. At this point, though, almost any deal would probably look like the
right move for Yahoo.

Jennifer Saba is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent
commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/possible-suitors-for-yahoo.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
(89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%);
EXECUTIVES (72%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (92%); VERIZON
COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (72%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%);
ABOUT.COM INC (54%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); BABA (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE)
(84%); IACI (NASDAQ) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET
PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN
(95%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER
HOUSES (72%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE
PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How to Value Yahoo's Core Business

BYLINE: By LESLIE PICKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 475 words


With Yahoo exploring a separation of its core business, the world may soon know
what the company -- minus its lucrative stake in Alibaba -- is worth.

As of Wednesday, that figure is a negative (yes, negative) $13 billion.

How can a company that has $4.5 billion in revenue and one billion users be
worth less than zero?

Let's walk through the numbers.

The value of Yahoo's stake in Alibaba is $32.5 billion and its stake in Yahoo
Japan is $8.6 billion. The company's net cash -- or cash minus debt -- is $4.2
billion. All told, that is $45.3 billion.

But stock market investors are assigning a valuation of $32.5 billion, based on
Wednesday's trading. The news that Yahoo was halting a spinoff of its stake in
Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, choosing instead to explore a spinoff of
Yahoo's core Internet operations plus its stake in Yahoo Japan, sent shares
lower, widening that gap.

Investors are being punitive in part because of uncertainty. Spinning off the
Yahoo core business and Yahoo Japan is projected to be even more complicated
than the original plan to divest Alibaba. It could take another year or more and
may still carry a tax liability, albeit a smaller one because the asset is
smaller.

Mark May, an analyst with Citigroup, downgraded his rating on Yahoo in
anticipation of the execution risk.

Investors were also disappointed that the core business will still be run by the
current management team, led by Marissa Mayer, according to Brett Harriss, an
analyst with Gabelli & Company. Before Ms. Mayer took over as chief executive of
Yahoo in 2012, the company had earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, of $1.4 billion, a figure projected to be $929 million
this year.

It may have declined, but with that much Ebitda, Yahoo's core business cannot be
worthless.

On average, analysts value Yahoo's core based on five times projected Ebitda --
some a little higher, some a little lower. That yields a market capitalization
of $4.6 billion if Yahoo were an independent company. Tack on the 35 percent
stake in Yahoo Japan, worth about $8.6 billion, and you've got a $13.2 billion
business that could be spun out.

If the transaction ultimately is taxed, the bill would be a lot smaller for the
Yahoo core plus Yahoo Japan entity than the original plan to spin off its
Alibaba stake. Assuming a 41 percent tax rate, as CRT did in Wednesday's note,
Yahoo would pay $5.4 billion in taxes, versus $13.3 billion in taxes if it spun
out Alibaba -- potential savings that amount to $8 billion. That's an extra
dollar back for each share outstanding. Yet, interestingly, the stock lost 45
cents a share Wednesday.

It is clear that the turmoil surrounding Yahoo is not over. Only when it has a
spinoff or a sale will the market truly be able to put a price tag above zero on
its core business.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/how-to-value-yahoos-core-bus
iness.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS
(89%); EBITDA (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MARKET
CAPITALIZATION (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); MANAGERS
& SUPERVISORS (66%); TAX LAW (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (91%); YAHOO JAPAN CORP
(57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); BABA (NYSE) (91%); 4689 (TSE) (57%); C (NYSE)
(56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%);
NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (91%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (57%);
SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%);
NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%);
NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Republicans Introduce Bill for Relief of Puerto Rico's Financial Problems

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1006 words


Under pressure to help Puerto Rico avoid a bond default on Jan. 1, Senate
Republicans introduced a bill on Wednesday to extend several forms of assistance
to the island.

But the measure stopped well short of embracing proposals from the Obama
administration, which include giving Puerto Rico access to bankruptcy court.

The senators acted as Antonio Weiss, a counselor to Treasury Secretary Jacob J.
Lew, warned that without congressional action, Puerto Rico risked ''another lost
decade.''

The Republicans' measure would include up to $3 billion in cash relief, a
payroll tax break for residents of the island and a new independent authority
that could borrow for Puerto Rico -- but with no taxpayer guarantee.

''Consistent with the views of Congress and the administration that there will
be no 'bailout' '' of Puerto Rico, said a bill summary, ''the full faith and
credit of the United States is not pledged for the payment of debt obligations
issued by the authority.''

The bill also called for Puerto Rico -- and all the states -- to disclose, for
the first time, the true financial condition of their pension systems for
government workers. Currently, governments use actuarial numbers, which can
significantly understate a pension plan's cost. Shifting to fair-value numbers
could help with coming negotiations in which Puerto Rico has said it plans to
divert money from its bondholders and use it to pay pensions.

The proposed new disclosures would also make it easier to identify other states
whose pension systems are so distressed that they may have to try similar
negotiations in the future.

To get the $3 billion, the bill proposed tapping a $12 billion public-health
fund created under the Affordable Care Act, for research and preventive medicine
programs nationwide. The bill summary said the money was as yet ''unobligated,''
and could be ''repurposed'' with federal supervision to help tide Puerto Rico
through an alarming cash squeeze this winter.

To give Puerto Rican workers a tax break, the bill would reduce by 50 percent
the Social Security taxes now withheld from their paychecks.

And in an echo of the control board that Congress imposed on the District of
Columbia in the 1990s, the Republicans' bill would designate a ''chief financial
officer'' for Puerto Rico to advise the island's governor on drafting and
sticking to an annual budget.

The designee would remain in place even if the government changes hands in next
year's election, giving Puerto Rico a better chance of seeing through its
five-year economic recovery plan no matter who is elected. The five-year plan
was announced in September.

The legislation was introduced by the Republican chairmen of three Senate
committees with jurisdiction over Puerto Rico's affairs: Senator Orrin Hatch of
Utah, whose Finance Committee has jurisdiction over tax policy; Senator Charles
Grassley of Iowa, whose Judiciary Committee is responsible for bankruptcy law;
and Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, whose Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources has jurisdiction over matters involving America's territories.

Each of those committees has recently held a hearing on Puerto Rico's travails,
taking expert testimony on the severity of the island's debt crisis and what
might be done to restore stability and economic growth. In each of the hearings,
Republicans said they wanted to help, but were troubled by a lack of information
about the Puerto Rican government's spending practices.

''Despite repeated attempts by Congress to clarify how the interplay between
federal tax, health care and pension policies affect the territory's economy, we
have been unable to receive audited financial statements from Puerto Rico or
adequate information from federal health officials,'' Mr. Hatch said in a
statement. ''Federal taxpayers and the Puerto Rican people deserve better.''

He and the other senators said they had decided to go ahead with a bill based on
the limited information they already had. They said it would take time to solve
Puerto Rico's problems, and in the meantime they hoped to get more financial
information.

Lawmakers from both parties have been working toward a Jan. 1 deadline, when
Puerto Rico owes bond payments of as much as $902 million, according to the
Center for a New Economy, a nonpartisan research institute in San Juan. So far,
the island has been struggling to stay current on most of its obligations. But
officials say they are running out of cash and it is not clear that Puerto Rico
will have enough money to pay what it owes on Jan. 1.

About $332 million of that bond payment is for general-obligation bonds, which
are constitutionally guaranteed in Puerto Rico. It would be unprecedented, and
unlawful, for Puerto Rico to skip such a payment outside of bankruptcy -- yet
Puerto Rico is barred from using Chapter 9 bankruptcy.

The Obama administration has expressed doubt that Puerto Rico could successfully
restructure without being able to impair all of its bonds, including those with
constitutional protection. But Republican lawmakers suspect that if Puerto Rico
were to get the tools to legally impair its general-obligation debt, it would
not be long before fiscally troubled states, like Illinois, came calling for the
same thing.

On the details of how to revive Puerto Rico's failing pension system, or
changing the way doctors on the island are paid by federal programs like
Medicare, the bill proposes only further study.

The legislation was introduced during end-of-the-session drama in Washington, as
the governor of Puerto Rico came to Washington to make one last plea for help.

Speaking at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Mr. Weiss, the
Treasury official, said that the National Economic Council and the Treasury had
already ''convened a broad, administration-wide effort'' among federal agencies
''to develop the most effective policy response to the crisis.''

''But,'' he added, ''it has become clear that resolving Puerto Rico's crisis
requires congressional action.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/senate-republicans-introduce-bill-for
-puerto-rico-relief.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orrin Hatch, left, Charles Grassley, and Richard Blumenthal at a
Senate hearing about Puerto Rico last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ
MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%);
BONDS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES &
TAXATION (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY
(78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGETS
(76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); ECONOMIC
RECOVERY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%);
CIVIL SERVICES (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS
(71%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (66%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); RICHARD
BLUMENTHAL (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Kering to Sell Italian Shoemaker Sergio Rossi to Private Equity Firm

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH PATON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 442 words


LONDON -- The French luxury goods group Kering said on Wednesday that it had
reached an agreement to sell the Italian shoemaker Sergio Rossi to the private
equity firm Investindustrial, concluding months of negotiations.

The terms of the agreement were not announced.

The deal includes Sergio Rossi's factories, the rights to the brand name, and
the shoemaker's distribution network, according to Kering, the group formerly
known as PPR. The transaction was expected to close in the coming weeks, Kering
said.

''We have built an excellent relationship with Kering, who has chosen us as the
new owners for the brand,'' said Andrea C. Bonomi, senior partner of
Investindustrial. ''This choice makes us proud.''

He continued: ''Currently, we are partners of leading brands such as Aston
Martin, Flos and B&B Italia that are growing internationally -- the same growth
path that we are looking to achieve for Sergio Rossi.''

Sergio Rossi, which is based in Milan and has grown to more than 80 directly
operated or franchised stores worldwide since opening its first boutique in the
1980s, made a name for itself with its elegant stilettos, leather and metal
work. The Gucci Group, now owned by Kering, bought the business in 1999.

Kering, which is in an acquisitions race with LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton
for smaller luxury brands, made it clear in February that it was looking for a
buyer for Sergio Rossi, after continuing losses and the departure of Mr. Rossi,
the founder, and of the chief executive, Christophe Mélard. Negotiations with
Investindustrial began in July.

''The deal is good news,'' Luca Solca, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in
a note to clients. He said Sergio Rossi had been the exception to the rule in
Kering's mostly positive track record of adding value to small luxury goods
acquisitions.

''Larger luxury groups increasingly need to produce more growth with smaller
brands,'' Mr. Solca added. ''As their megabrands progressively shift from
'stars' into 'cash cows,' there need to be other success stories.''

The sale also points to a continuing resurgence of interest from private equity
investors in takeovers of smaller Italian luxury groups that are taking stock of
their long-term growth prospects. The past 18 months have seen a wave of
high-profile deals, including the acquisition of a 90 percent stake in Roberto
Cavalli by Clessidra for an estimated 390 million euros, or about $424 million,
in April. That deal followed Blackstone's taking a 20 percent stake in Versace
last year, Carlyle's investment in the ski jacket maker Moncler, and the Qatari
fund Mayhoola for Investment's buyout of Valentino.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/kering-sergio-rossi-investin
dustrial.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); BRAND
EQUITY (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); CLOTHING
LABELS (76%); FRANCHISING (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); ACQUISITIONS
(70%); SKIING (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF
FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Marissa Mayer Has a Year to Fulfill Yahoo's Potential

BYLINE: By STEVEN DAVIDOFF SOLOMON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 726 words


Yahoo remains stuck in the deal cycle, putting off what looks like an inevitable
sale for another year.

Still, a year gives its chief executive, Marissa Mayer, another chance to
increase a price tag on the once-great Internet company.

And there is still much to save. Yahoo has roughly one billion users. It has 81
million users of its mail service in the United States alone. This type of reach
would have investors salivating were Yahoo a privileged member of the unicorns,
those rare start-ups valued privately at $1 billion or more, particularly
because Yahoo actually has revenue of nearly $5 billion a year.

But alas, Yahoo's core business has been struggling. Yahoo has yet to find a
core purpose other than being an Internet destination. Ms. Mayer has adopted
multiple strategies, which ReCode called ''convoluted,'' to try to turn the
company into a media content business.

Yahoo needs new products, but it is instead showing just how hard a turnaround
is in technology. AOL sort of did it but was only able to claw back a few
billion dollars of value from the more than hundred billions lost.

Yahoo's turnaround may work, it may not. But what has really been going on here
for the last year is an attempt to deal with Yahoo's investments in Alibaba and
Yahoo Japan. These investments saved Yahoo, but they are also hastening its
demise.

You may be scratching your head at this point. Yahoo's investment in Alibaba is
valued at $32 billion, and the Yahoo Japan investment is valued at $8.6 billion.
How could such stellar investments doom Yahoo? The sad fact is that Yahoo is
being assigned negative value by the stock market, and certainly not the value
of $4 billion to $8 billion assigned to it privately.

The Alibaba stock holdings make invisible any gains or losses at the real Yahoo
business.

With no real stock market value for Yahoo, rumor and sentiment appear to be
driving Yahoo's fate. It also means that Yahoo must appease the market by
unleashing this value, something it has been trying to do for years.

But even a valuation of up to $8 billion probably has Yahoo's board gnashing its
teeth -- after all, one billion Internet users has to be worth more. Twitter's
revenue is less than Yahoo's with far fewer users, and even that company is
worth $17 billion. (Twitter, however, is growing in revenue.)

And so the Yahoo board's decision to continue to pursue a spinoff of Yahoo's
core business is part of its attempt to deal with the Alibaba problem, but in
truth, it is to crystallize Yahoo's value. And that is a value that will
immediately place Yahoo as a target as the other Internet companies salivate
about buying one billion users on the cheap.

It all came to a head this year, when Yahoo proposed a spinoff of the Alibaba
stake and the I.R.S. countered that it would not provide a favorable private
letter ruling on the tax-free nature of that spinoff.

Yahoo's lawyer, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, was willing to give a tax
opinion, but the risk became too much.

And so the move backed Yahoo into a corner. The only tax-efficient plan left was
to hive off Yahoo's core business. This is harder than the Alibaba spinoff
because it essentially involves creating a new Yahoo, which will take a year at
least. There must be I.R.S. approvals, Securities and Exchange Commission
clearance and a shareholder vote.

In the meantime. Ms. Mayer will have more time to improve Yahoo's business as
the real value of Yahoo will be obscured. And when the value emerges, Yahoo will
be ready for sale, stripped of its Alibaba shares.

It will be a difficult road for Ms. Mayer. The announcement on Wednesday was not
about a sale, but it is still likely to create more uncertainty. Sale
announcements often spur employees to look for new jobs and can reduce morale.
And it also scares off customers and suppliers who worry for the future. As of
now, Yahoo is going to struggle mightily to retain talent.

But the gamble is probably worth it: Yahoo's user base is enormous, and the
board is betting it can be further monetized. This is most likely why the
announcement was not about an outright sale. There is too much potential value,
and even a $10 billion Yahoo is a minnow among Internet whales, likely not long
for this world.

The question is whether Ms. Mayer can use this additional year to fulfill
Yahoo's potential.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/marissa-mayer-has-a-year-to-
fulfill-yahoos-potential.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); YAHOO JAPAN CORP (54%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); 4689 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION
RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%);
NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (54%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC5961
CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

CVC Capital Plans São Paulo Office

BYLINE: By VINOD SREEHARSHA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 458 words


RIO DE JANEIRO -- The private equity firm CVC Capital Partners plans to open an
office in São Paulo and take on a prominent Brazilian investment banker to run
it.

Jean-Marc Etlin will join as head of the Latin America operation, beginning in
January, CVC said in a statement on Wednesday. Mr. Etlin is the longtime chief
executive of Itaú BBA Investment Bank, part of Banco Itaú, which he joined in
2005.

In the decade that followed, he played a key role in its rise, both when
Brazil's economy boomed and experienced a record number of initial public
offerings but also in recent years, when mergers and acquisitions have become
the only viable exits for companies here and when private equity's role in those
deals grew.

CVC, based in Luxembourg, said it expected to look for opportunities throughout
Latin America from its São Paulo office and make investments from the CVC
Capital Partners VI fund. The fund was raised in 2013, pulling in about 10.9
billion euros, or $15 billion based on exchange rates at the time, according to
the firm.

Brazil is mired in recession, with the economy contracting for three consecutive
quarters, and Goldman Sachs recently warned of a possible depression.
Nevertheless, Bertrand Meunier, a managing partner at CVC, said in the statement
that ''we believe now is the right time to build a strong, local and experienced
team'' in Brazil and Latin America.

CVC, which has 23 other offices worldwide, has yet to make an investment in
Brazil, a person close to the firm said. Its website names more than 250
companies that make up its historical portfolio, but not one is from Latin
America.

Compared with other international private equity firms, CVC appears to be making
a late entry into Latin America. Advent International, where Mr. Etlin's brother
Patrice Etlin is a managing director, has been making investments here since the
late 1990s. The Carlyle Group formed a South America team in 2008.

Last year, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Bain Capital each made their first direct
investments in Brazil.

Still, there remains space for private equity here, especially as capital and
financing become more and more scarce amid few signs of improvement in the
economy.

Deals continue to take place even if the dollar volume is down. According to
Dealogic, the number of deals in Brazil so far this year is 643, only one less
than the 644 made during the same period last year.

Mr. Etlin, a former rugby player and advisory board member at Sotheby's, has
been an adviser on numerous deals for Itaú BBA that involved private equity
firms.

''Jean-Marc's reputation and experience will be of great value to CVC Capital
Partners and allow us to build out our presence in this exciting market,'' Mr.
Meunier said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/cvc-capital-plans-sao-paulo-
office.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%);
INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE
MOVES (77%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECESSION (75%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%);
CURRENCIES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); RUGBY (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS
(54%)

COMPANY: CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ADVENT
INTERNATIONAL CORP (84%); BANCO ITAU BBA SA (73%); KKR & CO LP (63%); CARLYLE
GROUP LP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); KKR (NYSE) (63%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); ITUB3 (BOVESPA)
(57%); ITUB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930
INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING
(90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES,
NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, &
FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%);
NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING
COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS,
NEC (57%)

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (74%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

6 Companies Make Stock Market Debut in China After a 5-Month I.P.O. Hiatus

BYLINE: By AMIE TSANG

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 574 words


HONG KONG --  Shares started trading in six newly listed companies in China on
Wednesday after a five-month hiatus for initial public offerings and just weeks
before rules governing investors in new listings are set to change.

Shares in all the companies surged by their daily limit of 44 percent, a typical
increase for listings in China. The Shenzhen and Shanghai stock indexes both
rose about 0.1 percent.

The companies had filed to go public between February and June, but the Chinese
government had banned new share sales in July in an effort to stem a plunge in
the markets. The move created a backlog of nearly 700 companies that have been
waiting to make their debuts.

Public offerings were a popular investment before the ban, with companies often
reaching the limit of how much their shares could rise on the first day. That
effect was partly because of speculation and partly because of government
policies meant to ensure that businesses were not overvalued when they went
public.

Under current rules, buyers must back their order with cash up front, even
though the entire share order is unlikely to be filled. That can temporarily tie
up hundreds of billions of dollars that might be invested elsewhere.

About 3.978 trillion renminbi, or about $606 billion, was locked up for initial
public offerings in June, while 42 billion renminbi was actually raised,
according to ANZ Research.

But the China Securities Regulatory Commission said the deposit requirement for
initial public offerings would be different in 2016. That may make more funds
available for investing in new listings, and stocks in general, analysts said.

Changing the rules could make new listings more inviting, said David Qu, a rates
strategist at ANZ Research.

The old requirements, however, apply to the companies that started trading on
Wednesday and the other 22 expected to list before the end of the year.
Nonetheless, Mr. Qu says there is little to worry about.

''The P.B.O.C. is definitely going to maintain accommodative liquidity in the
market in spite of the I.P.O.s,'' he said, referring to the People's Bank of
China. ''They will inject liquidity when necessary, so I'm not worried about the
I.P.O. tightening this year.''

Shanghai's main share index plunged 5.5 percent at the end of November, after
Beijing cracked down on fraud and insider trading in the financial sector. But
the resumption of I.P.O.s may also have contributed to sagging shares, as
investors cashed out of their holdings to prepare for the new offerings.

Herald van der Linde, an equities strategist at HSBC, said the government was
working hard to make the process of going public more efficient. He added that
it would take a while to see how the market responded to the resumption of
public offerings.

''Sometimes when equity markets are hot, you see them do phenomenally well,'' he
said, referring to new listings. ''I don't really expect that at the moment; you
get that when there is liquidity. It will be much more muted from what we've
seen for some of the past.''

Anji Foodstuff, a condiment maker; BanBao, a toy manufacturer; and Bomin
Electronics, which makes printed circuit boards, were listed on the Shanghai
stock exchange on Wednesday.

The Shenzhen listings were Hubei Kailong Chemical Group, which makes explosives;
Zhejiang Zhongjian Technology, which makes gardening machinery; and Beijing
Sanfo Outdoor Products, a manufacturer of camping items.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/china-ipo-trading-hiatus.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK
EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%);
SECURITIES LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS
(77%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); SHENZHEN, GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA
(59%)

STATE: EAST CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (89%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); NORTH
CENTRAL CHINA (73%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (89%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Argentina's Next Finance Chief Meets Debt Dispute Mediator

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA STEVENSON; Jonathan Gilbert contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 666 words


Argentina's incoming secretary of finance met this week with the arbiter of a
bitter decade-long legal dispute between the country and a group of New York
hedge funds, opening a new path toward a potential resolution.

Luis Caputo, a former banker and soon to be the finance secretary, traveled to
New York to meet with Daniel A. Pollack, a court-appointed special master who
has been tasked with mediating negotiations, according to a statement from Mr.
Pollack's office.

The meeting was sought by Mr. Caputo, who will begin his new role on Thursday.
It follows a meeting between the group of creditors, led by the billionaire Paul
E. Singer, and Mr. Pollack last week.

The creditors sued Argentina seeking repayment on bonds the government defaulted
on in 2001. The departing administration of President Cristina Fernández de
Kirchner has balked at the creditors' demands.

While no negotiations to resolve litigation occurred in either meeting, Mr.
Caputo expressed the intention of the new administration under President-elect
Mauricio Macri to begin negotiations promptly once the new government is sworn
in, according to the statement.

Mr. Macri's presidential victory last month is expected to bring a sudden shift
to the right in Argentine politics after decades of rule by Peronists. The son
of an industrial tycoon and once mayor of Buenos Aires, Mr. Macri has sought to
strike a different tone from Mrs. Kirchner, who succeeded her husband, Néstor
Kirchner, in 2007. Mr. Kirchner, who died in 2010, and Mrs. Kirchner were in
power for 12 years.

Among Mr. Macri's priorities will be to reignite a beleaguered economy, and he
has pledged to loosen currency controls and lower export tariffs. Mr. Macri has
also said he would negotiate with the country's holdout creditors.

The news will raise fresh hopes that both sides can resolve the protracted
fight, which has left Argentina almost entirely locked out of international
capital markets. Whether Mr. Macri's administration can come to an agreement
with the holdout creditors will be a test of that pledge.

NML Capital, a unit of Elliott Management, has led a group of holdout investors
in seeking full repayment of the bonds Argentina defaulted on. After the
default, the Argentine government offered to exchange those defaulted bonds with
new ''exchange bonds'' that were worth significantly less.

Rejecting the offer, NML Capital sued Argentina after a breakthrough ruling in
Federal District Court in Manhattan. Judge Thomas P. Griesa ruled that whenever
Argentina paid holders of its exchange bonds it would also have to pay the
holdouts. Unable to make a payment to its exchange bond holders, Argentina
defaulted on its debt again last summer.

The dispute has raised ire among Argentines and fueled tensions. In Buenos
Aires, graffiti of vultures is strewn across the city, referring to NML Capital,
other creditors and Judge Griesa.

Mr. Singer has asserted that the creditors are willing to negotiate with
Argentina. But under the last Kirchner administration, neither side sat down to
negotiate, Mr. Singer recently said.

''By being a country that scoffs at the rule of law, they sacrifice so much,''
Mr. Singer said in an interview  last month. ''It makes so much sense for
Argentina to sit down with us.''

There are still questions about how far Mr. Macri will go to negotiate. Some of
his own advisers have indicated that it is not at the top of the agenda.

For now, the prospect of a new creditor-friendly administration in Argentina has
been met with optimism in the market. The benchmark government bonds that expire
in 2024 have rallied since Mr. Macri's ratings first went up in the polls, said
Siobhan Morden, head of Latin American fixed income strategy at Nomura.

''I think Argentina will prioritize a normalization of creditor relations, as
market access could help smooth the transition,'' Ms. Morden said, adding, ''As
a former Wall Streeter, Caputo has the perfect credentials to lead
negotiations.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/argentinas-next-finance-chie
f-meets-debt-dispute-mediator.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%);
BONDS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); AGREEMENTS
(76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); WEALTHY
PEOPLE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); TARIFFS & DUTIES
(50%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: ELLIOTT MANAGEMENT CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (79%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (79%); MAURICIO
MACRI (79%)

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


The DealBook column on Tuesday, about investors' efforts to divest their
portfolios of gun manufacturers, misstated the nature of the business of the
Olin Corporation. The company makes ammunition; it is not a gun manufacturer.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (87%)

COMPANY: OLIN CORP (91%)

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS331420
COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (91%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC
INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Education Law Changes Approved by the Senate

BYLINE: By EMMARIE HUETTEMAN; Motoko Rich contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 794 words


WASHINGTON --  The Senate on Wednesday approved a sweeping revision of the
contentious No Child Left Behind law, sending to President Obama's desk a
proposal that ends an era of federal control in education policy after 14 years.

The legislation, which passed the Senate by a vote of 85 to 12, would restore
authority for school performance and accountability to local districts and
states after a lengthy period of aggressive federal involvement. While it keeps
the existing annual testing requirements in reading and math and requires that
states act to improve the lowest performing schools, it allows more local
control to set goals, determine school ratings and decide remedial measures.

''It will unleash a flood of excitement and innovation and student achievement
that we haven't seen in a long time,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, the
Tennessee Republican who leads the Education Committee. ''But it will come
community by community, state by state, rather than through Washington, D.C.''

Mr. Obama is expected to sign the bill -- the product of a conference committee
of the House and Senate that passed easily in  the House last week with
bipartisan backing -- on Thursday.

''This is the biggest rewrite of our education laws in 25 years,'' said the
House speaker, Paul D. Ryan. ''I'm very proud of this bill.''

No Child Left Behind, George W. Bush's signature education initiative, had
passed with strong bipartisan support in 2001. It introduced high-stakes
standardized testing to gauge students in reading and math from the third to
eighth grades, with the ultimate goal of making every student proficient in
those subjects by 2014.

But as time went on, more schools faced sanctions, including closings, as they
failed to meet what turned out to be an unworkable expectation. Republicans and
Democrats alike backed away from the law as it became apparent that its
penalties for struggling schools were overly punitive.

The law expired in 2007, but for years lawmakers could not agree on a
replacement. Members of Congress debated the role the federal government should
play in education, with Republicans pushing for more autonomy for states and
school districts. For their part, Democrats pressed for assurances that racial
minorities and those from low-income families would be protected, ensuring that
there would not be disparities in access to a good education from one state or
district to the next.

''I think the most important thing that we put in place is that we have federal
guardrails to make sure that all of our students are getting access to a quality
education, but have reduced the emphasis on high-stakes testing that has been so
paralyzing,'' Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Education Committee's top
Democrat, said in an interview Monday.

In January, Ms. Murray, a former preschool teacher, and Mr. Alexander, a former
university president and education secretary, agreed to work together on a new
proposal, kick-starting the negotiations that culminated in the legislation
passed by the Senate on Wednesday.

Lawmakers praised the cooperation that finally ended the gridlock over the bill,
part of what Mr. Alexander called ''one of the most productive Senate years in a
long time,'' citing bipartisan efforts on cybersecurity and highway
infrastructure as well.

''It's important to say that while this was done because we have a Republican
majority, it would not have happened without Democratic senators, especially
Senator Murray,'' he said.

Educators, advocates and teachers' unions welcomed the end of years of stalled
negotiations. ''It's a big deal because it's being done in a place in Washington
that doesn't normally get anything done,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of
the American Federation of Teachers, the nation's second largest teachers'
union, ''but normally yells and screams at each other and points fingers instead
of actually getting something done.''

Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association, the
country's largest teachers' union with about three million members, said that
the easing of No Child Left Behind's most onerous measures could help schools
keep teachers on the job.

''One of the reasons they have been leaving the classroom is that they are so
disillusioned by test and punish,'' Ms. Garcia said. With the new flexibility
that the law gives to states and local school districts, Ms. Garcia said, policy
makers and administrators have the chance to ''take a look at making this a
respected profession where teachers are allowed to make decisions that they know
are in the best interest of students.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/senate-approves-overhaul-of-no-chi
ld-left-behind-law.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the Senate's president pro tem, signed
the measure revising the No Child Left Behind law on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION LAW (92%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (92%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS
(90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); LEGISLATION
(90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%);
PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS
(50%); MINORITY GROUPS (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); PAUL RYAN (79%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); LAMAR ALEXANDER
(58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chicago's Mayor Demands Sweeping Police Reform

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and MITCH SMITH; Ryan Schuessler contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 947 words


CHICAGO --  Facing sharply escalating criticism of him and his Police
Department, Mayor Rahm Emanuel used an unusually emotional address on Wednesday
to call for sweeping changes in the ways the police use force, treat black
residents and discipline abusive officers.

''Nothing less than complete and total reform of the system and the culture that
it breeds will meet the standard we have set for ourselves as a city,'' Mr.
Emanuel said before the City Council, striking a contrite tone far different
from the swaggering persona he is known for and even choking up at points during
his speech.

With a chorus of demonstrators calling for his resignation and influential
aldermen criticizing his handling of police issues, Mr. Emanuel said that he was
sorry for his approach to the fatal police shooting of Laquan McDonald, in which
city officials fought for more than a year to keep dashboard camera video of the
2014 shooting out of public view even after paying a $5 million settlement to
the family.

Mr. McDonald, 17, was shot 16 times, most of the bullets striking him after he
had fallen. The video was released on a judge's order last month. ''I take
responsibility for what happened because it happened on my watch,'' Mr. Emanuel
said.

Mr. Emanuel's words were not enough to slow the criticism that has risen since
the McDonald video was made public. Within hours of his speech, protesters
filled a downtown plaza and marched through the city's central business
district, the Loop, blocking traffic and chanting calls for Mr. Emanuel to
resign. ''Sixteen shots and a cover-up!'' they cried, carrying signs with
messages like, ''Mayor Emanuel is a crook!''

Also on Wednesday, State Representative La Shawn K. Ford, who like Mr. Emanuel
is a Democrat, introduced a bill that would provide a mechanism to recall the
mayor of Chicago.

In a federal courthouse here, the family of another person killed by the police,
Cedrick Chatman, pressed to have video surveillance from his 2013 death made
public. Although Mr. Emanuel has recently pledged to make the Police Department
more transparent, city lawyers previously sought a protective order to keep the
surveillance footage private and did not change their position on Wednesday.

A spokesman for the city Law Department said: ''A judge agreed in this case that
releasing the video would prejudice a trial.  The city of Chicago clearly needs
a new policy around releasing videos that accounts for all issues and we're
working on it with the help of the recently appointed task force.''

And in a courthouse across town, testimony continued against a high-ranking
police officer, Cmdr. Glenn Evans, who is charged with aggravated battery and
official misconduct over claims he shoved his gun into the throat of a resident,
pressed a Taser to his groin and threatened to kill him.

Troubles on other fronts also loom for Mr. Emanuel, who this fall pushed through
the city's largest property tax increase in modern history. On Wednesday,
members of the Chicago Teachers Union began voting on whether to hold a strike
over unresolved differences with Mr. Emanuel's appointed schools leadership.
''The attitude at the fifth floor,'' said Alderman Scott Waguespack, referring
to Mr. Emanuel's offices at City Hall, ''has got to change before the whole city
can change.''

The problems here go well beyond the shooting of Mr. McDonald and the city's
handling of the subsequent investigation, Mr. Waguespack said. He cited what he
called ''a whole style and approach to government that's been secret, pushing
back whenever the public wants information, and that needs to change as well.''

After the address, the Council's Black Caucus called on the police to ''stop
shooting people in the back'' and for officers who file reports corroborating
false claims by other officers to be prosecuted. ''The community wants to see
action,'' Alderman Roderick Sawyer, a member of the caucus, said. ''The first
step is an apology, which I think is appropriate. But the community, they want
to see faith with works, they want to see action with works.''

Mr. Emanuel condemned the shooting of Mr. McDonald, and also criticized a police
accountability system that rarely disciplines officers for excessive use of
force. Statistics showing a very low rate of disciplinary action against
officers ''defy credibility,'' he said. He also blasted a ''thin blue line'' and
''code of silence'' in the Police Department that he said eroded the confidence
in the police. ''It is a tendency to ignore, it is a tendency to deny, it is a
tendency in some cases to cover up the bad actions of a colleague or
colleagues,'' Mr. Emanuel said.

Mr. Emanuel said he recognized that some people were ''afraid to work with
police,'' that officers sometimes treated black people with undue suspicion, and
that officers had to show respect to young black men.

''When an African-American mother or father or grandparent feels it is necessary
to train their sons and daughters to behave with extreme caution when they are
pulled over by police, and they have both hands on the wheel and visible, what
does that say?'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''We have a trust problem. It is not
something I would ever tell my children. That's unacceptable.''

After the speech, Mr. Emanuel expressed regret about how he had answered
questions about the McDonald video before it was released. His explanations that
the city needed to withhold it to avoid hindering criminal investigations into
the shooting was not enough, the mayor said.

''I should have given voice to the public's growing suspicions, distrust and
anger,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''My voice is supposed to be their voice.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/chicagos-mayor-rahm-emanuel-demands-sweepin
g-police-reform.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators blocked traffic in Chicago on Wednesday after
Mayor Rahm Emanuel spoke to the City Council about Chicago's Police Department.
Speaking to Council members, Mr. Emanuel said that he was sorry for his approach
to the fatal police shooting of Laquan McDonald, and called for changes in the
way the police use force. (A20)
 Police officers looked on during a demonstration in Chicago's Daley Plaza on
Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%);
DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); RESTRAINING
ORDERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY
(73%); JUDGES (71%); LAWYERS (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE
(67%); SHOOTINGS (54%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (93%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Cam, on 'Untamed,' Mingles Roots and Radio Appeal

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 416 words


Cam

''Untamed''

(Arista Nashville/RCA)

The crickets, the lonesome harmonica, the faraway train whistles and the
plinking banjo that open ''Untamed,'' the title song on Cam's debut album,
declare allegiance to country's rural roots. So do the lyrics, about ''making
Memory Lane out of old back roads.'' But the thumping tom-tom beat and handclaps
also make Cam -- a Californian transplanted to Nashville, whose fuller name is
Camaron Ochs -- a 21st-century radio-ready performer. It's a combination she
executes skillfully throughout the album, which includes a song nominated for
the Grammy award for best country solo performance: ''Burning House,'' the only
500,000-selling country single released by a woman in 2015.

''Burning House,'' an acoustic (but elaborately produced) ballad with
crackling-fire sound effects in the background, is a lost-love song, an apology
to an ex and a dream of life-or-death devotion that couldn't work out; it's the
gentlest moment on the album. ''Wish that we could go back in time/And I'd be
the one you thought you'd find,'' Cam sings.

Cam wrote all the songs on ''Untamed'' with various collaborators; the wordplay
is taut, and the sentiments are rarely sugary. Cam presents herself as a lover
who's scrappy when she needs to be; she's clearly an admirer of the Dixie Chicks
and Miranda Lambert. She flashes unbridled anger -- as furious as Adele in
''Rolling in the Deep'' -- in ''Runaway Train,'' a turbocharged banjo tune
directed at someone who betrayed her. ''Hungover on Heartache'' suggests one
aftermath, a reconciliation tarnished by bitter memories: ''I get sick when you
mention her name.'' Elsewhere, the honky-tonk-tinged ''Half Broke Heart'' mocks
someone who's trying to let her down easy -- ''I need my space is still
goodbye''-- while ''My Mistake'' asserts her right to a barroom pickup and
one-night stand.

In ''Country Ain't Never Been Pretty,'' Cam flaunts farm-gal bona fides, deftly
contrasting high heels on a red carpet with manure-seasoned boots. But for all
the banjo picking on the album, Cam isn't pledged to traditionalism. The tracks
are punched up, with spacious mixes and hefty drumbeats, by Cam's two fellow
executive producers and co-writers: Tyler Johnson, who's responsible for much of
the electronic programming in the background, and Jeff Bhasker, a producer known
for pop hits by Fun., Bruno Mars and Alicia Keys. All the better; Cam's voice is
strong enough to seize the foreground, and her songs deserve the push.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-cam-on-untamed-mingles-roots
-and-radio-appeal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); GRAMMY AWARDS
(77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%);
WRITERS (65%)

PERSON: MIRANDA LAMBERT (79%); ADELE (72%)

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (88%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Korea: Temple Standoff Ends

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING | ASIA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words


The fugitive leader of a militant labor group turned himself in on Thursday,
ending a 24-day standoff with law enforcement officials that prompted  a rare
police raid inside the headquarters temple of South Korea's largest Buddhist
denomination. Han Sang-gyun, head of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions,
had been holed up inside the Jogye Temple in central South Korea since he helped
organize a large rally on Nov. 14.  The antigovernment protest, the largest
under President Park Geun-hye, turned violent as the police fired water cannons
and tear gas while some protesters wielded metal pipes. Tension between Ms. Park
and her progressive critics, including organized labor, has been deepening as
her government has pushed for reforms that the critics fear would make it easier
to fire workers.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(88%); RELIGION (87%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (86%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (79%)

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Confirm Norovirus in a Chipotle Outbreak

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


Over 120 Boston College students have fallen ill and public health officials
said Wednesday that norovirus was found at a Chipotle restaurant at the center
of the outbreak. The Boston Public Health Commission said lab testing confirmed
the presence of the gastrointestinal illness, which causes nausea, vomiting and
diarrhea, at the Chipotle restaurant in the city's Cleveland Circle
neighborhood, near the Boston College campus. The restaurant remains closed. A
spokesman for Chipotle said the illnesses were most likely isolated and not
related to the E. coli cases that have turned up in the company's restaurants in
nine states.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/officials-confirm-norovirus-in-a-chip
otle-outbreak.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%);
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); E COLI (85%)

COMPANY: CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (93%)

TICKER: CMG (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (97%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES
(97%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grisham in a British Accent

BYLINE: JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 879 words


Readers who enjoy having curveballs pitched at them are sure to appreciate Nick
Stone's hyperactive throwing arm. Mr. Stone, an award-winning mystery writer who
is much better known in his native Britain than he is here, has come up with a
legal thriller called ''The Verdict.'' It may well find an American audience
without a helping hand, but comparisons to John Grisham will ease its way.
They're valid, and not just because of the blunt title. The Grisham feeling
persists, even though this book's courtroom scenes are set in the Old Bailey and
feature white horsehair wigs.

The milieu is familiar, thanks to Scott Turow, Mr. Grisham et alia, and the
structure is even more so. This relative conventionality makes it nothing like
the more adventurous books for which this half-Scottish, half-Haitian writer has
previously been admired. (His first, ''Mr. Clarinet,'' was set in Haiti and won
the British Crime Writers' Association Ian Fleming Steel Dagger Award, beating a
strong field of nominees that included Michael Connelly's ''The Lincoln
Lawyer.'' The next year's winner was ''Sharp Objects,'' the debut novel by
Gillian Flynn. It's a significant honor.)

So prospective readers of ''The Verdict'' know who they are. If you enjoy being
toyed with and misled, here's an author eager to fool you. And his hero is a
generic guy who prompts some déjà vu. Meet Terry Flynt, who's in his late 30s
but still just a clerk at a prestigious London law firm. And he's barely hanging
on to that job. Terry has gone through some kind of unspecified bad times that
set him back in life, and they had something to do with a friend from Cambridge
named Vernon James. Vernon went on to become glamorous, rich and powerful. Then
he's accused of murdering a woman in his hotel room on the very night he attends
a gala honoring him as Ethical Person of the Year. As fate and Mr. Stone would
have it, Terry is dragooned into working on his defense team.

In yet another shocking twist, Terry's college sweetheart wound up marrying
Vernon. But Terry still finds her very alluring. And with time on her hands,
since Vernon is behind bars, awaiting trial. Speaking of bars, Terry once had a
terrible drinking problem (see: ''some kind of unspecified bad times that set
him back in life''), and he does not want to risk his own family by going too
far down Memory Lane. Nor does he want to let the fact that he will hate Vernon
forever color his ability to presume Vernon innocent of murder.

Those are just basics. They are not Mr. Stone's idea of fine points by any
means. A fine point in ''The Verdict'' is whether the police photo of the bed in
Vernon's hotel suite where the dead woman's body was discovered shows a
chocolate or a mint on a pillowcase -- and truly, that is the difference between
night and day. Another fine point is that there were two blond women in green
dresses around Vernon that night, or at least he thinks there were. When Terry
starts doing his own detective work, taking a little more initiative than is
authorized or legal, one of his goals is finding out whether Vernon is telling
the truth about anything -- including whether the second blond woman ever
existed.

''The Verdict'' is jam-packed with questions for the defense team to answer. And
with doubts for them to have about their client. Terry also has doubts about the
firm itself, since it is headed by a secretive, manipulative legal star who
seems to want to fire, bribe and promote Terry simultaneously; he is never quite
sure how best to play this pesky nobody. Throughout the book, Terry endears
himself to the reader by continuing to find out things that scare his
co-workers. Quite a few of these people conveniently have secrets for him to
discover. If Terry's kitchen sink could have a big, nasty secret, that might be
in here, too.

South African racism begins to play a role, though the fact that Vernon is black
is more or less unrelated to that. The Royal Wedding of Prince William and Kate
Middleton is part of the mix. So do the London riots of that period, and so do
armed foreign nationals. Ditto real estate development. A confession late in the
book is so casual it verges on the hilarious. Sometimes characters outlive their
usefulness to Mr. Stone and vanish; sometimes they just vanish, period. And
Terry seems de facto a very moody guy, because the novel swirling around him
switches gears so often.

If Mr. Stone were Mr. Grisham, these transitions would be more seamless and more
propulsive. Mr. Stone does, though, have a gift for keeping readers locked
tightly into his stories. And if Mr. Stone were Mr. Turow, Terry's
soul-searching and reliability as a narrator would raise deeper issues. But as
it is, ''The Verdict'' falls satisfyingly into the traditions of both of these
writers, and it maintains a reasonably good gallop throughout.

Some caveats: Certain plot points are so twisted that they threaten to fray.
There are times when Mr. Stone should have stopped coughing up theories and
settled on a keeper. And do not riffle through this book's closing pages. It
uses fake newspaper clippings with big, bold headlines as a shorthand way of
explaining the story's outcome. They are guaranteed spoilers.

The Verdict

by Nick Stone

499 pages. Pegasus Crime. $25.95.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/books/review-the-verdict-speaks-in-a-grisham-e
sque-tongue-with-a-british-accent.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Nick Stone, the author of the legal thriller ''The Verdict.'' (PHOTOGRAPH VIA
PEGASUS BOOKS) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (91%); VERDICTS (90%);
NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (79%); FICTION LITERATURE (79%); ETHICS (77%); LAWYERS
(77%); MURDER (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%)

COUNTRY: HAITI (71%); SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Angela Merkel's War for Europe

BYLINE: By JOCHEN BITTNER.

Jochen Bittner is a political editor for the weekly newspaper Die Zeit.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg.

LENGTH: 945 words


HAMBURG -- FOR the 10 years that she has occupied the German chancellor's
office, Angela Merkel has kept her country out of any meaningful military
engagement, most recently in Libya, even if this meant leaving her European
partners in the lurch. Now, with her decision to commit fighting forces in
Syria, the chancellor is not only entering her first war, she is entering a new
kind of world war.

Ms. Merkel has been deeply skeptical about military interventions, not for
ideological reasons (she endorsed the Iraq war in 2003), but out of pragmatism.
It didn't take any special prescience to see how badly they would turn out, and
to Ms. Merkel, the likelihood of losing the support of Germany's traditionally
pacifist mainstream -- and therefore, likely, her job -- always appeared
significantly higher than of winning a war.

So strong was her aversion to military risk that she even stayed out of NATO's
minimally interventionist operation in Libya in 2011, despite a United Nations
authorizing resolution and Arab League consent.

What made the chancellor change her mind in Syria? It's not just that a majority
of Germans, 57 percent according to recent polls, favor military action against
the Islamic State. It's also that Ms. Merkel had to change her course in the
Middle East in order to keep her course for Europe.

Ms. Merkel understands that the war in Syria represents a different kind of
conflict. It pits not just countries and alliances against one another, but
ideas -- in particular, three ideas of world order: the authoritarian world
order, embodied by Syria's Bashar al-Assad and his ally Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia, who put stability above human rights and democracy; the liberal world
order, represented by Western Europe and America, which value the reverse; and
the Islamic State, which seeks to upend both orders and replace it with a
world-spanning caliphate.

This three-way clash presents a potentially fatal challenge to European unity,
and Ms. Merkel seems to believe that she had to change her course in the Middle
East in order to keep her course for Europe. By sending reconnaissance jets and
refueling planes to Syria and a frigate into the Mediterranean, she is fighting
less to destroy the Islamic State than to save what's left of European Union
solidarity.

The combination of the euro crisis, the enormous refugee influx and the Paris
attacks have brought the union's political cohesion to an unprecedented low.
More clearly than ever before, we see that sharing common values held only until
it was tested. Whereas the currency crisis revealed long-unaddressed economic
culture clashes across the Continent, the refugee crisis exposed an even deeper
divide within the bloc -- above all, very different, and clashing, ideas about
tolerance.

Eastern European states have made it clear that they will accept neither Muslim
refugees nor their free movement in Europe. Hungary's prime minister, Victor
Orban, says he wants ''to keep Europe Christian.'' One of the first public acts
of the newly elected right-wing government of Poland was to remove the European
flag from its press briefing room -- a clear sign that the country will cordon
itself off from the European Union if Germany continues its open-door policy for
refugees.

These xenophobic, anti-union views, long relegated to the far right in the West,
have broken into the mainstream in the wake of the Paris attacks. Marine Le Pen,
the leader of France's far-right National Front, shares the Eastern European
view that the union should be all but dismantled, starting with the Schengen
idea of borderless travel. She also shares the broadly Southern European view
that the euro is an unhealthy corset that suffocates the breathing of national
economies.

Ms. Le Pen was already scoring high in France's polls before the terrorists hit
Paris. And her party was the big winner in regional elections on Sunday, with a
30 percent share of the votes nationwide. The chances that she will be the next
president of France are real.

If this happens -- if one of the main powers behind the European Union elected a
radically anti-union leader -- the whole thing could begin to disintegrate.

Not only would the core of the European Union, the French-German partnership,
split; Germany would find itself more or less isolated as the last big
''traditionalist'' European Union country. Britain might well follow France's
lead and withdraw -- already a strong possibility -- and it wouldn't take long
for other countries to do the same.

And in an atmosphere of instability and fear, Europeans could well decide that
it's payback time against Germany, the annoying headmaster, whose economic and
cultural domination has rankled too many for too long.

At least, this is the fear in Berlin, and this is why Germany has now jumped
into Syria.

But to what end? As opposed to France, Russia or America, destroying the Islamic
State isn't Ms. Merkel's main goal. Rather, she wants to demonstrate, alongside
France and Britain, that Europe's political center can still act coherently,
decisively and in solidarity against what Europeans regard as a common threat to
their liberty and safety.

The French president, François Hollande, did not invoke NATO's Article 5 after
the Paris attacks. Instead, he invoked the solidarity clause of the European
Union treaty, the first leader ever to do so. Ms. Merkel's challenge, then, is
to show that the principle behind the treaty, behind the European Union itself,
isn't an empty promise -- for her sake, and for the Continent's.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/angela-merkels-war-for-europe.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); GERMAN
CHANCELLORS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (78%);
REFUGEES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SYRIAN CRISIS (76%);
SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); RELIGION (70%);
UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%);
CURRENCIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES
(55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%)

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); SYRIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LIBYA
(90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%);
MEDITERRANEAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EASTERN
EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding Voice Again, Biden Sees Time Left to Make a Difference

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1085 words


KIEV, Ukraine --  As he stood next to Ukraine's fresh-faced prime minister one
day this week, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. looked like a stern uncle
admonishing a recalcitrant youth.

The country was in trouble, Mr. Biden lectured, and its leaders were not doing
enough to fix it. They were pursuing their own petty interests when so much more
was at stake. If they did not get their act together, Mr. Biden warned the prime
minister, ''history will be a very, very harsh judge.''

There was nothing subtle about Mr. Biden's visit to Ukraine this week. But then
again, subtle is not exactly the vice president's political stock in trade. Mr.
Biden is back on the circuit, full-throated as ever, after nearly a year of
almost frozen animation, first tending to his dying son, then mourning him ever
so publicly and finally wrestling with whether to mount a third campaign for the
presidency.

Now, having decided not to run next year, Mr. Biden has returned full-time to
his duties as the nation's second-highest official with ambitions to get as much
done as he can in the 13 months he has left. And with the end of his 44-year
career in national office looming ever closer, he may naturally be mulling what
he will leave behind when it is over -- in other words, how history will judge
him.

''I used to wonder as a young senator when I first stood up on the Senate floor
-- and I've never been frightened of standing and speaking -- I stood up and all
of a sudden I realized that my desk is exactly where a senator, Daniel Webster,
spoke from,'' he told the Ukrainian Parliament during his visit. ''And for the
first and only time in my career, I was seized with, my God, one of the great
men in our history stood on this spot.''

Nearly every vice president dreams of being one of the great men in history, and
nearly every one ends up being disappointed if he does not ascend that final
step in the political ladder. But Mr. Biden thinks he has a chance in his time
left to still make a difference, both on the international front and at home.

Ukraine is one of his favorite projects. Almost as soon as he announced he would
not seek the White House, he turned to aides and asked how soon he could visit
Kiev again, his fifth trip in seven years. He may be Ukraine's most fervent
champion inside an administration where others are focused on Syria and other
challenges. While others may want to work with Russia in the Middle East, Mr.
Biden is determined that Ukraine not be sacrificed.

He bluntly told the Ukrainians that if they did not tackle corruption and
stabilize their society, the Europeans would happily abandon them. But his
corruption-fighting message was undercut by reports that his surviving son,
Hunter, last year joined the board of a Ukrainian energy company investigated
for money laundering.

Ukraine is not the only item on the vice president's bucket list. Among his
foreign policy interests for this final stretch are the rest of Eastern Europe,
Latin America, Turkey, and Iraq, as well as global energy and international
corruption. In January, he will deliver the keynote address to the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

''He wants to go out to do trips that are impactful,'' said a senior
administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the
vice president's thinking. ''He doesn't want busy work. He wants to go where the
president believes he can play a really critical role and where he can get some
business done.''

Mr. Biden and his team are also trying to lay out several major domestic
priorities he can focus on before leaving in January 2017. A new drive to attack
cancer will be the most personal priority, in honor of his son Beau, who died of
brain cancer in May.

He has already met with scores of researchers and doctors, including multiple
times with the prominent billionaire medical entrepreneur Patrick Soon-Shiong,
in hopes of developing a ''moon shot'' to cure cancer or at least render it a
chronic condition rather than a death sentence. As he traveled to Ukraine, he
brought a file folder filled with charts and graphs explaining the science of
cancer, but it is the byzantine politics of the cancer world that he is also
trying to figure out.

At times, Mr. Biden still seems as energetic as always. The ever-loquacious
former senator spent hours and hours on the flight over here chatting up weary
aides. He stopped for a Mass at the airport chapel in Ireland during a refueling
stop on the way back and cheerfully posed for pictures with the airport staff.
He shot a video of his trip and posted on the social site Medium along the way.

In his circle, there are still moments of seller's remorse about the campaign
that wasn't, moments when his advisers talk about what might have been had he
run for president -- how he would have pushed, for instance, for four years of
free college education, not just the two President Obama has unsuccessfully
sought.

But Mr. Biden by his own account is still not fully recovered from Beau's death.
He skipped a 40-year tradition of celebrating Thanksgiving in Nantucket and
instead tried for the fresh scenery of Rome for the holiday. He still brings up
Beau in public appearances and grows misty-eyed with little prompting.

Last week, at the unveiling of a bust of former Vice President Dick Cheney at
the Capitol, Mr. Biden returned several times during his remarks to his
gratitude to his predecessor and his family for their kindness after Beau's
death.

While Mr. Biden said in October that he had decided not to run because he did
not have enough time to assemble an effective campaign, in conversation he makes
it clear that he was not actually up to it personally.

''I believed I could win, but that's not enough,'' he told Bloomberg News on the
flight home from Ukraine. ''I know myself. And I know it takes time.'' He added:
''You've got to get through the first Thanksgiving, the first empty chair, the
first Christmas, the first smell of spring.''

But along with the firsts will be the lasts -- the last State of the Union
agenda, the last annual budget proposal, the last legislative negotiations, the
last foreign trips. ''I visited every part of this world,'' he reflected to
Ukrainian lawmakers. ''There's fewer than a handful of countries I've not been
in. I've traveled over 1.3 million miles just since being vice president.''

Thirteen months is enough time to log thousands more miles. He told the
Ukrainians he would be back. He is not done yet.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/finding-voice-again-joe-biden-sees
-time-left-to-make-a-difference.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the Oval Office on
Wednesday during a visit by President Reuven Rivlin of Israel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%)

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Transgender, and Embraced, on the Red Carpet

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE CARPETBAGGER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words


Two years ago, while Jared Leto was busy collecting awards en route to his Oscar
win for playing a transgender woman in ''Dallas Buyers Club,'' the independent
filmmaker Sean Baker was unwittingly making history shooting ''Tangerine.''

The story of two transgender besties turning tricks in Hollywood, the film
astounded Sundance audiences when they learned it had been shot entirely by
iPhone. But what might prove to be the movie's biggest coup came this fall, when
an Oscar campaign was started for the film and its stars, Mya Taylor and Kitana
Kiki Rodriguez.

While a long shot, it is the first Oscar run for transgender actresses and has
already borne fruit: Ms. Taylor won best breakthrough at the Gothams, another
first for a transgender actress. The campaign represents a departure from
Hollywood's history of celebrating straight or nontransgender actors in
Oscar-bait transgender roles. Among them: John Lithgow in ''The World According
to Garp''; Jaye Davidson in ''The Crying Game''; Hilary Swank in ''Boys Don't
Cry''; Felicity Huffman in ''Transamerica''; and Mr. Leto, who played Rayon, a
transgender prostitute with AIDS. All were nominated, and two won.

''As remarkable and inspiring as some portrayals of us by cis people have been,
they will always be on the outside of our experience,'' Jennifer Finney Boylan,
a transgender writer and activist, said in an email. (Cis is shorthand for
cisgender, a term for someone who is not transgender.) ''People have fawned over
the so-called bravery of cis actors representing what to us is the reality of
our daily lives.''

In a culture increasingly obsessed with self-obsession, rarely if ever seeing
anyone like you on screen, Ms. Boylan said, fosters a dispiriting sense of
invisibility.

''There is a big difference between thinking, 'There is someone trying to
imitate someone like me,' and 'There is someone like me, on screen, visible, and
real,''' she said.

There has been a tidal change for transgender visibility in just the short time
since Mr. Leto's Academy win. Laverne Cox graced Time's cover and was nominated
for an Emmy for her performance in ''Orange Is the New Black''; the Amazon
series ''Transparent'' has won two Golden Globes and five Emmys; Caitlyn Jenner
very publicly transitioned; President Obama included the word ''transgender'' in
a State of the Union address.

It was in this newly receptive cultural landscape that Mr. Baker found himself
with his movie, as did Tom Hooper, the Academy Award-winning director whose
latest film, ''The Danish Girl,'' may be an Oscar candidate (and, truth be told,
a more viable one). It tells the true story of Lili Elbe, a
turn-of-the-20th-century Danish painter -- played by an Oscar winner, Eddie
Redmayne -- who became one of the first recipients of gender reassignment
surgery. (Mr. Redmayne picked up a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination on
Wednesday.)

When Mr. Hooper took on the project seven years ago, he was told it would be
difficult to finance, cast and distribute. Only after two major successes --
''The King's Speech'' and ''Les Misérables'' -- was he able to get it off the
ground. ''I'm now getting people saying it's zeitgeist, it's timely,'' Mr.
Hooper said. ''It's quite surreal, because that wasn't the landscape when we
started.''

Mr. Hooper seems well aware of the increasing pressure to cast transgender
actors in transgender roles, but he said he always felt Mr. Redmayne -- ''he has
this raw emotional transparency'' -- was ideal for Lili. ''I think there's
something about Eddie that's drawn to the feminine,'' Mr. Hooper said, noting
that Mr. Redmayne played Viola in an all-male production of ''Twelfth Night.''

Mr. Hooper also cast two transgender actors in cisgender roles: Rebecca Root,
who plays Lili's nurse, and Jake Graf, a transgender man who plays a small part.
It was the third cisgender role for Ms. Root, who is one of the leads in the BBC
sitcom ''Boy Meets Girl,'' and she is having her busiest acting year yet.
Whether to cast a nontransgender or a transgender performer for a character
undergoing a transition remained, she said, a ''gritty question.'' She
continued: ''Who's the right actor in terms of talent, look, voice and indeed
public profile? Let's face it, star power is what gets a film financed.''

Indeed the gilded credentials of both Mr. Hooper and Mr. Redmayne, who delivers
a carefully wrought performance, might draw in otherwise skeptical viewers. Mr.
Hooper said that after one screening, the head of a homeless shelter for
transgender youth forecast that the film would save lives: Many of her young
charges were expelled from families that rejected their gender identities. Ms.
Root had pressed upon the film's leads how invaluable her own transition had
been. ''I was either headed for a mental breakdown, or I was going to commit
suicide,'' she said.

The character of Lili also represents yet another shift from stereotypical
depictions of transgender people on screen (which was one of the criticisms
levied at Mr. Leto's Rayon), as sex workers, drug addicts, deviants and
villains. One transgender woman, who documented her transition on YouTube, said
that when she came out, people replied, ''Oh, like Buffalo Bill,'' the murderer
in ''The Silence of the Lambs'' (which nabbed five Oscars) who skinned his
female victims to make a ''woman suit.''

While the leads in ''Tangerine'' play sex workers, their gender identities are a
fact of life -- which for them is a tough life -- but not the film's focus. Ms.
Cox, of ''Orange Is the New Black,'' has promoted the film's awards run and was
struck by a scene showing a cabdriver's dismay after realizing the sex worker he
had picked up was a nontransgender woman. ''In so many narratives we see trans
people being rejected,'' she said. ''Here we see someone looking for, wanting,
desiring a trans woman, which is so rare. There are men who want us.''

(The Armenian actor Karren Karagulian, who played the cabby, has weathered
vicious backlash from other Armenians for that part.)

Since the film wrapped, Ms. Taylor -- who, along with Ms. Rodriguez, met Mr.
Baker at a Hollywood center for lesbian, bisexual and transgender clients while
he was researching the film -- has moved to North Dakota to be with her fiancé.
The role in ''Tangerine'' has changed her life, and she frequently travels to
Los Angeles for work and auditions. (Mr. Baker said Ms. Rodriguez decided to no
longer be part of the awards campaign because she is considering a career in
counseling.)

Ms. Taylor now finds herself in a position similar to Ms. Cox, as a spokeswoman
for transgender people, appreciative of the increased visibility yet dismayed at
the soaring rates of homicide, suicide attempts and unemployment that plague
this world. ''Visibility is very important, but it's not changing the day-to-day
lives of everyday trans people,'' Ms. Cox said. ''We need another culture
shift.''

Last month, Ms. Taylor was invited to a White House event honoring lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender artists, and attended a panel about ''inclusive
storytelling.'' Moderated by Raffi Freedman-Gurspan, the White House's first
transgender staff member, the speakers included Jill Soloway, who created
''Transparent''; Jeffrey Tambor, its star; and Rhys Ernst, a transgender
filmmaker and artist.

Sitting in the audience, Ms. Taylor ran through all the things she would have
talked about had she been asked to speak.

''Of course everything is great for me,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''But I think about
the other people who were in the position that I was in, like being homeless,
and prostituting. They're still doing that same thing. I think about that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/movies/transgender-and-embraced-on-the-red-car
pet.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eddie Redmayne has drawn praise for his portrayal of Lili Elbe
in ''The Danish Girl.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOCUS FEATURES) (C1)
Mya Taylor and Kitana Kiki Rodriguez in ''Tangerine,'' from Sean Baker, shot by
iPhone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AUGUSTA QUIRK/MAGNOLIA PICTURES)
 Laverne Cox, center, in ''Orange Is the New Black.'' She is helping to campaign
for ''Tangerine.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOJO WHILDEN/NETFLIX) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); ACADEMY AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); GOLDEN
GLOBE AWARDS (78%); HISTORY (78%); EMMY AWARDS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); FILM
FESTIVALS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); SHOOTINGS (72%); WRITERS (72%); US
PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: LAVERNE COX (92%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); EDDIE REDMAYNE (79%); CAITLYN
(BRUCE) JENNER (73%); FELICITY HUFFMAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

SAG Awards 2016: Jennifer Lawrence, Matt Damon Shut Out

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE CARPETBAGGER; Pg.

LENGTH: 412 words


In the buildup to the Oscars, few predictors are as important as the awards
bestowed by the industry's guilds, and the nominations unveiled Wednesday by the
Screen Actors Guild were a good indicator of the contenders we're likely to see
in the final run of the awards race.

The biggest surprises might have been in the shutouts: Jennifer Lawrence was not
nominated for her lead performance in ''Joy,'' nor was Matt Damon, for ''The
Martian,'' nor were Michael Keaton or Mark Ruffalo, who had both been forecast
to land best supporting actor nominations for their work in ''Spotlight.''

The biggest surprise inclusions lay in the best actress category, with Helen
Mirren, for ''Woman in Gold'' -- she also landed a supporting actress nomination
for ''Trumbo'' -- and Sarah Silverman (''I Smile Back'') joining other early
leaders Cate Blanchett (''Carol''), Brie Larson (''Room'') and Saoirse Ronan
(''Brooklyn'') in that race.

The best actor race was less of a surprise, with Leonardo DiCaprio (''The
Revenant''), Michael Fassbender (''Steve Jobs'') and Eddie Redmayne (''The
Danish Girl'') among the nominees. Johnny Depp (''Black Mass'') and Bryan
Cranston (''Trumbo'') rounded out the category.

That the nominees for best ensemble picture -- the SAGs's equivalent of best
picture -- include ''Straight Outta Compton'' and ''The Big Short'' will no
doubt leave the folks at their studios, Universal and Paramount, sighing in
relief. Executives at Netflix too will be pleased; they've expended loads of
cash promoting the child soldier tale ''Beasts of No Nation,'' which landed a
best ensemble picture nomination, along with a best actor nomination for its
star, Idris Elba. (Mr. Elba also received a nomination for his television work
in ''Luther.'')

The other nominees for best ensemble are ''Spotlight'' and ''Trumbo,'' the film
that received the most nominations over all.

The final awards will be announced at a ceremony on Jan. 30. In the past 13
years, there have been five instances when all four actors who won a Screen
Actors Guild award for their work in a feature film went on to win an Oscar.

On the television side, nominations for best drama ensemble went to ''Downton
Abbey,'' ''Game of Thrones,'' ''Homeland,'' ''House of Cards'' and ''Mad Men.''
Up for best comedy ensemble are ''Big Bang Theory,'' ''Key and Peele,'' ''Modern
Family'' ''Orange Is the New Black,'' ''Transparent'' and ''Veep.''

The complete list of nominations is available here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/movies/sag-awards-2016-jennifer-lawrence-matt-
damon-shut-out.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); ACADEMY
AWARDS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CHILD
SOLDIERS (64%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (84%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL
(53%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LAWRENCE (94%); MATT DAMON (88%); MICHAEL KEATON (79%); MARK
RUFFALO (79%); BRYAN CRANSTON (79%); EDDIE REDMAYNE (79%); MICHAEL FASSBENDER
(79%); BRIE LARSON (79%); CATE BLANCHETT (58%); JOHNNY DEPP (58%); LEONARDO
DICAPRIO (58%); HELEN MIRREN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Four Plans Compete to Authorize Military Force Against the Islamic State

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 697 words


WASHINGTON -- Members of Congress have criticized President Obama's response to
the Islamic State -- also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant,
ISIL, or ISIS -- but have been slow to authorize the use of force against the
group.

In his address Sunday, Mr. Obama again challenged Congress to give him a formal
authorization to use force. So-called authorizations of the use of military
force -- basically declarations of war -- do exist; one passed the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee in 2014; one was written by the president; another
was drafted by Senators Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, and Jeff Flake,
Republican of Arizona; and another was submitted last week by Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and backed by Republican Senators Dan
Coats of Indiana, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, and Joni Ernst of Iowa.

But there are significant differences among the various drafts.

Ground Forces

The president's draft expressly ''does not authorize the use of the United
States Armed Forces in enduring offensive ground combat operations.''

The committee's ''does not authorize the use of the United States Armed Forces
for the purpose of ground combat operations except as necessary'' to protect and
rescue United States service members and to conduct missions ''not intended to
result in ground combat,'' including intelligence collection, targeting of
airstrikes, planning military operations and advising and assisting allied
forces.

The Kaine-Flake bill declares, ''The purpose of this authorization is to protect
the lives of United States citizens and to provide military support to regional
partners in their battle to defeat ISIL. The use of significant United States
ground troops in combat against ISIL, except to protect the lives of United
States citizens from imminent threat, is not consistent with such purpose.''

The Graham bill authorizes ''all necessary and appropriate force,'' with no
restrictions on ground troops.

Time Limits

The drafts by the president, the committee and Kaine-Flake limit the
authorization to three years. All three repeal the 2002 authorization of force
that led to the invasion of Iraq.

The Graham bill has no time limits and leaves other authorizations of force in
place.

Other Demands on the President

The president's promises reports to Congress ''at least once every six months''
of actions taken under the authorization.

The committee's demands reports to Congress at least every 60 days and a
''comprehensive strategy'' within 30 days of enactment that lays out political
and diplomatic objectives of the United States in the region as well as military
objectives, including a list of organizations targeted by military operations,
the geographic scope of military strikes, contributions from coalition partners,
humanitarian assistance and support for displaced civilian populations, a
''realistic end goal and exit strategy,'' and a cost estimate.

The Kaine-Flake bill requires a report to Congress at least once every six
months.

The Graham bill requires a report to Congress every 60 days.

Findings

All of the authorizations begin with a lengthy bill of particulars on the
predations of the Islamic State, including its seizing of territory in Syria and
Iraq, execution of American prisoners, ''vicious acts of violence'' against
religious and ethnic minorities, and the September 2014 declaration by NATO that
the Islamic State poses a serious threat and should be countered by a broad
international coalition.

The president's, the committee's and the Kaine-Flake bill all denounce ''mass
executions of Muslims, regardless of sect.''

The Graham  authorization omits reference to the execution of Muslims but goes
into far more detail on the execution of each American prisoner, including Kayla
Mueller, who ''was kidnapped and repeatedly raped for almost 18 months by the
leader of ISIL, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.'' The Graham resolution includes detailed
descriptions of the attack in Paris and its aftermath, including threats to the
United States.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/aumf-authorization-use-military-fo
rce-isis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%);
ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%);
WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES
(65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JEFF FLAKE (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); LINDSEY GRAHAM
(78%); DAN COATS (58%); JONI ERNST (57%); ORRIN HATCH (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Female Artists' Works Go to Boston Museum

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words


The philanthropist and collector Barbara Lee is giving the Institute of
Contemporary Art in Boston 20 works by 12 female artists with a value estimated
at $42 million, the largest gift by value in the museum's history, officials
said.

The new donations build on the gift last year by Ms. Lee of 43 other works by
female artists that established the Barbara Lee Collection of Art by Women at
the museum.

The latest gift, of sculptures, installation works and paintings, among others,
are by major figures such as Eva Hesse, Louise Bourgeois, Sherrie Levine and
Kara Walker.

The institute said the collection represents three decades of collecting by Ms.
Lee. In a statement, Ms. Lee said that her gift ''put women front and center''
at the institute. Ms. Lee, who promotes women in contemporary art, is also a
political activist who helps women run for elected office. She is vice chair of
the Institute of Contemporary Art's board of trustees.

Jill Medvedow, the institute's director, said the collection allows the museum
''to tell urgent and undertold histories of postwar and contemporary art.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/09/institute-of-contemporary-art-in-bo
ston-gets-gift-of-works-by-women/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARA WALKER/SIKKEMA JENKINS & CO.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(90%); WOMEN (90%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%);
HISTORY (77%)

PERSON: BARBARA LEE (92%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Executive Pushes Apple Stores Into an Even Higher End

BYLINE: By KATIE BENNER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1022 words


SAN FRANCISCO --  Angela Ahrendts, Apple's senior vice president for retail, got
a private demonstration of the fancy wireless speaker, the Phantom, and its
sound quality seven weeks ago. On the spot, she said she wanted the
space-pod-like device, which starts at $1,990, to be sold in Apple's retail
stores.

''She moved incredibly fast, from our first meeting to figuring out how the
Phantom would be displayed,'' Quentin Sannié, the co-founder of Devialet, the
French audio company that makes the white and chrome speaker, said of Ms.
Ahrendts.

This week, the Phantom will appear in 14 Apple stores in the United States, and
the company is discussing how widely to roll out the product next year. The
device will get the sort of prominent display treatment that is typically
reserved in Apple stores for the company's Beats audio accessories.

The move is an indication of how Ms. Ahrendts, who started at Apple last year,
is changing the playbook at some of the company's stores this holiday season and
the direction she's going in: ultraluxe.

Apple's stores typically spotlight the company's devices, with the most
expensive audio accessories topping out in the hundreds of dollars. The Phantom
is the first high-end non-Apple gadget that Ms. Ahrendts, the former chief
executive of the fashion house Burberry, has brought in since she took the job.
It buttresses some of her other recent moves to create more of a luxury Apple
retail experience, including initiating private try-on appointments for the most
expensive Apple watches, reducing the numbers and types of accessories that are
sold, and pushing manufacturers to make special packaging for gadgets carried in
Apple's stores.

Ms. Ahrendts ''is shaving off some rough edges and completing our sense that the
Apple Store is a premium experience,'' said Jan Dawson, an analyst at Jackdaw
Research.

Her role in bringing in the Phantom also gives a glimpse into how Ms. Ahrendts
has been operating within the world's biggest company. Since joining Apple, the
55-year-old executive has been relatively quiet publicly. But she moved swiftly
and nearly unilaterally on the Phantom, showing how she can push for the
products that will shape the store experience.

The products that Apple stores carry are important because they make up the only
customer experience that Apple can fully control, Mr. Dawson said. ''The stores
are the best physical manifestation of the brand,'' he said. ''Angela is
bringing her sensibility to that experience.''

Apple declined to comment and declined to make Ms. Ahrendts available for an
interview. In a public appearance last month at the Fast Company Innovation
Festival, Ms. Ahrendts said she had been working toward Apple's stores becoming
''sleeker and smarter,'' as well as unifying Apple's in-store and online
shopping experiences.

Apple has traditionally sold the most expensive accessories online only, like
the $2,700 B&O BeoPlay A9 MKII speaker. ''I asked Tim a very simple question:
Why do we do it this way?'' she said of her boss, Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief
executive. Mr. Cook told her he did not know, she said.

Ms. Ahrendts's push will have implications for Apple's growth. As of September,
the company had 463 retail stores worldwide and was focused on expanding in
China. The stores account for about 12 percent of Apple's annual $234 billion in
sales, Mr. Dawson estimated. Store revenue rose about 39 percent over the last
12 months, according to eMarketer, with Apple stores generating $5,775 a square
foot, or more than any other retailer in the world, beating out Tiffany &
Company, Coach and Movado.

Ms. Ahrendts was known at Burberry for revitalizing the brand, pushing the
fashion house into online retail ahead of other luxury apparel companies and
forging alliances with tech companies like Apple, through which she outfitted
Burberry's corporate staff with iPads. Mr. Cook hired her in 2013 to make sure
that Apple's stores would evolve and expand.

At the time, morale had fallen at Apple's stores, the company's executives have
said. Ron Johnson, a former Target executive who became the first head of
Apple's retail stores, departed the company in 2011. After a search, he was
replaced by John Browett, who had run the British electronics retailer Dixons.
Mr. Browett slashed hours and benefits for Apple Store employees.

Since coming aboard, Ms. Ahrendts has asked for Apple's 60,000 retail employees
to air their grievances and send suggestions, and she sends them weekly
three-minute video updates to improve communication. She has started a program
so employees can move to other stores worldwide. Ms. Ahrendts has also overseen
the opening of new Apple stores, including 14 in China and Hong Kong. For
customers, she reduced Apple's long lines by creating an online reservation
system.

By bringing the Phantom to Apple, Ms. Ahrendts is giving the technology crowd
something to love as well. Phantom's parent company, Devialet, is a brand used
by tech executives including Tony Fadell, the chief executive of Nest; Andy
Rubin, the co-founder of Android; and Marc Benioff, chief executive of
Salesforce.com, said Mr. Sannié. He said Mr. Benioff recently introduced Ms.
Ahrendts to him and encouraged her to hear the Phantom.

For Devialet, moving the Phantom into Apple's stores is significant. The
Paris-based company is known for making amplifiers that can cost as much as
$30,000. Until the Apple deal came along, its devices were carried in only a
handful of exclusive retailers, including Colette in Paris, Harrods in London
and the MoMA store in New York City.

Since the initial meeting with Ms. Ahrendts, the process of getting the Phantom
into Apple's stores has been smooth, Mr. Sannié said. He and his team have
visited almost all of the 14 stores where the speaker will initially be sold to
look at display possibilities.

''We don't have other global distribution other than the Apple store,'' Mr.
Sannié said. ''We don't want to be in another chain because millions go to the
Apple store looking for excellence, the very best products. This is the best
exposure we could want.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/09/technology/apple-executive-seeks-a-touch-of-ch
ic-at-retail-stores.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Devialet store in Paris. The company's Phantom speakers will
be sold in some Apple stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAPUCINE GRANIER-DEFERRE FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)
 Angela Ahrendts, Apple's senior vice president for retail, is introducing
luxury products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); RETAILERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE
MANAGEMENT (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%);
INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA AHRENDTS (90%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Afghanistan Hopes W.T.O. Membership Can Reboot Its Battered Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY; Rod Nordland contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 598 words


KABUL, Afghanistan -- Its chief export is opium and its main ''import'' is
international aid. But Afghanistan is about to join the World Trade
Organization, in what officials hope is a sign of better things to come for this
impoverished, war-ravaged country.

Afghanistan, along with the West African nation of Liberia, is expected to get
the approval of member nations at a ministerial conference of the trade
organization next week in Nairobi, Kenya.

It may be hard to see how membership would make much of a dent in Afghanistan's
economic woes. But optimists hope that the trade body's seal of approval would
provide a lift for Afghanistan, which gets three-quarters of its gross domestic
product from foreign aid and derives more than half of the remainder from the
production and export of opium and related products like heroin. Most of the
rest comes from agriculture and services.

''This is really positive news for Afghanistan and the W.T.O.,'' the director
general of the trade body, Roberto Azevêdo, said in a statement. ''W.T.O.
membership will help to create new trading opportunities and boost economic
development.''

President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan said membership would create ''a catalyst
for domestic reforms and transformation to an effective and functioning market
economy that attracts investment, creates jobs and improves the welfare of the
people of Afghanistan.''

Still, the crucial roadblock to economic rebirth is the perilous security
situation: The Taliban, the group waging war with the government, have control
of more territory than at any time since before the United States-led coalition
ousted them in 2001, and road travel is unsafe in much of the country. Other
challenges include endemic corruption and a lack of basic infrastructure.

As the International Monetary Fund put it succinctly in a recent report,
Afghanistan ''remains a poor, fragile state far from self-reliance.'' The
country ranks 194th of 213 countries by income per capita, the report said,
while ''a large illicit narcotics sector, difficult security conditions,
corruption and weak institutions undermine development, constrain growth, and
weigh on poverty reduction.''

While economists generally agree that more trade is a good thing, there are
concerns that in desperately poor countries, the benefits of World Trade
Organization membership can come at a substantial cost. A United Nations study
found that membership would not be an unalloyed positive. While consumers would
benefit from lower prices as tariffs on imports fall, the study found, the
country's emerging producers would suffer from new competition, even as
government revenues might decline on lower tariff receipts.

If approved, Afghanistan and Liberia would become the 163rd and 164th members of
the World Trade Organization, and two of the poorest countries to join.

The trade group itself might have little else to celebrate at the Nairobi
meeting. The so-called Doha Round of talks, begun with great fanfare in 2001 and
meant to achieve lower trade barriers for all members, have been stalled for
years. Mr. Azevêdo was quoted by Reuters as warning on Nov. 26 that moving
forward in those talks was ''impossible at this point in time.''

Even as those discussions have gone nowhere, the United States and some of its
biggest trading partners have been negotiating agreements outside the trade
organization. Such pacts include the Trans-Pacific Partnership, involving 12
Pacific Rim nations, and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
between the United States and the European Union.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/international/afghanistan-wto-members
hip.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
(90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL
TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%);
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); OPIUM (89%); TALIBAN
(79%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); HEROIN (78%); FAILED & FRAGILE STATES (78%);
TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
(77%); APPROVALS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); PRICES (77%);
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); ECONOMIC STIMULUS (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); RESEARCH
REPORTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); CORRUPTION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: ASHRAF GHANI AHMADZAI (79%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (58%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (96%); LIBERIA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); KENYA (92%);
UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg.

LENGTH: 757 words


If the Federal Reserve acts as expected next week to raise interest rates,
savers will be on the lookout for certificates of deposit offering better
yields.

But first, consumers need to carefully consider what sort of penalty they may
pay, if they withdraw money from a C.D. early to put it in a new certificate
with a marginally higher rate, said Greg McBride, an analyst with Bankrate.com.

Such penalties pack more of a wallop when rates are low, as they have been for
the last seven years, since earnings are so paltry in the first place. Plus,
banks are imposing stiffer penalties on early withdrawals from some longer-term
C.D.s, a recent analysis by Bankrate found.

Typical penalties are three months of interest for three- and six-month C.D.s,
and six months' interest for one- and two-year C.D.s. Meanwhile, a penalty of
one year's interest is more prevalent for five-year C.D.s; a year ago, a penalty
of six months' interest was just as likely.

(For its analysis, Bankrate reviewed C.D. offerings at the top 10 banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest markets, plus the five largest credit unions by
deposits, in early October.)

If a C.D. has not earned enough in interest to cover the penalty -- if, say, it
is a one-year C.D., but the money is withdrawn before six months -- most banks
will take the penalty out of the principal. The analysis found that a vast
majority (89 percent) of banks will take some principal, if the interest earned
does not cover the penalty. That is a big drawback, since putting principal at
risk ''is what C.D. investors were trying to avoid in the first place,'' Mr.
McBride said.

Some banks even charge a penalty based on a flat percentage of the principal
withdrawn, which can lead to penalties that dwarf potential earnings. Bankrate
cited a six-month C.D. from Fifth Third Bank, with an annual percentage yield of
0.05 percent -- and an early withdrawal fee of 2 percent. That means the yield
on a $10,000 C.D. would be about $2.50, but the penalty would be $200.

So unless consumers are in dire straits and the money is needed immediately,
''they need to wait'' until a C.D. matures before withdrawing the cash, Mr.
McBride said.

There may be good reason to wait anyway. The Fed has kept its benchmark rate
near zero for years as an economic stimulus and is expected to raise it
incrementally. That means the impact on rates that banks pay on deposits will
probably be modest and gradual. So savers probably will not see C.D.s paying 3
or 4 percent soon, said Eric Mancini, a financial planner with Traphagen
Financial Group in Oradell, N.J.

Questions and answers about rising interest rates:

â-  What type of banks are likely to raise deposit rates first?

Online banks are likely to be among the earliest to begin offering higher rates,
said Ken Tumin, a co-founder of DepositAccounts.com. Such banks, which tend to
have lower overhead costs, are already offering more competitive rates.
Synchrony Bank, for example, offers a 12-month C.D. at 1.25 percent A.P.Y. That
compares with an average yield of 0.27 percent for 12-month C.D.s, according to
Bankrate.

â-  What if savings rates keep rising after I buy a C.D.?

In addition to early withdrawal penalties, there is another reason to take your
time to move your cash into new C.D.s. The Fed is likely to continue raising
rates next year, so it may not be wise to tie up your cash in longer-term C.D.s
as soon as rates start ticking up, said Ted Beck, president and chief executive
of the National Endowment for Financial Education, a nonprofit group based in
Denver. ''If you lock into a five-year C.D.,'' he said, ''you might be leaving
money on the table.''

â-  Are there other ways to avoid missing out on rising rates?

One option is to ''ladder'' C.D.s, by establishing several with varying maturity
dates, rather than putting a lump sum into a single large C.D. Or, you could
consider a ''bump up'' C.D. Mr. Mancini cited Ally Bank's Raise Your Rate C.D.,
which lets you lock in a minimum initial rate with the option to increase it
once or twice, depending on the original term, if rates increase. Be sure to
check, however, to see if the initial rate on a bump-up C.D. is better than you
can find on a shorter-term, traditional CD, said Lisa Gerstner, a contributing
editor at Kiplinger's Personal Finance. ''Look where you're starting.''

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/your-money/when-seeking-better-cd-yields-can-b
e-costly.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%);
CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%);
FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INDUSTRY
ANALYSTS (76%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC STIMULUS (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING
(62%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (84%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%);
SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

This Year It's Santa Who Needs to Be Good

BYLINE: By KATIE VAN SYCKLE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words


On a recent Friday night, upstairs at a dark bar in the East Village, six Santas
checked their list: buy a snowmaker, decide whether to hire the figure skaters,
and email Community Board 3 to apologize in advance.

Eliza Spear, 35, tapped on her laptop. A hosiery designer by day, at this year's
SantaCon, on Saturday, she will be the North Star, guiding as many as 20,000
Santas through New York City via Twitter.

''I'm eight SantaCons strong and barf free!'' Ms. Spear exclaimed proudly,
knocking on a wooden cocktail table.

So excited about the big event, Ms. Spear went to the meeting in one of her
possible costumes: a Dolly Parton-inspired snow queen with gold-tipped false
eyelashes and a teased-out white wig stuffed with felt snowflakes.

She discovered SantaCon by accident.

''I came across this merry group of people wearing these amazing costumes, and I
was like: 'Oh my gosh, where are you going? I will follow you anywhere,''' she
said. ''They took me to Brooklyn, weird clubs that I didn't know existed, and I
was like, 'I need to do what you guys are doing.'''

That dedication led Ms. Spear to the night's meeting of SantaCon organizers, a
loosely knit, intentionally ghostlike group committed to saving its wacky,
nondenominational, often lewd, regularly boozy take on Christmas.

SantaCon began in 1994 in San Francisco as a spoof on the commercialism of
Christmas, popped up in New York in 1997 and has since morphed into an
international event. Now, in more than 350 cities and 49 countries worldwide,
from Ocean City, Md., to Okinawa, Japan, revelers put on Santa-themed costumes
and parade en masse. New York's celebration is the largest and most
controversial, but after years of turmoil, its organizers are determined to
secure SantaCon's place in the canon of the city's holiday traditions.

''There is no Christmas parade in New York,'' said Jim Glaser, 51, one of the
event's organizers in New York; he's an executive recruiter by trade and the
founder of Kostume Kult, a street-theater club. ''If we could create a tradition
that would last much longer than this bad impression of drunken Santas, that
would be wonderful.''

Mr. Glaser, a goateed man in an embroidered leather vest, became involved with
SantaCon 15 years ago through the participatory arts scene. He remembers running
around the streets of New York when there were only 100 Santas.

''It was really this cool, underground, edgy thing where it was clearly an
absurdist attempt to flip the commercialness of Santa on its head,'' Mr. Glaser
said.

As the event grew exponentially, news reports of badly behaved Santas led to
community backlash, which Mr. Glaser said peaked last December when several bars
in Bushwick, Brooklyn, banded together to block the Santas from their
neighborhood.

''I approached the leadership team of SantaCon and I said, 'Listen, we have to
do something to save this thing,''' Mr. Glaser recalled.

The Santas enlisted Norman Siegel, the civil rights lawyer, who outlined the
group's First Amendment right to party responsibly. They also arranged a meeting
with officials from the Police Department and started a nonprofit organization
that will collect donations for charities such as City Harvest and Materials for
the Arts.

This year, the Santas got started in October. They called Mr. Siegel again, met
with the police officials, applied for a permit from the Department of Parks and
Recreation, reserved the venues, recruited safety volunteers, bought extra
insurance and signed up for a Snapchat account.

For the first time, the Santas are sharing their route in advance. They will
meet at 10 a.m. at McCarren Park in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Beginning at 11,
they will host parties at the nearby clubs Verboten and the Hall. Midday, they
will go to the Delancey and the DL on the Lower East Side. In the late
afternoon, they will travel to the East Village, where there will be events at
Solas, Bar 13 and at 230 Fifth, near Madison Square Park. For a $10 donation,
participants can get into all the SantaCon-sponsored parties, where they pay for
their drinks.

''We're in the process of an image change, and we are hoping we can do something
that would be much more family friendly,'' Mr. Glaser said.

But John Law, 57, an original member of San Francisco's Cacophony Society, the
group credited with the first SantaCon, is skeptical about what the event has
become.

''I have very mixed feelings about it,'' he said. ''I wouldn't do it, and I
haven't since 1998. SantaCon has a life of its own and is certainly not a
Cacophony event anymore, and Santas getting in fist fights, it is funny in a
way, but it is also deeply disturbing.''

Last year in San Francisco, the former SantaCon organizers declared the event
officially dead and hosted a funeral for Santa, complete with a
candy-cane-decorated coffin and a brass band playing ''Amazing Grace.''

This week, New York political leaders led by State Senator Brad Hoylman, a
Manhattan Democrat, called on the group to be more considerate of the
communities the Santas travel to. Diem Boyd, the founder of the Lower East Side
Dwellers, a group that has led the anti-SantaCon movement in years past, wants
to see the event evolve.

''In our particular community, we're the hardest hit,'' Ms. Boyd said. ''We'd
prefer it just to be an organized event, and eliminate the pub crawl part of it.
I think it harms the city.''

But avid fans are undeterred and pledge to be back this year.

''New York City does holidays even bigger and better, and we're another piece of
decoration,'' said Kate Timmermans, 31, who is preparing for her seventh
SantaCon. Last year, she and a group of friends dressed up as cups of hot
chocolate.

While Ms. Timmermans admitted that daytime partying has an undeniable appeal,
she said the event brings out a holiday spirit that often disappears with age.

''When you are younger, it's different,'' she said. ''There is Santa, and you
are waiting for presents and there is more magic. And as you get older, you are
going to a relative's house, and you are going to have a meal and you forget
about the spirit of Christmas. Since I started doing it, I enjoyed Christmas
again.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/santacon-2015-fights-for-the-right-to-
party.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SantaCon participants jumping rope in Tompkins Square Park on
the Lower East Side in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (D1)
 SantaCon's organizers want to improve its image. A reveler, with beer, in 2010.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING
(77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (74%); ICE SKATING (72%)

PERSON: DOLLY PARTON (77%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); KYUSHU,
JAPAN (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Sergio Rossi Sale May Signal the End of the Shoe Bubble

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg.

LENGTH: 465 words


In a move that appears to run counter to fashion industry's faith in the power
of shoes to buoy profits, Kering, the French luxury and sports lifestyle group
that owns Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Balenciaga, among other brands, is
selling its only shoe house, Sergio Rossi, to Investindustrial, a European
investment firm.

Kering has owned Sergio Rossi since 1999, but despite changing designers and
chief executives numerous times, the group has not been able to raise its
profile and to expand the business the way it did with its other small brands,
like Stella McCartney and Alexander McQueen.

Sergio Rossi is the first luxury brand that Kering has sold since 2009, when it
disposed of the watchmaker Bedat & Co. (The group sold Tretorn, a brand in its
sports lifestyle portfolio, in June.)

The latest move suggests that a pure-play accessory label may not fit easily
into the strategic mold used for a more diversified ready-to-wear house, and
that much-vaunted manufacturing synergies for leather goods may be more
complicated to achieve than they first appear.

And it raises the question of whether the shoe fairy tale that fashion has been
telling for the past few years may instead be a case of Cinderella's pumpkin.

After all, shoes have been an explosive growth category since the recession, as
consumers eschew high-price ready-to-wear in favor of easier-to-budget
accessories, and as competition in the sector has been heating up.

Department stores from Macy's to Harrods to Lane Crawford have been competing to
open the biggest shoe floor (that honor goes to the Level Shoe District in
Dubai, a 96,000-square-foot extravagance). In 2013, Kering's chief rival, LVMH
Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, bought Nicholas Kirkwood, a British shoe brand,
while last year Jimmy Choo became the first shoe brand to issue an I.P.O.

Christian Louboutin and Giuseppe Zanotti are routinely talked about as possible
candidates to follow in Jimmy Choo's footsteps in going public, and Louboutin
recently started a very high-end (nail polish for $50 a bottle) beauty line.
Paul Andrew, a young shoe designer, was the recipient of the 2014 CFDA/Vogue
Fashion Fund award.

Yet Kering seems to have missed the moment with Sergio Rossi, even as its sister
brand Gucci has had enormous success with their kangaroo-lined horsebit house
slipper/loafer, which was as close as any brand came to creating an It shoe this
fall.

Whether this is the exception to the trend or a harbinger of the future is now a
crucial question for the industry, as well as for the consumers who have been
the beneficiaries of the shoe boom. What is sure is that Kering's peers will be
watching to see if Investindustrial can turn Sergio Rossi around, or whether, in
fact, this is the point at which the stiletto snaps.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/runway-couture/kering-sergio-rossi-sal
e-fashion-luxury.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (91%); READY TO WEAR (90%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (90%);
FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); FOOTWEAR
(89%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CLOCK & WATCH
MFG (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (86%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (65%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (65%); LVMH (BIT) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3171
WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (86%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (65%); NAICS312130
WINERIES (65%)

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Peace at Last Between Gen X and Millennials

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTED; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 560 words


The collaboration between the rock band the Flaming Lips and the pop singer
Miley Cyrus has so far yielded, among other things, a cover of the Beatles
classic ''Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds''; a trippy short film titled ''Blonde
SuperFreak Steals the Magic Brain''; matching torso tattoos; and a recently
released album, ''Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz,'' inspired by the singer's
affection for animals.

Music critics have done some head-scratching over the results. But in the
unlikely partnership between the band's frontman, Wayne Coyne, who is 54, and
Ms. Cyrus, who is 23, the amateur sociologist sees a golden opportunity to
examine the generational divide.

A few recent articles have suggested tension between the two groups. The older
demographic (born roughly from 1961 to 1980) bristles at what it perceives as an
entitled attitude and constant need to be praised; the millennials (born from
1980 to 2000) seem dismayed by X-ers' skeptical worldview and preference for
antiquated forms of communication like email.

Might the BFF status between Mr. Coyne and Ms. Cyrus hold a key to
intergenerational harmony? Reached by phone in the Midwest, where he was on
break from touring with ''Cyrus,'' as he often referred to her, Mr. Coyne gamely
considered the matter.

''I think because I'm so old and because she's so young, we reach around and
meet in back,'' Mr. Coyne said. ''As opposed to her being slightly behind, or me
being slightly ahead, in years. Then it would get confused.''

He first met Ms. Cyrus when she was 20 or 21, he said, and was unsure how well
they would work together in the studio. The former child star is famously
outspoken, although Mr. Coyne doesn't attribute that to a generational trait so
much as to her youth and celebrity.

''Everybody who's 20 or 21 owns the world anyway,'' he said. ''And then if
you're Miley Cyrus, you really own the world. For some reason, we seemed to know
things about each other, enough to know we'd like each other. She works the way
I do. We both have the same quality of saying, 'Yes.'''

Mr. Coyne told Billboard that Ms. Cyrus was ''probably influencing us more than
we'll be able to influence her,'' because her endless energy and lack of a
self-censoring filter were a benefit to the Flaming Lips, a band that has been
together more than 30 years.

Indeed, the band is currently promoting a 20th-anniversary remastered edition of
''Clouds Taste Metallic'' -- an album released when Ms. Cyrus was 2

So is Mr. Coyne saying that aging, self-questioning Gen X-ers can get a creative
jolt from pairing up with millennials?

''A lot of things that ended up being on the 'Dead Petz' record, I was there
when she was making it up,'' Mr. Coyne said. ''I'd ask, 'Are you embarrassed by
that?' But that's what's powerful about it. She doesn't have any filter. There's
no reason to have any filter. It's so badass.''

One area where Mr. Coyne is unlikely to follow Ms. Cyrus's example is in the sex
department. Although ''Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz,'' like much of her recent
music, is overtly sexual, with single-entendre song titles like ''Bang Me Box,''
Mr. Coyne said he can't imagine himself applying the same frank sexuality to
Flaming Lips music and live performances.

''When it's her being sexy, I think it works great,'' he said.

As for himself?

''I'm doing the best I can, I'll say that.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/miley-cyrus-wayne-coyne.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wayne Coyne of the Flaming Lips and Miley Cyrus performing at
the MTV Video Music Awards in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY
IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); GENERATION X (90%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); CELEBRITIES
(78%); CENSORSHIP (77%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC
GROUPS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (91%)

STATE: MIDWEST USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths TAYLOR, ARTHUR R.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 244 words


TAYLOR--Arthur R.,80, former President of CBS Inc. and tenth President of
Muhlenberg College, died Thursday, December 3, 2015 with his loving wife Kathryn
and family by his side at Lehigh Valley Hospital - Cedar Crest in Allentown, PA.

A resident of Salisbury Township, PA and Salisbury, CT, Taylor was born July 6,
1935 in Elizabeth, NJ. He earned a full scholarship and was a Magna Cum Laude,
Phi Beta Kappa graduate from Brown University, where he also received his
Masters Degree, and later served as a Trustee and Trustee Emeritus. Taylor had
an extensive and varied business career which encompassed Finance,
Communications, Civic and Political Endeavors, and Education. He served on the
boards of numerous global corporations and civic and educational organizations
and received many awards and honorary doctorates. Arthur's life was
distinguished by the hundreds of people from all walks of life whose lives he
touched, who loved him and relied on his caring guidance and advice. He loved
them all in return. Arthur is survived by the love of his life, his wife Kathryn
Pelgrift Taylor, his daughters Martha T. Josephson (Jon Carter), Anne T. Madden
(Sean), and Sarah T. Rountree (John), his sister Marilyn T. Rocks and his four
beloved grandchildren David, Zoe, Jack and Brody. A memorial service will be
held 2pm, Friday, December 18, 2015 at the First Presbyterian Church in
Allentown, PA. Services by J.S. Burkholder Funeral Home, www.jsburkholder.com
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%);
SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%);
CHILDREN (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (90%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 269 words


POLLACK--Lester. The NYU Community deeply mourns the loss of our proud alumnus
and generous benefactor, Lester Pollack LAW 1957. An attorney by training, he
went on to an illustrious business career in which he held leadership positions
in a broad range of industries-- entertainment (Loews Corporation), food (United
Brands), and finance (Oppenheimer & Co.)--before becoming founder and chair, and
later chair emeritus, of Centre Partners Management, a leading private equity
firm.

Energetic, forward-thinking, and a true leader, Lester was a philanthropic
supporter of many institutions, but he was especially devoted to his beloved
alma mater, to which he gave unstintingly of his time and resources. A major
supporter of the NYU School of Law, he will be especially remembered for his
generous support of the Lester Pollack Center for Law and Business, a joint
venture of the law school and the NYU Stern School of Business that-- through
his foresight and generosity--is a leader in its field. He served for nearly
three decades as a Trustee and, later, as a Life Trustee of NYU, and at the time
of his passing was Chair Emeritus of the NYU Law Board of Trustees. Among the
many honors bestowed upon him by NYU was the prestigious annual Albert Gallatin
Medal, recognizing his outstanding contributions to society. He will be sorely
missed. On this sad day, our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Geraldine
"Geri" Pollack; his children, Bruce Pollack and Wendy Isaacs; his grandchildren;
and all of his loved ones and friends. William Berkley, Chair, NYU Board of
Trustees John Sexton, President, NYU 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%);
LAWYERS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (72%); LOEWS CORP (72%); CENTRE PARTNERS
MANAGEMENT LLC (57%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%);
NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS334519
OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO
MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (72%); SIC6719 OFFICES
OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (72%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE
(72%)

PERSON: WILLIAM R BERKLEY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 58 words


POLLACK--Lester. The people of Loews Corporation mourn the passing of long-time
friend and executive Lester Pollack. Lester was a trusted advisor whose sage
counsel was sought frequently in the early days of Loews. His impact on the
company was immeasurable. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Geri and
his family. Lester will be missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (92%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%);
NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%);
NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS
(92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 217 words


POLLACK--Lester, 82, peacefully at home in NYC on December 9, 2015. Lester
earned his bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College. After graduating from NYU
Law School in 1957, he practiced law, rising to partner before joining Loews
Corporation, where he ultimately became Executive Vice President. After leaving
Loews, he became Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Operating Officer of the United
Brands Company and a Partner at Oppenheimer & Company. He later co-founded
Odyssey Partners in 1982, and founded Centre Partners Management, a private
equity firm, in 1986. Lester was not only a leader in business, but also a
devoted philanthropist and humanitarian. He was deeply committed to the Jewish
community, including chair of the Conference of Presidents of Major American
Jewish Organizations, president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New
York, chair of the Associated YM-YWHAs of Greater New York, and honorary chair
of the Anti-Defamation League. Lester is survived by Geri, his wife of 59 years,
son Bruce and his wife Susan, daughter Wendy Isaacs, grandchildren Shayna,
Jordan, Kayla, Justin and Rachel, brother Herbert Pollack and his wife Sandy. He
was also uncle, relative, friend and colleague of many. Service Friday, December
11th, 11 am at Park Ave. Synagogue, 50 E. 87 St., NYC. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS
(90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE
& PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN
(66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (55%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (84%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (72%); CHIQUITA BRANDS
INTERNATIONAL INC (72%); CENTRE PARTNERS MANAGEMENT LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (56%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%);
NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%);
NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS
(84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (72%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (72%); SIC0179 FRUITS
& TREE NUTS, NEC (72%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GUITANO, ANTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 397 words


GUITANO--Anton, of New York City, who in June of this year retired as the Chief
Operating Officer of CBS Corporation's Local Media unit, passed away peacefully
on December 8 at the age of 65. He had been diagnosed with cancer earlier this
year. Anton was born on July 5, 1950 in Brooklyn, N.Y. to Blanche and Whitney
Guitano. He grew up in Brooklyn along with his brothers, Ricardo and Glenn,
before attending St.

Peter's College in Jersey City, N.J., where he earned his Bachelor of Science
degree in accounting on a full academic and athletic scholarship. After
beginning his career with Price Waterhouse, Anton joined CBS in 1978 as a member
of the company's internal audit department. Over the course of his distinguished
37-year career with CBS, he rose through the ranks to become Financial
Controller for the CBS Television Network; Vice President and General Auditor
for CBS, Inc.; Executive Vice President of Operations and Chief Financial
Officer for CBS Television Stations; and Chief Financial Officer and Senior
Executive Vice President, Operations, for CBS Radio. In 2009, Anton was named
Chief Operating Officer of CBS Local Media and was responsible for overseeing
the financial and operational success of CBS Corporation's local television and
radio stations as well as the stations' websites and other digital platforms.
Anton also served as CBS's representative on the Federal Communications
Commission's Advisory Committee on Diversity for Communications in the Digital
Age. Anton is survived by his loving wife of 15 years, Eileen, a member of the
CBS Television Network finance department; his mother, Blanche; his brother,
Glenn; his children, Jessica (Michael), Jennifer (Cory) and Jason (Maria); and
three adoring grandchildren, Sydney, Nathan and Jade. He was preceded in death
by his father, Whitney; brother, Ricardo; and first wife, Leslie. Visitation
will be held on Thursday, December 10 from 2-4pm and 7-9pm at the Cargain
Funeral Home, 418 U.S. Route 6, Mahopac, N.Y. A Mass of Christian burial will be
held on Friday, December 11 at 10 a.m. at St. John the Evangelist Catholic
Church, 225 East Lake Blvd., Mahopac, N.Y. In lieu of sending flowers, friends
who wish to honor Anton's memory may send donations to either the American
Institute for Cancer Research (www.AICR.org) or the Preston Robert Tisch Brain
Tumor Center (www.cancer.duke.edu/btc). 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%);
CANCER (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%);
APPOINTMENTS (78%); ONCOLOGY (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); INTERNAL AUDITS
(75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%);
LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); NEUROLOGICAL
DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%);
AUDITS (69%); RELIGION (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY
LAW (64%); SPORTS SCHOLARSHIPS (55%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (96%); CBS BROADCASTING INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials FURSE, G. RONALD, OF ESSEX CT AND FISHERS ISLAND NY, DIED
PEACEFULLY ON DECEMBER 8, 2015. HE WAS BORN IN IRVINGTON, NY ON JUNE 26, 1921
AND LIVED MOST OF HIS LIFE IN SUSSEX, ENGLAND. HE WORKED FOR FIDUCIARY TRUST
COMPANY IN NEW YORK CITY AND LONDON. HE ATTENDED ETON COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
UNIVERSITY AND SERVED AS A CAPTAIN IN THE WELSH GUARDS. A SERVICE WILL BE HELD
ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12TH AT THE FIRST CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH IN OLD LYME, CT AT
3:30PM. IN LIEU OF FLOWERS, PLEASE SEND DONATIONS TO: H.L. FERGUSON MUSEUM, P.O
BOX 554, FISHERS ISLAND, NY 06390. 1

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 93 words


FURSE--G. Ronald, of Essex CT and Fishers Island NY, died peacefully on December
8, 2015. He was born in Irvington, NY on June 26, 1921 and lived most of his
life in Sussex, England. He worked for Fiduciary Trust Company in New York City
and London. He attended Eton College, Cambridge University and served as a
Captain in the Welsh Guards. A service will be held on Saturday, December 12th
at The First Congregational Church in Old Lyme, CT at 3:30pm. In lieu of
flowers, please send donations to: H.L. Ferguson Museum, P.O Box 554, Fishers
Island, NY 06390. 1

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (84%)

COMPANY: FIDUCIARY TRUST CO INTERNATIONAL (93%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fatema Mernissi, an Early Force in Islamic Feminism, Is Dead at 75

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1382 words


Fatema Mernissi, a Moroccan sociologist who was one of the founders of Islamic
feminism, whose work included studies of the sexual politics of Islamic
Scripture and a book based on her childhood in a domestic harem, died on Nov. 30
in Rabat. She was 75.

The cause was cancer, said her literary agent, Edite Kroll.

A longtime faculty member of Mohammed V University in Rabat, the capital,
Professor Mernissi, who wrote in Arabic, French and English, published and
lectured worldwide.

Her best-known English-language books include ''Beyond the Veil: Male-Female
Dynamics in Modern Muslim Society,'' which was first published in 1975 and is
still considered a touchstone in the field; ''Islam and Democracy: Fear of the
Modern World'' (1992, translated by Mary Jo Lakeland); and ''Dreams of Trespass:
Tales of a Harem Girlhood'' (1994), with photographs by Ruth V. Ward.That book,
described by many reviewers as a memoir and by some as a novel, is a hybrid of
both genres.

''Muslim women are now producing the most exciting feminist writing being
published anywhere,'' The Guardian, the British newspaper, wrote in 1992.
Professor Mernissi, it added, ''is the most highly regarded among them.''

Throughout her work, Professor Mernissi, who favored a moderate, inclusive
Islam, emphasized that her deep study of religious texts had turned up little
support for women's long subordination. That reading, she argued, sprang from
centuries of misinterpretation by male leaders intent on maintaining the sexual
status quo.

''Not only have the sacred texts always been manipulated, but manipulation of
them is a structural characteristic of the practice of power in Muslim
societies,'' Professor Mernissi wrote in ''The Veil and the Male Elite: A
Feminist Interpretation of Women's Rights in Islam'' (1991, translated by Ms.
Lakeland). ''Since all power, from the seventh century on, was only legitimated
by religion, political forces and economic interests pushed for the fabrication
of false traditions.''

One of the primary ways in which this manipulation played out, Professor
Mernissi argued, was in Islam's time-honored control of the physical space that
women are allowed to occupy. The most -- or, more accurately, the least --
visible manifestation of such control was the domestic harem.

Domestic harems, Professor Mernissi stressed, were nothing like the silk-hung
dens of iniquity presided over by sultans and long popularized in Western film
and literature. They were instead, quite simply, sequestered multigenerational
living quarters for the female members of an extended family. Through his harem,
a man maintained his honor by preserving his wives and daughters from the eyes
of male outsiders.

''It is the Ottoman imperial harem that has fascinated the West almost to the
point of obsession,'' Professor Mernissi wrote in ''Dreams of Trespass.'' ''By
contrast,'' she added, ''domestic harems are rather dull, for they have a strong
bourgeois dimension.''

It was into just such a harem that Fatema Mernissi was born on Sept. 27, 1940,
in Fez, the daughter of a prosperous family.

The harem's matriarch, her grandmother, had been one of her grandfather's nine
wives. Though Professor Mernissi's father, a monogamist, was a progressive in
many respects, he favored the traditional segregation of the sexes that the
harem provided.

The Mernissi harem comprised a set of secluded quarters within the family's
expansive home. The women were rarely allowed to venture outside the house, and
when they were, they did so -- veiled -- escorted by a male relative.

''A harem was about private space and the rules regulating it,'' Professor
Mernissi wrote. ''Once you knew what was forbidden, you carried the harem
within.'' She added, ''Ours in Fez was like a fortress.''

Inside, the women dreamed of transgressing its confines. They sustained one
another with stories, songs and, when they could spirit away the key to the
radio cabinet, quiet news of the outside world.

Many, including Professor Mernissi's mother, chafed openly.

''I would wake up at dawn,'' Professor Mernissi recalled her mother saying. ''If
I only could go for a walk in the early morning when the streets are deserted.
The light must be blue then, or maybe pink, like at sunset. What is the color of
the morning in the deserted, silent streets?''

Professor Mernissi added, ''No one answered her questions.''

Especially popular among the women were tales of Scheherazade, the Arab queen of
legend who used her verbal skill to pre-empt execution. Professor Mernissi came
to venerate her as a feminist heroine and in 2001 published ''Scheherazade Goes
West: Different Cultures, Different Harems,'' a book-length study of her
influence.

Unlike her mother and grandmother, who were uneducated, Professor Mernissi was a
beneficiary of the nationalist fervor that had arisen in Morocco in the 1930s as
the country sought to break free of French dominion.

As a young child she attended nationalist schools, where she was educated
alongside male classmates. In 1956, when Morocco won its independence, the
nationalists' reforms included the dissolution of harems throughout the country.

Professor Mernissi received a degree in sociology from Mohammed V University,
did graduate work at the Sorbonne and earned a Ph.D. from Brandeis University.
Her dissertation became her first book, ''Beyond the Veil.''

Because of the politically charged nature of her work, Professor Mernissi
sometimes found her public lectures interrupted by protests from Islamic
fundamentalists. But for the most part -- owing in no small measure to the
careful phrasing and rigorous scholarly documentation of her writings -- she was
left alone.

''At least in Morocco, you can't be put into jail for writing something, unlike
most of the other Arab countries,'' she told The Toronto Globe and Mail in 1982.
''If those fanatics from the Moslem Brothers show up and try to interrupt my
talk, they must be thrown out. I know now how to handle them. I won't let them
interrupt my work.''

Nor did she exempt the West from criticism on matters of sexual politics. Where
the East subordinated women by controlling space, Professor Mernissi argued, the
West created a vast de facto harem by controlling time.

''The Western man,'' she wrote, ''declares that in order to be beautiful, a
woman must look 14 years old. If she dares to look 50, or worse, 60, she is
beyond the pale. By putting the spotlight on the female child and framing her as
the ideal of beauty, he condemns the mature woman to invisibility.''

Long active with North African social justice causes, Professor Mernissi helped
found La Caravane Civique, an organization that took educated women to speak in
rural communities, village schools and women's prisons in the region. She also
started a writing workshop for released Moroccan political prisoners.

Professor Mernissi, who was divorced from the Ghanaian novelist Ayi Kwei Armah,
is survived by a brother, Mohamed, and a sister, Ratida Mernissi.

Her other books include ''Women in Moslem Paradise'' (1986); ''Doing Daily
Battle: Interviews With Moroccan Women'' (1988), based on her fieldwork in rural
areas and translated by Ms. Lakeland; ''The Forgotten Queens of Islam'' (1993),
also translated by Ms. Lakeland; and ''Women's Rebellion and Islamic Memory''
(1996).

In 2003, Professor Mernissi, along with Susan Sontag, received the Prince of
Asturias Award for Letters, presented by the government of Spain.

After a lifetime spent exploring the relationship of Islam to feminism,
Professor Mernissi concluded that there were few irreconcilable differences
between the two.

''If women's rights are a problem for some modern Muslim men, it is neither
because of the Quran nor the Prophet, nor the Islamic tradition, but simply
because those rights conflict with the interests of a male elite,'' she wrote in
''The Veil and the Male Elite.''

''The elite faction is trying to convince us that their egotistic, highly
subjective and mediocre view of culture and society has a sacred basis,'' she
added. ''But if there is one thing that the women and men of the late 20th
century who have an awareness and enjoyment of history can be sure of, it is
that Islam was not sent from heaven to foster egotism and mediocrity.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/fatema-mernissi-a-founder-of-
islamic-feminism-dies-at-75.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fatema Mernissi, center, with Mahnaz Afkhami, left, Yasmeen
Murshed and Deniz Kandiyoti in 1996. Ms. Mernissi's work included studies of the
sexual politics of Islamic Scripture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY TOENSING)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%);
DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%);
RELIGIOUS TEXTS (89%); WOMEN (89%); MEN (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%);
LITERATURE (77%); LITERARY AGENTS (77%); FICTION LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES &
BIOGRAPHIES (77%); FILM GENRES (67%); CANCER (57%)

CITY: RABAT, MOROCCO (91%)

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans, Guns and Abortion

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS.

Nicholas Kristof is off today.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 799 words


The presidential race has degenerated to the point where I am going to attempt
to cheer you up by talking about abortion and guns.

And state legislatures. We do not, as a nation, devote a whole lot of attention
to what happens in state capitols, although I personally enjoy those fights
about selecting an official rock or state muffin. In recent years, one of the
most popular activities in many legislatures has been finding new ways to expand
the right to bear arms in places like schools (Utah) or bars (Tennessee) or
airports (Georgia). The other is tromping on reproductive rights. I am telling
you all this as a lead-in to a fascinating bill that was recently proposed in
the Missouri House of Representatives. It would treat Missourians seeking to buy
firearms the same way it treats Missourians seeking to end a pregnancy.

''For instance, there would be a 72-hour waiting period,'' said the sponsor,
Representative Stacey Newman.

Missouri has piled so many unnecessary requirements on abortion providers that
it's down to one clinic in St. Louis. Newman didn't attempt to limit the state
to one gun store -- her bill just requires that residents buy their guns at a
licensed dealer located at least 120 miles from their homes. After cooling their
heels in a local motel for three days, the prospective buyers would have to
listen to a lecture about the medical risks associated with firearms and view
pictures of people with fatal gun wounds.

Most Missouri lawmakers regard themselves as pro-life. Therefore, Newman feels,
they ought to want to do something about the fact that St. Louis and Kansas City
both rank in the top 10 American cities for firearm deaths.

''It was one way to get people's attention,'' she said.

Nobody thinks her bill is going to pass -- or even get a hearing in the
Republican-dominated legislature. Newman says the odds are far more favorable
for proposed legislation that would allow people to carry concealed weapons on
college campuses and require that women who want abortions get permission from
the man who impregnated them.

We live in hard times, people. But when you think of Missouri, give a fond
mental shout-out to Stacey Newman. And remember her lesson -- when it comes to
civil liberties, there's currently far more concern in this country over the
right to buy weapons than there is over a woman's right to control her own body.

All the major Republican candidates for president are pretty much on the same
page when it comes to firearms. So much so that you probably can't guess which
one of them said: ''I used to think they needed to be registered, but if you
register them they just come and find you and take your guns.''

O.K., it was Ben Carson.

All the major candidates are also opposed to giving women any rights whatsoever
when it comes to terminating a pregnancy. But lately, there's been disagreement
on the far edge of the issue: whether bans should include an exception for rape
and incest victims. It came up at a recent gathering of a group of donors and
activists called the Republican Jewish Coalition. (This was the same event where
Donald Trump told his Jewish audience: ''I'm a negotiator, like you folks ... Is
there anybody that doesn't renegotiate deals in this room?'')

Senator Ted Cruz, the up-and-coming darling of social conservatives, was asked
about his abortion positions, and he rambled on about the evils of
contraceptives without ever acknowledging that he does oppose giving any leeway
in the cases of rape or incest. Cruz is also, of course, an avid protector of
all things gun-related, and recently theorized that the man arrested in the mass
shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic was a ''transgender leftist activist.''
Ah Ted Cruz, Ted Cruz.

''If the nominee of the Republican Party will not allow an exception for rape
and incest, they will not win,'' predicted Senator Lindsey Graham, who followed
Cruz to the podium. The presumption is that voters will demand some show of
mercy, but there are plenty of women who are not victims of rape whose stories
are equally heart-rending. Girls who become pregnant before they're old enough
to know what they're doing. Poor women with several children and two jobs whose
birth control method fails. Women who desperately want a baby but discover the
fetus they're carrying is too deformed to survive after birth. Most Americans
don't want to prioritize -- they'd leave the whole matter to the women and their
doctors.

But the current debate on the Republican side has slid so far to the right that
the moderates are people who do not want to force rape victims to carry the
fetus to full term. Or allow concealed weapons in kindergarten.

Maybe what this campaign needs is a 72-hour waiting period for everything.

I invite you to join me on Facebook.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/republicans-guns-and-abortion.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US
STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FIREARMS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); RIGHT TO
BEAR ARMS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S
RIGHTS (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CITY LIFE (63%);
CITIES (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (87%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

John Trudell, Outspoken Advocate for American Indians, Is Dead at 69

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 971 words


John Trudell, whose outspokenness and charisma made him a leading advocate of
Native American rights, and who channeled his message of righteous defiance into
poetry and songwriting, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Clara County,
Calif. He was 69.

The cause was cancer, said Cree Miller, the trustee of Mr. Trudell's estate.

Mr. Trudell, a Santee Dakota, was national chairman of the American Indian
Movement during much of the 1970s, a turbulent stretch in the relationship
between Native American activists and the federal government.

His tenure began after the episode at Wounded Knee, S.D., where, in February
1973, Oglala Lakota from the Pine Ridge reservation, incensed by tribal
corruption, and American Indian Movement activists, protesting the government's
treatment of their people, occupied the town in a 71-day standoff with federal
marshals and F.B.I. agents.

Three men -- Bob Robideau, Darelle Butler and Leonard Peltier -- were tried in
the killing of two agents during a confrontation in Oglala, S.D., two years
later.

Mr. Trudell -- ''the most eloquent speaker in the Movement,'' as Peter
Matthiessen wrote in ''In the Spirit of Crazy Horse,'' his 1983 book about the
siege -- held community meetings in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where the trial of Mr.
Robideau and Mr. Butler was held, and he testified for the defense. The two men
were acquitted. Mr. Peltier, tried later, was convicted and remains in prison.

But well before that, Mr. Trudell had already made a name for himself as an
effective champion of his people, decrying the indignities they had suffered for
more than a century at the hands of the American government.

In November 1972, he was among the leaders of a group that occupied the Bureau
of Indian Affairs in Washington, demanding the enforcement of historical
treaties that granted Native Americans sovereignty over their land.

Perhaps most famously, in 1969, he joined an occupation of Alcatraz Island, home
of the former prison in San Francisco Bay, arguing that the terms of an old
treaty gave American Indians the right to unused federal land.

The occupiers, calling themselves Indians of All Tribes, held the island for 19
months, demanding that they be given the right to develop it as a cultural and
education center. Mr. Trudell, then in his 20s, emerged as the group's
spokesman, frequently delivering a broadcast called ''Radio Free Alcatraz'' and
speaking at news conferences.

Rejecting a government proposal that the island be turned into a park with
''maximum Indian qualities,'' Mr. Trudell said: ''We will no longer be museum
pieces, tourist attractions and politicians' playthings. There will be no park
on this island because it changes the whole meaning of what we are here for.''

The F.B.I. compiled a substantial file on him.

In 1979, Mr. Trudell burned an American flag on the steps of the F.B.I. building
in Washington, saying that the flag had been desecrated by the government's
behavior toward American Indians and other minorities, and that burning was the
appropriate way to dispose of a desecrated flag.

The next day, his home in Nevada burned to the ground. The fire killed his
pregnant wife, Tina Manning, who was also an activist, as well as their three
children and Ms. Manning's mother.

An investigation by the Bureau of Indian Affairs found that the fire was an
accident. But some viewed the inquiry as perfunctory, and its findings were
questioned by an investigator hired by Mr. Trudell, who suspected the fire had
been deliberately set.

''I don't want to say that the F.B.I. kills innocent kids and children,''
Lindsey Manning, a cousin of Tina Manning, said in ''Trudell,'' an acclaimed
2005 documentary film by Heather Rae. ''I just don't want to say that. But you
never know. You never know.''

The film asserted that the cause of the fire had never been established.

John Francis Trudell was born in Omaha on Feb. 15, 1946, and grew up partly
there and partly on a reservation near the South Dakota border. His father,
Clifford Trudell, was a Santee Dakota; his mother, the former Ricarda Almanza,
was of Mexican-Indian descent. She died when John was a boy.

Mr. Trudell dropped out of high school and served in the Navy during the Vietnam
War. Afterward, he moved to Southern California, where he studied radio and
communications at a community college before joining the Indians of All Tribes
group on Alcatraz.

Mr. Trudell began to distance himself from the American Indian Movement after
the fire at his house, and in the 1980s, he turned to writing. He published
several volumes of poetry, including ''Stickman'' and ''Lines From a Mined
Mind,'' often writing in protest of corporate power and government oppression.
He also recorded spoken-word albums accompanied by traditional Native American
music as well as contemporary pop. His latest album, ''Wazi's Dream,'' was
released this year.

The recordings earned him admirers in the music world, including Bob Dylan,
Jackson Browne and Kris Kristofferson.

Mr. Trudell also acted in feature films, including ''Thunderheart'' (1992), with
Sam Shepard and Val Kilmer, in which he played a character drawn from a crucial
figure in the events leading to Wounded Knee; and ''Smoke Signals'' (1998),
based on a collection of short stories by Sherman Alexie.

Mr. Trudell's first marriage, to Fenicia Ordonez, ended in divorce. He is
survived by a brother, Roger, and several children and grandchildren. Ms.
Miller, his estate's trustee, declined to say specifically where Mr. Trudell
lived in Santa Clara County.

''If this is the land of the free,'' Mr. Trudell said during the occupation of
Alcatraz, summarizing the issue that would propel his life and work from then
on, ''we want to know why we don't have the respect and dignity that all free
men are accorded by other free men.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/john-trudell-outspoken-advocate-for-america
n-indians-is-dead-at-69.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Trudell in 1971 near Richmond, Calif. In 1969, he joined
an occupation of Alcatraz Island that lasted for 19 months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Trudell in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLO ALLEGRI/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); POETRY (78%); INDIGENOUS
PEOPLES LAW (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL
PROTESTS (75%); CANCER (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%);
CORRECTIONS (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); ACQUITTAL (65%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CEDAR
RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

As Beijing Shuts Down Over Smog Alert, Worse-Off Neighbors Carry On

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Mia Li and Kiki Zhao contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1721 words


BEIJING -- The Chinese capital endured another day under an air quality ''red
alert'' on Wednesday, with schools still closed, half of all cars kept off the
roads and factories shut. But in other cities across northern China, tens of
millions of people went about their daily routines in toxic air that was far
worse than Beijing's.

In Anyang, Henan Province, the air quality index read 999 at 3 p.m., three times
worse than in Beijing and at the top of the scale. Handan, in Hebei Province,
was not much better, at 822. And in the same province, the city of Shijiazhuang,
a bit closer to Beijing, registered 460.

By United States standards, anything above 300 is ''hazardous,'' meaning people
should stay indoors.

So while Beijing officials issued their first code-red alert, cities that are
even more polluted enacted milder emergency plans, or none at all. There was no
wholesale shutdown of coal-burning factories. Children continued to attend
schools without air purifiers.

The patchwork policies pointed to a major shortcoming of efforts by Chinese
officials to battle air pollution and protect residents from its effects.

The variety of emergency plans and rules means that many residents of northern
China are living under much looser health and safety standards than their
counterparts in Beijing. The red alert in the capital has led residents to take
more precautions -- many more people are wearing facemasks outdoors now, for
example. Even members of the People's Armed Police marching in Tiananmen Square
wore masks for the first time.

The laxer policies outside the capital also mean that the sources of pollution
that afflict Beijing are not being addressed by the red alert regulations: Most
of the pollution comes from coal-burning factories in Hebei, Henan and other
provinces, not from Beijing itself.

Some experts said that Beijing's red alert was a watershed moment, though, and
that other provinces could feel pressure to impose stricter measures during
awful smog attacks -- if only to lessen some of the pollutants from their
factories blowing to Beijing, a showcase metropolis of more than 20 million
people and home to the Communist Party leadership.

''There will be pressure on them, but whether they will do it or not is a
question,'' Wang Tao, an energy and climate scholar at the Carnegie--Tsinghua
Center for Global Policy, said of provincial officials. ''The responsibility
will be on them.''

With the disruptions to daily life and economic losses, Beijing will find it
hard to consistently issue red alerts under the standards it has set for itself.
It appeared the city's mayor and colleagues took the extraordinary step of
issuing this alert, which took effect Tuesday, as a rejoinder to widespread
criticism of their inaction during the last bout of severe smog. That occurred
as Chinese leaders were arriving in Paris for the start of climate change talks
on Nov. 30, and global news reports and photographs of the bad air were an
embarrassment for officials, Mr. Wang said.

The central Ministry of Environmental Protection has been pushing for greater
uniformity in air emergency plans across cities and also for more consistent
enactment of those plans, but it is still facing resistance, environmental
advocates and scholars say.

Local officials are generally encouraged to maintain social stability and
economic growth above all else, and those officials often seek to protect the
operations of factories under their watch. In Hebei, for example, steel
production is the dominant industry, and many factories are already struggling
in an economic slowdown.

An environmental protection law enacted this year requires counties and cities
to make available to the public a list of companies or factories that violate
pollution limits and other regulations, but many local governments have avoided
doing that.

''Each city is still fighting its own game,'' said Ma Jun, director of the
Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, a nongovernmental organization
that promotes transparency in pollution reporting. ''It's still very hard to
trust what the others are talking about. We need a new level of transparency if
we want to coordinate this regional pollution control.''

Mr. Ma and others praised the Beijing government for sounding a red alert on
Monday night, after pollution had been building for 24 hours, and ordering it
kept in effect until noon Thursday. Beijing has had a color-coded emergency
pollution plan for two years but had never issued a red alert. Still,
environmentalists said that without a coordinated strategy to tackle pollution
across the entire region, the red alert measures in Beijing would not do much to
stem the toxic fumes.

''The pollution in Beijing is not just about our city. It's about the entire
North China Plain,'' Mr. Ma said.

Based on data analysis, his group has concluded that the current bout of toxic
air and the previous one, which battered Beijing the last weekend of November
and was even worse, occurred because winds blew pollutants northward from
factories in provinces south of Beijing. Those pollutants then became trapped
around the capital.

''On Nov. 26, in just eight hours, the air quality here deteriorated so
dramatically,'' Mr. Ma said. ''There's no way for the local pollution to build
up in such a way.''

On Monday night, Chen Jining, the minister of environmental protection, held a
meeting on fighting pollution and praised Beijing's issuing of the red alert,
according to a report on the ministry website. By then, the ministry had sent 12
inspection teams to the cities of Beijing and Tianjin and three northern
provinces, the report said.

The hodgepodge of color codes and policies across northern China can be
dizzying. Shijiazhuang in Hebei issued a yellow alert on Sunday, then upgraded
it to orange on Tuesday night. Six cities in Henan have issued orange alerts.
Tianjin, a coastal metropolis east of Beijing, went first to yellow, then
upgraded to orange, even though its air quality index readings have been about
equal to those of Beijing, which is at red. (The lowest alert, below yellow, is
blue.)

Tianjin, which has 15 million people, has the same criterion for issuing a
yellow alert that Beijing does for a red. Only an air quality index of more than
500 -- what the United States Embassy once called ''crazy bad'' -- triggers a
red alert in Tianjin.

When Tianjin imposes a strict odd-even license plate driving restriction under
orange and red alerts, it does so only in six urban districts. In Beijing, that
restriction, imposed under a red alert, applies to the entire municipal area.

Some environmental advocates say the Beijing government also suffers from
transparency problems, despite its willingness to finally issue a red alert.
They say there have been other recent instances when the city should have
sounded the highest alarm, since the emergency plan mandates that Beijing do so
if there is a prediction of heavy pollution of above 200 that will last for more
than 72 hours. (Pollution levels are predicted based on wind and weather
patterns.)

The fact that city officials did so this time but not in the past confounds
people, though the system does allow officials leeway since they can say a smog
prediction was inexact.

''The public wonders why there was no red alert last week, and there is one this
week,'' said Wang Yongchen, the founder of Green Earth Volunteers, a
nongovernmental organization. ''It shows a lack of order and lack of
transparency. What qualifies as a red alert? What are the standards? Was the red
alert issued because of the public outcry last week? Was it issued because some
government officials just arbitrarily decided to do so? We don't know.''

Cai Yong, 36, who works for a video production company, said Beijing's
announcement of the alert on Monday night was so abrupt that people were left in
the dark about what to do the next morning or heard nothing at all for a long
time.

''The first alert it sent out this week was in such a rush,'' he said.
''Everything happened all of a sudden, and many people didn't prepare for it.
Many probably didn't even know anything about this information.''

Only in the last two or three years have government officials at various levels
been more open with citizens about air quality.

Propaganda officials allowed state news media outlets to report broadly on air
pollution only after all of northern China was hit with an ''airpocalypse'' in
January 2013.

Beijing did not begin announcing levels of a dangerous particulate matter called
PM 2.5 until January 2012, even though it had been monitoring concentrations for
some time. Since then, the central government has had cities across China
publicly release the data, and it can now be seen online hourly.

''In the beginning, there was no mention of PM 2.5, no media reports,'' said Yan
Ruiying, 29, a mother in Beijing. ''So if you consider that as a starting point,
there have been many improvements.''

Those came about after a buildup of public pressure. Prominent Chinese online
commentators had been lobbying the government for years to release real-time
data, as the United States Embassy had been doing on a Twitter feed,
@BeijingAir. The embassy has its own air monitoring equipment.

In July 2009, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official, Wang Shu'ai, told American
diplomats to halt the Twitter feed, which was posting PM 2.5 numbers. He said
that the data ''is not only confusing but also insulting,'' and that it could
lead to ''social consequences,'' according to a State Department cable.

Some officials are still embarrassed by the embassy data, which continues to be
made available. Before a summit meeting of world leaders in November 2014 in
Beijing, officials told the local makers of a cellphone air pollution app that
included the embassy numbers to keep the numbers off the app. The makers
complied. That app recently began publishing the numbers again.

''This air quality panic shows that there is something wrong with China's entire
ecological environment,'' said Ms. Wang, the environmental advocate. ''It is
damaged and fragile, like a frail old man.''

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/beijing-air-pollution-red-alert.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES (90%); SMOG (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (78%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS
(78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY
GOVERNMENT (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (74%);
AIR QUALITY MONITORING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (96%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); HEBEI, CHINA (93%); HENAN, CHINA (93%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

C. Gerald Fraser, 90, Former Times Reporter

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 658 words


C. Gerald Fraser, who covered the aftermath of the bloody Attica prison uprising
in upstate New York and the pioneering presidential campaign of Shirley Chisholm
in his 24 years as a reporter for The New York Times, died on Tuesday in the
Bronx. He was 90.

His partner, M. Phyllis Cunningham, said the cause was complications of cancer.

Before joining The Times in 1967, Mr. Fraser reported for The Daily News in New
York, covering riots in Harlem and civil rights marches in Alabama.

The Times hired him as a metropolitan reporter; one of his beats was covering
the courts. He also wrote about the condition of black prisoners, including
those involved in the 1971 Attica rebellion. His reporting on the Chisholm
campaign, in 1972, traced the making of political history: Ms. Chisholm, the
first black woman to serve in Congress, was the first woman to seek the
Democratic presidential nomination.

He later worked in The Times's cultural news department and wrote columns for
the weekly television guide and the Sunday Book Review.

When Mr. Fraser joined the paper, he became one of only two black reporters on
the staff at that time. The other, Thomas A. Johnson, had been hired a year
earlier. Mr. Fraser became a vocal advocate for improving coverage of issues
important to blacks and expanding opportunities for black journalists.

When he was hired by The Times in 1967, ''it was the summer in which Newark
exploded,'' he recalled in an interview with the Robert C. Maynard Institute for
Journalism Education, adding that many blacks in and out of newsrooms across the
country were stirred by appeals for black power.

''We wanted to identify with a community and people who were calling themselves
black,'' he said.

Charles Gerald Fraser Jr. was born in Boston on July 30, 1925, the son of
Caribbean immigrants. His father, a cook, came from Guyana. His mother, the
former Bernice Love, was a seamstress from Jamaica. A great-grandfather had
founded the newspaper The Jamaica Advocate, and Mr. Fraser recalled that his
family subscribed to three newspapers, which he read cover to cover.

Attending the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Mr. Fraser worked on the student
newspaper and earned a bachelor's degree in economics in 1949. He later earned a
master's degree at what was then the New School for Social Research in New York.

In another interview with the Maynard Institute, Mr. Fraser recalled that most
mainstream newspapers were not hiring blacks in the 1950s. But the Urban League,
he said, managed to arrange an interview for him at The Boston Globe, where he
had worked as a copy boy in high school.

Arriving for the interview, he said, he was met by a man who asked him, ''in a
rich Irish brogue,'' his purpose for being there.

''I want to get a job,'' he told the man. The man replied: ''Oh, you can't get a
job here. You're not in the janitors' union.' ''

After nearly three years of washing pots and pans and working in a post office,
Mr. Fraser landed a job in 1952 as a reporter for The Amsterdam News, the
Harlem-based weekly, whose editor was also a Wisconsin alumnus. He worked there
until 1956.

Mr. Fraser later edited a hotel workers union newspaper and covered the United
Nations for West Indian periodicals before being hired by The Daily News.

He left The Times in 1991 and joined Earth Times, a monthly that reported on
environmental and development issues at the United Nations. He became a senior
editor there.

Mr. Fraser also taught at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism
and at John Jay College of Criminal Justice of the City University of New York.

Mr. Fraser, who died at Calvary Hospital, lived in Manhattan.

He married Geraldine McCarthy, who died in 1981. They had two children, who
survive him: Charles Gerald Fraser III and Jetta Christine Fraser. Besides Ms.
Cunningham, he is survived by their daughter, Maurella Cunningham-Fraser; three
grandchildren; and a brother, Walter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/c-gerald-fraser-former-times-re
porter-dies-at-90.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: C. Gerald Fraser in 1975. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REGINALD STUART/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CORRECTIONS (78%); WRITERS
(77%); WOMEN (76%); RIOTS (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (53%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%);
ALABAMA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GUYANA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


An article last Thursday about a new generation of strongly scented perfumes
referred incorrectly to the term ''me decade.'' The term, as coined by Tom Wolfe
in an article published by New York magazine in 1976, was used to describe the
1970s -- not the 1980s.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 35 words



An article last Thursday about the disappointing box office performance of the
movie ''Steve Jobs'' misidentified the publication for which Larry Magid wrote
an essay about Mr. Jobs. It is Forbes, not Fortune.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yankees Trade Reliever for Two Pitching Prospects

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 245 words


NASHVILLE --  Because of their bullpen depth and the value he might bring in
return, the Yankees have explored trade possibilities involving their closer,
Andrew Miller, this off-season. On Wednesday, though, they traded a different
left-handed reliever.

Justin Wilson, who had a 3.10 E.R.A. in 74 appearances last season, was shipped
to the Detroit Tigers for the pitching prospects Luis Cessa and Chad Green. Both
are right-handed starters who address the Yankees' need for rotation depth in
their farm system.

''You see the way the value of starting pitching is in the marketplace,''
General Manager Brian Cashman said. ''It's an area of weakness for us. Some of
my focus has been on trying to backfill from Double-A on up. These guys go right
into Triple-A, and they can compete, obviously, for any opportunities that make
themselves available in our starting rotation, maybe even our 'pen.''

The Yankees have six major-league-caliber starters -- Masahiro Tanaka, Michael
Pineda, C. C. Sabathia, Nathan Eovaldi, Ivan Nova and Luis Severino -- but each
worked fewer than 170 innings this past season.

Cessa, 23, joined Detroit from the Mets in the Yoenis Cespedes trade in July and
ranked as the Tigers' No. 6 prospect, according to MLB.com. Green, 24, ranked
19th.

Cashman said Chasen Shreve, James Pazos and Jacob Lindgren could compete for
Wilson's role. ''But I'm also not done,'' Cashman said. ''I've got a lot of
other conversations that are still in play.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/new-york-yankees-luis-cessa-ch
ad-green-justin-wilson.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); RANKINGS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Rainstorms Batter the Pacific Northwest

BYLINE: By MIKE McPHATE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 589 words


Heavy rains that began Sunday night have inundated the Pacific Northwest, making
roads impassable, severing power for tens of thousands of people and killing at
least one person.

In Portland, Ore., a 60-year-old woman was killed early Wednesday when a large
tree toppled into a home crushing her in her bed, Lt. Rich Tyler, a spokesman
for Portland Fire and Rescue, said. High winds had been whipping the city
overnight, local reports said.

It's a big fir tree that fell on this house at SE 92nd & Insley; firefighter
estimates 30" diameter tree. Koin6news pic.twitter.com/YXK1TkdYel -- KOHR HARLAN
(@kohrhKOIN) December 9, 2015

Since the weekend, more than five inches of rain have fallen on Portland and
more than three inches on Seattle, according to the National Weather Service.
Monday was Portland's wettest December day on record, with 2.67 inches, the
service said.

Rescues have unfolded on roads and along waterways, as motorists became trapped
by fast-rising waters and rivers swelled over their banks.

Vernonia, a town about 40 miles northwest of Portland, was completely cut off
for several hours Wednesday morning as landslides blocked road access and a
bridge failed. Local reports said parts of town were submerged by five feet of
water.

Flood water reaches this truck's door handle in Vernonia.
https://t.co/2UeGGYmvzd #KOIN6News #pdxtst pic.twitter.com/PcpU0Z535g -- Brent
Weisberg (@BrentKOIN) December 9, 2015

''There was literally no way out,'' said Kimberly Dinwiddie, a spokeswoman for
the Oregon Department of Transportation.

Ms. Dinwiddie said the severe weather had caused its worst damage in the region
between Portland and the Pacific Coast, where landslides cut off multiple roads
and highways.

In hard-hit Kalama in southwest Washington, local reports said the downtown was
submerged by more than a foot of water. Late Tuesday, two people had to be
rescued after a landslide rammed into a house, KGW-TV reported. They were
unharmed.

MORE: mudslide was so powerful it knocked the home off it's foundation,
excavator used in rescue of man, deputy. @fox12oregon #Kalama -- Kelsey Watts
(@KelseyWattsKPTV) December 9, 2015

The Puyallup River in Washington surged over its banks, sweeping seven people at
a homeless encampment into the water. Rescuers pulled them from the river
uninjured, a representative for the local fire and rescue department said on
Twitter.

The flooded Puyallup River is extremely dangerous with downed trees moving on
the water. pic.twitter.com/bJKavrHjz6 -- Central Pierce PIO (@CPFR_PIO) December
9, 2015

Portland General Electric reported more than 16,000 customers without power on
Wednesday morning. Puget Sound Energy in Seattle said more than 50,000 were cut
off.

At the height of the severe weather on Monday, Portland's sewer system
overflowed, sending its contents into the Willamette River. City officials
warned residents to steer clear of the waterway for 48 hours.

All this water is moving down NW Hoyt, a few businesses have had water go
through their front doors. #LiveOnK2 pic.twitter.com/xGO2YBFjwI -- Reed Andrews
(@ReedKATU) December 7, 2015

The rains were expected to wind down in the coming hours, with two weaker storms
on target for the Pacific Northwest on Wednesday night and over the weekend, The
Weather Channel said.

Local officials were warning motorists on Wednesday to continue to drive slowly
and be vigilant for potential landslides, as geologists worked to assess roads
for safety.

''We are not out of the woods,'' Ms. Dinwiddie said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/rainstorms-batter-the-pacific-northwest.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); LANDSLIDES (89%); RESCUE
OPERATIONS (89%); SEVERE WEATHER (89%); RIVERS (87%); POWER FAILURES (78%); FIRE
DEPARTMENTS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: PUGET SOUND ENERGY INC (50%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: POR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221111
HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED
(50%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (50%); SIC4911
ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%)

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA
(93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hate Crime Inquiry Opened Into Vandalism of Sikh Temple in California

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 603 words


The police in Buena Park, Calif., said on Wednesday that they had opened a hate
crimes investigation into the vandalism of a Sikh house of worship after its
members found expletive-laced graffiti referencing Islam and the Islamic State
just days after the San Bernardino terrorist attack.

The graffiti was discovered on Sunday morning on the walls of the parking lot of
the Gurdwara Singh Sabha as well as on a tractor-trailer parked there, said
Jaspreet Singh, a board member of the temple.

''The graffiti had gang codes and a racial slur and profanity in reference to
ISIS and Islam, which was misspelled,'' Mr. Singh said. He said community
members believed it was backlash for the mass shooting at the Inland Regional
Center in San Bernardino, which is only about 50 miles away.

''We are shocked by this incident and are concerned about our safety,'' he said.
''We are definitely scared now.''

Gurjot Kaur, a lawyer for the Sikh Coalition, an advocacy group that is
representing the Gurdwara Singh Sabha, said in a statement that the group
believed the vandalism constituted a hate crime. ''We believe that the Gurdwara
Singh Sabha was vandalized because it is a Sikh house of worship,'' she said.

Cpl. Bret Carter, a spokesman for the Buena Park Police Department, said the
department was committed to keeping the Sikh community safe in the wake of the
San Bernardino attack.

''The writing, because of what it is and because of the history of Sikhs being
targeted in the past for retaliation after terrorist attacks, we are
investigating it,'' he said. ''We want to take extra precautions to determine if
this is a hate crime.''

Corporal Carter said the investigation was complicated because the truck, where
the explicitly anti-Islam portion of the graffiti was spray-painted, was driven
away from the temple before the incident was reported to the authorities. Temple
officials provided the police with a photograph of the vandalized truck, but
they have been unable to provide the name of its owner.

Corporal Carter said the inquiry hinged on finding the truck's owner and
determining when it was vandalized. The graffiti on the parking lot walls
appeared to be the work of a local gang, he added.

The incident in Buena Park is the latest case of alleged bias directed at Sikhs
in the United States since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Some of them
were anti-Muslim in nature, suggesting the perpetrators had confused Sikhism,
whose adherents traditionally wear turbans and beards, with the religion of
Islam.

''I think mostly because of the turban that we wear and the long beard that we
keep, people think we are related to terrorist groups,'' Mr. Singh, the gurdwara
board member, said. ''They think the worst because of our beards. They get
confused.''

In September, a Sikh man in a Chicago suburb suffered a fractured cheekbone
after he was assaulted on his way to the store by a man who yelled,
''Terrorist'' and ''Bin Laden'' and ''go back to your country,'' the Sikh
Coalition said.

Perhaps the most dramatic anti-Sikh attack since 9/11 came on Aug. 5, 2012, when
a white supremacist gunman, Wade M. Page, killed six people in a Sikh temple in
Oak Creek, Wis., during Sunday services before shooting himself in the head.

In 2009, the Sikh Coalition studied the number of bias incidents targeting Sikhs
in New York City. It found that 41 percent of Sikhs surveyed said they had been
called names like ''Osama bin Laden'' or ''terrorist'' within the previous 12
months. Nine percent of respondents said they had been physically assaulted
since 9/11 because of their religious identity.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/hate-crime-inquiry-opened-into-vandalism-of
-sikh-temple-in-california.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (94%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (93%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); GRAFFITI (90%);
TERRORISM (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION
(89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK
(78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (69%)

CITY: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

2 Afghan Trainees at Georgia Air Base Are Missing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 667 words


Two men from Afghanistan who were in the United States for training at Moody Air
Force Base are missing, days before they were scheduled to graduate and return
to their country, the base and officials said on Wednesday.

The base said the two men, part of a training program in conjunction with the
Afghan Air Force, did not report on Monday for their maintenance duties with the
81st Fighter Squadron. The two arrived in the United States more than a year ago
and have been at the air base, in Valdosta, Ga., since February, the base said.
No identifying information was released.

The base said the men were screened before their arrival, and had been training
alongside American counterparts. The missing men ''do not pose any apparent
threat,'' the base said.

An Air Force spokesman, Lt. Col. Christopher P. Karns, said in a telephone
interview that the last contact with the two students was on Friday. They are
allowed to leave the base on weekends, and it was assumed they did, he said.

After the men failed to report for duty on Monday and they were not found in
their living quarters on the base, the search widened to include federal, state
and local law enforcement agencies to ensure their ''safe return,'' Colonel
Karns said. He added there were no reports of missing weapons, ''or anything of
that nature.''

''In light of everything going on in the world today, we want to make sure no
one jumps to any unfair or misinformed conclusions,'' he said.

Security concerns in the United States have risen sharply after last week's
shootings in San Bernardino, Calif., in which the couple who carried out the
attack were motivated by extremist views, and also as Muslim citizens are
reporting a backlash.

Brian K. Childress, the police chief in Valdosta, said that up to a dozen
business owners and citizens had called or emailed the department after learning
that the Afghan men were at large.

''A lot of folks have contacted me or my staff at the police department very
concerned about these two Afghans, in light of what happened out in
California,'' he said in a telephone interview.

Chief Childress said an all-points bulletin had been issued. The base is just
north of Valdosta, which has a population of about 58,000 spread across about 38
square miles.

''I have been at other bases where this has happened before, where you have had
foreign nationals who come and train and they decide they want to stay here,''
Chief Childress said.

Colonel Karns, the Air Force spokesman, did not release the ages of the men or
where in Afghanistan they were from. But he said one was an officer and the
other is enlisted with a rank equivalent to a senior master sergeant in the Air
Force.

The missing men were in a class of nine Afghan pilots and 12 Afghan aircraft
maintenance students who train in classrooms or on the flight line, Colonel
Karns said. They were scheduled to graduate on Dec. 18 and return to
Afghanistan.

The class had about a year of English language training at the Defense Language
Institute in San Antonio, Tex., before arriving at Moody, he said.

The program to train Afghan pilots and aircraft maintenance personnel started
this year at the base, according to a local WALB News report in January.

About 30 Afghan pilots and 90 aircraft maintenance workers are scheduled to come
to the base over the next four to six years to learn to fly and maintain A-29
Super Tucano planes.

After their training, they are expected to return to Afghanistan in 2018 with 20
of the aircraft for the Afghan Air Force to use in counterinsurgency operations,
a statement from the air base said in January.

While the reason behind the disappearance of the two men is not yet known,
military officials have said that it is not uncommon for officers visiting from
countries where life is hard to get a glimpse of American life and go absent
without leave.

In 2010, officials said that 17 Afghan soldiers had walked away from training at
Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio since 2006.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/2-afghan-trainees-at-georgia-air-base-are-m
issing.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (91%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MISSING
PERSONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US
AIR FORCE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%)

CITY: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A World of Influences in Ethereal Works

BYLINE: By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIM

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 530 words


The music of Matthew Welch, who began a weeklong residency at the Stone on
Tuesday, draws on a world of influences. His opening set, performed by the
ensemble Cantata Profana, packed in references to Highland bagpipes, Balinese
funerary rites, Minimalism, Borges, Beckett and Buddha. Yet much of the
resulting chamber music is exquisitely ethereal, made up of delicate,
transparent textures that hum with expressive tension. If Mr. Welch were a chef,
he'd be the kind who pushes the boundaries of molecular gastronomy, transforming
earthy ingredients into translucent beads of pure flavor.

Take ''Ulrikke,'' inspired by a Borges short story, for instance. It is a work
for cello (here played by John Popham) and percussion (Doug Perry) in which, as
Mr. Welch described it in opening remarks, ''Bagpipe lamentation and Balinese
cremation music elope.'' Bagpipes are famously loud and piercing; gamelans are
known to take up lots of space. Here, each was represented impressionistically,
the gamelan's shimmering sound evoked by a vibraphone, its complex but
purposeful rhythms by a marimba. There appeared to be echoes of bagpipe music
hidden amid the flickering harmonics played by Mr. Popham at the opening of the
work; later phrases blended a whiff of Scottish folk music with a stately
Baroque gait.

Despite its Scottish name, ''A Bhoilich,'' too, revealed only the faintest
reminiscence of Highland music, this time sublimated into quiet notes played on
a clarinet (Gleb Kanasevich), vibraphone and piano (Dan Schlosberg) in
overlapping ripples of sound. In ''... with regard to harmony ...'' the
violinist Jacob Ashworth produced an unhurried sequence of tremulously sustained
notes that prompted equally quiet, fragile responses -- often single notes --
from the guitarist Arash Noori and Mr. Schlosberg at the piano.

Music so sparse can be difficult to pull off in a performance space like the
Stone, on a corner of the Lower East Side where traffic noise, laughter and
sidewalk conversations filter in from outside. It's a testament to the skill and
concentration of the musicians that the audience was spellbound.

Mr. Welch's interests in Minimalism and rock music came through in two works,
''The Secret Labyrinth of Ts'ui Pen,'' in which a mixed instrumental ensemble
repeats wavelike motifs that gradually grow more exuberant, and ''Dhammapada
Cantata,'' given its premiere on Tuesday.

Based on Buddhist texts and featuring a driving score and declamatory vocals by
two amplified singers, the baritone John Taylor Ward and the mezzo Kate Maroney,
''Dhammapada Cantata'' is strongly reminiscent of some of Philip Glass's music.
The performers gave it a vibrant and colorful reading.

After the subtlety of the instrumental chamber works, this was a radical shift
in energy. Coming performances of Mr. Welch's music this week will show more of
this side of his output, as well as a full gamelan and Mr. Welch himself on the
bagpipes. But I found myself wishing for more of his ultra-refined, globally
sourced chamber music.

Matthew Welch is in residence through Sunday at the Stone, Avenue C and Second
Street, Manhattan; thestonenyc­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-matthew-welch-offers-etherea
l-chamber-music-at-the-stone.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew Welch: From left, Jacob Ashworth, John Popham, Lee
Dionne, Gleb Kanasevich and Doug Perry playing Mr. Welch's music at the Stone.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); FOLK
& WORLD MUSIC (78%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%);
FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); RELIGION (61%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (73%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; Copyright Lawsuit Is Filed Against the Weeknd

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 400 words


The Weeknd's song ''The Hills'' became one of the biggest hits of the year with
a slithery electronic bass line. But according to a copyright infringement
lawsuit filed on Wednesday, that bass line was taken without permission from the
soundtrack of a little-noticed science-fiction thriller.

The suit was filed in United States District Court in Los Angeles by Cutting
Edge Music on behalf of Tom Raybould, a Welsh composer who wrote the music for
''The Machine,'' directed by Caradog James, which had its premiere at the
Tribeca Film Festival in 2013 but was not widely distributed in theaters in the
United States.

Still, the suit asserts, the music for ''The Machine'' reached associates of the
Weeknd, whose real name is Abel Tesfaye. On March 9, according to the suit, Mr.
Raybould received a direct message on Twitter from Emmanuel Nickerson, a
producer and writer known as Million Dollar Mano, that said: ''I sampled your
music might make it 2 the weeknd next album. Huge fan of what u did 4 the
machine movie!''

According the suit, both ''The Hills'' and a track on ''The Machine'' soundtrack
called ''Revolution'' feature ''bass lines performed with almost identical
idiosyncratic sounds at the same register and using the same pitch sequence,
melodic phase structure and rhythmic durations,'' along with other similarities.
The suit seeks unspecified damages, and it names as defendants several record
labels and music publishers involved with the song.

''The Hills,'' which was released as a single in May, lists as its songwriters
Mr. Tesfaye; Mr. Nickerson; Ahmad Balshe, better known as Belly; and Carlo
Montagnese, known as Illangelo. The song spent six weeks at No. 1 on Billboard's
singles chart, and according to Nielsen it sold 2.4 million downloads and has
been streamed nearly 400 million times in the United States on audio and video
services. This week, the Weeknd was nominated for seven Grammy Awards, including
album of the year for ''Beauty Behind the Madness,'' on which ''The Hills''
appears.

A representative of Songs Music Publishing, the publisher that represents the
Weeknd, declined to comment on Wednesday, saying that the company had not been
served with the complaint. Representatives of Republic Records, the Weeknd's
label, did not respond to a request for comment.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/suit-claims-weeknd-song-infring
es-on-copyright-of-film-soundtrack.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); MUSIC (90%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS
(90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); FILM (90%); COPYRIGHT
INFRINGEMENT (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); PUBLISHING (89%);
MUSIC PUBLISHING (89%); GRAMMY AWARDS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); DAMAGES (77%);
RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); WRITERS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%);
FILM DIRECTORS (75%); RECORD INDUSTRY (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%);
FESTIVALS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); FILM FESTIVALS (70%);
MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (57%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (55%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Japan: On Second Try, Space Probe Enters Orbit Around Venus

BYLINE: By AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 110 words


Japan's space agency said Wednesday that its Akatsuki probe had successfully
entered orbit around Venus after an initial attempt failed five years ago. It is
the first time a Japanese space probe has entered the orbit of another planet,
according to the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, or JAXA. An agency project
manager, Masato Nakamura, said the probe would shift to full observation of
Venus in April. Akatsuki, meaning dawn, blasted off in 2010 on a mission to
observe the toxic atmosphere and superhot volcanic surface of Venus. But it
failed to enter the planet's gravitational pull and shot past it, forcing JAXA
technicians to make the second attempt.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/japan-on-second-try-space-probe-ent
ers-orbit-around-venus.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION
(90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (88%)

STATE: VENUS (96%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Iraq: ISIS Claims Responsibility for Deadly Attack at Baghdad Mosque

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 71 words


A suicide bomber attacked a Shiite mosque in Baghdad on Wednesday, killing at
least 11 people and wounding 20 in an assault claimed by the Islamic State. The
attacker detonated a bomb in the doorway of the mosque as worshipers were
exiting after midday prayer, said an Interior Ministry spokesman, Brig. Gen.
Saad Maan. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in a
statement circulated online by its supporters.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/iraq-isis-claims-responsibili
ty-for-deadly-attack-at-baghdad-mosque.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS
(88%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Burundi: 7 Are Killed Amid Turmoil in Capital

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg.

LENGTH: 218 words


Seven people were killed in Burundi's capital, Bujumbura, in violence associated
with the continuing turmoil over President Pierre Nkurunziza and the extension
of his presidency, witnesses said Wednesday. The United Nations says at least
240 people have been killed since April when Mr. Nkurunziza decided not to step
down at the end of his second term. He was re-elected in July. Men in police
uniforms pulled five people from their houses in the Cibitoke neighborhood and
shot them dead on Wednesday, said a resident, Salima Bukuru. Their bodies were
left on the roadside, she said. A human rights activist, Vital Nshimiyimana,
said that some of those five victims had just been released from prison where
they had been held for months after being arrested on charges of protesting
against Mr. Nkurunziza. Another person was shot dead Wednesday afternoon in the
Jabe neighborhood, while another was killed in Bwiza by people in police
uniforms on Tuesday night, witnesses said. ''I would not say that tomorrow there
will be a genocide in Burundi,'' Adama Dieng, the United Nations' special
adviser on the prevention of genocide, said Tuesday. ''But there is a serious
risk that if we do not stop the ongoing violence, this may end with a civil war,
and following such civil war, everything is possible.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/africa/burundi-7-are-killed-amid-turmoil
-in-capital.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); ARRESTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

CITY: BUJUMBURA, BURUNDI (91%)

COUNTRY: BURUNDI (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Campaign to Lower Voting Age to 16 in Local Races Ignites a Debate

BYLINE: By YAMICHE ALCINDOR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 965 words


Turning 16, for many teenagers, means finally driving a car without supervision
or starting the college search. Now, a new campaign is hoping to add the ability
to vote in local elections to the milestones of that age.

The campaign, called Vote16USA, which will be announced on Wednesday, aims to
lower the voting age to 16 from 18 to spur civic engagement by younger
Americans. But the push, by a nonpartisan group based in New York called
Generation Citizen, which seeks to promote youth participation in politics, is
igniting a debate about voter competency, adolescent decision making and whether
allowing younger people to vote is the best way to politically engage teenagers.

Opponents say that teenagers are not mature enough to vote at 16, that they will
not make informed decisions and that Vote16USA is a partisan push to get more
liberals on voter rolls. Advocates, however, argue that lowering the voting age
would increase turnout, allow teenagers to weigh in on issues that directly
affect them and push schools to improve civic education.

''Given the general malaise that faces this country's political process right
now, this is a way to get young people actually excited,'' said Scott Warren,
executive director of Generation Citizen.

Mr. Warren cited the midterm elections last year to make his point. Nationally,
only 36 percent of eligible voters participated, a 72-year low for all federal
elections, according to a report by the group. Only 19.9 percent of voters ages
18 to 29 cast ballots, the lowest youth turnout rate ever recorded, the report
said.

Jillian Wu, a 17-year-old high school senior in San Francisco, said that
granting 16- and 17-year-olds the right to vote while they were still living
with their parents would encourage a habit that continued once they left the
nest. Ms. Wu, who sits on Vote16USA's 12-member youth advisory board, is working
on a campaign to lower San Francisco's voting age for local elections. She balks
at claims by opponents that teenagers would just follow their parents' political
views.

''I have my own environment that I grew up in, my own experiences that lead me
to make the choices that I do,'' she said, explaining that her parents were not
very politically active.

The last time the voting age was a major issue was in 1971, when lawmakers
passed the 26th Amendment, which lowered the voting age to 18 from 21, aligning
it with the minimum age for military service during the Vietnam War.

In Maryland, Takoma Park lowered the voting age to 16 for municipal contests in
2013, and Hyattsville did so in 2015, after local advocates pushed for changing
it.

Generation Citizen hopes to raise $1 million in 2016 to finance its efforts. The
group has already received $230,000, Mr. Warren said, adding that none of the
money came from politicians or partisan organizations.

But some leading Democrats, most notably Representative Nancy Pelosi of
California, the House Democratic leader, have supported such changes, spurring
partisan suspicions about the effort. In a speech this year before a meeting
aimed at bringing young leaders and progressive organizations together, Ms.
Pelosi said she was ''all for'' lowering the voting age to 16 or 17 ''because
when kids are in school, they're so interested, they're so engaged.''

Mark Tapson, the editor in chief of Truth Revolt, a conservative website, said
that Ms. Pelosi was trying to ''rope in young voters'' who may be more inclined
to vote with popular culture idols, who tend to be liberal.

''When they see, for example, that Barack Obama slow jams with Jimmy Fallon or
hangs with Jay Z and Beyoncé,'' Mr. Tapson said, ''many 16-year-olds feel a
connection with him not because of his policies necessarily but because that
makes him cool.''

But others see teenagers as less politically predictable.

''I actually could see a lot of them flocking around Donald Trump because they
could identify with his immaturity,'' said John J. Pitney Jr., a professor of
politics at Claremont McKenna College in California and the former acting
director of the Republican National Committee's research department.
''Conversely, they might not be too crazy about Hillary Clinton because she
might remind them of their mother. Who knows?''

Daniel Hart, a psychology professor at Rutgers University who has studied
whether the voting age should be lowered, played down concerns about the
impulsive tendencies of teenagers.

''There is a tendency to overestimate how thoughtful and how informed the
decisions of other voters are,'' Mr. Hart said, referring to people older than
18. ''It isn't the case that, particularly in municipal elections, a lot of
voters are spending an enormous amount of time learning before making these
sorts of decisions.''

Efforts to lower the voting age have drawn scattered support at the state and
local levels across the country.

State Representative Javier Martínez, a Democrat in New Mexico, plans to
introduce a bill in January that would lower the voting age to 16 in school
board elections. Charles Allen, a member of the Council of the District of
Columbia, introduced legislation last month that would give 16- and 17-year-olds
the right to vote in local and federal elections. To become law, the measure
would require a majority of the district's 13 council members to support it, and
for Congress and the president not to overturn it.

Joseph Jackson, 17, a member of the youth council in Richmond, Calif., is
working on a draft bill that would lower the voting age in his city's local
elections. He and other teenagers said they already have a lot of responsibility
because they can drive, work, pay taxes and be tried in adult court for some
offenses.

''No taxation without representation is what comes to mind,'' Mr. Jackson said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/campaign-to-lower-voting-age-to-16
-in-local-races-ignites-a-debate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%);
POLITICS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%);
MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); VIETNAM WAR (60%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

VW Says It Overstated the Scope of One Emissions Problem

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 981 words


WOLFSBURG, Germany --  It was the corporate equivalent of saying ''never mind.''

Volkswagen, which has been on a public relations losing streak in recent months,
said Wednesday that one of its admitted sins was not as egregious as the company
had originally confessed.

The automaker said Wednesday that it had overstated things last month when it
announced an auto emissions problem that regulators had not yet detected -- that
it had misled the public about the fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions of
800,000 vehicles in Europe. The number, Volkswagen said on Wednesday, was only a
small fraction of that -- no more than 36,000.

German transportation regulators have not yet confirmed the revised, smaller
number. But if it is accurate, it means that Volkswagen would have to repay only
a small fraction of the 2 billion euros, or $2.2 billion, in tax incentives that
the company originally estimated customers in Europe had improperly received
from their governments for driving cars with low emissions of greenhouse gases.

The tax breaks were granted by governments on the basis of the low emissions and
good fuel economy that Volkswagen had initially reported for the cars -- and
that the company on Wednesday said it could once again vouch for, in most cases.

Whether ?2 billion, or a much smaller figure, the money is only a portion of the
many billions of dollars Volkswagen could end up spending in repairs, fines and
lawsuit settlements over the much bigger scandal it has not been able to
explain, or explain away. That is the problem of deceptive software it has
admitted installing in more than 11 million diesel cars that was designed to let
the cars cheat on emissions tests.

If the scaled-back admission on Wednesday holds up, it might be a rare, if
minor, piece of good news for the company. But it also raises questions about
why the company announced the 800,000 figure and whether Volkswagen still has a
public communications problem.

Volkswagen said on Wednesday that it had chosen to err on the side of caution
when it disclosed the new problem and gave the figure of 800,000 cars. The
company said that after retesting the vehicles, it concluded that its original
measurements of fuel economy and carbon dioxide emissions were accurate for the
vast majority of the vehicles.

And even for 36,000 or fewer of the vehicles, Volkswagen said, the fuel economy
and emissions discrepancies might be small enough that the company may not have
to reimburse any tax breaks. The fuel data was off by the equivalent of less
than two miles per gallon, the company said, and the carbon dioxide-emission
figures were off by a ''few grams'' per 100 kilometers, or about 60 miles,
traveled.

Volkswagen's bigger issue remains the diesel cheating scandal involving 11
million cars. Most are in Europe but about 500,000 of them are in the United
States, where regulators disclosed the deception in September.

On Thursday here in Wolfsburg, Matthias Müller, the Volkswagen chief executive,
will hold his first news conference since the wrongdoing came to light and he
was promoted to replace Martin Winterkorn, who resigned a few days after the
deception was exposed.

Mr. Müller is expected to provide an interim report on the company's own
investigation of who was responsible for the diesel cheating. How forthcoming
the company is able to be will be a test of its campaign to restore credibility.

Volkswagen said late last month that it would be able to make diesel vehicles in
Europe compliant with clean air rules by reprogramming the software. For some
engines, Volkswagen said it would install a simple plastic part to improve the
flow of air into the engine and reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides -- the gases
that the deceptive software was meant to reduce during testing, but would allow
at much higher levels during on-the-road driving.

Though Volkswagen has yet to indicate how it will fix its diesel vehicles in the
United States, where emissions standards are stricter, the remedial actions
announced for Europe were much simpler and cheaper than expected.

''In Europe, Volkswagen has mostly gotten the risks out of the way,'' said
Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen who
specializes in the auto industry and is a prominent critic of Volkswagen.

But he said the company was also benefiting from light enforcement of
regulations in Germany. The Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt, the regulatory agency for
motor vehicles in Germany, is deliberately starved for resources by political
leaders eager to protect the country's powerful automakers, Mr. Dudenhöffer said
Wednesday. As a result, he said, the agency does not have the capacity to
challenge Volkswagen's technical findings.

Under European Union rules, approval by German regulators automatically confers
approval in the bloc's other countries.

Volkswagen also said Wednesday that it had replaced an executive who had earlier
been suspended in connection with the diesel emissions cheating. The executive,
Heinz-Jakob Neusser, will give up his duties as head of development for the
Volkswagen brand and be replaced by Frank Welsch, the company said.

Mr. Neusser will remain with the company and ''is available to take on other
responsibilities,'' Volkswagen said.

Last week, Ulrich Hackenberg, who like Mr. Neusser played a top role in
developing Volkswagen engines in recent years, resigned his post at the company.
Six other executives have also been suspended, but as far as is known they
remain on the payroll.

There is little political will in Germany to punish Volkswagen, which is one of
the country's largest employers. But Volkswagen still faces intense pressure in
the United States from the Environmental Protection Agency, and there are
customers and dealers who have filed hundreds of lawsuits.

''There is still the United States,'' Mr. Dudenhöffer said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/international/volkswagen-terms-one-em
issions-problem-smaller-than-expected.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Volkswagen assembly line in Wolfsburg, Germany. Matthias
Müller, the chief, will hold a news conference on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODD
ANDERSEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); MOTOR
VEHICLES (78%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG
(73%); TAX LAW (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES
(73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (70%); SCANDALS
(69%); EURO (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING
(91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES &
AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%)

PERSON: MATTHIAS MULLER (58%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Signs of a Truce in the Mommy Wars

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MODERN FAMILIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1093 words


Even though 70 percent of mothers and 93 percent of fathers have jobs,
Americans' attitudes about working parents -- mothers as caregivers, fathers as
breadwinners -- have been remarkably slow to change.

New research, though, reveals a shift in attitudes. Not only do as many as 92
percent of Americans now favor mothers working in many situations, but as many
as 77 percent also support fathers not working when it is more ideal to stay
home. The data uncover a sharply changing definition of fatherhood.

Americans recognize parents must make trade-offs as they try to provide for
their children while rearing them, the new survey found. How they feel about
working mothers and stay-at-home fathers depends more on satisfaction with jobs
and child care and how much the family depends on their income -- and less on
gender.

''Americans no longer buy into this notion that gender is the most important
defining criteria in how families operate,'' said Kathleen Gerson, a sociologist
at New York University and a co-author of the paper, which will be published in
the academic journal Gender and Society this spring. ''Americans increasingly
understand that families face a lot of pressures, and they don't make these
judgments about what men and women should be doing.''

There is a class divide regarding which parents Americans think should work or
not, but no major divide based on the respondents' own socioeconomic status.
People are more likely to favor single mothers working than married mothers, and
less likely to endorse both parents working when their families don't depend on
the extra income.

Still, it's a sign that the so-called mommy wars could be ending. The national
debate seems to be shifting from whether mothers should work to how policies
could help working parents manage.

''Our institutions have not caught up with those cultural changes,'' Ms. Gerson
said. ''We don't provide the satisfying flexible jobs, the high-quality child
care and the economic resources that allow people to actually make the decisions
that they deem best for themselves and others.''

The most striking shift was the diminishing expectation that fathers must be
providers. Over all, Americans are more likely to think that fathers should work
than mothers, but their support for working fathers is as conditional as it is
for mothers. The data show a more varied and nuanced view of fathers' role, the
researchers said.

''We still have a breadwinner ideal for most men, but when it comes down to
practical, everyday decisions that parents are making, especially in dual-earner
families, there's been huge change,'' said Scott Coltrane, the provost of the
University of Oregon and a sociologist who studies fatherhood. He was not
involved with this study but said it supported findings from other research.

The main driver of the change, he said, is that job options and earnings for men
and women have converged to the point that it is no longer a given that fathers
should spend more time working than mothers.

Past research had found Americans' views on working mothers to be more
traditional and unbending. Pew Research Center found in 2007 that 41 percent of
people thought it was bad for society when mothers worked, while 22 percent said
it was good. The General Social Survey found in 2012 that nearly one-third of
people thought working mothers could not establish as warm and secure a
relationship with their children.

Those surveys, however, did not probe various family circumstances. The most
recent research did. Ms. Gerson and Jerry A. Jacobs, a sociologist at the
University of Pennsylvania, asked people questions based on eight different
family and work situations. They used an online survey called Time-Sharing
Experiments for the Social Sciences to poll a random, nationally representative
sample of 2,452 people.

Support for mothers' employment varied widely. Slightly more than 10 percent of
people thought married mothers who were not satisfied with their jobs or child
care and whose families did not need their income should work. About 92 percent
thought single mothers who liked their jobs and their child care and needed the
money should work.

Support for fathers' employment varied almost as much. It ranged from 22.9
percent for married fathers who are unsatisfied with their jobs and child care
and did not need the income to 96.6 percent for those in the opposite situation.

Attitudes about certain working mothers ''look so 1950s-ish, until you put it
next to the results for men,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''I think there's a strong
commitment that parenthood comes first.''

Traditional gender norms clearly persist, particularly for married women whose
families do not need two incomes. Then, only 51.4 percent supported the mother
working, even if she was satisfied with her job and child care, while 70.5
percent supported men working in the same situation.

However, the rise of single mothers as breadwinners appears to be changing
Americans' gender notions: In nearly every situation, people supported single
mothers working more than married mothers.

Decisions about work and family are rarely clear-cut. In difficult situations,
respondents were much more divided. When a family needs a mother's income but
she is unhappy with her child care, for example, only 58.4 percent supported the
mother working full time.

Class-based divisions reveal the complexity of these decisions for many
families. People are more inclined to be in favor of working mothers who need
the income. This is true even though low-income mothers are less likely to be
satisfied with their jobs and their child care, which many observers see as a
reason mothers should not work.

Respondents' views did not vary much based on their own background, including
their education, age, gender and income. However, political conservatives and
frequent churchgoers were more likely to prefer traditional arrangements.

Of course, reality is often more complex than the situations depicted in a
survey. Families consider factors like health, the chance of a promotion or a
layoff, or whether there is extended family nearby to help with child care. The
survey did not specifically ask about that; nor did it ask about same-sex
couples.

Yet among Americans, there is increasing acceptance that families will make
these decisions based on their individual needs, whether traditional or not.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/upshot/signs-of-a-truce-in-the-mommy-wars.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LAURIE ROLLITT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENTS (92%); FAMILY (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); MEN (89%); CHILD
CARE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%);
SINGLE PARENTS (73%); WRITERS (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good Cheer Doesn't Bring Good Health, Study Finds

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 693 words


Go ahead and sulk. Unhappiness won't kill you.

A study published on Wednesday in The Lancet, following one million middle-aged
women in Britain for 10 years, finds that the widely held view that happiness
enhances health and longevity is unfounded.

''Happiness and related measures of well-being do not appear to have any direct
effect on mortality,'' the researchers concluded.

''Good news for the grumpy'' is one way to interpret the findings, said Sir
Richard Peto, an author of the study and a professor of medical statistics and
epidemiology at the University of Oxford.

He and his fellow researchers decided to look into the subject because, he said,
there is a widespread belief that stress and unhappiness cause disease.

Such beliefs can fuel a tendency to blame the sick for bringing ailments on
themselves by being negative, and to warn the well to cheer up or else.

''Believing things that aren't true isn't a good idea,'' Professor Peto said in
an interview. ''There are enough scare stories about health.''

The new study says earlier research confused cause and effect, suggesting that
unhappiness made people ill when it is actually the other way around.

The results come from the so-called Million Women Study, which recruited women
ages 50 to 69 from 1996 to 2001, and tracked them with questionnaires and
official records of deaths and hospital admissions. The questionnaires asked how
often the women felt happy, in control, relaxed and stressed, and also
instructed them to rate their health and list ailments like high blood pressure,
diabetes, asthma, arthritis and depression or anxiety.

The researchers included questions about happiness ''because it's something a
lot of people were interested in,'' Professor Peto said.

When the answers were analyzed statistically, unhappiness and stress were not
associated with an increased risk of death. It is not clear whether the findings
apply to men.

Professor Peto said particularly important data came from 500,000 women who
reported on their baseline surveys that they were in good health, with no
history of heart disease, cancer, stroke or emphysema.

A ''substantial minority'' of these healthy women said they were stressed or
unhappy, he said, but over the next decade they were no more likely to die than
were the women who were generally happy.

''This finding refutes the large effects of unhappiness and stress on mortality
that others have claimed,'' Dr. Peto said.

Unhappiness itself may not affect health directly, but it can do harm in other
ways, by driving people to suicide, alcoholism or other dangerous behaviors, he
warned.

This type of study, which depends on participants' self-assessments, is not
considered as reliable as a rigorously designed experiment in which subjects are
picked at random and assigned to a treatment or control group. But the huge
number of people in this study gives it power.

Still, some observers noted that measuring emotions is more nuanced and complex
than simply declaring happiness or unhappiness.

''I would have liked to see more discussion of how people translate these
complicated feelings into a self-report of happiness,'' said Baruch Fischhoff, a
psychologist at Carnegie Mellon University who studies decision-making, who was
not involved in the study. ''Think about everything that's going on in your life
and tell me how happy you are. Happiness is a squishy measure.''

The results of earlier studies have been mixed, with some finding that
unhappiness causes illness and others showing no link, Dr. Fischhoff said.

''It looks to me like people have collected a lot of data without finding a
clear signal,'' he said. ''So if there is some correlation out there, it's not
very big.''

An editorial accompanying the study in The Lancet noted that it had ''the
largest population so far in happiness studies,'' and praised its statistical
methods. But it also said more research was needed.

Professor Peto said he doubted that the new study would change many minds
because beliefs about the perils of unhappiness are so ingrained.

''People are still going to believe that stress causes heart attacks,'' he said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/health/happiness-health-study.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WOMEN (90%);
EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%);
MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); CANCER
(76%); STATISTICS (75%); HYPERTENSION (74%); DEPRESSION (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS
(74%); WRITERS (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); STROKES (72%); HEART DISEASE
(69%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (69%); DIABETES (69%); SUICIDE
(63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Ukraine: More Than 9,100 People Killed Since Outbreak
of Hostilities, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 477 words


GENEVA -- At least 9,115 people have been killed in the 21 months since the
outbreak of hostilities in eastern Ukraine in April 2014, United Nations
monitors in Ukraine reported on Wednesday, an increase of more than a thousand
since the United Nations' last estimate, in September. An estimated 20,797 have
been injured.

The casualty estimates are based on new information and do not represent an
uptick in fighting, said the monitors, from the Office of the High Commissioner
for Human Rights.

The pace of the killing has slowed since a cease-fire in August, the monitors
said, with 47 civilians killed and 131 injured in the three months ended in
mid-November. They warned, however, that extrajudicial killings and torture
persist in regions controlled by separatists, and that the continuing movement
of foreign fighters and arms from Russia were keeping the situation ''highly
flammable.''

The figures are conservative, said Gianni Magazzeni, a senior United Nations
human rights official, adding that the real toll is most likely significantly
higher. ''There remain a large number of unidentified bodies in morgues,'' he
said, especially in areas controlled by armed groups.

More than half the casualties in the latest reporting period were attributed to
land mines and improvised explosive devices, ''underscoring the urgent need for
extensive mine clearance and mine awareness actions on both sides'' of the
contact line separating Ukraine government security forces from rebel groups
controlling areas around the eastern towns of Donetsk and Luhansk, the monitors
found.

However, the lack of government control of Ukraine's eastern border allowed the
continuing movement of weapons, ammunition and fighters from Russia, which
''carries latent risks of a resurgence of hostilities.,'' they reported.

Armed groups and government security services continued to commit serious
abuses, the monitors said, and living conditions remained difficult for some 2.9
million people living in the areas of conflict with limited access to
humanitarian aid and medical care.

Extrajudicial killings, torture, illegal detention and forced labor continued in
areas around Donetsk and Luhansk, the monitors said, reporting that they had no
access to the places of detention run by the armed groups controlling them.

''These are the places where human rights abuses are most frequently reported
and where victims are most vulnerable,'' Mr. Magazzeni told reporters here.

The United Nations also drew attention to hardships for civilians created by the
restrictions on movements imposed by the Ukrainian government, and to the ''high
degree of impunity'' enjoyed by security services, which it accused of abuses
including enforced disappearances, arbitrary detention and torture.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/ukraine-conflict-toll.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); TORTURE
(89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%);
BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); FORCED LABOR (70%); LIVING CONDITIONS (70%);
SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Molded by a Life on the Move

BYLINE: By JILL PAINTER LOPEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1190 words


LOS ANGELES --  Home for Nirra Fields these days is a room in a five-bedroom
suite on the U.C.L.A. campus. It is not luxurious: Fields has decorated it with
basketball and family pictures, and she shares a common space and a single
bathroom with four other students. But the space is clean, and it is organized,
and -- this is most important -- it is all hers.

After the route Fields took to get to it, that is enough.

All athletes can lay out the arc of their careers as a journey, but not many
could match Fields's. Two countries. Three high schools. A half-dozen moves,
none with a member of her immediate family, the last into the spare bedroom of
an N.B.A. coach's house.

Each stop has been a building block in her character, and all of them have
molded her into what she has become: one of the top guards in the country, a
leader on a team with Pacific-12 championship hopes and a likely W.N.B.A. draft
pick.

''I'm very comfortable with change,'' Fields, a senior, said. ''In a way, it
helps me move forward. I can draw on situations I've been in.''

There have been quite a few. Born in Vancouver, Fields, 22, grew up in Montreal
in a loving but vagabond household led by a single mother and filled out by six
brothers. The Fields family moved often when Nirra was a girl -- at least seven
times, she estimated, by the time she was a teenager. (Once, all eight family
members squeezed into a two-bedroom apartment, and when times were toughest,
Nirra and her brothers learned to stash cookies in secret places, just to make
sure there would always be a treat to eat. ''There were so many of us,'' she
said.)

A talented athlete, Fields came to see basketball as a way to something better,
something of her own. After watching a friend, Romeo Augustine, make a move to
the United States for high school, where he played well enough to earn a
scholarship to Providence College, Fields decided that path might work for her
as well.

Augustine connected Fields with his Amateur Athletic Union coach in Cleveland,
Mike Duncan, who later became Fields's legal guardian, after her mother, Faith,
agreed to let her move to the United States in 2008.

''I was raised in a foster home, and anything I wanted to do, I was always told,
'You can't do this; you can't do that,' '' Faith Fields said. ''I didn't want to
hold Nirra back with what she wanted to do. She was very serious and mature and
had something she wanted to do.

''If my kids say they want to pursue a dream, I don't put them down. I tell
them, 'If you want to do it, do it to the full extent.' ''

But crossing the border was just the start. Nirra Fields went on to attend three
high schools in four years and to move five more times, living with teammates
and assistant coaches and, eventually, Duncan. At each stop, she would unpack
her few possessions but keep her emotions locked up.

''When she first came to my house, we didn't talk that much,'' Duncan said.
''That was just weird. I would drop her off at school, and she would get a ride
home and eat and then go in her room and close the door. That was it. I might
say a few words here and there. I let her talk when she felt confident to talk.
She grew. She started opening up. I gave her space.''

When Regina High, the all-girls Catholic school Fields was attending in Ohio,
closed its doors after her sophomore season, she moved in with Duncan. With his
help -- and a scholarship -- she was soon off to her next temporary home: Oak
Hill Academy in Virginia. Unhappy, she said, she was sustained only by her
basketball dreams.

''I was never thinking long term,'' Fields said of developing relationships with
friends and teammates. ''It was hard to have strong relationships. That takes
time. I wasn't going to have that much time anywhere.''

Through Duncan, Fields came to meet Mike Brown, who at the time was coaching the
Cleveland Cavaliers. After getting to know Fields, Brown and his wife at the
time, Carolyn, took over her guardianship in 2011, around the time Brown was
named the Los Angeles Lakers' coach. The plan was that when the Browns packed up
for Southern California with their sons, Elijah and Cameron, Fields would go
along.

''She was used to me, and I know she was probably thinking people were dumping
her,'' Duncan said. ''She took a little while, but she agreed. She said she
would give it a try. They did great. They did unbelievable things for her. They
got her a tutor. They helped Nirra in more ways than I could help her.''

Fields moved with the Browns to a gated community in Orange County and joined
Elijah and Cameron at Mater Dei High in Santa Ana -- her third high school in
three years. Driving herself toward a college scholarship, Fields helped Mater
Dei to a 34-2 record and a state championship as a senior. The school retired
her jersey after the season, but it was off the court where she was adjusting
the most, at last lowering the walls she had built to keep others out.

''The thing that jolted us into the reality of Nirra's situation was that when
she moved to L.A., she had her own room,'' Brown said. ''Because of where she
had lived before, she was so used to locking her door. She never knew who might
come through, so she was constantly locking her stuff up.''

He added, ''It was very emotional for her and for us when we realized how
special it was.''

After so many stops, Fields said, she chose U.C.L.A. because she felt at home in
California. But that new comfort did not mean she was ready to let down her
guard completely. U.C.L.A. Coach Cori Close said it took Fields two and a half
years to trust her.

''I want to get into their lives,'' Close said of her relationships with her
players. ''She had to say: 'Coach, I'm going to need you to give me time. If you
stay consistent, I'll get there.' I was impressed she could articulate that and
set that boundary.''

Fields was just as guarded with her teammates, as she had been in high school.

''It was very difficult the first time we met,'' U.C.L.A. point guard Jordin
Canada said. ''We were roommates over the summer. Our first interaction was
literally 'hi.' I asked her how Canada was, and she said, 'Good.' We didn't talk
the rest of the night.''

Canada said Fields opened up over a matter of weeks, sharing her interests and
beginning to talk about basketball and TV shows they would watch together.

''It's still hard to open up to Nirra and for Nirra to open up to us, but she's
gotten a lot better,'' Canada said.

Close, Brown and Duncan now marvel at Fields's transformation. As a junior, she
averaged a team-leading 17 points a game and guided the Bruins to the W.N.I.T.
championship. This season, she is second on the team in scoring at 14.2 points a
game.

She is also on track to become the first member of her family to earn a college
degree and to hear her name called in the W.N.B.A. draft next year. Maybe then
she will be able to replace the weathered black wallet that she says is the only
thing that has made every stop on her journey.

''She has shown me exactly the person that she is,'' Faith Fields said of her
daughter. ''The dreams she wanted are right in front of her now.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/ncaabasketball/a-life-on-the-move-molds
-a-ucla-basketball-star.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nirra Fields, top and above, attended three high schools and
moved several times. A U.C.L.A. senior, she said, ''I'm very comfortable with
change.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STUART PALLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)
 Nirra Fields playing against James Madison University last month. Mike Duncan,
near left, and the former N.B.A. coach Mike Brown, center at left, have both
served as her guardian. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (B15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%);
AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); COACHES & TRAINERS (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); FAMILY
(77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%);
FOSTER CARE (72%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%);
GUARDIANSHIPS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (91%); JAMES MADISON
UNIVERSITY (59%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: Andrea McArdle and Kip Gilman Puzzle Out Love in '2 Across'

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS- HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 415 words


Catch a subway home from the San Francisco airport at 4 a.m., and you'd think
you could have a quiet ride, just you and your crossword puzzle, duking it out.
That's not the way it goes, though, in ''2 Across,'' a meet-cute, sitcom-style
two-hander starring Andrea McArdle as Janet, a puzzle aficionado in need of
cheering up -- but maybe not right this second, O.K.?

Her unmistakable leave-me-alone vibe is catnip to Josh (Kip Gilman), who boards
Janet's otherwise empty car, carrying the same crossword, and instantly begins a
conversation. Josh is an affable extrovert, and, against steep odds, Mr. Gilman
makes him quite charming. It will surprise no one that these two attractive
individuals, each somewhere in middle age, keep talking -- and flirting, and
arguing -- until they get to the end of the line.

Directed by Evelyn Rudie at St. Luke's Theater, ''2 Across'' is a
battle-of-the-sexes throwback written by Jerry Mayer, a playwright with several
decades' worth of television comedy credits. An executive producer for ''The
Facts of Life,'' he wrote for ''Bewitched,'' ''The Bob Newhart Show'' and
''Bridget Loves Bernie'' -- the last of which ''2 Across'' echoes with an
archaic Catholic-Jewish romance angle.

Set in the present and peppered with comic references to Will Shortz, the
crossword editor of The New York Times, the play nonetheless seems stuck in the
era of those TV shows. Its rhythms belong to television, but Mr. Gilman, a
veteran character actor, knows just how to ride them for laughs. Ms. McArdle's
role as the supposedly sharp-edged, uptight Janet is less fun, but she and Mr.
Gilman have an appealing rapport that makes the play surprisingly palatable.

Until, that is, Josh -- who's chattier than Janet -- begins complaining that he
can't get a word in edgewise with her. This is right after he tells her she's
the first woman he's ''wanted to talk to for more than five minutes without my
mind wandering.''

Ah, he's a Neanderthal. Run, Janet, run!

But about that rapport: After the play ends, and the actors take their bows,
they add a musical nightcap: a brief song-and-dance divertissement, with Ms.
McArdle (Broadway's original Annie) taking the lead, and Mr. Gilman in the
supporting role.

Unrelated to the play, it's lovely, like something lifted from a cabaret act.
I'd go to that.

''2 Across'' is in an open-ended run at St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th
Street, Manhattan; 212-239-6200, telecharge­.com. Running time: 1 hour 30
minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/theater/review-andrea-mcardle-and-kip-gilman-p
uzzle-out-love-in-2-across.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING
(89%); THEATER (88%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS
(71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Family Retains Its Bond

BYLINE: By JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words


''What is being queer if not questioning everything?'' asks Ali Pfefferman (Gaby
Hoffmann), during an argument with her lover. Ali, who may be attracted to
another woman, argues that she wants to avoid forcing a ''heteronormative''
model on their relationship. Her lover suggests that Ali, who only recently came
out, is being perhaps a little self-serving. ''Listen to yourself,'' she says.
''You've been queer for, like, 30 seconds.''

Question, and expect to be questioned: This is as good a mission statement as
any for the second season of ''Transparent,'' Jill Soloway's magnificent
comedy-drama about the sexual and personal evolutions of the Pfeffermans of Los
Angeles. They love, but they don't love easy. They make bold and selfish
choices. They argue, because they care.

Season 1 of ''Transparent'' focused on Maura Pfefferman (Jeffrey Tambor), who,
having lived most of seven decades as Mort, came out to her adult children as a
transgender woman, going from Dad to ''Moppa.'' (Hence the pun of the series
title.) Mr. Tambor was a revelation -- afraid and determined, warm and prickly
-- and it would have been understandable for Season 2 to simply build a bigger
showcase for his deservedly Emmy Award-winning performance.

Instead, Season 2, whose 10 half-hour episodes begin on Friday on Amazon,
broadens its focus to the vast extended Pfefferman mishpocheh: children,
in-laws, exes and long-gone ancestors. And it's all the richer for it.

This season begins with the clan posing for a photo at the wedding of the eldest
daughter, Sarah (Amy Landecker), to Tammy (Melora Hardin). This scene is a
little tour de force of reintroduction that sets up in miniature the story lines
of the season. Sarah is already having doubts about marriage. Her brother, Josh
(Jay Duplass), has been forced to grow up fast after discovering that he has a
teenage son, Colton (Alex MacNicoll). Maura is growing comfortable in her
identity, walking off when the photographer calls her ''Sir.''

Ms. Soloway writes the Pfefferman family as if she were born into it, infusing
each line with personality and history. It would be technically accurate to call
this season an ensemble work. But really, it treats the family itself as a
protagonist, an organism that maintains collective quirks and personality even
as its members evolve and transform, are born and grow old.

To be a Pfefferman, for instance, is to have particular issues around secrecy
and openness. Family members hide and overshare; they blab massive confidences
within minutes and conceal life-changing secrets for years. They fight, they
conspire, they keep score. Plenty of family shows set holiday episodes on
Christmas or Thanksgiving. ''Transparent,'' fittingly, sets its on Yom Kippur,
the day of atonement.

The idea that family is memory -- that ancestral experiences and trauma are
passed down like heirlooms -- comes through in the season's most daring device,
a running flashback to the family's roots in Weimar Germany, whose flowering of
intellectual and sexual freedom is about to be quashed by the Nazis.

The new season also opens up to perspectives beyond the Pfeffermans'. Cherry
Jones is magnetic as a charismatic radical-feminist poet whom Ali seeks out as a
mentor; Alexandra Billings (one of several transgender cast members) deepens her
role as Davina, who had a rougher road than her privileged friend Maura.
(''Transparent'' is very conscious of the dollars-and-cents costs of
transitioning.)

This Los Angeles tour of sex and identity is as intersectional as a 405
interchange, and it could all play like a graduate gender studies seminar if it
weren't so overtly funny. The show finds comedy in a shaman at a ''wimmin's
music'' festival (''Some of you I know from my drumming away racism group'') and
in the culture clash when the Pfeffermans meet Colton's conservative Christian
adoptive family. (The paterfamilias greets Maura as ''Colton's Mee-Maw.'') Yet
the show respects each character's sincerity. Its spirit is that anything can be
funny, but nothing is risible.

''Transparent'' is one of a rare few socially conscious television series --
''The Wire'' is another -- whose sense of message and responsibility heightens
rather than burdens it. It's powered not by theory but by specificity: It is
specifically bourgeois Los Angeles, specifically progressive-Jewish,
specifically feminist.

And it lets its art do the talking. In Episode 3 (directed by Marielle Heller,
''The Diary of a Teenage Girl''), Ali meets some lesbian friends in a bowling
alley, and the camera flits around the room from woman to woman -- laughing,
drinking, nuzzling, flirting, being. That gaze is as much a character in
''Transparent'' as any of the people.

Maybe the greatest accomplishment of ''Transparent'' is that any Pfefferman can
be, at the same time, your most and least favorite. (For instance, Maura's
ex-wife, Shelly, played by Judith Light, is both comically self-centered and a
deeply sympathetic survivor.) Even the core story, Maura's transition, is entree
to a larger philosophy that life and people are complicated and that is what
makes both beautiful. Gender and sexuality are continuums, ''Transparent'' says,
but so are many things.

Late in this season, Maura gives Ali a little unsolicited, Moppa-ly advice: Be
skeptical of those who are overly certain, as comforting as absolute answers and
clear binaries can be. ''I suggest it's always wise to steer clear of people who
are overly attached to dogma,'' she says. She pauses for a moment. Then she
adds, ''But that's me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/09/arts/television/season-2-of-transparent-expand
s-its-view-of-the-pfefferman-clan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judith Light (Shelly), left, and Jeffrey Tambor (Maura) are
exes in ''Transparent'' on Amazon. (C1)
Amy Landecker, left, and Gaby Hoffmann play the daughters of Jeffrey Tambor's
character, Maura, who is a transgender woman, in ''Transparent''
 the show is entering its second season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMAZON) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (74%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (73%); ADULTS (72%);
FAMILY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%);
PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); EMMY AWARDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Justice System Relies on Torture, U.N. Panel Finds

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE; Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Beijing.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1021 words


GENEVA --  Torture remains deeply entrenched in China's criminal justice system,
United Nations experts said Wednesday, calling for an end to the widespread use
of secret detention in ''black prisons'' and to the punishment of lawyers for
representing clients.

The United Nations Committee Against Torture delivered its recommendations on
Wednesday in a hard-hitting review of China's claims at a hearing in Geneva
last month that it had made progress in combating the practice and promoting the
rule of law.

The panel of 10 independent experts welcomed changes undertaken by China since
its last appearance in 2008, including amendments to its criminal procedure law
that prohibited the use of confessions obtained through torture and required
audio or video recordings of interrogations in major cases. It also noted
China's abolition of re-education through labor and changes to a law covering
the treatment of refugees.

Yet, ''there is a long way to go to reform the criminal justice system in China
and somehow the problems are entrenched both in legislation and in practice,''
George Tugushi, one of the panel's two main investigators on China, told
journalists in Geneva.

A spokeswoman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, speaking before the
release of the report, said the panel should acknowledge the government's
achievements in protecting citizens' rights.

''China is fully advancing governance according to the law and has made massive
efforts in every aspect, including in fighting torture,'' Hua Chunying, the
spokeswoman, said at a regular news briefing. ''The progress is there for all to
see. We hope that the committee can objectively and fairly view and deal with
the issues at hand.''

The ministry had no comment after the report was released.

The panel expressed regret that China had not put in place recommendations
dating from 2009 for providing legal safeguards against torture, concluding that
it ''is still deeply entrenched in the criminal justice system, which overly
relies on confessions as the basis for convictions.''

Moreover, the panel expressed concern over amendments to the criminal procedure
law that now permit holding people under ''residential surveillance'' for up to
six months for undefined crimes of endangering state security.

In successive reviews, the committee had expressed concerns about the practice
of holding people in unofficial and secret ''black prisons,'' where they were
particularly vulnerable to abuse. The amendment allowing so-called residential
surveillance was in fact legitimizing secret detention, said Jens Modvig, the
second of the panel's investigators on China.

The committee said it was ''deeply concerned about the unprecedented detention
and interrogation'' of a reported 200 lawyers since July, including 25 who are
reportedly still held under residential surveillance in an unknown location, and
four others were simply unaccounted for.

The crackdown ''follows a series of other reported escalating abuses on lawyers
for carrying out their professional responsibilities, particularly on cases
involving government accountability and issues such as torture, defense of human
rights activists and religious practitioners,'' the panel said.

It went on to bluntly rebut China's assertion that accusations of cruel
treatment of Tibetans and other minorities were groundless. It had credible
reports from numerous sources that documented in detail cases of torture, deaths
in custody, arbitrary detention and disappearances of Tibetans. The panel said
it also remained concerned over the continued threats and intimidation aimed at
human rights defenders, lawyers, political dissidents and members of religious
or ethnic minorities.

On this and many other issues relating to torture and deaths in custody,
including those of Cao Shunli in 2014, and a Tibetan Buddhist leader, Tenzin
Delek Ripoche this year, the panel pointed out that China had failed to produce
information that it requested.

Such stonewalling is nothing new, human rights groups report. ''China now
engages in trying to limit what the committee can examine and what it
addresses,'' Felice Gaer, the committee's vice chairwoman, said in an interview.
''They really take the view that procedure is substance and they prioritize
cooperation, not compliance.''

Mr. Tugushi said he hoped that the report would ''push forward towards positive
change'' in China. ''We remain optimistic in that respect,'' he said.

But international pressure is unlikely to shift the Chinese government's
position, Zhang Xuezhong, an outspoken lawyer based in Shanghai, said in a
telephone interview, adding, ''It seems they're taking a harder line against
external pressure.''

External criticism gives heart to domestic opponents of China's tightening
restrictions on citizens rights, said Mr. Zhang, who was sidelined from his
lecturing job at the East China University of Political Science and Law after
repeatedly criticizing the government's tightening grip on expression and
political life, but ''the impact on the Chinese government should not be
overestimated.''

Still, the committee continued to push the Chinese government to limit the often
lengthy period for which detainees are held in police custody and to ensure
prisoners access to lawyers. It also called on China to provide details of the
number of cases of torture and ill treatment and the measures taken to hold
those responsible to account.

In particular, the committee urged China to declassify information relating to
torture that is withheld under the state secrets law.

''We have clearly seen the Chinese government try to manipulate these reviews to
make them less critical, and it's extraordinarily important that the committee
rejected those efforts,'' said Sophie Richardson, the China director at Human
Rights Watch. ''You couldn't get a more thoroughgoing critique of the scope of
torture in China than by reading that document. It's remarkable.''

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/chinese-justice-system-relies-on-to
rture-un-panel-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); CORRECTIONS (89%); TORTURE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES
(78%); LAWYERS (78%); RULE OF LAW (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); REFUGEES (73%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE
BUILDERS) (85%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT
FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY
HOUSES (85%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); SWITZERLAND (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Race and College Admissions at the Court

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 566 words


Racial diversity is essential in carrying out the missions of institutions like
universities, corporations and the United States military. Affirmative action is
one tool that's useful in achieving that diversity. Some Supreme Court justices,
however, seem unable to accept this fact, despite decades of experience and
evidence showing its value.

On Wednesday, the court heard the latest challenge to the policy at the
University of Texas at Austin, which considers race as one of many factors in
admissions. The court considered the policy just two years ago, but declined to
rule on its constitutionality. Instead, by a vote of 7-1, it ordered the federal
appeals court in Texas, which had ruled in favor of the policy, to perform a
more searching analysis of the university's rationale for weighing race --
specifically whether it had tried ''available, workable race-neutral
alternatives'' to improve campus diversity.

Last year, the appeals court upheld the policy again. Abigail Fisher, a white
woman who claims she was denied admission in 2008 because of her race, argued
that the court had failed to follow the justices' instructions, and had allowed
university officials to claim without evidence that they had considered
race-neutral alternatives.

Based on the justices' questions at oral argument on Wednesday morning, there is
a chance the case could be sent back to the lower court again. Justice Anthony
Kennedy, who wrote the 2013 decision and has been generally unsympathetic to
affirmative action, appeared frustrated at the lack of facts in the record and
suggested a trial would be appropriate.

The university achieves a degree of diversity by using a race-neutral policy for
three-quarters of its incoming class -- it admits the top 10 percent of students
from every high school in the state. This works only because Texas neighborhoods
are so segregated that many high schools are predominantly white or
predominantly minority.

The issue before the court is whether the university can apply a ''holistic''
review for the remaining quarter of spots that considers, among other things, an
applicant's leadership qualities, community service, socioeconomic status and
race. After four years, this policy raised the percentage of black students by
25 percent. In states where affirmative action has been banned, like California
and Michigan, the percentage of minority students has dropped significantly.

Justice Antonin Scalia proposed that rather than place unprepared black students
in a top state school ''where they do not do well,'' they should be sent ''to a
less-advanced school, a slower-track school where they do well.'' The
university's lawyer, Gregory Garre, rejected that offensive premise, which has
not gotten such a full airing at the Supreme Court since the 1950s. ''Frankly,''
Mr. Garre said, ''I don't think the solution to the problems with student body
diversity can be to set up a system in which not only are minorities going to
separate schools, they're going to inferior schools.''

Justice Scalia and the other conservative justices may prefer to ignore the
systemic effects of racism and segregation in America, but they do not disappear
that easily. The University of Texas, like countless other schools around the
country, is already extremely restricted in what it can to counteract those
effects. The court should not make the job even harder.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/race-and-college-admissions-at-the-sup
reme-court.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); APPELLATE
DECISIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
ADMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%);
MINORITY GROUPS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); HIGH
SCHOOLS (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (57%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Envoy Is Accused of Insulting Thai King

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 740 words


YANGON, Myanmar --  Thailand's aggressive campaign to protect its ailing king
from criticism escalated into a diplomatic feud on Wednesday when the Thai
police said they were investigating the United States ambassador to the country
in connection with a royal insult.

The police said that the ambassador, Glyn T. Davies, had diplomatic immunity and
could not be charged for such a crime. But the authorities are obliged by law to
investigate a complaint lodged last week, said the deputy spokesman of the
national police, Maj. Gen. Songpon Wattanachai.

''We have to accept the complaint and proceed with it,'' he said.

General Songpon said that if comments by the ambassador were judged to be
insulting to the monarchy, the government might proceed with some kind of
reprimand, although he was unsure of the form it might take. ''We may have to
issue a warning to him,'' the general said.

In a speech last month, Mr. Davies criticized the long prison sentences handed
to some of those found guilty of criticizing King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The police
have requested a copy of the speech and will have it translated by a ''reliable
institution,'' General Songpon said.

The investigation highlights how much relations between Thailand and the United
States have deteriorated recently.

The king, who turned 88 on Saturday, was born in the United States and played a
major role in a decades-long close alliance, especially during the Vietnam War.

Now the king is ill. He has not been seen in public since September, and he did
not make an appearance for his birthday, as has been tradition.

As his health has worsened, the monarchy has become highly politicized.

Critics accuse the country's military rulers, who demand absolute loyalty to the
monarchy, of harnessing the deep reverence that Thais have for the king to
buttress their own power.

When the military government seized power in May 2014, it banned all political
protests. Yet on at least two occasions, the junta allowed groups of protesters
carrying portraits of the king to convene in front of the United States Embassy,
including during a gathering last month of about 200 people led by an
ultranationalist Buddhist monk.

Relations with the United States cooled markedly after the American government
denounced the military takeover last year. The United States has avoided any
visits to the country by high-level officials. American officials have also
repeatedly said that jailing people for perceived slights against the monarchy
violates free speech.

Winyat Chatmontree, a lawyer who has represented many people accused of the
crime, known as lèse-majesté, said that from a strictly legal standpoint, the
accusation against the ambassador was weak. Mr. Davies criticized the
lèse-majesté law, which includes punishment of up to 15 years in prison for
violators.

''He didn't target the monarchy,'' Mr. Winyat said. ''His actions do not fall
under the scope of the offense.''

Mr. Davies, who was sworn in as ambassador in September, told an audience at the
Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand last month that the American government
was concerned by ''lengthy and unprecedented prison sentences'' handed down by
Thai military courts to civilians for violating the lèse-majesté law.

''We believe no one should be jailed for peacefully expressing their views,'' he
told the audience.

The comments prompted the protest in front of the United States Embassy last
month. Then, last week, a Thai man, Sonthiya Sawasdee, filed a complaint with
the police against Mr. Davies.

''I am a Thai person who reveres our king above everything,'' read the
complaint, a copy of which was posted on Mr. Sonthiya's Facebook page. ''Any
action of a person who incites disobedience towards the monarchy is unacceptable
by the Thais.''

The junta has had opportunities to smooth over the current dispute but has
chosen to issue warnings to Mr. Davies instead. Referring to the ambassador's
remarks last week, a spokesman for the junta, Sansern Kaewkamnerd, said comments
that were ''not neutral'' or showed ''personal bias'' could damage ''the
longstanding relationship'' between Thailand and the United States.

A spokeswoman for the American Embassy said staff members would seek guidance
from Washington before responding.

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/thailand-lese-majeste.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%);
MILITARY RULE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%);
PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING
(76%); CORRECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); DIPLOMATIC
IMMUNITY (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); MARTIAL LAW (69%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); POLITICS
(63%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (95%); MYANMAR (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Keyboard for an iPad Pro

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TECH TIP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 322 words


Q. The $169 keyboard that Apple sells for its iPad Pro looks nice, but is it
worth the money? What does it do that other iPad wireless keyboards can't?

A. Apple's Smart Keyboard is expensive, but it was designed specifically for use
with the company's newer, larger iPad Pro tablet. The keyboard is flexible and
can serve as a kickstand to prop up the iPad Pro for watching video when you are
not using it for typing, and it can also function as a screen cover for the
device when you are not using either part. The Smart Keyboard's typing surface
is seamless, so debris and spilled liquids cannot get under the keys (as can
happen with traditional keyboards), and the finish is stain- and
moisture-resistant. Some keyboard shortcuts that work on the Mac can also work
on the Smart Keyboard.

The iPad Pro and Smart Keyboard are linked via the Smart Connector interface,
which has three small, round magnetic contacts on the edge of each device. The
Smart Connector passes data and power back and forth between the tablet and
keyboard -- and frees the iPad Pro's Bluetooth radio for use with another
peripheral device.

However, Apple's keyboard is not the only one that can make use of the Smart
Connector. Logitech makes a Backlit Keyboard Case that can also link with the
iPad Pro's Smart Connector and, as the product's name suggests, offers
illuminated keys. Special iOS shortcut keys for things like screen brightness
and volume are included, and costs a bit less, at $150.

If price is more of a factor than connector or industrial design, a regular
Bluetooth keyboard paired to the iPad Pro is probably the least expensive option
for adding real keys. For example, Zagg's Messenger Universal for iPad Pro
connects via Bluetooth and costs $70. Apple's older Bluetooth Wireless Keyboard
is also priced around $70 (or less) and pairs easily with any iPad model; the
company's newer $99 Magic Keyboard is also Bluetooth-equipped.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/technology/personaltech/choosing-an-ipad-pro-k
eyboard.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (89%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Arthur R. Taylor, Former CBS President Who Sold Yankees to Steinbrenner, Dies at
80

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 992 words


Arthur R. Taylor, a former corporate wunderkind who became president of CBS at
37, unloaded an underperforming network-owned property, the New York Yankees,
and then, as a sometimes nettlesome overachiever, was fired by William S. Paley,
the imperious CBS chairman and founder, died on Dec. 3 in Salisbury Township,
Pa. He was 80.

The cause was pulmonary failure, his wife, Kathryn, said.

Mr. Taylor was also instrumental at CBS in instituting television's family
viewing hour, a short-lived effort, pushed by the Federal Communications
Commission and adopted voluntarily by the networks, to reduce prime-time
programming deemed unsuitable for children.

His ouster, in 1976, four years after he had been recruited from outside the
company, startled the broadcasting industry, coming as it did as the Columbia
Broadcasting System was reporting record earnings for the 24th consecutive
quarter.

While ratings were disappointing, sales and revenue hit new highs, but Mr. Paley
was said to have been personally vexed by the independence and lack of deference
of Mr. Taylor, his handpicked president and potential successor, and by an
exodus of creative executives.

After the ouster Mr. Taylor became the founding president of the New York City
Partnership, a business and civic lobbying group formed by the banker David
Rockefeller and affiliated with the Chamber of Commerce. (It is now called the
Partnership for New York City.)

Mr. Taylor was also the founding president of the Entertainment Channel, a joint
venture by the RCA Corporation and what is now the Rockefeller Group. A premium
cable channel that offered quality programming, it  lasted less than a year, but
it led to another joint cable venture, the Arts and Entertainment Network,
better known as A&E.

In addition, Mr. Taylor was dean of Fordham University's Graduate School of
Business Administration in New York for eight years and president of Muhlenberg
College in Allentown, Pa., for a decade.

Arthur Robert Taylor was born in Elizabeth, N.J., on July 6, 1935. His father,
also named Arthur, was a telephone repairman and later a company manager. His
mother was the former Marion Scott.

Mr. Taylor was raised in Rahway, a blue-collar city known for a state prison and
a Merck pharmaceutical plant. It was a place where if you could survive high
school, Mr. Taylor recalled, ''you were a pretty tough nut.'' Two students in
his graduating class went to college, he said; 10 wound up in Sing Sing, the New
York State penitentiary.

Mr. Taylor majored in Renaissance history at Brown University and earned a
master's degree there in American economic history. He was two courses and a
dissertation shy of earning a doctorate, intending to become a teacher, when he
was hired as a trainee in investment banking by First Boston Corporation.

He rose meteorically in the corporate world, becoming vice president for finance
and then executive vice president of International Paper before he was recruited
by CBS to be its president in 1972.

When he arrived at the network's headquarters in Manhattan, known as Black Rock,
Mr. Taylor became the second consecutive successor to the legendary Frank
Stanton to be hired from outside the broadcasting industry, a manifestation of
Paley's effort to diversify the company. (Charles T. Ireland Jr. had died after
just 18 months in the job.)

Mr. Taylor went on to acquire Gulbransen Organs (he had been first clarinetist
in the New Jersey All-State Orchestra and played the organ in his CBS office)
and initiated the $50 million purchase of Fawcett Publications.

In 1973 he oversaw the sale of CBS's share of the Yankees to a group of
investors led by George Steinbrenner for $8.7 million. CBS had purchased 80
percent of the team for $11.2 million in 1964. Two years later, the team
finished last in the American League for the first time since 1912 and never
ranked higher than fourth by the time CBS sold its share.

As president of CBS, Mr. Taylor also urged the House Judiciary Committee to let
the networks present live coverage of its hearings on the impeachment of
President Richard M. Nixon, and he rejected Mobil's proposal to broadcast
message advertising (rather than product advertising) on energy issues. Message
ads, he said, ''mean that those with the most money would get to talk loudest.''

But he did sign on to the family viewing hour (from 8 to 9 p.m. Eastern time).
The courts overturned the viewing hour after a year on First Amendment grounds,
though some networks remained guided by it voluntarily.

After leaving CBS, Mr. Taylor formed the Sarabam Corporation with Nelson A.
Rockefeller, the former vice president and New York governor, and George Woods,
the retired chairman of the World Bank, to help Middle Eastern countries invest
in the United States. He then established Arthur Taylor and Company, a private
investment company.

As president of Muhlenberg, beginning in 1992, Mr. Taylor was credited with
reducing its debt by half, tripling its endowment and doubling enrollment. But
he was ousted in a clash with trustees over his management style after he had,
among other things, taken firm disciplinary action against an offending but
popular fraternity.

Mr. Taylor is survived by his second wife, the former Kathryn Pelgrift; three
daughters from his first marriage, Martha Josephson, Anne Madden and Sarah
Rountree; and four grandchildren.

After his firing at CBS, late in 1976, Mr. Taylor became more publicity shy.
Before then, though, he acknowledged being opinionated, ambitious and blunt.
''People either like me or they don't,'' he told The New York Times in 1972.

He maintained that a corporation could fulfill a socially responsible agenda
only if was profitable, and he encapsulated that philosophy in an anecdote he
told about coming to CBS.

''Someone called and said, 'Now you can have a good seat at Yankee Stadium,' ''
he recalled. ''I said, 'Let's have some paying customers instead.' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/arthur-r-taylor-ex-cbs-presiden
t-who-sold-yankees-to-steinbrenner-dies-at-80.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BASEBALL (78%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BROADCASTING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CABLE TELEVISION
(76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS
(75%); LOBBYING (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%);
CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE (66%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%);
HISTORY (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (55%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (63%); CBS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (63%); MRK (NYSE) (63%); CBS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING
(63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%);
SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cease-Fire in Syria City Allows Food and Evacuations

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD and HWAIDA SAAD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 895 words


BEIRUT, Lebanon --  Hundreds of people were evacuated on Wednesday from the last
rebel-held pocket of Homs, the Syrian city devastated by years of bitter
fighting and blockades.

Under a local cease-fire agreement, food and supplies were allowed into the
besieged Waer neighborhood on the outskirts of Homs, while insurgent fighters
there who did not want to observe a truce were allowed safe passage out to
rebel-held areas to the north, along with their families and their light
weapons. Some civilians also were evacuated from Waer, accounting for about half
the total, including about 20 wounded.

The evacuation is the most significant concrete result from months of renewed
efforts to strike local cease-fire deals. The Homs deal had extra symbolic value
because the city was a major center of the uprising against President Bashar
al-Assad.

President Obama and other international officials want to see such deals
replicated across Syria. Advocates say they could help end the civil war between
the government and its Syrian opponents, and allow the two sides to unite
against the foreign-led Islamic State militant group, which has seized large
areas of Syria and Iraq.

Skeptics, however, say that local cease-fire agreements merely reward the
government's harsh ''starve or surrender'' strategy for fighting the rebellion,
which has taken a heavy toll on civilians, and that the idea of meaningful
compromise between the rebels and the government remains far-fetched.

Representatives of Syrian opposition factions were meeting on Wednesday in
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to hash out a common platform for potential talks with the
Syrian government. In a way, the Waer agreement rehearsed on a small level the
larger task faced by the opposition and would-be peace brokers: sorting out
which insurgents are willing to strike deals with the government and which are
not.

The fighters who were evacuated on Wednesday were mainly from the Nusra Front, a
Syrian affiliate of Al Qaeda -- a group that is excluded from the Riyadh talks.
Those who stayed behind were mainly associated with less radical groups, loosely
grouped as the Free Syrian Army. They said that despite their mistrust of the
government, they were willing to try a cease-fire to end years of privation,
destruction and isolation in the embattled neighborhood.

''After almost three years of siege, finally I might see my family,'' said an
antigovernment activist who uses the nom de guerre Mohammad al-Homsi. ''This is
my only hope from this truce,'' he added in an interview conducted over Skype,
his voice betraying a mix of joy and trepidation.

The activist comes from another Homs neighborhood, and survived two years of
siege in the old city center; when that area was evacuated under an earlier
cease-fire, he went to Waer, only to find himself besieged again.

Scores of evacuees, including women and children, could be seen in television
images on Wednesday boarding about a dozen green buses under United Nations and
Red Crescent supervision.

The government and its opponents disagreed over whether the deal amounted to a
total surrender. Syrian government officials said the agreement would eventually
restore complete state control over the last insurgent foothold in Homs, a major
center of the rebellion that began in 2011.

But opposition fighters and activists remaining in the neighborhood said the
deal allowed the rebels to keep some of their weapons until the government
fulfills other terms of the agreement, especially the release of 5,000 detainees
and information about the whereabouts of hundreds more people who have
disappeared. It is far from certain that will ever happen, given the large
numbers involved and the rocky track record of previous attempted truces.

''I don't consider the agreement surrender,'' Mr. Homsi said in the interview.
''Waer will preserve its revolutionary character.''

That was because most original Waer residents and people from Homs city will
remain, he said, while most of the evacuees will be fighters or trapped
civilians who came from other parts of Syria. Checkpoints at the edges of the
neighborhood will be overseen by both government and opposition forces, and both
sides will have to approve anyone who wants to leave.

The arrangement seemed intended to avoid some of the pitfalls of the Old City
cease-fire in 2013. Under that deal, all the remaining insurgents in the
neighborhood were evacuated to northern Syria with their weapons; 19 months
later, the neighborhood remains largely depopulated.

This time, the rebels insisted on some of their number staying in Waer, whose
original population of about 100,000 tripled early in the conflict, swollen with
refugees from other parts of Homs province; it has since receded back to about
100,000.

The evacuees on Wednesday included Nusra Front fighters as well as about 80
fighters who had become supporters of the Islamic State over the past year.
Unlike the leaders of those jihadist groups, the evacuees from Waer were
Syrians.

Residents familiar with the cease-fire deal said the Islamic State supporters in
the besieged neighborhood were working on their own and did not have operational
contact with the group's leadership.

Still, Mr. Homsi said, ''It is better to evacuate them, since those fighters
might negatively affect or screw up the truce, and we don't want that.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/syria-rebels-homs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rebels began evacuating the last opposition-held district of
Waer in Homs, Syria, on Wednesday, part of a local cease-fire agreement.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUAI BESHARA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); PEACE PROCESS
(90%); AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING
(89%); SYRIAN CRISIS (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); CIVIL WAR
(78%); FAMILY (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); US
PRESIDENTS (68%); RELIGION (52%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

CITY: HOMS, SYRIA (96%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (69%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Raids in Australia Lead to Arrests

BYLINE: By MICHELLE INNIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; COUNTERTERRORISM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 285 words


SYDNEY, Australia --  A 15-year-old boy and a 20-year-old man were arrested and
charged with terrorism-related offenses on Thursday in Sydney, and three other
suspects are being questioned, police officials said at a news conference here.

The two suspects who were arrested were planning to carry out a terrorist attack
in Sydney, possibly aimed at the Australian Federal Police Headquarters, said
Deputy Commissioner Michael Phelan of the federal police, a force whose duties
include counterterrorism operations.

The police did not provide further details, but they said the charges were
linked to a previous plot uncovered after the police seized documents in raids
carried out last December in the city. The man and the boy had been under police
surveillance since then.

The two were arrested and charged after raids on Sydney homes Thursday, the
police said.

The boy lives with his family in suburban Sydney, and the man is from another
Sydney suburb.

The three other men who were being questioned on Thursday morning about this
latest case were already in custody after being detained late last year in
police raids.

Catherine Burn, deputy commissioner of the New South Wales Police Force, said it
was disturbing that a schoolboy had been arrested. The police said he was 14
when he first came to their notice. ''To be putting a 15-year-old before the
courts on very serious charges that carry a maximum penalty of life imprisonment
demonstrates the difficulties law enforcement face,'' Deputy Commissioner Burn
said.

She said the two suspects charged Thursday had links to a 15-year-old boy,
Farhad Jabar, who shot and killed a police accountant, Curtis Cheng, in October
in Parramatta, west of Sydney.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/australia/police-raids-in-australia-lead
-to-arrests.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%);
TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%);
PRESS CONFERENCES (57%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (95%)

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bruins Win in Montreal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | HOCKEY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 61 words


Loui Eriksson and Landon Ferraro scored third-period goals 42 seconds apart, and
Patrice Bergeron added a milestone score to help the Boston Bruins rally past
the Canadiens, 3-1, in Montreal. With a third-period goal, Bergeron pushed past
Milt Schmidt for 11th on the Bruins' career list with 576 points. The Canadiens
lost their third straight game, a season high.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/hockey/bruins-win-in-montreal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON BRUINS (94%); MONTREAL CANADIENS (91%)

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%)

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Baseball

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 39 words


â-  The Seattle Mariners acquired first baseman Adam Lind from the Milwaukee
Brewers for the minor league right-handers Daniel Missaki, Carlos Herrera and
Freddy Peralta. Lind, 32, hit .277 with 20 home runs and 87 R.B.I. last season.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (83%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A's Trade Third Baseman

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASEBALL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 166 words


The Oakland Athletics traded third baseman Brett Lawrie to the Chicago White Sox
for the right-handed pitcher J. B. Wendelken and the minor league left-hander
Zack Erwin on Wednesday. Lawrie hit .260 with career highs of 16 home runs and
60 R.B.I. in his lone season for the A's and stayed off the disabled list for
the first time in five major league seasons. Oakland had a full infield after
acquiring shortstop Jed Lowrie from Houston on Nov. 25.

â-  Second baseman Chase Utley and the Los Angeles Dodgers completed a one-year
contract. Utley, 36, was obtained from Philadelphia on Aug. 19 and hit .202 with
three home runs and nine R.B.I. in 34 games with the Dodgers. His hard slide
into second base during a National League division series broke the leg of Mets
shortstop Ruben Tejada. Utley was suspended for two games, a punishment that was
held in abeyance pending an appeal by the players' union.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/as-send-third-baseman-to-white
-sox-for-2-pitchers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS
(82%); NEW YORK METS (54%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Soccer

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 100 words


â-  Lawyers in Hawaii filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of fans who could
not go to a canceled game that was to feature the United States women's team.
The lawyer Brandee Faria said fans had flown in from the mainland and outer
islands to watch the match, which was abruptly canceled over the weekend because
of the players' concerns over the artificial turf.

Game tickets are being refunded to the 16,000 fans who planned to go, but other
expenses are not being refunded. The suit seeks to recover that money from the
United States Soccer Federation and the Aloha Stadium Authority in Honolulu.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SOCCER (90%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (56%)

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%)

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making a List, and Swiping It Twice

BYLINE: By KIT EATON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; APP SMART; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 733 words


THE holidays are approaching, meaning gifts, budgeting, parties and other events
-- in other words, a hefty dose of stress. Fortunately, there are many apps that
may help restore some holiday cheer.

One excellent way to entertain friends and get yourself into the holiday mood is
to download the ElfYourself app. To use it, snap photos of as many as five faces
-- yours and those of friends and family. Then center the faces in a special
frame, add a custom text message and press ''O.K.'' ElfYourself pastes the faces
onto animated dancing elves in a short, funny musical cartoon -- for example, a
Christmas countdown song that includes kittens popping up in unexpected places.
You can share the resulting video on Facebook, Twitter or elsewhere. Be prepared
for giggles.

The app is free on iOS and Android, but comes with just one video -- the kitten
one. Unlocking more video themes costs $6, for which you get different music
styles like hip-hop or an ''Oh Hanukkah'' video.

Next up: Tackling the task of choosing gifts. If you're like me, you may
struggle for great ideas. But one of the planet's finest digital brains is
available to help via the IBM Watson Trend app.

IBM has set its intelligent Watson machine scanning through thousands of social
media websites, shopping sites, review sites and more to work out what gifts
people are talking about buying this year. The app is an interface into Watson's
findings, where you can see top trending gifts or find out more about different
categories like toys. Tapping on an item in the list will take you to detailed
information, including a graph of how popular Watson thinks the item is, related
quotes and images that have been shared online. Watson also tries to show
products that are rising as trends. The app is easy to use and is free on iOS.

For organizing your gift selection, check out the Santa's Bag app. Santa's Bag
is my favorite gift organizer app because its design is cheerful, modern and
bright, and it's flexible.

When you've thought of a gift for someone, you simply enter details into the app
including price, the store you're planning on buying the item in and the
recipient's data. Once all the information is entered, you can view your holiday
gift list sorted in different ways, such as by recipient or by store. There's a
useful summary page that details your budget breakdown and tells you how many
items on your list you have already purchased.

Santa's Bag is free and is iOS only. While it's not the most full-featured
list-making app available, it does the job for the holiday season.

Another iOS-only option with similar functions, plus a few extras like being
able to keep track of delivery and order numbers, is Gift Planner by Andrew
Milham. This app also has an Apple Watch extension that shows coming events like
birthdays. Because Gift Planner is not themed for Christmas, it can be useful
throughout the year. The app is free but costs $2 to use all of its features.

If you're an Android user, check out Christmas Gift List by engApps, which is a
free gift planning app that has many of the same features that Santa's Bag
offers, along with a similarly cheerful and modern interface.

This is also the time of year I fire up the famous NORAD Tracks Santa app, which
purportedly uses advanced defense technology to spot and show where Santa is as
he speeds round the globe delivering presents. The app is sure to thrill
children with its cute ''real time'' animations on Christmas Eve. It's also
useful before the holidays as a countdown timer. The app is free on iOS, Android
and Windows 10. Google has a similar Santa tracking app for iOS and Android if
you're not a fan of NORAD's program.

Lastly, there are many charity apps through which people can donate money to
those less fortunate this holiday season. That includes Google's One Today,
which is a kind of social network for making small charitable gifts. The app is
free on Android and iOS, though for Apple devices you will need to set up a
payment process through Google's systems.

Quick Call

The popular ''to-do list'' app Wunderlist has undergone a big overhaul on iOS.
The app's interface has been simplified and cleaned up so it's easier to see
what tasks you have planned. The developers have also added support for 3D Touch
on the latest iPhones, which makes it easier to control to-do items on your
lists. Wunderlist is free.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/technology/personaltech/video-feature-apps-lik
e-elves-help-make-the-season-bright.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ElfYourself, left, pastes photographed faces onto animated
dancing elves in a short, funny musical cartoon. IBM has set its intelligent
Watson machine scanning the Internet to discover what gifts people are talking
about buying this year, and the IBM Watson Trend app, center and right, displays
the results.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%);
CHRISTMAS (78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); SOCIAL
MEDIA (74%); HANUKKAH (73%); RAP MUSIC (70%); CATS (69%); TEXT MESSAGING (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Defense Lawyers Suggest Holes in Case Against a Senator and His Son

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM and SUSANNE CRAIG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 888 words


Defense lawyers for State Senator Dean G. Skelos and his son told jurors at
their federal corruption trial on Wednesday that the case against the two men
amounted to little more than distractions, snippets of conversations taken out
of context, and self-serving lies from two of the prosecution's central
witnesses.

''When scrutinized carefully, the government's entire theory starts to collapse
and the holes in their case become obvious,'' Christopher P. Conniff, a lawyer
for the senator's son, Adam B. Skelos, said in his closing argument at their
trial. ''I'm going to try to walk you through what I believe are some of those
holes.''

After the senator's lawyer, G. Robert Gage Jr., made his closing argument, Mr.
Conniff addressed the jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan for more than
90 minutes, surgically parsing through portions of the evidence in the case. He
hammered away at what he said was the government's mischaracterization of
recorded conversations, emails and testimony in the case.

Senator Skelos, 67, a Long Island Republican who until earlier this year was the
majority leader, and his 33-year-old son are charged with eight counts of
bribery, extortion and conspiracy.

The indictment accuses them of working together to use the senator's official
position to direct roughly $300,000 in illicit payments to his son through three
schemes: pressuring a Manhattan developer to send Adam Skelos a $20,000 check
disguised as a title insurance payment, enlisting the developer to arrange
consulting work for him at an environmental technology company and leaning on a
medical malpractice insurer to give him a no-show job.

Mr. Gage said the government might have done a lot of work in putting together
its case, ''but it doesn't add up to a quid pro quo.''

''Please consider his entire 30 years of service,'' he said of the senator,
suggesting that he would never throw that away and ''somehow corrupt his
long-held positions in Albany.''

The jury is expected to begin deliberations on Thursday.

The government delivered its closing arguments on Tuesday and earlier on
Wednesday, and in its rebuttal summation, after Mr. Conniff and Mr. Gage made
their presentations, a prosecutor suggested that the defense was leaning on an
''Aw shucks, father and son, Adam-has-kids defense,'' because they did not have
a better case.

''Loving your son is not a defense for committing crimes,'' the prosecutor,
Jason A. Masimore, an assistant United States attorney, said on Wednesday. ''The
argument itself is offensive.''

Mr. Masimore compared Adam Skelos's behavior to that of a character in the poem
''Gorilla'' by Shel Silverstein, which recounts the story of a boy who finds
that when he brings his pet gorilla to school, everyone is nicer to him.

''If I'm tardy, they say, 'Oh, don't worry.' / If I'm absent, they don't give me
a hoot,'' the poem reads.

Adam Skelos's gorilla, Mr. Masimore told jurors, was his father, and people did
things for him and excused his behavior because his father was head of the New
York Senate.

But defense lawyers maintained that the company officials involved in the
so-called schemes were driven not by an illegal quid pro quo agreement, but by
their own interest in making money.

Mr. Conniff focused on two of the witnesses: Charles Dorego, the general counsel
of the Manhattan developer, Glenwood Management; and Anthony Bonomo, the owner
and chief executive of the malpractice insurer, Physicians' Reciprocal Insurers.
The men testified under nonprosecution agreements with the government, which
provided that they would not be charged with crimes as long as they testified
truthfully.

Both men spoke at length about how Senator Skelos repeatedly pressured them to
provide income for his son, something the government itself emphasized in
opening and closing statements, suggesting that it was evidence of a pattern in
the senator's conduct, consistent with ''the Skelos family playbook.''

But Mr. Conniff sought to turn the similarities in their testimony to his
advantage.

''When you scrutinize their stories,'' he said, ''the similarities in
particular, the almost identical testimony about the frequency and tone of the
requests, ask yourself if it has anything to do with the government's theory of
the case.''

Mr. Conniff called Mr. Dorego a ''wheeler-dealer'' and said he had helped Adam
Skelos get hired at the environmental technology company, AbTech Industries,
because he had an interest in the company and thought the hiring of the
senator's son would put money in his own pocket.

Mr. Conniff also referred to evidence at the trial, including several of the
secretly recorded conversations played for the jury that portrayed his client as
arrogant and abusive, saying the government had sought to distract jurors with
that conduct, which, he added, was not criminal.

In the government's rebuttal summation, Mr. Masimore urged the jurors to
remember in their deliberations that the defense's efforts to discredit
prosecution witnesses should be weighed against the many emails, phone calls and
wiretaps that supported the witnesses' testimony.

''If the senator couldn't manage his complicated able-bodied adult son, that's
fine,'' he added, ''but just don't take that drama to Albany and corrupt the top
levels of state government with it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/defense-lawyers-point-out-holes-in-ca
se-against-dean-skelos-and-son.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dean G. Skelos, a Republican legislator, and his son, Adam B.
Skelos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); JURY TRIALS
(90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EVIDENCE (79%); INDICTMENTS (78%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); BRIBERY (78%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (78%); EXTORTION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MEDICAL
MALPRACTICE (68%); TITLE INSURANCE (64%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Using a Love of Music, and a Podcast, to Illuminate Composers

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BARONE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words


The violist Nadia Sirota, the daughter of a composer, was born into the world of
contemporary music. At Juilliard, she set aside Bach's sonatas in favor of
commissioning pieces from classmates like Nico Muhly. And now she has made an
entire career -- a sustainable one, at that -- of championing new work.

''I just find it terribly exciting that you could be around for the birth of
something that might have legs for 200 years,'' Ms. Sirota, 33, said during a
recent interview. She was in a studio at New York Public Radio, taking a break
from working on her podcast, ''Meet the Composer,'' for Q2 Music, WQXR's online
arm devoted to new work.

The show concludes its second season of five episodes on Friday with a finale
about Mr. Muhly, a close friend and frequent collaborator. Since the first
episode aired last year, ''Meet the Composer'' has become steadily more popular,
with listeners in more than 70 countries and numbers of downloads that outpace
the (admittedly meager) sales of classical music records.

In ''Meet the Composer,'' Ms. Sirota sells new music by selling the composers
themselves and demystifying their process. A typical hourlong episode blends
informal journalism and biographical details with musical interludes. The
backbone is a long interview with the show's guest. Those who have been on the
podcast include the Pulitzer Prize winners John Luther Adams and Caroline Shaw,
and Andrew Norman, whose piano concerto, ''Split,'' will have its premiere this
weekend at the New York Philharmonic.

Mr. Muhly compared the show to ''This American Life,'' widely regarded as the
paragon of public radio. Listening to that program, he said, ''you start to see
the quotidian things of life in new ways. Nadia's show is this sort of musical
equivalent.''

Ms. Sirota is a bit more humble. ''It's all stuff I like and telling people why
I like it,'' she said.

New music became central to Ms. Sirota at an early age -- even younger than that
at which many musicians begin formal training with the classical repertoire.
When she was 4, her father, Robert Sirota, wrote her a chamber opera based on
the Beatrix Potter story ''The Tailor of Gloucester.'' A teacher she had in
childhood had students play music written by their peers. Cozying up with the
composition students at Juilliard was a natural fit, and becoming friends with
Mr. Muhly was even easier: Her dad's and his mother's families came from the
same Ukrainian shtetl.

''She's comfortable with the extremes of her instrument,'' Mr. Muhly said. For
one of their first collaborations, he wrote music for her that was physically
impossible to play. Seeing what he was trying to accomplish, she offered
alternatives that made more sense, and they revised the score together.

In October Ms. Sirota performed with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, playing the
American premiere of a concerto Mr. Muhly wrote for her. She fits ''Meet the
Composer'' duties into a jam-packed schedule of commitments, many with her
ensemble, yMusic, which include a residency at New York Live Arts, a concert at
Carnegie Hall and touring with Ben Folds. ''The way I've organized my career,
it's just project after project after project after project,'' she said. ''I've
always been a bit of a racehorse.''

She and Alex Overington, the producer for ''Meet the Composer'' and a composer
himself, met in 2012 when she was recording her album ''Baroque'' (which
contains, for the record, only contemporary music) in a studio in Reykjavik,
Iceland, where he was an intern. Both were unfamiliar with radio storytelling
when they began experimenting with what would eventually become ''Meet the
Composer.'' Ms. Sirota had been doing some hosting on Q2 Music, but the podcast
was new territory. ''We both sort of learned how to make radio together,'' Mr.
Overington said.

That first episode was created over nearly a year. (Now each installment takes
about 90 to 100 hours.) Ms. Sirota and Mr. Overington's dynamic in the studio
is, by turns, silly and efficient. During a recent interview with Peter Gelb,
the Metropolitan Opera's general manager, about Mr. Muhly, the host and the
producer exchanged nods and thumbs ups every time Mr. Gelb said something
especially quotable.

Mr. Overington produces with what Ms. Sirota called ''a very musical thread.''
They said it was as if each episode were conceived as a self-contained
composition. That approach caught the attention of Jad Abumrad, a host of the
popular program ''Radiolab,'' who last year rebroadcast on his show the episode
of ''Meet the Composer'' devoted to John Luther Adams.

''The music, the sound, the textures wove together in a kind of counterpoint,''
Mr. Abumrad said in an interview. ''I was blown away.''

His support gave ''Meet the Composer'' a significant boost. Tens of thousands of
people now listen to the show each month, not insignificant when even major
classical record releases sometimes sell in the hundreds. But Ms. Sirota has
tried not to devote too much attention to her growing audience; after all, once
the Nico Muhly episode airs, it's time to start thinking about Season 3.

There are still more composers to profile -- Thomas Adès and Trent Reznor, she
hopes -- and new storytelling techniques to explore, like focusing entire
episodes on a single piece of music. For now, she said, ''I'm just excited that
something I care about as a passion project has legs.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/with-meet-the-composer-nadia-sirota
-illuminates-new-music.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NADIA SIROTA: Host of ''Meet the Composer'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON
WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%);
INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); POP & ROCK (90%);
PODCASTING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC
BROADCASTING (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); PUBLIC RADIO (75%); RADIO BROADCAST
INDUSTRY (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); FAMILY (68%); OPERA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shipyard Settles Case Over Botched Repairs

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 403 words


WASHINGTON --  A Louisiana-based shipyard has agreed after a nearly decade-long
fight to pay the federal government $8.5 million to settle claims that it
fraudulently covered up fundamental flaws on ships it was retrofitting for the
Coast Guard. The patrol boats had to be abandoned after work on only the first
eight was completed.

The payment settles a False Claims Act lawsuit filed against Bollinger
Shipyards. The company was hired in 2002 to lengthen and modernize all 49 of the
110-foot patrol boats as part of the Coast Guard's effort to be better prepared
to respond to threats in the aftermath of the 2001 attacks.

But soon after the eight boats were put back into service, they started to crack
and buckle, a major embarrassment to the Coast Guard. Certain details about the
flaws were first reported in The New York Times.

Work planned for the remaining  ships was canceled. Only about 30 of the old
ships remain in service, and the eight that were modernized and six others
deemed too run down to continue to operate have been scrapped.

The Justice Department alleged that Bollinger provided the Coast Guard with
engineering calculations that falsely represented the strength of the boats,
suggesting they had two times greater hull strength than was the case, even
though it had information indicating that the claims were exaggerated. Bollinger
denied those allegations, and for years fought the case in court.

''Those who expect to do business with the government must do so fairly and
honestly,'' said Benjamin Mizer, head of the Justice Department's Civil
Division. ''We expect the utmost integrity and reliability from the contractors
that design and build equipment that is essential to public safety and our
national defense.''

The Coast Guard spent about $95 million on the modernization program before it
was scrapped. A Coast Guard official did not immediately respond Wednesday when
asked if the agency had recovered any of the money spent on the project from
Bollinger or other contractors involved.

Bollinger, in a way, is hardly being punished by the Coast Guard. The agency is
continuing with its approximately $1 billion-a-year ship modernization program
and has awarded other contracts to the company, worth cumulatively at least $1.4
billion.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/coast-guard-bollinger-shipyards.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); MARINE VESSELS
(90%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (63%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assertions of Hate Crime in Seattle After a Somali-American Teenager Falls to
His Death

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 473 words


SEATTLE --  The Seattle Police Department said Wednesday it was investigating
the death of a 16-year-old Somali-American boy who died Saturday after a fall
from a balcony near Seattle Central College, where he had been taking classes.

The death of the boy, Hamza Warsame, has prompted outrage among members of the
Muslim community here, amid assertions -- it is not clear from whom -- that he
was beaten and pushed to his death by a white man. This account was spread
online through a hashtag on Twitter and Facebook, #Justice4Hamza.

On Wednesday, scores of protesters, including members of the boy's family, who
are Muslim, marched to the local police precinct shouting for justice and
calling the death a possible hate crime.

Details are sketchy. No cause of death or autopsy report has been released, and
Hamza's sister, Ikram Warsame, 18, said in an interview that she did not know
what happened and was not ruling out the possibility of an accident. But she was
adamant that he did not take his own life.

''He was happy and content with his life -- he was not suicidal, and he was not
depressed,'' Ms. Warsame said. She said the family's main concern was to have
the case treated fairly and seriously by the police.

''I want my brother's investigation to be put on a priority.''

A police official close to the investigation, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the case is open, said a preliminary examination of Hamza's
body showed no injuries that were ''consistent with having been physically
beaten'' and added that ''there wasn't any evidence suggesting foul play.''

But many of the protesters who marched from the college to the precinct, some of
them crying, said they feared that the police did not want to find an
uncomfortable truth that would lead to protests or unrest.

''God will find the truth!'' shouted Fabhi Hirsi, who said she was a neighbor of
the Warsame family.

The interim president of Seattle Central College, Sheila Edwards Lange, said in
emailed message to students that she shared their concerns about public safety
at a time when racial and religious tensions are running high nationwide.

''This incident has brought to light very real concerns among our community of
black and Muslim students who are worried about their safety,'' Ms. Lange said.
''Amid reports of an increasing number of racist and discriminatory acts locally
and nationally, the fear and sorrow our students feel is real.''

Hamza was one of five children of Somali immigrants, his sister said. Their
father is a taxi driver, their mother a homemaker. Although Hamza was still
enrolled in a public high school in Seattle, he was completing his first quarter
of college under a state program that accelerates students who test into
college-level work, said a spokesman for Seattle Central College, David Sandler.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/assertions-of-hate-crime-in-seattle-after-a
-somali-american-teenager-falls-to-his-death.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ikram Warsame, center, on Wednesday in Seattle. Her brother,
Hamza, 16, died on Saturday near Seattle Central College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH
FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE
(89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (89%); RACE & RACISM (84%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES
(78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); SUICIDE (73%);
INTERVIEWS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); RELIGION (71%); PUBLIC
SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sentiment and a Lot of Sex

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 422 words


You don't need to know that R. Kelly wrote, by his own count, 462 songs in
preparation for ''The Buffet,'' his 13th album, to understand that he is a
protean character. (It's nice to know it, though: 462 is a comical number.) The
spirit of not getting stuck is an integral part of Mr. Kelly's work, even more
than his specialization in super-sexed subject matter.

As singer, songwriter and producer, he runs efficiently through short-order
metaphors and conceits, and, more cautiously, through styles. He applies finesse
in measured amounts, like a road-line painter, and doesn't linger. You can
imagine his ticking an item off the list before he's finished, thinking about
the next one. The thing about people like this: They eventually become boring.

The concept for ''The Buffet,'' he has explained in several interviews, is,
unsurprisingly, breadth. As of his last record, ''Black Panties'' in 2013, he
has gone back to the lewd stuff, after two relatively sweet throwback soul
records that followed his acquittal on child-pornography charges in 2008. So now
he's mixing it up -- sleaze and sentimentality.

His subjects include uncomplicated leisure time (''Backyard Party,'' in which a
barbecue is only a barbecue) and the love of a father for a daughter (in ''Wanna
Be There,'' sung with his actual 17-year-old daughter, who goes by Ariirayé).

And sex -- sex as poetry, sex as a public disturbance, sex as a marching-band
performance. In the song ''Marching Band,'' there's the album's most memorable
simile: tuba-playing as fellatio. If you suspect that there will be a
sex-as-buffet metaphor at some point, you will be right. It occurs in ''Poetic
Sex,'' with the phrase ''all I can eat.''

To describe the record is to make a list. There is grand and stirring R&B from
the '70s, and minimal, atmospheric R&B of the present; the continuation of his
relaxed, midtempo Chicago-stepping style, one of his strong suits; some near
hip-hop, with the barked, staccato flow of the new Atlanta rappers (in ''Switch
Up,'' with Jeremih and Lil Wayne as guests); and, interestingly, functional
country and blues (''Barely Breathin''' and ''Sufferin','' tracks on the disc's
deluxe edition.)

The point is that all of these songs are capable, and one is not much better
than another. The track that most shows what Mr. Kelly is able to do with his
voice, in light trembles and agile phrasing, is ''Get Out of Here With Me,''
evoking Marvin Gaye ballads. But it does so mechanically, even coldly, with
entreaties that aren't very sexy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-r-kellys-new-album-the-buffe
t-offers-sex-and-sentiment.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: R. Kelly has released ''The Buffet'' (RCA), which is his 13th
album. (C1)
 R. Kelly at the 2015 Soul Train Awards in Las Vegas last month. The influences
on his new album include old R&B, new R&B, hip-hop and country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
POWERS IMAGERY/INVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE
(78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); POETRY (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%);
SONG WRITING (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%);
CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (51%)

PERSON: LIL WAYNE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Daniel Sedin's Goal Sends Canucks Past Rangers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; CANUCKS 2, RANGERS 1; Pg.

LENGTH: 376 words


VANCOUVER, British Columbia --  Daniel Sedin and Alexander Edler each had a goal
and an assist to lift the Vancouver Canucks over the Rangers, 2-1, on Wednesday
night.

Henrik Sedin added two assists for Vancouver, and Ryan Miller made 32 saves. The
Canucks won consecutive games for the first time since Oct. 30 and Nov. 2.

Dan Boyle scored on a penalty shot for the Rangers, and Henrik Lundqvist had 23
saves.

Daniel Sedin scored the winner on a slick deflection at 9 minutes 24 seconds of
the third period off a slap pass from Edler. Sedin's goal, his 13th of the
season, came only 30 seconds after Boyle had tied the score at 1-1.

The Rangers were awarded the penalty shot after a Vancouver player covered the
puck in Miller's crease, and Boyle made a nice move to score his first goal of
the season.

Boyle later hit the post during a Rangers power play.

Edler opened the scoring on a five-on-three power play 3:19 into the third
period after Rangers forward Jarret Stoll was penalized for delay of game when
the Canucks already had a man advantage.

Vancouver moved the puck around nicely to Edler at the point, and he ripped a
shot off the post and in for his sixth goal.

The Canucks had a quality chance to build on their lead after the Rangers were
assessed a bench minor that was followed by a high-sticking penalty, but
Vancouver was unable to capitalize.

The Canucks, who were coming off a 5-2 victory over Buffalo on Monday night that
ended a five-game losing streak, were slow at the start.

Jesper Fast and Viktor Stalberg had good chances against Miller in the first
five minutes as the Rangers seemed to be playing a game of keep-away in the
Canucks' zone.

Vancouver finally got a decent opportunity at the other end with about six
minutes left in the opening period, but Lundqvist stopped Derek Dorsett off a
rush.

Rangers defenseman Dan Girardi nearly opened the scoring less than four minutes
into the second. With the teams playing four-on-four, Girardi's deflection in
front of Miller struck the crossbar and stayed out.

The Rangers had another great chance, but Kevin Hayes's shot nicked off the
Canucks rookie Jared McCann in front of Vancouver's goal and stayed out. The
Rangers held a 23-14 edge in shots through 40 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/hockey/vancouver-canucks-beat-new-york-
rangers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%)

ORGANIZATION: VANCOUVER CANUCKS (94%)

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (96%)

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words


''Most of the black scientists in this country don't come from schools like the
University of Texas. They come from lesser schools where they do not feel that
they're being pushed ahead in classes that are too fast for them.''

JUSTICE ANTONIN SCALIA, during arguments at the Supreme Court in a case about
the affirmative action plan at the University of Texas.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (83%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (83%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
(80%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good News: Mets Lose Out on Their Top Free-Agent Target

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL.

Email: powellm@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1070 words


Ben Zobrist, the apple of the Mets' eye this off-season, decided to spurn the
family Wilpon and sign with the Chicago Cubs.

Chicago's proximity to Zobrist's family home in Nashville was said to play a
role. That would have made sense when paddle-wheel riverboats were the preferred
means of transport, but less so since Orville Wright and the advent of winged
flying devices. (Chicago is 1 hour 20 minutes by plane from Nashville; New York
City is 2:20.)

More likely, the fact that Cubs Manager Joe Maddon and Zobrist enjoyed many
years together with Tampa Bay was the deciding factor. And Theo Epstein, the
Cubs' president, has displayed a willingness to spend and spend again.

The Wilpons have displayed no willingness to do any such thing.

Still, this is a good test for the Mets. Zobrist, who will be 35 in May, was the
wrong player at the wrong time for the Mets, who offer a peculiar mix of
fuzzy-cheeked youth and the creaky-boned aged.

By the spring, this team will have a 37-year-old left fielder, a 35-year-old
right fielder and a sore-backed 33-year-old third baseman. It did not need to
pay a new second baseman until the cusp of his fifth decade.

Instead, the Mets, blessed with an abundance of strong pitching arms, need to
pursue a genuine power hitter, like that fellow Yoenis Cespedes, who patrolled
the outfield and led the team during its stirring pennant run last season. If
not Cespedes for the rest of us -- the Mets pretend to have all but lost his
telephone number -- then two other top free-agent outfielders loom: Justin
Upton, 28, and Jason Heyward, 26.

To type this is to risk marking yourself as an unserious man as so many fall
over themselves to explain that the Mets cannot possibly afford to compete with
the likes of Chicago, Boston, the Dodgers, the Angels and, perhaps, even Kansas
City.

On Wednesday, the Mets traded for a second baseman, picking up Neil Walker from
the Pittsburgh Pirates for an expendable starting pitcher, Jon Niese. It was a
nice trade and perfectly small-bore Mets. It was a cash wash. Later that night,
they continued to reshape their infield, adding Asdrubal Cabrera, a former
All-Star who ranks among the poorest defensive shortstops in baseball, on a
two-year deal believed to be worth a modest $18 million.

Still, however much Sandy Alderson, an astute baseball man, enjoyed Oakland and
San Diego, and however much the Wilpons might enjoy visiting Milwaukee, the Mets
fit no definition of a midmarket team. Flushing, Queens -- for better and worse
-- is not Cleveland.

The Mets' claim of sackcloth poverty seems worth interrogating. The Wilpons
trusted their grifter friend Bernard L. Madoff, and so fell on hard times. And
the debt service on their new stadium is pretty high. But as Howard Megdal of
Capital New York has noted, somewhere between $45 million and $60 million rained
down upon the Wilpons in this autumn's baseball festivities.

Ratings and ad rates are up significantly on SNY, in which the Mets own a
majority share. And as my colleague Richard Sandomir has noted, ticket sales are
up.

Then there's the fact that Alderson and Mets management insisted for years that
if only fans came out in greater numbers, the team would spend more. Typically
in American capitalism, you produce a better product, and sales rise. Whatever;
it worked.

Baseball's commissioner, Rob Manfred, seems intent on responding as Bud Selig
did to his old friends the Wilpons: Manfred is playing the avuncular enabler.
''I think clubs should and do spend commensurate with the revenues that are
available to them,'' Manfred said recently.

This is silliness. New York City's veins are clotted with young masters and
mistresses of the universe who would love to own the bauble known as a major
league franchise. The Wilpons could put the team on the market Monday and count
their billion-plus dollars by Friday.

As for free agency, the Wilpons would do well to start with what they had:
Cespedes. The Mets lack many coaches who can speak Spanish, but in a city nearly
half black and Latino, you might expect a black Cuban to present the team with
intriguing marketing possibilities.

As to his play, Cespedes is not Willie Mays. He is like a hound after a hare to
high fastballs. He swings at a few too many curves off the low outside corner.
(These are not disabilities unique to him; Fangraphs has documented that Mike
Trout has the same weakness for high, hard stuff.) Nor was Cespedes spectacular
in the postseason, although he did hit two home runs and knock in seven runs in
nine playoff games before the World Series. Like most of the Mets, he had a bad
five-game stretch in the Series.

His fielding in center field in the postseason bore a resemblance to soccer.
That said, he is a natural left fielder, and for his work there with the Detroit
Tigers in the first half of 2015, he just won a Gold Glove. His arm is like a
javelin in the hands of Achilles: deadly.

As Fangraphs wrote, if he stayed put in left field, he would rate ''among the
best full-time players.''

Mets management tells reporters -- sotto voce -- that were it to give Cespedes
his desired long-term contract, he would be 36 at the end of it. This is a
curious plaint, as the team offered a four-year contract to an infielder who
would have been 38 when the deal ended.

The Mets have reached an inflection point. They have a phalanx of terrific young
starting pitchers who can toss nasty curves and dial fastballs at close to 100
miles per hour. The actuarial odds are that one of them might tear an elbow
tendon, and the economic odds are that one or more might leave for free agency.

As the Mets learned in the soporific days of June and July, baseball teams
cannot live on pitching alone. Someone has to hit. Catcher Travis d'Arnaud might
stay healthy all year, although he has not managed that feat yet.

And Michael Conforto, in his second season, might blast more home runs. But
after 174 regular-season at-bats in the major leagues, Conforto will confront
pitchers who have studied his weaknesses. Let's say he hits .260 with 24 home
runs. That is a nice sophomore year, and no shame there. He might not be ready
to carry the team.

The Angels are circling Upton. God only knows how many general managers are
whispering sweet things into Heyward's ears.

One World Series is no guarantee of another. You wonder if the Wilpons realize
they are not running Tampa Bay.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/yoenis-cespedes-the-key-for-ne
w-york-mets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mets have more money to offer Yoenis Cespedes, above in
October, after Ben Zobrist, far left in 2013, spurned them to sign with the
Cubs, who will reunite him with Manager Joe Maddon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD
PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DAVID BANKS/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (71%);
NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); TAMPA, FL, USA (57%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); TENNESSEE, USA (73%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Telecasts of Playoff Won't Have Fantasy Ads

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 483 words


ESPN and College Football Playoff officials have agreed that there will be no
advertising for daily fantasy games during the telecasts of the national
semifinals or the national championship game this season, the latest move by
college athletics to distance itself from an increasingly controversial business
that critics say constitutes gambling.

In an email Wednesday, Bill Hancock, the Playoff's executive director, confirmed
the decision, which was made last month. An ESPN spokeswoman also confirmed it.

The N.C.A.A. had already informed its broadcast partners that it would not
permit daily fantasy ads during its championship broadcasts, including the men's
and women's basketball tournaments and baseball's College World Series.

However, the N.C.A.A. does not administer the football playoff, which consists
of two semifinal games -- this year, the Orange Bowl and the Cotton Bowl, on
Dec. 31 -- and a national championship game, to be held on Jan. 11 in Glendale,
Ariz.

Instead, the Playoff is managed by the 10 Football Bowl Subdivision conferences
and Notre Dame, which is independent in football. While many conferences have
expressed skepticism about daily fantasy sports, they have taken different
positions on whether advertisements should be broadcast during conference games
or on conference-owned cable networks.

Several states, including New York, as well as the F.B.I., are examining whether
the fantasy games, in which players assemble a lineup of real players and then
win or lose money based on how those players perform, violate the law.

Several conference commissioners have publicly expressed concern over the
influence of the games on college-age consumers. The N.C.A.A. bars its athletes
from sports wagering, including via daily fantasy sports, which it considers
gambling.

In August, the N.C.A.A. and the F.B.S. conferences asked DraftKings and FanDuel,
the two most prominent daily fantasy websites, to refrain from offering games
that involve college football. In October, in a letter obtained by The New York
Times, the N.C.A.A. broke off planned meetings with the sites, with an executive
vice president writing, ''We believe that your product should not be offered in
the college space for a variety of reasons, and we do not believe a further
meeting with your organizations will change that view.''

Last season's national football semifinals and championship game were the three
most-viewed broadcasts in the history of cable television, with the title game
on ESPN, between Oregon and Ohio State, reaching an audience of 33.4 million.

ESPN is in the second year of a 12-year, $7.3 billion contract to broadcast the
Playoff, which in addition to the semifinals and final is affiliated with four
other high-profile bowl games. At least two of those games, the Fiesta Bowl and
the Peach Bowl, will also not feature daily fantasy ads during their telecasts.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/ncaafootball/espn-college-football-play
off-draftkings-fanduel-ads-daily-fantasy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%);
COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%);
AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING
(90%); FANTASY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CABLE
TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%);
BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); GAMBLING
(72%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

3rd Assailant at Concert Is Frenchman

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and AURELIEN BREEDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 651 words


PARIS --  The third attacker at the Bataclan concert hall, where 90 people were
killed in the terrorist attacks here last month, was a 23-year-old native of
northeastern France who had gone to fight in Syria, a lawyer for his family said
Wednesday.

Without giving a name, the authorities confirmed that the last Bataclan attacker
had been identified, and the lawyer later said he was Foued Mohamed-Aggad.

It was Mr. Mohamed-Aggad's mother who first alerted the authorities that her son
was probably one of the gunmen who opened fire on concertgoers on Nov. 13, the
lawyer, Françoise Cotta, said in a phone interview.

Mr. Mohamed-Aggad's mother had ''been without news of him for several months,''
Ms. Cotta said, when she received a text message from Syria saying that he had
''died a martyr on Nov. 13.'' Ms. Cotta said that the mother then asked her to
alert the authorities and that a DNA match was made.

Mr. Mohamed-Aggad was one of a group of young men from Strasbourg and its
region, friends and brothers, who left for Syria at the end of 2013, according
to the lawyer and the French news media. All were reported to have been in
contact with a man identified as one of the principal French jihadist
recruiters, Mourad Farès, who is now in prison here. Their departure from
working-class districts of housing projects, reported by the French news media,
caused a stir. Mr. Mohamed-Aggad lived with his mother in a housing project in
the small town of Wissembourg, about 40 miles north of Strasbourg.

Mr. Farès was described as ''an especially dangerous individual, close to
terrorist jihadist movements,'' by the French interior minister, Bernard
Cazeneuve, after his arrest in Turkey last year. Of the 10 from the Strasbourg
area who went to Syria in 2013, two appear to have been killed in combat, while
seven returned to France and were arrested. They include Mr. Mohamed-Aggad's
brother, who is also in jail.

Their arrest in Strasbourg in May 2014 was extensively reported. Only Foued
Mohamed-Aggad remained behind in Syria, according to Ms. Cotta and the French
news media.

''In all his messages home, he said he was going to die in Iraq,'' Ms. Cotta
said by phone. In fact, of the Strasbourg group, Mr. Mohamed-Aggad may have been
one of the few to see combat, according to a court document cited Wednesday by
the daily Le Monde .

The document describes his ideological hardening while in Syria, citing the
testimony of his comrades. The others spoke of ''wanting to do humanitarian
work'' in Syria, according to Le Monde -- an explanation the authorities did not
believe.

Mr. Mohamed-Aggad's father, on learning his son was one of the attackers, said
he ''would have killed him'' had he known his plans, Ms. Cotta said. ''The
mother is desperate. It is terrible for the family,'' she said.

The police have been working to identify all the assailants, but it has been a
painstaking process because some traveled under false names and, in some cases,
their bodies were badly damaged after they detonated the explosives they were
wearing.

The police have yet to determine the identities of two of the attackers at the
Stade de France who posed as migrants to enter Europe through Greece, and of one
of the gunmen who attacked restaurants and bars, who is thought to have died in
a police raid on an apartment in the Paris suburb of St.-Denis. In all, the
attackers killed 130 people.

Of the attackers at the Bataclan, one was shot early, another was blown up when
the police shot at him in the final assault two hours later, and a third died in
an explosion afterward. It was not immediately clear which of the three was Mr.
Mohamed-Aggad. The police, in statements after the attacks, spoke of conducting
fraught negotiations with the two terrorists who remained at the end. They
described the men as nervous and unstable and as threatening to decapitate the
hostages they had taken.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/bataclan-paris-attacks.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVEMBER 2015 PARIS ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%);
PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); ARRESTS
(89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%); DNA (52%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (89%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fan Injuries Spur M.L.B. to Call for Netting at Stadiums

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 728 words


After several gruesome incidents in which fans were struck by balls and
shattered bats at games last season, Major League Baseball on Wednesday issued a
recommendation for all 30 clubs to erect protective netting in front of the most
exposed field-level seats from one dugout to the other.

Some clubs, like the Boston Red Sox, who had two patrons hospitalized after
being struck at Fenway Park, immediately promised to comply with the voluntary
directive. Most, if not all, teams are expected to join in before opening day.

Other clubs, like the Mets, the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Minnesota Twins,
already have netting down the first- and third-base lines. The Mets have had
their netting up since Citi Field opened in 2009.

M.L.B. officials, sobered by the summer's bloody incidents, have been studying
the matter for several months and hired a consulting firm to work with teams and
help them install the netting. The hope is to keep the netting as unobtrusive as
possible while providing protection.

''There are options that are more translucent,'' Dan Halem, M.L.B.'s chief legal
officer, said regarding the material for the netting. ''The goal is to enhance
safety while continuing to provide that up-close experience to the game and the
players that fans enjoy at baseball games.''

Some seating could remain vulnerable to high-speed projectiles. Halem said teams
could elect to extend their netting farther down the lines than M.L.B.'s
recommendation, which calls for the netting to extend from the existing screen
behind home plate to the closest edge of the dugout.

In Japan, some stadiums have netting that reaches all the way to the foul poles.
Whistles blow when balls are headed for the seats. After each foul ball, signs
urging fans to pay attention are illuminated on the scoreboard. Some stadiums
even have signs in the far reaches of the upper decks where balls could not
possibly land. And some stadiums have a row or two of seats in front of the
netting and provide fans with helmets under the mutual understanding of the risk
involved.

In the United States, such precautions are more rare, and fans are generally
more vulnerable. In June, a woman near the third-base dugout at Fenway Park was
struck by the broken bat of the Oakland Athletics' Brett Lawrie. She bled
profusely, was carried out on a stretcher and spent a week in a hospital with
what was described as life-threatening injuries. A month later, another woman in
the same seating area was struck in the forehead with a foul ball and required
40 stitches.

The Red Sox said they planned to consult with season-ticket holders in the
affected areas before constructing the new netting.

''The club is in the process of evaluating different design options to identify
the best solution for Fenway Park,'' a Red Sox statement said.

Part of the recommendation by M.L.B. calls for notification at the time of
purchase about whether the seats are behind the netting and for a campaign to
heighten awareness of the potential dangers if fans choose not to sit behind the
netting.

One of the growing problems cited in recent years is that many fans often look
down at their smartphones rather than pay close attention to the action.

A group of ticket holders seeking enhanced protection filed a class-action
lawsuit against M.L.B. in July in Federal District Court in Northern California.
The claim cited a number of factors that made today's baseball games more
dangerous, including bats that splinter more easily and video boards and other
distractions, like enhanced Wi-Fi connectivity.

The suit, led by an Athletics season-ticket holder, cited a 2014 Bloomberg News
survey that said about 1,750 people were injured at M.L.B. games each year.

Joe Torre, who is in charge of baseball operations for the league, is looking at
ways to enhance player safety and said the same went for the fans.

''We don't want to carry guys off the field,'' he said. ''We certainly don't
want fans in the stands to not stay healthy.''

Baseball would not be the first sport to add netting to enhance fan safety. In
2002, 13-year-old Brittanie Cecil died as a result of the injuries she sustained
when she was struck in the head by a hockey puck at a game between the Columbus
Blue Jackets and the Calgary Flames. The following year, the N.H.L. added
netting behind the goals in all its arenas.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/fan-injuries-spur-league-to-ca
ll-for-netting-at-stadiums.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A college game in 2014 at a Tokyo stadium, which featured
netting far down the base lines. In Japanese stadiums, other precautions include
scoreboard messages and whistles blowing when balls are headed to the stands.
Left, a woman was injured when she was hit by a broken bat at Fenway Park in
June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
SPORTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS
FANS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); HEAD INJURIES (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (94%); NEW YORK METS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX
(58%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (57%); MINNESOTA TWINS (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Using Song and a Dose of Laughter to Ease a Family's Pains

BYLINE: By JOHN OTIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 676 words


Food pantries supply Vivian Green and her 88-year-old mother, Helen Taylor, with
most of their meals these days. Ms. Green does not let any of it go to waste.

''I can cook all day long,'' Ms. Green, 56, said. ''I can take a piece of bread
and make a dinner out of it. I'm just creative that way.''

''And I can eat it,'' Ms. Taylor said in a pat response.

Last year, Ms. Green and her mother moved in together. They share a basement
apartment in Brownsville, Brooklyn. It is bright, spacious and only a few blocks
from Ms. Green's church, although it floods a bit when there is rain. The
biggest problem, according to Ms. Green, is the $1,325 monthly rent.

Their only source of income is from Ms. Taylor: Each month, she receives $1,120
in Social Security benefits and $505 from a pension. Ms. Green had been
receiving food stamps, but they stopped in August. A recertification letter was
mailed to her old address, she said, but it was never forwarded to her. Her
reapplication for benefits is pending.

Ms. Green has been in New York since 2008. She came from Atlanta after
extricating herself from a bad marriage and entered the city's homeless shelter
system, committed to getting back on her feet.

While in a shelter, she took a job as a surveyor for Universal Survey Center.
Ms. Green, who is gregarious and has good communications skills, previously
worked as a sales and customer service representative for Sprint. Both jobs were
tailor-made for her, she said.

However, in 2011, she was laid off from the survey center after a change in
management. The Work Advantage program in New York City's Department of Homeless
Services helped her find an apartment and provided her with food stamps. She
learned in 2012 that she had diabetes. Though it is now under control, she is
not working so that she can care for her mother.

Last year, Ms. Taylor's husband of 37 years died. A few months later, Ms. Green
moved in.

''We've always been close,'' Ms. Green said. ''I'm an only child. I've never had
an argument with my mother. We've never had a fight.''

Ms. Taylor said, ''I'm 88, so she better not think about it now,'' which
elicited laughter from her daughter.

Ms. Green has been helping her mother deal with the death of her husband as well
as her failing health. Ms. Taylor has Alzheimer's disease and pancreatic cancer,
which has spread to her kidneys. Ms. Green, following the advice of doctors, has
not told her mother about the illnesses. Ms. Taylor believes she just has a
kidney infection.

Ms. Green said that her mother was a worrier and that she preferred to spare her
undue anxiety for whatever time she has remaining.

''My main expectation is to get us in a place together where we won't be
stressed out every month,'' she said.

Ms. Green contacted Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven
agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, for help with her
bills. Catholic Charities gave her $250.06 in Neediest money to help pay utility
bills.

Ms. Green, who is on waiting lists for affordable housing, hopes one day to
return to the work force.

Their money troubles, particularly the costs of Ms. Taylor's numerous
medications, are frightening, Ms. Green said. But it has not dampened the energy
of their rollicking home.

''If somebody came to our door every day, they'd say, 'There must be two crazy
people in there,' '' Ms. Green said. ''They'd wonder, 'What could possibly be so
funny?' ''

Another tactic Ms. Green employs to keep her spirits up is singing. She
demonstrated by belting out a soulful verse of a gospel song.

''I can sing 'do-re-mi,' '' Ms. Taylor said to more laughter.

Ms. Green said she was often moved to break into song on subways, hoping to
cheer up those who, like her, might be quietly facing their own struggles.

''A lot of people look perfect on the outside, and they're just a mess inside,''
she said. ''You never know who you're going to touch.''

Follow The New York Times's Metro coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the New York Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/using-song-and-a-dose-of-laughter-to-
ease-a-familys-pains.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vivian Green, 56, in Brooklyn with her mother, Helen Taylor, 88,
whose declining health has contributed to financial stress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY
BOROWICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: How to Help: Checks payable to The New
York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to: P.O. Box 5193 New York, N.Y.
10087 All donations are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency
participating in the annual campaign should be written to and mailed to the
agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285
Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW
YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND
QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 711
Third Avenue, Suite 700 New York, N.Y. 10017 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW
YORK 633 Third Avenue, 10th Floor New York, N.Y. 10017 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT
WELFARE AGENCIES 40 Broad Street, 5th Floor New York, N.Y. 10004 UJA-FEDERATION
OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at 800-381-0075, by texting
''Neediest'' to 732-338-7124, or online at nytneediestcases.com. For
instructions on how to donate stock, call 212-556-1137 or fax 757- 628-2148. No
agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times
Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays for all administrative
costs of the Fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve
those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the
Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the Neediest Cases Fund
are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Federal Identification
Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial
report may be obtained, upon request, from the Fund or from the New York State
Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York,
New York 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FOOD
STAMPS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); SERVICE WORKERS (77%); HOMELESS
SHELTERS (70%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
DISORDERS (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS
& INJURIES (62%); KIDNEY DISEASE (61%); DIABETES (61%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
(60%); CANCER (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grizzlies' Halfcourt Shot Seals Victory Over the Pistons

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 475 words


Matt Barnes tossed in a desperation 3-pointer from just inside midcourt with 1.1
seconds left to give the Memphis Grizzles a 93-92 victory at Detroit on
Wednesday night.

Marcus Morris missed a contested shot with seven seconds left that could have
sealed a win for the Pistons, and Andre Drummond's tip bounced off the rim.

The Grizzlies grabbed the ball and fired an outlet pass to Barnes. As he crossed
halfcourt, he released a running two-handed shot that went in.

T'WOLVES 123, LAKERS 122 Kevin Martin scored 37 points, and Karl-Anthony Towns
had 26 points and 14 rebounds to lift Minnesota to an overtime win.

D'Angelo Russell scored a season-high 23 points, making a runner with 2.2
seconds left to force overtime, and Julius Randle had 20 points and 12 rebounds
for the visiting Lakers. Kobe Bryant scored 11 points on 5-for-13 shooting in 24
minutes.

The Lakers had a chance to win in overtime, but Russell and Roy Hibbert missed
jumpers.

RAPTORS 97, SPURS 94 DeMar DeRozan scored 28 points, Kyle Lowry added 19, and
Toronto stopped visiting San Antonio's four-game winning streak. The Raptors
never trailed and handed the Spurs their third loss in their last 18 games.

SUNS 107, MAGIC 104 Brandon Knight scored 17 of his 21 points in the second
half, and Alex Len set career highs with 20 points and 14 rebounds for host
Phoenix.

Eric Bledsoe made a tiebreaking layup for the Suns with 1 minute 11 seconds
left.

CELTICS 105, BULLS 100 Isaiah Thomas scored 9 of his 20 points in the final
three minutes to lead Boston to a home win.

The Celtics had eight players score at least 10 points and won for the fourth
time in five games.

Jimmy Butler led Chicago with 36 points, and Pau Gasol picked up his fifth
straight double-double as the Bulls lost their third straight.

ROCKETS 109, WIZARDS 103 James Harden had 42 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists,
and Houston won at Washington.

John Wall had 26 points, 12 assists and 9 rebounds for the Wizards. Marcin
Gortat scored 18 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in his first game back after
missing three for personal reasons.

With the game tied at 99-99, Harden hit a jumper, absorbed a foul from Bradley
Beal and hit a free throw to put Houston up with 2:13 left.

HORNETS 99, HEAT 81 Kemba Walker and Marvin Williams each had 18 points, leading
host Charlotte to its third straight win.

Earlier, the N.B.A. suspended the injured center Al Jefferson for five games for
violating its antidrug agreement with the players' union. Jefferson, out with a
strained calf, will begin the suspension when he is healthy.

CLIPPERS 109, BUCKS 95 J. J. Redick scored 31 points, and Los Angeles pulled
away in the second half for a road win.

Blake Griffin had 21 points and 14 rebounds, and Chris Paul added 18 points and
18 assists for the Clippers, who took control with an 11-0 run in the third.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/basketball/nba-scores-roundup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (78%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES (91%); DETROIT PISTONS (91%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS
(82%); TORONTO RAPTORS (82%); PHOENIX SUNS (54%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (57%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (75%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA
(73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA
(57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (55%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (75%); TENNESSEE, USA (73%);
MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); ONTARIO,
CANADA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.M. Compensated Over 100 Pre-Bankruptcy Crash Victims

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 981 words


WASHINGTON --  As General Motors publicly expressed remorse over its decade-long
failure to disclose defective ignition switches, it successfully fought to
retain its protection from any lawsuits for crashes that occurred before its
2009 bankruptcy.

Instead, G.M. offered compensation to those victims on its own terms, with a
fund run by the lawyer Kenneth R. Feinberg and limited to 2.6 million small cars
that were recalled in early 2014.

Now the scope of that toll has become clearer: More than 100, or nearly
one-third, of the switch-related death and injury claims approved by Mr.
Feinberg were for accidents that happened before the company's bankruptcy
filing. The data was included in the final status report on the G.M.
compensation fund issued early Thursday by Mr. Feinberg.

The legal strategy had been part of a broader effort by G.M., the nation's
largest automaker, to move past the biggest safety scandal in its history.

''G.M. stepped up to its responsibility for the ignition switches, but they made
a decision to limit their larger financial exposure to pre-bankruptcy cases,''
said Cindy Schipani, a law professor at the University of Michigan.

Mr. Feinberg said in his report that 399 death and injury claims -- out of 4,343
claims filed -- were found eligible for compensation. They include 124 deaths,
18 catastrophic injuries and 257 other types of injuries. He said that 128 of
the approved claims -- or 32 percent of the total -- were for accidents that
happened before G.M. went bankrupt.

While Mr. Feinberg declined to comment further on details of the fund, his final
report said that G.M.'s potential legal defenses were ignored in the process of
determining damages.

The program ''did not consider legal defenses that might otherwise be available
to G.M. in litigation, such as contributory negligence, statutes of limitations
or the bankruptcy shield.''

The report also showed that many claims were settled by the fund despite
evidence that the victims were speeding, driving recklessly or under the
influence of alcohol or drugs, or not wearing a seatbelt. In all, about 61
percent of the eligible claims involved one or more factors characterized as
''contributory negligence'' by drivers of the vehicles, the report said.

For example, the report said that 124 of the eligible claims involved a victim
who was not wearing a seatbelt. Excessive speeding was cited in 151 cases, and
drug or alcohol use was present in 68 cases.

A G.M. spokesman, James Cain, said on Wednesday that the compensation fund was
designed to take a ''nonadversarial'' approach to settling claims in which
people were killed or injured because faulty switches had suddenly cut engine
power and disabled airbags in affected models.

G.M., he said, decided not to challenge damage awards if other factors, like
driver errors, were involved.

''We faced the ignition switch issue with integrity, dignity and clear
determination to do the right thing both in the short and long term,'' Mr. Cain
said. ''The settlement facility is just one example.''

Over all, Mr. Feinberg said that he authorized a total of $595 million in
payments to the 399 eligible claimants. G.M. had estimated in its second-quarter
earnings report that the final total would be about $625 million.

The report said that just over 90 percent of the compensation offers were
accepted by the victims or family members who filed the claims and about 9
percent were rejected. None of the offers in a death claim were rejected. At
least one offer is still under consideration until a January deadline.

Neither G.M. nor Mr. Feinberg has shared any details on specific accidents.

Before the compensation fund was started in June 2014, the automaker repeatedly
said it had identified only 13 deaths in connection with defective switches
since it began recalling affected models in February 2014.

But the number of deaths grew steadily as claims poured into the compensation
fund, and became public as Mr. Feinberg published monthly tallies of his damage
awards.

Some people who filed claims for pre-bankruptcy accidents were aware that the
compensation fund might be their only opportunity for a settlement from G.M.

Ken Rimer is the stepfather of Natasha Weigel, an 18-year-old woman who died in
2006 in an ignition-related crash in Wisconsin.

He said on Wednesday that Ms. Weigel's family had to weigh whether to accept an
award from Mr. Feinberg -- or possibly receive no compensation if G.M. was
ultimately shielded from pre-bankruptcy litigation.

''We wanted to have our day in court with G.M.,'' Mr. Rimer said. ''But we
figured that was never going to happen.''

G.M. has so far avoided lawsuits that predate its bankruptcy, which was aided by
a $49 billion bailout by the federal government.

Last April, Judge Robert E. Gerber upheld G.M.'s immunity shield, which forced
all litigants to pursue lawsuits against the automaker's previous corporate
entity, commonly referred to as ''old G.M.''

That decision has been appealed by plaintiffs to a higher court, with a ruling
expected next year. Until the appeal is ruled on, a number of active
ignition-switch lawsuits are stalled.

In September, G.M. agreed to pay $575 million to resolve the cases of 1,380
people who had sued the company for accidents involving ignition switches, as
well as settle a shareholder suit.

But the lawyer in the cases, Robert C. Hilliard, said that 180 pre-bankruptcy
lawsuits were excluded from that settlement.

Those 180 cases are among the outstanding claims against G.M. included in the
so-called multidistrict litigation that will be heard in a series of trials next
year in New York.

Mr. Hilliard said the claimants in the pre-bankruptcy cases are counting on the
federal appeals court to overturn Judge Gerber's ruling on G.M.'s legal
immunity. ''Without a favorable ruling, they'll get nothing,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/gm-compensated-some-pre-bankruptcy-cr
ash-victims.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Camille Biros and Kenneth Feinberg, who work in the
G.M. compensation program, and Kara Parmelee, a consultant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW
ANGERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (90%); SUITS &
CLAIMS (90%); PERSONAL INJURY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%);
AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS
(78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); DAMAGES (77%); SETTLEMENT &
COMPROMISE (77%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS
(73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); SCANDALS (67%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS &
ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minnesota Man Accused of Trying to Aid ISIS

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 126 words


MINNEAPOLIS --  Another Minnesota man is accused of conspiring to help the
Islamic State.

Abdirizak Mohamed Warsame, 20, of Eagan, was charged Wednesday by criminal
complaint with conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist
organization.

Court documents allege that Mr. Warsame tried to help other young men from
Minnesota's Somali community travel to Syria to fight for the Islamic State. The
documents say Mr. Warsame and others settled on a plan of going to Syria by way
of Mexico.

About a dozen Minnesota residents have traveled to Syria to join jihadist groups
there since late 2013. Kyle Loven, an F.B.I. spokesman, said Mr. Warsame is in
custody. He is expected to make an initial appearance Thursday in United States
District Court.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/minnesota-man-accused-of-trying-to-aid-isis
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSPIRACY (91%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (90%); TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RELIGION (88%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (87%);
TERRORISM (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (96%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (93%); SOMALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Disgraced Rutgers Coach Returns to the Sideline

BYLINE: By MIKE VORKUNOV

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 779 words


METUCHEN, N.J. --  For more than two and a half years, Mike Rice had receded
into the shadows after Rutgers fired him because of a scandal that wrecked his
coaching career and turned him into a pariah.

On Wednesday, in an empty gymnasium five miles from the arena Rice once called
home, there was plenty of evidence of how far he had fallen -- and of how he was
trying to build himself up. In his first head-coaching job since his firing at
Rutgers, Rice walked the sideline as the interim head basketball coach at the
Patrick School, a parochial high school powerhouse in New Jersey.

Gray sweatpants and a striped green overshirt replaced his sharp black suits.
The only cameras present were two hand-held devices operated by onlookers from
the sidelines. The question, though, was not whether Rice's surroundings had
changed, but whether he had. On the sideline at St. Joseph High School in
Metuchen during a preseason scrimmage, Rice looked much the same. He was vocal
and lively, and his perpetually hoarse voice carried beyond the closed doors of
the gym. For an hour he paced back and forth, screaming instructions and his
occasional displeasures -- but no profanities.

The only subject of controversy was the setting of the scrimmage. The game was
closed to the public at the direction of the Patrick School. The dozen or so
people who had come to watch were left looking through a sliver of a window on
each door locking the entrance. Jim Carr, a Rhode Island assistant coach, had to
sprint to an open door before it closed. Jerry Smith, the St. Joseph athletic
director, said it was the first time he could remember such a thing in a dozen
years.

Rice declined to talk after the scrimmage, passing on the opportunity until the
start of the school's schedule this month.

''I'm going to do interviews when we start games,'' he said. ''We're going to
kind of focus on us now.

''We'd love to, but right now I'm going to focus on our guys.''

For Rice, 46, it was an admission of the scrutiny that follows him as he tries
to revive his career. In his third year at Rutgers, a video that became public
showed him hurling basketballs at his players during practice and shouting
profanities and homophobic slurs. The university fired him shortly afterward.

In the intervening years, he has tried to restore himself and his image. As part
of his rehabilitation, he worked with John Lucas, a former N.B.A. star who now
runs a counseling center. Rice joined the Hoop Group, a popular basketball camp
and clinic, as an instructor and embedded himself in the high school basketball
ecosystem. He ran drills and workouts for Bob Hurley, the renowned coach at St.
Anthony High School in Jersey City, at Hurley's basketball camp last summer.
Rice also became a trainer for young players across the state.

His success in that last role was partly responsible for persuading Chris
Chavannes to bring him on at the Patrick School. Chavannes is the school's
basketball coach and its principal, and he approached Rice about the
opportunity. Chavannes had talked with college coaches about Rice, and he noted
that there had been no incidents in his work as a trainer. Hurley endorsed his
return. The parents of a student at the school had hired Rice to work with one
of their other children, Chavannes said.

Last weekend he named Rice the interim coach for the month, allowing Chavannes
to focus on other projects as the principal. He will keep Rice on the staff as
an assistant after the school term.

''He's a phenomenal mind,'' Chavannes said. Noting the chances that Rice had
been given recently by players and their parents, Chavannes added, ''I didn't
see why we couldn't give him the opportunity.''

At the first practice, in the school's student center, Rice talked to the
players about his past, Chavannes said. Rice detailed what had happened at
Rutgers, as well as the treatment he was going through. Chavannes said that no
parents had pushed back against Rice's hiring and that he had seen nothing
questionable in practice so far.

In the empty gym, Rice was not quite the manic figure he had cut at Rutgers
Athletic Center, but he was still vigorous. At one point, he walked from the
team's bench to the basket and, as the teams played on, stood under it to prove
a point of an error made on the previous possession. At another point, he
grabbed a player on the bench by the wrist and directed him to the scorer's
table.

But on the way out, after the scrimmage had ended and he was walking back to his
car, Rice stopped to laugh at himself as a photographer snapped pictures.

''You're not going to get me smiling, guys,'' he said. ''It's better to get me
yelling.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/ncaabasketball/mike-rice-disgraced-rutg
ers-coach-returns-to-the-sideline.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COACHES & TRAINERS (91%); SCANDALS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%);
SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES &
VENUES (77%); SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION
(77%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(73%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Triage of Migrants Strands Thousands in Greece

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY; Pavlos Zafiropoulos and Niki Kitsantonis contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1488 words


IDOMENI, Greece --  There has been a rough triage taking place the last few
weeks along the barbed-wire and chain-link fence separating Greece from
Macedonia.

''Only Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans!'' a Greek police officer shouted recently,
looking over the bedraggled families coming forward at this transit camp, one of
the main gateways for people fleeing conflict, persecution and poverty in search
of better lives in Europe.

The rest -- the Iranians, Yemenis, Ugandans, Moroccans, Algerians, Pakistanis,
Congolese, Somalis and more -- are left to look on with anger and despair.

The border crossing here ran smoothly for months, an efficient funnel for tens
of thousands of people who had made it across the Aegean and the Mediterranean
and were heading toward Germany and beyond. In orderly groups of 50, they were
shepherded into Macedonia and onto trains heading north.

But the door to Europe, seemingly flung open this summer to all, has quietly
shut for many of them, without much fanfare or explanation and over the
objections of Greece. The idea is to slow the flow of people -- nearly a million
have reached Germany this year -- and filter out some of those who would not
qualify for refugee status on the basis of fleeing a war.

Since the new policy took effect last month, thousands of migrants, unable to
move forward and unwilling to go back, have been living in the fields around
here, making do in ragged pup tents, their laundry drying nearby. They have
huddled by campfires to stay warm, eagerly telling anyone who will listen that
they, too, should be allowed to go north.

After clashes between the police and the migrants, and amid concern that the
encampment was blocking rail traffic across the border, the Greek authorities
sent forces in on Wednesday to clear it out. They demanded that journalists and
aid workers leave the scene, and they began herding hundreds of migrants onto
buses that would take them to Athens, where they are to be housed while the
government figures out what to do with them. A news release issued by the Greek
police on Wednesday afternoon said that about 2,300 migrants had been
transferred to temporary accommodations in Athens. Most are from Pakistan,
Somalia, Morocco, Algeria and Bangladesh, the statement said.

The Greek police are also trying to prevent a new buildup of migrants along the
border with Macedonia by intercepting them as they enter the country and sending
all those who are not Syrian, Iraqi or Afghan to Athens.

Most of the stranded have sold all they owned -- homes, motorcycles and even
textbooks -- to make it this far. It is not clear that the migrants who continue
to stream into Greece are aware that only those from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan
will be allowed to continue north.

The number of arrivals in Greece fluctuates enormously from day to day. But
since a peak of 10,000 arrivals in one day in October, the number has generally
declined to an average of about 2,000 a day during the first week of December.
No one knows how many more may be in the pipeline, too far gone to turn back and
undeterred by the growing risks of winter weather. The Greek authorities said
Wednesday that at least 12 people had drowned when a boat carrying as many as 50
migrants capsized in the Aegean.

Those who now find their route blocked say there is little or no distinction
between the countries they came from and Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.

''We have a war in Yemen,'' said Waled al-Shaibani, 20, who has been at the
border for 10 days and is living in an empty boxcar on the nearby train tracks.
''We are being bombed by Saudi Arabia. Why is that different?''

But the guards at the border, he said, just pushed him away.

Doctors Without Borders, the aid agency that runs the camp, said it got no
warning before Macedonia began sending back anyone who was not from Iraq, Syria
or Afghanistan.

''One day, just like that, the policy changed,'' said Yvonne Ovesson, who
manages food distribution at the camp. ''I don't think Greek officials knew it
was coming.''

It is not clear how the new policy came into being. The Macedonian government
has said little about it, but it went into effect as a succession of countries
to the north made similar decisions to weed out those migrants they believe are
coming to get jobs rather than to flee wars.

Germany has been pressing neighboring countries to better regulate the flow
across its borders. It already has a system in place to screen and deport
migrants who make it that far but are judged not to qualify for asylum.

The process of screening migrants by nationality has left thousands trapped
along the way, with as many as 6,000 living at times in the mud along this
border, their fury bubbling over almost daily with protests and efforts to storm
or tear down the new fence, which now stretches nearly 40 miles and sparkles in
the sunlight. But to no avail.

The Macedonian police have responded at times with tear gas and rubber bullets.
One Moroccan man died when, in a melee, he climbed onto the roof of a train car
and touched the electricity cables overhead.

As the flow of migrants grew last summer, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany
stepped in to assure them that her country would keep its doors open.

Now, Ms. Ovesson said, many of the men, women and children camped along the
Greece-Macedonia border are hoping that Ms. Merkel will speak up for them, too.

''They ask all the time,'' she said. ''Has Angela said anything?''

But Ms. Merkel, struggling to find shelter for the hundreds of thousands of new
arrivals that have already made it to Germany and with her popularity ratings
dropping, has said nothing to indicate she wants the new policy to be changed.

Some of the people who have risked their lives to get here are simply poor and
looking for a way to support families back home. Mohamed Wadi, an 18-year-old
soccer player from Morocco, said his club did not pay him to play while the
managers made money. ''I only want a chance,'' he said. ''I'm the oldest with
three brothers that I need to support.''

But others, ranging from the Yemenis to a group from the Baluchistan region of
Pakistan, which has been racked with violence, and dozens of Iranians, who fear
imprisonment or worse because they are Christian, gay or political activists,
can make an effective case for asylum in Europe, experts say.

Now, however, it seems that Greece, a virtually bankrupt country with an
unemployment rate of more than 25 percent, may be the end of the road for them.
Many refuse to accept this idea, walking the fence to see where they might be
able to sneak past the Macedonian guards.

''I will crawl up that mountain if I have to,'' said Amir Lalenia, a 31-year-old
Iranian, who said he wants to be free to practice his Christian faith.

''I left home for good,'' he said. ''I am not going back. If we could live
there, why would we be here? There are not just bombs that are dangerous, you
know.''

The Greek authorities have objected to the new triage by nationality, calling it
unfair. In an email, Greece's minister for migration policy, Ioannis Mouzalas,
said the Greek government had ''repeatedly expressed'' its disagreement with
what was going on at the border. ''This categorization also contravenes the
principles of the United Nations,'' he said.

But some experts say the decision to take only Syrians, Afghans and Iraqis is a
simple numbers calculation. They are the nationalities who are generally granted
asylum more than 70 percent of the time.

''There are so many people coming that people are just looking for a way to slow
things down,'' said Daniel Esdras, the head of the Greek office of the
International Organization for Migration. ''It's not nice to categorize people
like this, but what can you do?''

The migration organization, which generally provides migrants with plane tickets
and a little start-up money to go home, ran out of funds in June this year and
only recently got emergency funding that could help 1,000 people return to their
countries of origin.

But at the border, few say they would consider such a thing, and it appears that
Greece will be left with the job of deciding on asylum applications and
resettling those who decide to stay.

Many of those now being shuttled back from the border to Athens are being housed
in former Olympic stadium sites, which have been abandoned for years.

There were more than 500 people, many sleeping on the floor, in the
administrative building of the former hockey stadium on a recent evening. Some
had come back from the border. Others had not been there yet.

''We are full,'' said Marios Karagiannakis, the shift supervisor at the stadium.
''But they keep coming. I leave at 2 a.m., and when I get back there are another
60.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/greece-macedonia-migrants-refugee
s.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrants barred from leaving Greece struggled for handouts of
water, blankets, diapers and clothes last month at an encampment by the train
station in Idomeni, Greece. Greek forces were sent in Wednesday to clear the
camp out. (A6)
Macedonian soldiers in Greek territory built a barbed-wire border fence last
month to divide their town of Gevgelija, in the background, from Idomeni,
Greece.
 Thousands of refugees had been forced to stay in a rudimentary transit camp in
Idomeni. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICIO LIMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) MAP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (78%); REFUGEES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS
(75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); SYRIA (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
(94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); SOMALIA
(92%); EUROPE (92%); MOROCCO (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mets Follow a Miss With 2 Hits, Reshaping Their Infield

BYLINE: By TIM ROHAN; Tyler Kepner contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 900 words


NASHVILLE --  A day after losing out on Ben Zobrist, their top free-agent
target, the Mets refashioned their infield on Wednesday. They traded their fifth
starter, Jon Niese, to the Pittsburgh Pirates for second baseman Neil Walker and
acquired the free-agent shortstop Asdrubal Cabrera, a two-time All-Star with the
Cleveland Indians who played for Tampa Bay last season.

The acquisitions signaled the end of Daniel Murphy's long tenure with the Mets
and gave the team two capable 30-year-old switch-hitters who should add
stability to the middle infield.

Walker is an equivalent hitter to Murphy and a better defensive player. Cabrera
should be an upgrade over Wilmer Flores and Ruben Tejada, who shared the
position in 2015. Cabrera, who agreed to a two-year contract reportedly worth
about $18 million, hit 15 home runs in each of the last four seasons.

Manager Terry Collins will be able to use Flores as a backup at three positions
-- third base, shortstop and second base -- and mix and match his lineup
depending on the pitcher, as he did last season once the Mets had acquired the
veteran infielders Kelly Johnson and Juan Uribe.

Shortly after the Walker deal was officially announced, the Mets' conference
room was raucous and celebratory.

''A guy we had on our shortlist but didn't know if he'd be available,'' said
John Ricco, the Mets' assistant general manager, who was surrounded by smiling
staff members. ''We view him as a real positive alternative to the deal we were
looking to do the other day. He fits on a lot of different levels.
Switch-hitter. Has got some power. Real good fit for our team.''

The Mets had reason to celebrate. In acquiring Walker, they traded from an area
of depth (starting pitching), addressed a dire need (replacing the free agent
Murphy) and gave themselves much more financial and roster flexibility than if
they had signed Zobrist to the deal he reached with the Chicago Cubs: $56
million for four years.

Of the three players the Mets openly considered acquiring or reacquiring as
their second baseman, Walker is four years younger than Zobrist and probably
cheaper than Murphy. Walker is expected to make around $10 million through
arbitration and will become a free agent after next season.

Walker is a better defender than Murphy, and although Murphy may hit for a
higher average, Walker has more power. Last season, he recorded a .269 batting
average, 51 extra-base hits and a .989 fielding percentage, the fifth-best mark
among National League second basemen.

''Very dependable, reliable defensively at second base,'' Pirates General
Manager Neal Huntington said Wednesday before the deal became official. ''Makes
the outs that he's supposed to make. Hangs in on the pivot. Very professional
left-handed hitter. Obviously a hometown favorite.''

Huntington then smiled, knowing the backlash he would receive from Pirates fans.
Born and raised in Pittsburgh and a career-long Pirate, Walker had become one of
the faces of the franchise. But in the last year or so, negotiations for a
contract extension stalled, and Huntington started looking to deal him.

Walker was running errands, having a ''normal day,'' as he put it, when his
agent called him to let him know he might be traded to the Mets. Walker turned
on MLB Network when he got home and was stunned to see his name on television.

''It's definitely been a whirlwind day,'' Walker said on a conference call.
Asked if the Pirates were ever close to reaching an agreement on an extension,
he said: ''Uh, no. To put it plainly.''

For the Mets, too, it was an emotional deal. Niese and Murphy were both drafted
by the Mets, made their big league debuts in 2008 and endured six consecutive
losing seasons before finally reaching the World Series.

''A true pro,'' Collins said of Niese. ''And Dan, the same thing. They helped us
even when things were tough here. They were two guys who stood out and played
well for us. It's always hard to lose guys you've become friends with.''

With his play this postseason, Murphy outperformed what the Mets were willing to
pay him. And with the Mets' pitching depth, Niese had simply become expendable.

Ricco said the Mets could use Logan Verrett, Rafael Montero or Sean Gilmartin as
their fifth starter until Zack Wheeler returned from Tommy John surgery, around
midseason.

Or the Mets could re-sign Bartolo Colon, a 42-year-old veteran who has told the
team he is also open to relieving.

Because Walker is making about the same amount as Niese would have, Ricco
indicated that the Mets could use the money they did not spend on Zobrist to
fill other needs: a center fielder, a few relief pitchers and veterans to fill
out their bench and lengthen their lineup.

But saving money does not mean they will splurge on Yoenis Cespedes, their star
free-agent outfielder, who is seeking a six-year deal worth more than $100
million.

''It really doesn't change our strategy,'' Ricco said.

The sequence of events in the last two days called to mind what happened at the
trading deadline, when the Mets traded for Cespedes soon after their deal for
Carlos Gomez collapsed.

''You get a little déjà vu from midseason,'' Ricco said. ''As I think Sandy
Alderson pointed out then, I think we did learn something from that, in terms of
not letting it get you too far down, because that's the nature of the game.
Things evolve. You just have to keep at it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/new-york-mets-jon-niese-neil-w
alker-asdrubal-cabrera-daniel-murphy-trade.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Mets agreed to a two-year deal with the free-agent
shortstop Asdrubal Cabrera, left, and traded for Pirates second baseman Neil
Walker, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
DOUG PENSINGER/GETTY IMAGES) (B11)
 Jon Niese in 2014. Drafted by the Mets, he debuted with them in 2008. Manager
Terry Collins called him ''a true pro.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY OTTO GREULE JR./GETTY
IMAGES) (B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (74%); MIDDLE MANAGEMENT (73%);
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (91%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (57%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A War Horse With Heightened Drama

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


It's kind of like the lighting of the Christmas tree at nearby Rockefeller
Center: For many New Yorkers of a classical bent, the holiday season officially
begins with the two performances of Handel's ''Messiah'' at St. Thomas Church
Fifth Avenue, featuring the St. Thomas Choir of Men and Boys and the
period-instrument band Concert Royal.

The first major presentations of the work in most years, to be followed by any
number of others, these were eminently reliable and often inspired, if not
entirely predictable, affairs during John Scott's eventful decade as the
church's choirmaster. But with Mr. Scott's sudden death in August, you had to
wonder what would come next.

No successor to him has yet been announced, but the early-music specialist Gary
Thor Wedow has taken over the ''Messiah'' performances this year, and the first,
on Tuesday evening, was a war horse of a different, brighter color.

Mr. Wedow was a much more active and excitable presence on the podium than Mr.
Scott ever was, to the point of knocking over the lamp on his desk in the
''Hallelujah'' chorus. In the process, he sought out greater drama in the music,
with mighty crescendos and exquisite pianissimos. He even indulged in a few
guilty pleasures: notably, thundering timpani flourishes at the end of
''Hallelujah'' and the final chorus.

His control of the forces was generally good, though right after intermission,
the strings went astray (like Handel's sheep, soon to follow), and Mr. Wedow had
to restart ''Behold, the Lamb of God.'' He allotted several short angelic
pronouncements to boy trebles from the choir -- John Dominick Mignardi, Leif
Christian Pedersen, Adrian Alexander Castellanos and Sehjin Jo -- and it was
lovely to hear the individual piping voices in their varied colors.

The adult vocal soloists -- Elizabeth Weisberg, soprano; Meg Bragle,
mezzo-soprano; Isaiah Bell, tenor; and David Grogan, bass -- were excellent. Ms.
Bragle and Mr. Bell were especially strong, pliant and communicative.

Mr. Scott would undoubtedly have scratched his head at a number of interpretive
matters, but he could only have been proud of his choir, which he left at the
top of its form and which has been superbly maintained by Stephen Buzard, the
acting music director, and Benjamin Sheen, the acting organist, who took part in
the performance. A fine memorial to Mr. Scott.

This performance will be repeated on Thursday evening at St. Thomas Church,
Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street; 212-664-9360, saintthomaschurch.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-handels-messiah-with-heighte
ned-drama.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES
(90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Equities Fall a Third Day, as Tech Shares Retreat

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 582 words


A slump in technology shares on Wednesday helped turn early gains in American
stock indexes into losses across industries, extending the market's losing
streak to a third day.

Investors sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 200 points in the morning,
then began dumping big tech stocks. Apple fell 2.2 percent and Microsoft, 1.4
percent.

By the end of the day, seven of the 10 industry sectors in the Standard & Poor's
500-stock index fell. Suppliers of raw materials, the focus of aggressive
selling recently, rose 3.1 percent as investors hunted for bargains.

''You've got two days of massive selling of oil and commodity companies, so
perhaps some are oversold,'' said Ernest E. Cecilia, chief investment officer of
Bryn Mawr Trust Wealth Management.

He added, though, that stock prices were not cheap enough yet for him to join in
the buying.

The Dow fell 75.70 points, or 0.4 percent, to 17,492.30. The S.&P. 500 gave up
15.97 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,047.62. The Nasdaq dropped 75.38 points, or
1.5 percent, to 5,022.87.

Yahoo slumped after it said it would scrap a planned spinoff of its big stake in
the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. Yahoo stock lost 45 cents, or 1.3 percent,
to $34.40. Yahoo said it would instead explore breaking off the rest of its
business into a new company.

Some of the biggest gainers were stocks that had big losses the day before.
Freeport McMoRan, a miner that fell 7 percent on Tuesday, rose 3.7 percent,
gaining 25 cents to close at $6.99.

Helping raw material stocks were reports that two giant chemical companies, Dow
Chemical and DuPont, were in talks to combine. Dow Chemical rose $6.07, or 11.9
percent, to $56.97. DuPont climbed $7.89, or 11.8 percent, to $74.49.

Oil drilling companies, which have been beaten down recently, also rallied.
Exxon Mobil and Chevron each rose 1.3 percent, despite another drop in the price
of oil.

Bill Strazzullo, chief market strategist at Bell Curve Trading, said the slump
in oil and other commodities signaled that the world economy was weak.

That could mean more rocky days in the market. ''You got commodities in a death
spiral, and that's just not impacting the U.S., but the global economy,'' he
said. ''Investors are taking off risk.''

Among other stocks making big moves Wednesday, Costco fell $9.15, or 5 percent,
to $159.72, after reporting weaker earnings than analysts were expecting.

The company also said that sales at stores open at least a year, considered a
key measure of a retailer's health, fell 1 percent in the quarter. It said
falling gasoline prices and unfavorable foreign exchange rates were to blame for
the drop. Excluding those factors, sales at stores open a year would have risen
6 percent. Its shares were up more than 12 percent since the beginning of the
year.

Benchmark American crude slipped 35 cents to $37.16 a barrel in New York. Brent
crude, the international standard, fell 15 cents to close at $40.11 a barrel in
London. In other trading, wholesale gasoline rose 2.8 cents to close at $1.232 a
gallon, heating oil fell 2 cents to $1.239 a gallon and natural gas fell 0.8
cent to $2.062 per 1,000 cubic feet.

United States government bond prices rose, with the yield on the bellwether
10-year Treasury slipping to 2.21 percent from 2.22 percent Tuesday.

The dollar fell to 121.24 yen from 122.99 yen. The euro rose to $1.1018 from
$1.0892.

Previous and industrial metals futures closed broadly higher.

Gold edged up $1.30 to $1,077.60 an ounce.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Wednesday. (Source: Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); PRICES
(89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SAME STORE SALES
(78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(78%); RETAILERS (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%);
GLOBALIZATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (69%); GASOLINE
PRICES (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (51%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); BRYN MAWR TRUST CO (56%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN INC
(54%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); FCX (NYSE) (54%); DOW (NYSE) (53%); 4850 (TSE)
(53%); XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL
(EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (54%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR
METAL MINING (54%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (54%);
NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (54%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); SIC3341
SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (54%); SIC3331 PRIMARY
SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (54%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (54%);
SIC1044 SILVER ORES (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (54%);
NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%);
NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER
BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL
MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE
PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Liberia's Shunned 'Ebola Burners'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MARSHALL JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words


MARSHALL, Liberia --  It was around 3 in the afternoon when Sherdrick Koffa
spotted, in neatly written script, the name on the body bag that he was
preparing to set ablaze.

It was the name of a classmate. The two grew up together, had played together as
children. Now, only a few days into his job burning the Ebola dead, work that
had already estranged Mr. Koffa  from his family, he was expected to burn the
body of his friend.

He did it. First he sprayed the body with oil to help it catch fire. Then he
carefully laid the body, along with several others, upon the kindling on the
altar of the crematory. He stacked more kindling on top. Finally, as the
kindling was lit with a torch, Mr. Koffa stripped off his protective gear and
stalked off the field, away from the acrid smell of burning flesh.

He did not stop walking until he got home, and once there, he opened first one
bottle, then two, of cane juice, the highly potent Liberian equivalent of
moonshine. He drank all night, until he passed out.

Fifteen months later, Mr. Koffa is still drinking heavily.

It has been more than a year since this deeply religious country embraced one of
its biggest taboos -- cremating bodies -- to rein in a rampaging Ebola pandemic.
In that time, the majority of Liberians have started to move on.

But such is not the case for some 30 young men who were called upon during the
height of the crisis last year.

As bodies were piling up in the streets and global health officials were warning
that the country's ages-old traditions for funerals and burials were spreading
the disease, these men did what few Liberians had done before: set fire to the
dead. And for four months they did so repeatedly, burning close to 2,000 bodies.

Villagers protested near the site, hurling abuse and epithets at the men they
called ''those Ebola burners them.'' The government deployed police officers and
soldiers along the dirt road to the crematory site in a field to keep angry
locals from the men.

Their families shunned them as they pursued their grim work. One young man --
Matthew Harmon -- who lived not far from the crematory site here, said his
mother refused to see him, telling him never to call again.

''My ma said, 'You burning body?' Then I'nt want see you no more around me,''
Mr. Harmon said.

The ostracism darkened what was already an abysmal time for the men, so much so
that now, a full year after the country has ceased the cremations, their lives
remain virtually destroyed.

Their nights are spent with alcohol or drugs -- habits they said they acquired
to get through the mass burnings. One burner, William Togbah, says no night goes
by when he does not dream of seared flesh. Several of the men, shunted aside by
friends and family, now live together, sharing the same room in a house not far
from the crematory site.

''I'm not in a good life now,'' Mr. Togbah said.

For the most part, Liberia has come out of its long national nightmare. Ebola
cases flare up sporadically, with three new infections reported just last month,
and experts warn that the disease may continue to pop up for years to come.

But children are back in school, crowding sidewalks in their uniforms as they
head home in the afternoon. Soccer games have resumed, with a packed Antoinette
Tubman Stadium recently hosting 10,000 people to watch their beloved Lone Star
national team take on, and lose to, the African giants from Ivory Coast. Church
pews have filled again, with people grasping one another's hands and trading
hugs during the ''peace be with you'' part of services, a stark change from the
no-touching rule many adopted here as the epidemic raged.

Yet the men continue to be tormented by what they saw and did. Initially, they
used an incinerator to burn the bodies, usually during the night. But that
method left human bones to greet them when they returned in the morning, grisly
remnants of the vibrant people who had lived their lives in this West African
country.

Mr. Togbah and several others kept using the word ''erase,'' as in, they erased
the traces of the Ebola dead for their country. In turn, their country has now
erased these young men.

Many Liberians still blame them for burning the dead. While they received
certificates of appreciation from the Health Ministry, they were not part of the
recognition ceremony held by the president to thank health care workers for
their efforts during the outbreak, an omission the young men took to heart.

''We missed some people,'' President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said in an interview,
adding that there were too many people to thank, and that she hoped to hold
another event recognizing these men.

Still, they are largely shunned by Liberian society.

To understand how cremation is viewed by Liberians, one must first consider that
this is a country with a national holiday -- Decoration Day -- meant solely for
people to go and clean the graves of their loved ones. Every year on Decoration
Day, Liberians troop to cemeteries and burial plots across the country with
brooms, bleach, soap and water.

Wakes can go on for days. People with little or no money to spare will beg and
borrow to lay their dead in coffins made of black mahogany wood. They will build
marble tombstones, and buy entire plots of land just to bury those they love.
Many Liberians believe that if the dead are not properly buried, they will come
back to haunt the living.

People here wash bodies and dress them to make sure they are ushered into the
afterlife in style. A dead body for many Liberians is, in a sense, still a
living thing, to be nurtured, looked after and lovingly sent onward.

''It is just not in our culture to burn people,'' said Sampson Sayway, who
helped organize the group of men to burn the bodies.

So when a line of government cars showed up in Marshall last year at the
Indian-run field that is the country's sole crematory -- previously used only
for burning dead Indian nationals -- Mr. Sayway, who lives a stone's throw away,
immediately went out to investigate. It was early August 2014, at the height of
the epidemic, and Ms. Johnson Sirleaf's besieged government had made a
last-minute decision to take the advice of global health experts who said the
bodies of the Ebola dead -- the most infectious carriers of the disease -- had
to be burned.

Liberian officials knew the public would revolt. The government stationed police
officers and soldiers along the route to keep villagers away. Government
officials negotiated with Mr. Sayway over what the workers would be paid, around
$250 a week. In a poor country like Liberia, that was enough money to get
roughly 30 young men for the job.

But ''it was no easy thing,'' said Fredrick Roberts, one of the burners,
recalling that first night when the trucks came with the first 12 bodies.
Terrified of getting too close to the Ebola dead, everyone scattered into the
bush at first, as someone in the truck yelled out via a megaphone to keep a
distance.

''I had no clue what I was getting into,'' said Ciata Bishop, who was tasked by
the president with setting up the crematory operation.

That first night, the young men wore blue cloth jumpers and plastic gloves, but
government officials later gave them protective clothing, gloves and boots. Day
after day, night after night, the trucks came with the bodies. The burners
unloaded them, sprayed them with oil and piled them on an altar.

''It smelled very bad,'' Mr. Koffa said. ''Like meat, except different.'' His
voice caught and he stopped talking, overcome. He and the other burners had
gathered near the crematory field. They are never far away from it now. The
place they hated so much has become a home, of sorts. Nowhere else will accept
them.

''They would bring us 30, 60, 100 bodies a day,'' Mr. Koffa said.

Because the incinerator was unable to turn the bones to ash, the men switched to
burning bodies on pyres set upon two altars in the field. It was more
time-consuming, but at least at the end there were only ashes to deal with.

One day, the trucks delivered 137 bodies. ''It took two days and a half,'' said
Burdgess Willie, another burner. ''It smelled so bad, we kept having to go away
and then come back.''

Sometimes there were explosions, from the combustion of the oil, body bags and
wood. The noise terrified villagers, further adding to their anger at the
burners and the process.

Mr. Roberts's landlord put him out of his rented room, and he moved in with Mr.
Harmon, the burner whose mother had shunned him. Soon other young men, turned
out of their homes, were sharing the small room, too.

The men took to drinking and drugs to get through the nights. Government
officials sent them extra bottles of cane juice, they said.

''When you see 50, 70, 80 bodies like that every day, that the only way you can
make it,'' Mr. Willie said.

Then suddenly, just like that, it was over. In December, under intense public
pressure and with the number of Ebola deaths declining, the government announced
that it was ending cremations. A new 25-acre parcel had been secured, government
officials said, to bury the Ebola dead.

For the 30 young men who carried out the task of burning more than 2,000 Ebola
dead, the ordeal was over.

Except it wasn't. ''People still mock at us,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''When they see
us, they say, 'That's Ebola burner them, oh.' ''

Through the ordeal, the young men said they thought they would get government
scholarships when it was all over. They thought they would be hailed as heroes,
that people would apologize for shunning them. They are still waiting.

Mr. Roberts said that a few days ago, almost a year since the government ended
the cremations, he tried to get into a taxi. One of the passengers spotted him
and quickly turned to the driver. ''He said, 'This man worked in the fence, that
Ebola burner, oh,' '' Mr. Roberts recalled.

The response came quickly.

''Get down from the car,'' the taxi driver insisted.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/africa/they-helped-erase-ebola-in-liberi
a-now-liberia-is-erasing-them.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sherdrick Koffa was among the Liberians who cremated the bodies
of people who died of Ebola. (A1)
 The now-abandoned crematory in Marshall, Liberia, last month. Some of the 30
young men who worked there are still haunted by the cremations they did, and are
being ostracized for it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMUEL ARANDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A10) MAPS (A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (90%); CREMATION (89%);
TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); FIRES (89%); FAMILY (77%); EPIDEMICS (70%); PUBLIC
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS
(63%); ARMED FORCES (61%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Pursuit of Victory, the Diamondbacks Show No Sensitivity to Costs

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 900 words


NASHVILLE -- Dave Stewart let the question hang there on Wednesday, like a
poorly thrown split-finger fastball, the kind he rarely delivered during his
heyday as a pitcher.

''What would you do to win?'' said Stewart, the general manager of the Arizona
Diamondbacks, before a long pause. ''That's the way I look at it.''

The Diamondbacks are doing things no team has ever done. They have agreed to pay
one starting pitcher, Zack Greinke, $34.4 million per season. They have acquired
another, Shelby Miller, by trading a player picked first over all in the draft
just six months ago.

That player, shortstop Dansby Swanson, now heads to the Atlanta Braves with
pitcher Aaron Blair (a first-round pick in 2013) and Ender Inciarte, a
25-year-old outfielder who hit .303 last season.

The deal follows another between the teams in June, when Arizona sent its
first-round pick from 2014, pitcher Touki Toussaint, to Atlanta. The Braves took
back an injured veteran, Bronson Arroyo, which saved the Diamondbacks about $10
million.

They pledged to pour the savings back into the major league roster, and now that
they have done it, Stewart is unapologetic. He disputed the idea that he had
compromised the team's future by dealing three first-round picks.

''That's three players,'' he said. ''Believe me, they're very highly regarded
players. But three players do not make our future. We've got second-round picks,
third-round picks, fourth-round picks. The draft goes to 40.''

The success rate of first-round picks, of course, is far greater than it is for
players picked lower. Then again, the Diamondbacks' star first baseman, Paul
Goldschmidt, was drafted in the eighth round in 2009.

Goldschmidt, 28, was the runner-up for the National League Most Valuable Player
Award in two of the last three seasons. Making the most of his prime is the
backdrop for all of these moves. He is signed through 2018 (with a club option
for 2019) on a five-year contract worth $32.05 million.

Greinke will average more than that in each season of his six-year, $206.5
million contract. Arizona blew past the previous record for average annual value
to sign Greinke, hoping he can help the team's young staff.

''That's one thing he indicated to our pitching coach is that he feels like he
can be that missing link,'' Manager Chip Hale said. ''Not necessarily being a
coach, but a guy that's a player and that's done it and can prod some of the
younger guys and move them along.''

To be sure, Stewart knows pitching. He was hired in September 2014 by his former
manager, Tony La Russa, the Diamondbacks' president of baseball operations, and
has pitched or coached in six World Series. He traded last winter for two young
starters, Robbie Ray and Rubby De La Rosa, to go with the former All-Star
Patrick Corbin.

In Greinke, Stewart said, the Diamondbacks have a pitcher with an athletic
frame, an easy delivery and a sophisticated game plan. He said that Greinke, 32,
had a good chance to pitch as well at the end of his contract as he does now.

''Right now, for me, 32 years old is young,'' Stewart said.

Maybe Greinke will age like Greg Maddux or Mike Mussina. Greinke's last three
seasons were terrific: 51-15 with a 2.30 E.R.A. for the Los Angeles Dodgers. But
older pitchers are a dubious bet. Only one pitcher age 32 or older, John Lackey,
worked at least 180 innings last season with an E.R.A. below 3.50.

Caution, though, is not part of the Diamondbacks' plan. They improved by 15
victories last season, finishing 79-83, and believe they can challenge the
Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants in their division.

''They are where we want to be,'' said John Coppolella, the Braves' general
manager. ''They have some great depth and that's why they could make this trade.
It would have been really easy for them to say no, like four or five other teams
did. But they stepped forward and now they have a team that's probably the
odds-on favorite to win the N.L. West.''

It is a reasonable thought. The Diamondbacks ranked second in the N.L. in runs
last season and were named the majors' best defensive team by the Fielding Bible
and Wilson. Now they have a strong rotation.

Miller was 6-17 for Atlanta last season, but he made the All-Star team and had a
3.02 E.R.A. He is also 25 years old and has three seasons of club control. He
cost a lot, with good reason.

''If you look at Shelby Miller, you're talking about Jason Heyward, who he was
traded for in St. Louis,'' Stewart said. ''And right now, Jason Heyward is
looking for $200 million. So we got a guy that, quite frankly, if you value it
that way, we've gotten great value.''

Rival executives and critics have called the trade a steal for the Braves, who
found a long-term replacement for Andrelton Simmons, the shortstop they dealt to
the Los Angeles Angels last month to acquire pitching prospects. This is the
first off-season in which players taken in the previous year's draft could be
traded, and the rebuilding Braves took advantage.

Swanson, Blair and Toussaint may become stars, but they are unlikely to do so
immediately. With Goldschmidt at his peak, the Diamondbacks do not believe they
can wait.

''We're in the business here to win,'' Stewart said. ''Whatever that cost is,
without demolishing our organization, is the path that we're going to take. When
you say, 'Was it an overpay?' -- not if it means we're going to win.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/diamondbacks-not-worried-about
-future-or-finances.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (77%); SPORTS
AWARDS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); COACHES & TRAINERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (83%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Rising Talents a Break

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 428 words



If Paul Taylor can do it, why not Larry Keigwin? Mr. Taylor shocked the dance
world in 2014 by announcing that after six decades of presenting only his
choreography, his company would also present works by others. Mr. Keigwin is one
of the first three choreographers chosen to create new pieces. His will debut in
March, but before that happens, he is reversing roles, inviting younger artists
to choreograph for his own 12-year-old troupe, Keigwin & Company.

On Tuesday at the Joyce Theater, Keigwin & Company debuted Loni Landon's ''Wait
Nearby.'' (A second program this week features the debut of Adam Barruch's
''Drop'' instead.) At the start of Ms. Landon's work, one dancer swipes at the
head of another, who ducks. The choreography is rooted in such scooping,
buckling motion, sending the body off-kilter. It's excitingly of the moment,
unawkwardly borrowing from contemporary street dance. But it's also too much of
the moment, skirting cliché in its vague sense of threat, a problem abetted by
Jerome Begin's violin-and-electronics score, played live by the composer and
String Noise.

Still developing her voice, Ms. Landon already appears a little stuck. Inviting
her is one way for Mr. Keigwin to offer variety without escaping his own ruts.
His ''Exit Like an Animal,'' created last year for Juilliard students, is
typical. A big party piece, it shows Mr. Keigwin's unsurpassed mastery of
traffic control, but the featherbrained cuteness of its conceit -- a carnival of
the animals that's also a fashion runway -- is a reminder of why it can be hard
to take him seriously as an artist.

His ''Sidewalk'' makes a stronger case. Created in 2009 for the odd contours of
the Guggenheim Museum and now cleverly adapted to the stage and aisles of the
Joyce, it finds in a twisted sideways walk and running in circles a near-perfect
corollary for Steve Reich's ''Double Sextet.''

Mr. Keigwin is 43. In a T-shirt, shorts and socks for ''3 Ballads,'' a new
tripartite solo performed to love songs sung by Peggy Lee, he looks comfortable
in his own skin, a consummate showman pleasing himself (and us) by noodling
around in the studio. Every so often, there's a flash of something deeper,
something less easily accessible. He is good enough to disappoint by falling
short of great. In the words of Oscar Hammerstein II, as sung by Lee,

He will not always say What you would have him say But now and then he'll say
Something wonderful.

Keigwin & Company continues through Sunday at the Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth
Avenue, Manhattan; 212-242-0800, joyce­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/dance/review-larry-keigwin-gives-young-ch
oreographers-a-break-at-the-joyce.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Keigwin & Company: From left, in foreground, Jaclyn Walsh, Emily
Schoen and Gina Ianni with other troupe members in ''Sidewalk,'' at the Joyce.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER
(89%); DANCERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); MUSIC (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Palestinian Israelis, Said to Be ISIS Supporters, Are Held

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and DIAA HADID

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 913 words


JERUSALEM --  Five Palestinian citizens of Israel have been arrested in recent
weeks on suspicion of supporting the Islamic State, acquiring rifles and
practicing shooting in a forest, according to Israeli officials.

The accusations suggested that the suspects may have intended to carry out an
assault, though there did not seem to be evidence that their activities had
coalesced into a concrete plot, according to the details of the case released by
the Israeli security agency, Shin Bet.

A joint effort by the agency and the police led to the arrests in October and
November of several residents of Nazareth, in the Galilee region of northern
Israel, the authorities said in a statement on Tuesday. Five of those arrested
have since been charged with weapons violations and support for the Islamic
State, also known as ISIS and ISIL. The group is outlawed in Israel.

The five suspects range in age from 18 to 27, according to the statement, and
all share the same surname, Sleiman, suggesting that they are related.

Saher Far, a lawyer representing two of the accused, said that eight or nine men
had originally been detained, but that some had been released without charges.

''They came from not particularly religious families, good families,'' he said
of his clients, adding that they had not admitted to supporting the Islamic
State in their interrogations.

About 34 Arab citizens of Israel have been arrested over the last year on
suspicion of activities related to the Islamic State, according to Shin Bet, and
32 more are believed to have gone to Syria or Iraq, where the Islamic State
controls territory. A security official, speaking on the condition of anonymity
in line with her agency's rules, said that there had been a slight increase in
the number of Israeli citizens suspected of Islamic State-related activity in
2015 compared with 2014, but that early detection had prevented any serious
threat.

Some suspected would-be jihadists from the Galilee region were charged early
this year with support for a terrorist organization and efforts to contact the
Islamic State, known for beheadings and other brutal methods of killing
perceived enemies. They were accused of having trained for battle by
slaughtering sheep and riding horses at a local farm.

In September, a 44-year-old woman from a town in Galilee was charged with
planning to travel to Syria to join the Islamic State. In August 2014, a Bedouin
doctor from the Negev Desert in southern Israel was killed while fighting for
the group in Syria.

State prosecutors have appealed to Israel's High Court in the case of an Arab
resident of Nazareth, Maharan Haldi, 20, who was arrested and convicted after he
went to Syria and Iraq to fight with the Islamic State and then returned to
Israel, Israel Radio reported on Wednesday. A lower court sentenced Mr. Haldi to
three and a half years in prison, which prosecutors consider too lenient. Israel
radio said the court in Nazareth had taken into account Mr. Haldi's regret and
his personal background.

Palestinian citizens of Israel, about a fifth of the country's population, have
rarely participated in organized armed attacks. Those who have gravitated toward
the Islamic State are a tiny minority. Experts and commentators said some might
be attracted because of longstanding grievances about discrimination in Israel.

''Youths are looking for an outlet,'' said Salim Shehada, a veteran reporter at
Ashams, a local Arabic radio station. He added that Muslim families in Israel
were growing concerned that Islamic State recruiting could seduce their
children.

''The unemployment, the spreading crime inside Arab villages in Israel, the dark
future that many of these youths face is leading to a certain kind of extremism
and support for these ideas,'' Mr. Shehada said.

Daniel Nisman of the Levantine Group, a geopolitical risk analysis company based
in Tel Aviv, said the most recent arrests suggested the first plot to carry out
an Islamic State-inspired attack in Israel.

''I think, like in many places, it is gradually heading toward people who will
try to do something like that in the name of the Islamic State, similar to the
attack in San Bernardino,'' Mr. Nisman said, referring to the massacre in
California last week. He described the suspects as ''wannabes who have access to
guns.''

Shin Bet said in a statement that it had obtained information that the suspects
who were recently charged had been ''holding suspicious meetings and conducting
weapons training.'' It did not explain how the agency had received the
information. But it said that it had become apparent from the interrogation that
the suspects had grown more religiously observant over the last year and, during
their meetings, ''expressed support for the Islamic State and praised jihad
against non-Muslims.''

The agency said the suspects had obtained a Russian SKS semiautomatic rifle and
a Carl Gustaf, a Swedish submachine gun.

Raghad Sleiman -- a sister of one of the suspects, Murad Muhammad Sleiman, 27 --
said he was deputy manager of a factory in Migdal HaEmek in northern Israel, was
building a house and was engaged to be married. ''Murad had no extremist
thoughts,'' she told the Ashams radio station. ''He used to say he was against
ISIS and against terrorism.''

Ms. Sleiman asserted that rumors about the suspects training with weapons began
after they shot at one another with fake guns in a garden near one of their
homes during a recent holiday.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/israel-palestinians-islamic-s
tate.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); ARRESTS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ISLAMIC STATE IN
IRAQ & THE LEVANT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); PRISONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LAWYERS (73%);
SENTENCING (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); TERRORISM (61%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ
(92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Indians, Smog and Poverty Are Higher Priorities Than Talks in Paris

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; Suhasini Raj and Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1279 words


MUMBAI --  Under a fingernail moon at Sassoon Docks, Parumati Mangela, a
fisherwoman, sat on her haunches, grimacing. Something strange is happening over
the Arabian Sea, she said: ''The sky is getting hot more and more,'' perhaps
because something has angered the goddess Lakshmi.

As Ms. Mangela rounded up village women to pray at the water's edge, state
fisheries scientists were tracking worrying changes in the water, where in the
last half century average surface temperatures have risen three-tenths of a
degree Celsius, or half a degree Fahrenheit. This warming is driving familiar
species into cooler waters, they say, replaced by species traditionally found
hundreds of miles to the south, like Indian mackerel and oil sardines.

At the climate talks in Paris, India's negotiators have staked out an adamant
position: While India is vulnerable to global warming, raising a vast population
out of poverty remains the national priority. The government plans to double use
of domestic coal to more than a billion tons by 2019, and maintains that the
legal obligation for action on climate change should fall on developed
countries, which burned huge amounts of fossil fuels for decades.

But few countries have so much at stake as India. For the last month, the front
pages of major newspapers have been dominated by one environmental crisis after
another: City-dwellers are up in arms about hazardous levels of air pollution,
which has already damaged the lungs of about half of Delhi's schoolchildren. And
last month brought torrential rains and flooding in the southern city of
Chennai, evoking the erratic weather that climate experts warn about.

''People are experiencing far more, and the impacts are far more severe,'' said
Arivudai Nambi Appadurai, a climate risk specialist for the World Resources
Institute, whose family weathered  the flood in Chennai. ''It is right there in
front of them. You experience it, you believe it. It's not something happening
far away that you read about in the newspaper.''

Ashok Lavasa, secretary of India's Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate
Change, said negotiators were aware of the impact climate change is having on
the country, which has more than 4,000 miles of coastline and 1,200 islands. But
India takes the view that developed countries, like the United States, are
responsible for the problem, and must take the biggest steps on a solution, a
notion enshrined in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Lavasa would like to see that
legal divide continue, even though developing economies are expected to become
the largest greenhouse gas emitters in the 21st century.

''When you talk about historic obligations, we are not reinterpreting those
agreements,'' Mr. Lavasa said.

Four thousand miles from the Paris talks, a familiar smog has settled over
India's large cities, reducing the midday sun to a pale, blurry wafer. The
pollution, a dangerous mix of suspended particles from kerosene stoves,
vehicles, diesel generators and burning crops, trash and firewood, is at the
same high level as November of last year. But awareness has soared, said Joshua
S. Apte, an assistant professor of environmental engineering at the University
of Texas at Austin, who has studied Delhi's air pollution since 2007.

Take the case of Manisha Pathak, 44. Ms. Pathak, who has lived in Delhi for two
decades, left home with her children Sunday night, on a short walk to get ice
cream. Her father now informs her every morning of the neighborhood's
concentrations of PM 2.5, particulate matter that is considered the most
dangerous because it penetrates deep into the lungs, contributing to heart
attacks and strokes.

Average concentrations near her house last month were 331 micrograms per cubic
meter; 10 is the level considered safe by the World Health Organization. Ms.
Pathak's father has abandoned his morning walk; her brother-in-law, who has
asthma, is exploring a transfer out of New Delhi. And on Sunday, Ms. Pathak was
seized with anxiety over whether it was safe to be outside. She told her
children to walk faster.

''It was horrible the moment we got onto the main road,'' she said. ''You can
feel that whatever you are inhaling, it is not air. It is something you should
not inhale.''

Similar fears are radiating through middle- and working-class neighborhoods of
Delhi and Mumbai. Dr. Vivek Goswami, a consulting pediatrician at Fortis
Hospital in Delhi, said asthma diagnoses in children had jumped by 20 percent
over the same period last year.

Ms. Pathak said she now believed limiting emissions should be a priority for the
government. ''It is needed and required,'' she said firmly. ''This is a basic
thing that a man needs.''

Though global warming and air pollution have distinct causes, the issues overlap
in the minds of many young urban Indians -- a group far more likely to support
limiting greenhouse gases, the Pew Research Center found in a survey conducted
ahead of the climate talks. The survey also found that 76 percent of Indians
consider climate change ''a very serious problem,'' compared with 45 percent of
Americans and 18 percent of Chinese.

Some climate experts are reminded of the pollution protests that broke out in
Chinese cities last year, prompting the Chinese premier to declare a ''war on
pollution.''

''The media, in a way that couldn't happen in Beijing, has made this such an
issue that policy makers can't be seen to be avoiding it,'' Mr. Apte said.

For farmers and fishermen, the changes associated with a warming climate have
emerged gradually.

Vinay D. Deshmukh, a fisheries scientist who headed a marine research center in
Mumbai, recalled his puzzlement around seven years ago, when he first saw boats
coming back loaded with oil sardines, a fish whose northernmost range
traditionally ended 400 miles to the south. The fish, he said, were
''emaciated,'' with bulbous heads and little flesh. His hypothesis: The
sardines, ''running away from the hot water to survive,'' had wandered so far
that they no longer had a familiar stock of phytoplankton.

Since then, the oil sardines have expanded their range 900 miles, turning up in
the nets of fishermen as far north as Bangladesh. Mumbaikars showed so little
interest in eating sardines that they are now ground up as a supplement for
animal feed.

Chabi Gayakard, scanning the crowd for paying customers at Sassoon Docks, shook
her head disapprovingly when asked about the sardines. ''The hotter it gets, the
more they come,'' she said. ''Upper-class people don't eat them.''

A friend, standing over a dead shark, suggested that God had sent waves of heat
as a punishment, after ''watching how we humans behave.''

A thousand miles north of Mumbai, the apple farmers of Himachal Pradesh, in the
foothills of the Himalayas, are following the Paris talks raptly.

As children, they waded through heavy snowfall in their orchards by
mid-December, but now the cold temperatures necessary for apple farming come a
month and a half later, and some farmers have moved orchards as much as 2,000
feet higher, where the temperature is cooler.

Over the last seven years, virtually all the apple farmers have come to believe
that global warming is a major factor in the decline of crops, said Ravinder
Chauhan, president of the Apple Growers Association of India.

''My worst anxiety is that the process of global warming may be irreversible,''
he said. Every day, since the beginning of the Paris talks, Mr. Chauhan has
scanned the newspapers for reports of progress. At other times, he scans the sky
for signs of the snow that once fell in December.

''At the moment, we don't see anything,'' he said. ''We are waiting.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/india-climate-change-global-warming
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sassoon Docks in Mumbai, near where scientists are tracking
changes in water temperature. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERENA DE SANCTIS FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SMOG (88%);
COASTAL AREAS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); EARTH
& ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); WEATHER (75%); GLOBAL
WARMING (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (73%); AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FISHERIES
(71%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (70%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); AIR QUALITY (65%); CHILDREN (50%)

CITY: MUMBAI, MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (89%); CHENNAI, TAMIL NADU, INDIA (71%); DELHI,
INDIA (56%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (89%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (71%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                        The International New York Times

Questions Begin After United Is Ousted

BYLINE: By ROB HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; GLOBAL SOCCER; Pg.

LENGTH: 862 words


LONDON --  Manchester United, ranked by Forbes as the third most valuable club
in the world after Real Madrid and Barcelona, slipped out of the Champions
League without making the cut as one of the 16 teams qualifying for the knockout
stage.

If there are not yet inquiries into its European failures by the club's American
owners, then certainly the fan base back in Manchester is already asking, again,
where the team goes from here.

United's 3-2 loss at Wolfsburg on Tuesday was embarrassing because not one
player for Manchester showed skills that you could say were world class. No one
came close to the finesse, the control or the vision shown by Wolfsburg's Julian
Draxler when he opened up United's defense in the first half at Volkswagen
Arena. The score was tied at 1-1 when Draxler knitted together a counterattack
that started in Wolfsburg's goalmouth and ended up in the United goal. From the
moment that Draxler was first on the ball, the performance had elegance written
all over it.

The scoring play featured 11 passes -- some of them long, sweeping brushstrokes,
others just a delicate flick between teammates -- with Draxler the conductor of
it all. He could have scored himself on the final pass, but chose to let his
Portuguese teammate Vieirinha apply the finishing touch.

Draxler, 22, is growing into the inspirational playmaker he was long expected to
become, and was graceful, unhurried and balanced in those exchanges. He made
United's Bastian Schweinsteiger -- who was let go by Bayern Munich after last
season so that he could have one last and lucrative swan song in a league
outside of Germany -- look old in comparison. Schweinsteiger, 31, was a world
away from matching the motion, speed and inventiveness shown by his younger
compatriot.

There lies the nub of United's embarrassment. How often did Alex Ferguson even
contemplate hiring a former great -- but a spent one -- during his reign as
Manchester manager from 1986 until 2013? The answer would be never. The old
knight of Old Trafford made mistakes in the transfer market, but never as many
at the same time as the club now does.

Ferguson chose his successor, David Moyes, but the club fired Moyes 10 months
into a six-year contract. It then pursued Louis van Gaal, the veteran Dutch
coach who admitted he had promised his wife he would retire to the ''paradise''
they had purchased in Portugal.

United's call delayed that retirement plan but, at 64, van Gaal might secretly
be harboring regrets. The club has spent $375 million on players to try to turn
United back into the force and the draw that it was during so many of those
Ferguson years.

Even when you account for the high number of injuries -- seven first-team
players were missing from the Wolfsburg game -- it is hard to see the gems in
the manager's rebuilt team.

When the team ground out five 0-0 games over two months, van Gaal said he could
not understand the crowd at United's Old Trafford stadium chanting ''Attack!
Attack! Attack!'' He felt that United needed to defend better and that the
supporters needed to wise up and appreciate this transitional phase for the
club.

In van Gaal's mind, he is stabilizing the team, changing its gung-ho mentality
and giving it a base so it can achieve sophistication over the long term. In
truth, United fans prefer their team to be swashbuckling and to play with risk
and flair, and if they lose that way, so be it.

It wasn't just Ferguson who gave them that. Matt Busby established that
attacking instinct when he rebuilt the team as manager after World War II.

After Tuesday's elimination, van Gaal offered three excuses. He spoke about
refereeing decisions in Wolfsburg and during an earlier group game at Eindhoven
in the Netherlands. But replays confirmed Tuesday that the call in Wolfsburg
that denied United a goal just before halftime was the correct one because Juan
Mata had moved offside, distracting the goalkeeper.

The manager said that it was a crazy match and that it was unbelievable to him
that his team could twice let Wolfsburg come back and score goals just minutes
after United did. That could be interpreted as his team being careless,
especially since both Wolfsburg goals came from the defender Naldo via routine
set plays.

And the third excuse by United's coach? That injuries keep piling up. Some might
think these have something to do with van Gaal's relentless practice sessions, a
feature of his previous managerial tenures at clubs in the Netherlands, Spain
and Germany.

His reputation as a proven winner who can also be insufferable has its drawbacks
when top players question what is good for their careers or their health.

One star that van Gaal persuaded United to buy, Ángel Di María, started with a
whirlwind of enthusiasm before suffering aches and pains. He departed for Paris
St.-Germain 11 months later, with United taking a $30 million hit.

United is near the top of the English Premier League standings, but it is out of
the top European tournament, where more money and glamour lie. It will be
interesting to see whether the owners provide the cash to buy more players for
van Gaal in the January transfer window.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/soccer/questions-begin-manchester-unite
d-ousted-champions-league.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); ATHLETES (66%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (58%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%)

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (73%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (90%); ENGLAND (90%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                        The International New York Times

Democracy in Burkina Faso

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 404 words


Jubilant citizens poured into the streets of Burkina Faso's capital,
Ouagadougou, on Nov. 29 to celebrate their country's first free and fair
election. Burkina Faso's new president, Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, who won a
clear majority of votes in a field of 14 candidates, vowed to get to work
immediately ''to open up the opportunities for a better tomorrow.''

Mr. Kaboré has his work cut out for him. Burkina Faso is a very poor, landlocked
country that survives mostly on exporting gold and cotton. It has scant
resources to satisfy the yearnings of its largely youthful population for a
better life. Burkina Faso will need more development aid to help Mr. Kaboré
improve the country's health care, education and agricultural production.

It is important that Mr. Kaboré succeed. Burkina Faso, a small country, plays an
outsized security role as an ally of the United States and France in
counterterrorism efforts against jihadist groups operating in the region,
notably in neighboring Mali. Burkina Faso's remarkably successful election also
provides a rare example to other leaders in Africa tempted by lifelong rule: The
leaders of Burundi and the Republic of Congo changed or defied their
Constitutions this year to allow themselves to continue in office.

Such was the case with Blaise Compaoré, who ruled Burkina Faso for 27 years. He
was re-elected four times, but those elections were widely viewed as rigged.
When Mr. Compaoré made an attempt to rewrite Burkina Faso's Constitution to
ensure yet another term in office, Burkina Faso's people took to the streets,
eventually forcing him out in October of last year. An interim government was
formed, and elections were scheduled for this October. But members of Mr.
Compaoré's presidential guard, led by Gen. Gilbert Diendéré, staged a coup in
September. The coup leaders were quickly ousted, paving the way for the
elections that finally took place on Nov. 29. Mr. Kaboré will now need to keep
Burkina Faso's military in check.

On Sunday, authorities in Burkina Faso announced they were charging General
Diendéré with complicity in the murder of former President Thomas Sankara in
1987, which paved the way for Mr. Compaoré to seize power. General Diendéré's
trial must be fair and open. Bringing the individuals who held Burkina Faso's
democracy hostage for so long to justice is an important step in laying a firm
foundation for the country's newfound freedoms.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/democracy-in-burkina-faso.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS
(67%); TERRORISM (67%); COUPS (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); AGRICULTURE (54%)

CITY: OUAGADOUGOU, BURKINA FASO (92%)

COUNTRY: BURKINA FASO (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MALI (79%);
AFRICA (79%); BURUNDI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                        The International New York Times

In Paris, Art Confronts 2 Crises

BYLINE: By ELIAN PELTIER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1262 words


PARIS -- The terror attacks on Nov. 13 traumatized Paris and gave rise to new
fears about extremism, but the attackers' focus on cultural and street life also
cast a cloud over a celebration of environmentally themed art tied to the United
Nations climate conference, or COP 21, where negotiators are trying to reach a
global agreement on limiting greenhouse gas emissions.

A plan to light the Eiffel Tower through the power of bicyclists was halted
because of an emergency ban on public gatherings in Paris. Large blocks of
melting ice, an installation by the artist Olafur Eliasson, were moved from the
Place de la République, which suddenly became a site of mourning, to the Place
du Pantheon across the city.

''I am afraid the attacks have killed the festive atmosphere the COP would have
had,'' said Naziha Mestaoui, an artist who covered the Eiffel Tower with
projections of stylized trees for a project called ''1 Heart 1 Tree.'' Like many
artists, Ms. Mestaoui had to change her plans -- she was forced to cancel the
public inauguration of her installation on Nov. 29 because of security measures.

''We wanted the whole city to vibrate during the COP,'' said Bruno Julliard, a
deputy mayor of Paris who oversees Parisian cultural life. ''The attacks have
lowered our ambitions.'' More than 160 events and shows were scheduled around
the Paris area, including street art, photo exhibitions, installations like the
ice blocks and interactive projects.

Since the attacks -- in which 130 people were killed -- artists who were
preparing to exhibit their work during the climate conference have been
struggling to figure out what their role should be: Should they advocate for
more culture in public spaces as a response to the attacks, in addition to
trying to make the public aware of the risks of climate change?

''The Eiffel Tower has become a symbol of peace, and this is what arts should
convey during the COP,'' Ms. Mestaoui said.

After the attacks, the tower went temporarily dark and was then lighted in the
red, white and blue of the French flag. An image of the tower as a peace sign
quickly went viral on social media.

For her installation during the first week of the climate conference, which
started on Nov. 29 and is running through Friday, Ms. Mestaoui covered the tower
with projections of trees. For 10 euros, about $11, participants could put a
virtual tree and their names on the tower, with their purchase supporting the
planting of a real tree in one of seven reforestation programs in Australia,
Brazil, France, India, Kenya, Peru and Senegal.

More than 52,000 virtual trees were projected over six days, Ms. Mestaoui said,
the number of real trees that eventually will be planted.

For the second week of the conference, the lighting of the tower was to be
powered by people bicycling at its base. That was called off when the government
banned gatherings in public spaces.

Instead, Yann Toma, the French artist who created the project, ''Human Energy,''
devised a symbolic plan to light the tower with a mix of ''mental energy,''
pulled from tweets about the climate conference, and ''physical energy,'' from
calories burned by joggers using a running mobile app. The resulting ''Units of
Artistic Energy'' were displayed on a counter projected on the monument.

''We keep going anyway, because arts must have a function of mobilization,'' Mr.
Toma said. ''This is what the terrorists attacked.''

Despite the constraints the attacks created, other artists have still been able
to convey messages about the environment in exhibits all over the city.

At the Grand Palais, the flagship of the World's Fair here in 1900, Tomás
Saraceno set up the installation ''Aerocene,'' two spheres hanging from the
glass roof of the building that are a replica of a larger project in which
air-filled balloons would float around the earth powered only by solar energy.

Also at the Grand Palais, Lucy and Jorge Orta have set up their Antarctica
passport bureau, where for ?1 visitors can buy a passport that makes them
symbolic citizens of the continent.

Ms. Orta said they wanted to activate a form of citizenship with a place that
carries so much meaning.

''Let's make people understand that they are also affected by climate change,''
she said. ''In cities like Paris, people are not that affected, and you see it
as an abstract thing.''

For ''L'eau qui dort'' (Sleeping Water), the British artist Michael Pinsky has
dredged up 40 objects from the Seine and its canals. Rusty box springs,
discarded bicycles and shopping carts on which mussels had started to
proliferate are fixed on metal shafts and suspended just above the surface of
the Canal de l'Ourcq in northern Paris. Mr. Pinsky's goal, he said, was to
''confront people with what they throw away, making what used to be invisible,
visible again.''

In an interview before the Nov. 13 attacks, Mr. Pinsky said he had envisioned
the dredged-up objects as otherworldly, simply as things that would not exist
had he not removed them from the water.

But now, he said, the objects hold a different meaning for him. Lined up along
the canal, illuminated with colorful but crude lights, and surrounded by
squeaking sounds that are part of the installation, ''they are like ghostly
creatures appearing from the water,'' Mr. Pinsky said.

''Like terrorism: It is not visible and yet it's there, around us, and it can
suddenly appear or happen at any time,'' he added.

If the charged atmosphere after the attacks added tension to some of the
installations, there was also the uncomfortable fact that not all of the art was
particularly environmentally friendly.

For example, the energy consumed by the lighting of the Eiffel Tower under Ms.
Mestaoui's project was 30 percent higher than usual, she said. But she said that
the additional energy was beside the point.

''Let's not reject the reality that we live in, that we depend upon and benefit
from,'' she said. ''Let's rather figure out how to make these tools and
technologies part of the solution.''

For his installation, ''Ice Watch Paris,'' Mr. Eliasson, the Danish-Icelandic
artist and designer, shipped 12 blocks of ice to the city, first on a boat from
Nuuk, Greenland, to Aalborg, Denmark, then by refrigerated truck to Paris. Along
the way, they melted from 100 tons to 80 tons, and once exhibited in Paris got
smaller and smaller as the conference went on.

The carbon footprint of ''Ice Watch Paris'' was about 30 tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent, a standard unit that measures the emissions of different greenhouse
gases, according to Julie's Bicycle, a charity that promotes environmental
sustainability in the arts. That amount is the equivalent of about 30 round-trip
plane flights from Paris to Nuuk, more than 2,200 miles from the French capital,
the group said.

But Mr. Eliasson said he believed the lessons learned from watching the ice melt
over the course of the conference offset any energy expended bringing it to
Paris. ''I hope to inspire a feeling of inclusion into the climate debate, so
people in the street don't feel disconnected,'' he said. ''If you feel
disconnected, you also feel indifferent.'' The attacks forced Mr. Eliasson to
relocate his project to the Pantheon, on the Left Bank.

In addition to making an environmental point, Mr. Eliasson said, he hoped his
work would celebrate cultural activity as being an essential part of human
nature.

''As much as the attacks were trying to sit on my generation, this was an
attempt to attack our identity,'' he said. ''But culture is so much stronger.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/international/in-paris-art-confronts-2-cr
ises.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS &
EXHIBITIONS (77%); STREET ART (77%); REFORESTATION (73%); EMISSIONS (72%);
AGREEMENTS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); BRAZIL (79%); AUSTRALIA (78%); KENYA (76%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kentucky Bounces Back From First Loss With an Easy Victory

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 527 words


Alex Poythress had 21 points and 13 rebounds, Jamal Murray scored 16, and No. 5
Kentucky pulled away from Eastern Kentucky for a 88-67 home victory on Wednesday
night.

Seeking to rebound from a loss last week at U.C.L.A., the Wildcats (8-1)
succeeded with improved inside play against the smaller Colonels. Kentucky
scored its first 32 points in the paint, and it had 58 points in the paint over
all.

The Wildcats outrebounded Eastern Kentucky (7-3) by 50-25 and made timely
baskets before pulling away late.

Poythress's double-double, his third this season, was highlighted by a baseline
drive and two-handed dunk for an 80-65 lead with 4 minutes 14 seconds remaining.
Marcus Lee had 11 points and 8 rebounds for the Wildcats, and Skal Labissiere
and Isaiah Briscoe each added 10 points.

DAYTON 72, VANDERBILT 67 Kendall Pollard scored a season-high 21 points, and
Dayton rallied from 16 points down late in the first half to pull off an upset
win at No. 21 Vanderbilt (6-3).

The Flyers (7-1) have beaten three teams from the so-called Power 5 conferences
this season, with previous wins over Alabama and Iowa.

KANSAS 92, HOLY CROSS 59 Brannen Greene returned from a suspension to score 14
points, Wayne Selden Jr. had 15, and No. 2 Kansas rolled to a victory over
visiting Holy Cross (3-6).

Frank Mason III added 13 points, Perry Ellis and Cheick Diallo each scored 12,
and Devonte Graham finished with 10 for the Jayhawks (7-1).

MICH. ST. 78, MD. EAST. SHORE 35 Denzel Valentine had 11 points, 10 rebounds and
6 assists to help No. 1 Michigan State rout visiting Maryland Eastern Shore
(1-8).

The Spartans (10-0) are off to their best start since the 2000-1 season.

PURDUE 93, HOWARD 55 The freshman Caleb Swanigan scored 11 of his 19 points
during a blistering 56-point first half, and No. 11 Purdue beat short-handed
Howard at home.

Swanigan also had 12 rebounds as the Boilermakers improved to 10-0 for the first
time since winning their first 14 games in 2009-10.

The Bison (6-4) lost for just the second time in eight games while playing
without the injured James Daniel, who leads Division I in scoring.

ARIZONA 85, FRESNO STATE 72 Allonzo Trier scored 27 points, Ryan Anderson added
17, and No. 13 Arizona pulled away late to beat visiting Fresno State.

Arizona (8-1) had a hard time shaking Fresno State, allowing the Bulldogs (6-3)
to stay close until the final minutes.

PROVIDENCE 66, B.C. 51 Rodney Bullock scored 17 points for No. 15 Providence
(9-1) in a home win over Boston College (3-6).

Women

NOTRE DAME 95, DEPAUL 90 Madison Cable had 21 points and 10 rebounds, helping
No. 3 Notre Dame (8-1) hold off a furious second-half rally by No. 18 DePaul for
a home win. DePaul (6-3) used a 19-5 run in the third quarter to get back into
the game.

UCONN 94, COLGATE 50 Breanna Stewart had 22 points and 10 assists to become the
first player in N.C.A.A. history with 300 blocks and 300 assists, and No. 1
Connecticut won at Colgate.

Stewart was 7 for 9 from the field, including 3 of 4 from 3-point range, and 5
for 5 on free throws.

Connecticut (7-0) extended its winning streak to 44 games and improved to 5-0
against Colgate (1-6).




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/basketball/college-basketball-scores-ro
undup.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (58%)

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Health Plan Enrollments Surge as a Deadline Nears

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 769 words


WASHINGTON --  A million new customers have signed up for health insurance
during the Affordable Care Act's third open-enrollment season, Obama
administration officials said on Wednesday, and call centers have been deluged
with requests from others eager to enroll.

The officials brushed aside reports of rising premiums and deductibles and
concerns expressed by UnitedHealth Group and other insurers that say they are
losing money in the new online insurance marketplaces, or exchanges.

''We are now seeing a surge of interest as we get closer to the deadline,'' said
Andrew M. Slavitt, the acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, which runs the federal marketplace. ''Each day has been
bigger than the day before.''

Consumers need to sign up by Tuesday to ensure coverage that takes effect on
Jan. 1. The open enrollment period runs through Jan. 31; those signing up by
Jan. 15 will be enrolled on Feb, 1; those signing up by Jan. 31 will be enrolled
on March 1. People who go without insurance next year may be subject to tax
penalties of $695 a person or more, although some may be able to qualify for
hardship exemptions.

Since the third annual open enrollment season began on Nov. 1, officials said,
2.8 million people have selected plans in the federal marketplace, and one
million of them are new customers. The others already have coverage and are
renewing it or switching to different plans. More than 800,000 people selected
plans in the fifth week of open enrollment, from Nov. 29 to Dec. 5.

Of the 2.8 million sign-ups through the federal exchange this fall, officials
said, about half come from five states: Florida (598,279), Texas (317,094),
North Carolina (192,760), Georgia (151,600), and Pennsylvania (146,975).

Questions addressed by the news media to federal officials in a telephone
conference call on Wednesday illustrated the concerns that have been voiced by
consumers in many states.

A journalist from Oklahoma asked about insurance rate increases exceeding 30
percent for next year. A journalist from Tennessee asked about the collapse of a
nonprofit insurance cooperative in that state. A journalist from New Mexico
asked about a decision by the local Blue Cross and Blue Shield plan to pull its
individual insurance products off the marketplace in 2016, after the state
denied its request for a rate increase of more than 50 percent.

Kevin J. Counihan, the chief executive of the federal insurance marketplace,
said federal subsidies, in the form of tax credits, would make insurance
affordable throughout the country. ''Eight in 10 consumers can find coverage for
less than $75 a month after those subsidies,'' Mr. Counihan said.

Mr. Slavitt said he saw evidence that ''consumers are making better choices''
this year, considering not just prices, but also deductibles and other
out-of-pocket costs, as well as coverage for the doctors, hospitals and
prescription drugs they use. New tools on HealthCare.gov allow consumers to get
an estimate of their total out-of-pocket costs under different health plans and
to search for specific doctors and prescription drugs.

Asked about the financial concerns of UnitedHeath and other insurance companies,
Mr. Slavitt said that the marketplace was not dependent on any one insurer.

Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services, has
predicted a small increase in enrollment, so that 10 million people will have
insurance through the federal and state exchanges at the end of 2016, up from
9.9 million in June of this year.

Enrollment is sure to surpass that 10 million level in the next few months. But
the experience of the last two years showed significant attrition. In the last
open enrollment period, which ended in February, 11.7 million people selected or
were automatically re-enrolled in health plans through the insurance exchanges.
By the end of March, only 10.2 million had paid the premiums needed to activate
their coverage. Enrollment then declined to 9.9 million in June, and federal
officials have said they expect it to decline further to 9.1 million by the end
of 2015.

Administration officials said they were pleased with the enrollment numbers, but
Republicans on Capitol Hill were unmoved.

''Obamacare plans are not popular,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of
Utah and chairman of the Finance Committee. ''Many patients are experiencing
what Republicans long predicted: higher premium costs and less choice.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/obamacare-enrollment-rises.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pauline Li, left, an enrollment agent, helped Karen Blackburn
with questions about health care in San Francisco on Nov. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
(90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); HEALTH
INSURANCE MARKETPLACE (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS
(78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); CALL CENTERS (77%);
TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRICES (76%); MEDICAID (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
(73%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); EXECUTIVES
(70%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX CREDITS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (63%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC
(58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6324
HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (63%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE
(58%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hall's New Voting System Rewards Broadcaster From 1920s and '30s

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 148 words


The Baseball Hall of Fame announced Wednesday that Graham McNamee, who it said
called 12 World Series on radio from 1923 to 1934, had won its Ford C. Frick
Award for broadcasting.

McNamee had not received strong consideration in past ballots when he competed
against more contemporary, familiar announcers. But he was an 18-member
committee's top vote-getter in a new system that alternates voting annually
among three eras, including the earliest years of baseball broadcasting through
the mid-1950s.

He was one of 10 finalists in a group that included France Laux, Al Helfer and
Bert Wilson.

''Graham McNamee defined what it was to broadcast baseball games to a national
audience,'' Jeff Idelson, the Hall of Fame's president, said in statement.

McNamee, who called various sports and covered political conventions and
numerous other news events, died at 53 in 1942. RICHARD SANDOMIR




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/baseball/graham-mcnamee-wins-frick-awar
d-for-baseball-broadcasting.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Graham McNamee in the Bronx for the Yankees-Cardinals World
Series in 1928. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Washington Mayor Won't Be Charged in U.S. Inquiry Into 2010 Campaign

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER; Nikita Stewart contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 733 words


Vincent C. Gray, the former mayor of Washington whose tenure was frequently
overshadowed by a federal investigation into his 2010 campaign, will not be
charged in connection with the inquiry, prosecutors said Wednesday.

The announcement capped a drama that scrambled municipal politics in the
nation's capital and prompted a dozen people to plead guilty. But it had long
been clear that Mr. Gray, a Democrat, was a major focus of the inquiry, and the
choice by prosecutors to end the case was a striking concession.

In a statement that did not refer to Mr. Gray by name, the United States
attorney's office said that ''no additional charges are expected to be filed in
the investigation'' and that officials had concluded that ''the admissible
evidence is likely insufficient.''

Mr. Gray, in a statement released by his former campaign manager, said: ''Here
in the District and around the country, many people have had their faith in our
justice system tested. Justice delayed is justice denied, but I cannot change
history.''

Mr. Gray's campaign against the incumbent at the time, Adrian M. Fenty, drew the
attention of investigators in 2011, after a defeated rival for the Democratic
nomination for mayor told The Washington Post that Mr. Gray's aides had promised
him a city job if he would persist in his criticisms of Mr. Fenty. The resulting
inquiry widened and ultimately uncovered a shadow campaign -- an off-the-books
effort to bolster Mr. Gray's run -- that was bankrolled by Jeffrey E. Thompson,
a city contractor.

Mr. Thompson reached a plea agreement with the government and has not yet been
sentenced. Of the 12 people who pleaded guilty, prosecutors said seven had
acknowledged ''offenses directly involving or connected to'' the mayoral
election.

Mr. Gray insisted that he had not broken the law, but the series of prosecutions
related to his 2010 campaign tainted his bid for re-election in 2014. His
pursuit of another term became particularly complicated weeks before
Washington's Democratic primary, when Mr. Thompson pleaded guilty and said that
Mr. Gray had known of illegal campaign activities.

The public disclosure gave new momentum to the political threat that had
consistently trailed Mr. Gray, who defied calls for his resignation and tried
throughout his mayoralty to divert attention from the inquiry. He was handily
defeated by Muriel E. Bowser, who is now mayor.

''It really hampered him at every turn to have this hanging over his head,''
said Mary M. Cheh, a City Council member who in 2012 urged Mr. Gray to quit.

The government's decision on Wednesday rekindled debate about whether
prosecutors had improperly influenced last year's election. Before the vote, Ms.
Bowser vowed to curb corruption in a government that had often been distracted
by the mayoral inquiry and investigations of other officials.

''There was no justifiable reason for prosecutors to roll out their kingpin
right before voters went to the polls,'' said Chuck Thies, who managed Mr.
Gray's 2014 campaign. ''The result was catastrophic, not just for Vince Gray,
but for the voters of the District of Columbia.''

Ronald C. Machen Jr., the United States attorney who initiated the inquiry and
left office this year, said Wednesday night that the investigation had revealed
''rampant criminality.''

Although Mr. Machen said he could not comment on Wednesday's decision, he said,
''During the time that I supervised the investigation, our dedicated team of
prosecutors and investigators took each guilty plea and each investigative step
to pursue justice based on the facts and circumstances known to us at the
time.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Gray's lawyer, Robert S. Bennett, said he would not complain
to the Justice Department about its handling of the investigation.

''We got a good result today,'' Mr. Bennett said, ''and we move on.''

Ms. Bowser said in a statement that the city's new federal prosecutor had
''concluded that justice has been secured'' by the other convictions.

''It is not my job to question his actions, but to continue to do the job that
the residents elected me to do,'' Ms. Bowser said.

She did not comment on the widespread speculation that Mr. Gray might seek a
political comeback, a possibility he seemed to hint at on Wednesday.

''I look forward,'' he said, ''to getting on with the next chapter of my life,
which will no doubt be dedicated to service.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/vincent-gray-former-washington-mayor-wont-b
e-charged-in-federal-inquiry.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vincent C. Gray, the former mayor of Washington, last year in
the capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEXEY SWALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FEDERAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); CIVIL
SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%);
EVIDENCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); AGREEMENTS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); SENTENCING
(73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (55%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC (55%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: 'The Golden Bride' Walks Down the Aisle Again

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS- HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 496 words


The Russian shtetl in the long-lost, newly reconstructed Yiddish operetta ''The
Golden Bride'' has a dreamy look about it, all latticework and whitewash, like
the setting for a garden party. The people here may dream of riches -- who
doesn't? -- but they're doing all right. If they leave this place for America,
it's only because an even better life awaits.

A farcical, tuneful romance that's part old-fashioned musical comedy, part
straight-up opera, ''The Golden Bride'' (''Di Goldene Kale'') is an immigrant
fantasy that looks as fondly on Mother Russia as on Uncle Sam. With music by
Joseph Rumshinsky, lyrics by Louis Gilrod and a libretto by Frieda Freiman --
immigrants all -- it was a hit when it opened in 1923.

In a handsome new large-cast production, presented by the National Yiddish
Theater Folksbiene at the Museum of Jewish Heritage, it's still deeply
satisfying.

Performed largely in Yiddish, with English and Russian supertitles, the story is
simple. Goldele (Rachel Policar), a formerly poor, seemingly motherless young
woman raised in the shtetl, is moving to America to claim her millions.

''Long live my dead father, who left me such a large inheritance!'' she exults.

Goldele's fortune has transformed her into the shtetl's most sought-after bride,
but she is convinced that her mother is alive somewhere. Goldele promises to
marry whichever young man can reunite her with her mama. Misha (Cameron
Johnson), devoted to Goldele since childhood, is among those who take up the
challenge.

[Video: Scenes From 'The Golden Bride' Watch on YouTube.]

I, for one, was rooting for Misha and Goldele as a couple from the first time
they sang together, in the love song ''My Goldele,'' if only so we'd get to hear
their voices together again. The fine orchestra, conducted by Zalmen Mlotek,
imbues the score with warmth, while Ms. Policar and Mr. Johnson supply the
show's greatest vocal richness.

When Goldele sings a lullaby she remembers from earliest childhood, Ms. Policar
colors it with intensity and pain. When Misha, newly arrived in the United
States, sings a nationalistic anthem called ''A Greeting From the New Russia,''
Mr. Johnson hits it out of the park -- though the number, which has nothing to
do with the plot, made me wonder if Cold War jitters helped to nudge this
operetta from the repertoire after 1948.

Directed by Bryna Wasserman and Motl Didner, this streamlined reworking of the
show mostly has more frivolous things on its mind. Its funniest moments concern
a second pair of lovers, Khanele (Jillian Gottlieb), Misha's sister, and Jerome
(Glenn Seven Allen), an American.

The pair have delicious chemistry, and Ms. Gottlieb is a revelation:
effervescently daffy like a young Georgia Engel but also sassy and deadpan. The
show is not the only discovery here.

­''The Golden Bride'' runs through Jan. 3 at the Museum of Jewish Heritage, 36
Battery Place, Manhattan; 866-811-4111, nytf­.org. Running time: 2 hours 15
minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/theater/review-the-golden-bride-walks-down-the
-aisle-again.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); OPERA (78%); MUSIC
(75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); THEATER (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%);
MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

What You Get for... $1,500,000

BYLINE: By MIKE POWELL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; WHAT YOU GET; Pg.

LENGTH: 1370 words


WEYBRIDGE, VT.

WHAT: An 1820s Greek Revival with five bedrooms and five bathrooms on 26 acres,
plus a barn apartment

HOW MUCH: $1,475,000

SIZE: 4,395 square feet in the main house, 1,152 square feet in the guest
apartment

PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $266

SETTING: Weybridge is a town of about 800 people in the Champlain Valley of
central-west Vermont, a few miles from Middlebury College. This house is on 26
acres off a country road, next to a 340-acre nature preserve. The area is
primarily agricultural, with a church and a few farmhouses. Neighboring
Middlebury has a quaint town center with the requisite green and gazebo, as well
as the college campus and a 16-mile woodland walking path called the Trail
Around Middlebury, or T.A.M.

INDOORS: The two-story brick house was built around 1825. Last renovated within
the past 10 years, it retains its original pine floors, brick-and-marble
mantels, beamed ceilings and 12-over-12 windows throughout.

The living room and dining room are separated by a wide doorway with two white
wooden posts. The living room has a brick and marble fireplace with a brick
hearth, as well as crown molding; the dining room has built-in shelves and
cabinets. The den fireplace has a beehive bread oven and a mantel with cabinet
space.

The large kitchen retains its original pine floors and exposed beams, juxtaposed
with a six-burner Franklin gas range, a copper hood, two dishwashers, a Liebherr
refrigerator and double ceramic sinks. Next to the kitchen, there's a wet bar,
as well as a wine cooler and a cabinet with leaded-glass doors.

The kitchen opens to both a screened porch and a sunroom. The screened porch
overlooks the lawn and pond; the sunroom has a gas stove. Built-in bookshelves
and bench seats make it an inviting place to read.

One of the bedrooms, a suite with a fireplace and a bathroom, is on the first
floor; the rest are upstairs. The master suite has a walk-in closet and a
dressing area with a skylight. Its bathroom has a soaking tub, fir beadboard
walls, custom butternut cabinets and a slate-topped vanity with double sinks. A
glass door opens to a private balcony.

One of the other upstairs bedrooms is a suite, too, with a walk-in closet and a
sitting alcove. Two of the bedrooms have built-in cabinets and are being used as
offices. The wood-frame section of the house, an addition, has solar
water-heating panels. There is an attached garage.

The apartment is over a 2001 post-and-beam barn with four horse stalls. The
apartment has a living room with a pitched ceiling and exposed beams. Next to
this barn is an older hay barn.

OUTDOOR SPACE: There's a back porch with stone floors and an outdoor shower. The
property is about one-third wooded, with large maple and oak trees, gardens
around the house and a broad lawn that leads to a pond used for swimming in
summer and ice skating in winter. The balance of the land is meadow and pasture,
some of it fenced.

TAXES: $24,075 a year

CONTACT: Story Jenks and Wade Weathers, LandVest, (802) 238-1332 / (802)
238-6362; asaphdrakehouse.landvest.com


COLUMBUS, OHIO

WHAT: A late-19th-century house with three bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
and a one-bedroom cottage

HOW MUCH: $1,450,000

SIZE: 4,677 square feet total

PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $310

SETTING: This property is on a narrow cobblestone street in German Village, a
historic neighborhood just south of downtown Columbus. The neighborhood has many
two- and three-story brick houses dating to the mid- and late-19th century and
some warehouses that have been converted to condos. Third Street, a strip lined
with cafes, bars and boutiques, is a few blocks away. The neighborhood is also
home to Schiller Park, where the Actors' Theater of Columbus stages free
Shakespeare performances during the summer.

INDOORS: The three-story house was built in the late 1800s and last renovated
about 15 years ago. Construction is mostly brick and stucco. The house is set
back from the street behind a gate and a flagstone courtyard.

Hardwood floors inside are original, while most of the other architectural
details, including heavy wood doors and crown molding, are salvage. Some of the
walls are exposed brick.

Off the foyer, there's a den with built-in shelves and an adjoining wet bar. The
living and dining areas are part of a large room punctuated by columns. The
kitchen has a beamed ceiling nearly 14 feet tall and Sub-Zero and Viking
appliances. The kitchen also has a wood-burning fireplace and a large window
facing a back courtyard. The sunny breakfast area has a built-in bench seat.
Over the attached garage is a library. Reached by stairs from the living area,
this space has a wood-burning fireplace and French doors that open to a balcony
cantilevered over the front courtyard.

Two of the bedrooms are on the second floor, including the master suite, which
has a steeply pitched beamed ceiling and a private balcony. The third floor has
a third bedroom, as well as an office with a built-in desk and a door opening to
a roof deck.

The two-story brick cottage was built around the same time as the main house. It
has a living room with brick walls and a fireplace, a full kitchen, a dining
room, a family room, a bedroom and two bathrooms. French doors in the bedroom
open to a terrace.

OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is about a fifth of an acre. The walled brick and
flagstone courtyard in back has a fountain, a pergola and sitting areas under
canopies of ginkgo trees, edged with garden beds.

TAXES: Approximately $18,640 a year

CONTACT: Jeff Ruff and Marilyn Vutech, HER Realtors, (614) 255-0600;
herrealtors.com


CAVE CREEK, ARIZ.

WHAT: A contemporary with two bedrooms and two bathrooms

HOW MUCH: $1,500,000

SIZE: 1,621 square feet

PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $925

SETTING: Cave Creek is a town of about 5,000 people at the edge of the Phoenix
metropolitan area, in the foothills of Tonto National Forest. The town, a mix of
movie-set Western buildings and sophisticated shops, is home to an organic
coffee roaster and an annual pig race, horse ranches and high-end restaurants.
This house is on just under six acres of high desert, off a dead-end road south
of more than 2,000 acres of conservation land. Past the conservation land is
national forest; hiking and biking trails are within walking distance of the
property.

INDOORS: The house was built in 2005 and designed by Will Bruder, the architect
of the Burton Barr Central Library in Phoenix, as well as the Scottsdale Museum
of Contemporary Art and residences throughout the area. Built of stone and
weathered steel, it was designed to reflect both the area's Native American
ruins and its 19th-century mining history. The house has won awards from the
American Institute of Architects, as well as the Arizona Masonry Guild.

The house has an asymmetrical roof, and is slightly cantilevered over a seasonal
pond and creek shaded by cottonwood trees. Floor-to-ceiling glass throughout
faces desert and mountains in the distance. Many of the walls are stacked stone,
a rustic material that contrasts with blond plywood ceilings and walls finished
in a muted red plaster. Floors are concrete throughout.

The great room has walls of windows and sliding glass doors opening to a
concrete deck cantilevered over the creek. A sleek gas fireplace with a
see-through hearth heats both the great room and the outdoor sitting area on the
deck. Lighting includes an Ingo Maurer design resembling stacked paper bowls and
a wall piece resembling a curtain by the designers Afra and Tobia Scarpa, both
selected by Mr. Bruder and his wife, Louise Roman. One of the bedrooms is part
of a suite with a fireplace and a walk-in closet; both bedrooms have broad views
through walls of glass. There is a detached garage.

OUTDOOR SPACE: The acreage is native desert, with willows, cottonwoods and
saguaro. In addition to the deck, there's a flagstone patio with a cauldron-like
water feature that bubbles over and flows down stone stairs.

TAXES: $1,684 a year

CONTACT: Scott Jarson and Debbie Jarson, azarchitecture / Jarson & Jarson, (480)
425-9300; azarchitecture.com

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow
us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/realestate/compare-homes-in-weybridge-vermont-
columbus-ohio-cave-creek-arizona-weybridge-vermont.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%)

STATE: VERMONT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suspect in Neo-Nazi Trial Ends Her 2-Year Silence

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE; Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Paris.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 921 words


BERLIN --  A German woman suspected of being the last surviving member of a
neo-Nazi group accused of killing nine immigrants and a policewoman from 2000 to
2007 broke her long silence on Wednesday, admitting to a Munich court that she
was ''morally guilty'' of failing to prevent crimes but denying any part in the
murders.

The woman, Beate Zschäpe, 40, had refused to make any statement to the court
since her trial opened in May 2013. Two years earlier, she had walked into a
police station after two male associates were found dead in the wake of a failed
bank robbery.

The case shook Germany because the killings of the immigrants and policewoman
had gone unsolved for years and because the neo-Nazi group, the National
Socialist Underground, had seemed to escape official attention for a long
period. Ms. Zschäpe's refusal to discuss her potential role had added to the
interest in the trial.

On Wednesday, her lawyer read from a 53-page statement in which Ms. Zschäpe said
she had gone underground with the two men in 1998. She denied, however, that she
was a member of a far-right organization, and said she had not taken part in the
killings of the immigrants and had not had any knowledge of the deeds. She also
rejected having had a role in two bombings in Cologne, in January 2001 and June
2004, of which she is also accused.

''I feel morally guilty that I could not prevent 10 murders and two bomb
attacks,'' she said in the statement read by the lawyer, Mathias Grasel.

Ms. Zschäpe is not accused of direct involvement in the 10 killings, but
prosecutors have charged that she was complicit and that the three-member group
made decisions jointly.

The group's name was a play on the name of Hitler's Nazi party, the National
Socialists.

In her statement, Ms. Zschäpe denied that she was a member of the group, which
is accused of killing eight men of Turkish descent, a man of Greek descent and
the policewoman.

In addition, the three members of the group are suspected of having carried out
the two bombings in Cologne. Prosecutors say the intent of those assaults was to
kill ''as many people as possible only because of their non-German origin.''
Twenty-three people were wounded in the attacks, though no one died.

Ms. Zschäpe's lawyers did not immediately make a copy of the statement available
to The New York Times.

German reporters in the courtroom said much of the statement dwelled on what Ms.
Zschäpe described as a difficult childhood in East Germany. She met the two men,
Uwe Böhnhardt and Uwe Mundlos, when she was a teenager, and she is said by the
German authorities to have disappeared with them in 1998.

She resurfaced in November 2011, when she walked into a police station and told
officers, ''I am the one you are looking for,'' shortly after she had set fire
to an apartment where she had apparently lived for some time with the two men.

Her case has been closely watched at home and abroad as a test of relations
between Germans and ethnic minorities, particularly the estimated 3.5 million
Turks in the country.

The recent influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing war and
persecution in the Middle East and in other countries now dominates the national
conversation, however, and the trial of Ms. Zschäpe had dragged on largely out
of the spotlight.

Her decision to break her silence, albeit indirectly, refocused attention on the
case, and the Munich courtroom was packed.

Mehmet Daimagüler, a lawyer representing several of the victims' family members,
rejected Ms. Zschäpe's statement as insincere, the German daily Süddeutsche
Zeitung reported, quoting a statement from the lawyer to Bavarian Radio.

The accused ''cannot come after 249 days of trial proceedings and build us such
a construction of lies,'' Mr. Daimagüler was reported to have said.

Gamze Kubasik, the daughter of a man of Turkish descent who ran a kiosk in
Dortmund, Germany, and was killed in 2006, was equally critical of Ms. Zschäpe's
statement.

''Another punch in the face'' from the protracted trial, she told reporters in
Munich.

Ms. Kubasik added in a statement distributed by her lawyer, Sebastian Scharmer,
that Ms. Zschäpe was ''trying to duck responsibility.''

Her hopes of finally clarifying her father's murder had been dashed, Ms. Kubasik
said, adding, ''For me, this is all pure tactics.''

It was not clear whether the five judges would question Ms. Zschäpe orally or in
written form, and whether she would respond in either eventuality.

When the case came to light, it exposed a series of weaknesses and mistakes that
damaged the reputation of Germany's security services.

The head of the domestic intelligence agency resigned in July 2012 because an
official in his office had shredded material that may have contained evidence
from paid informants about the group.

Domestic intelligence chiefs in the states of Thuringia, Saxony and
Saxony-Anhalt, all in the former East Germany, also stepped down as a result of
the case.

A parliamentary committee was set up in early 2013, in part to investigate
charges that the government had indirectly supported members of far-right groups
through payments to confidential informants.

The panel concluded its work that summer but left several central questions
unanswered. That prompted the Bundestag, or lower house of Parliament, to form a
second committee last month.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/germany-neonazi-racist-murders.ht
ml

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beate Zschäpe in a Munich court. In her first statement since
May 2013, she denied taking part in 10 killings. (POOL PHOTO BY TOBIAS HASE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); BOMBINGS (89%);
POLICE FORCES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CRIME
PREVENTION (76%); BANK ROBBERY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(50%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tech Toys to Inspire a Child's Imagination

BYLINE: By GREGORY SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; GADGETWISE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 820 words


Still looking for the perfect holiday gift for that little someone on your list?
A lot of today's technology is geared toward adults, but there are exciting new
tech toys for children, too. Here are some good options to help a child on your
list create, learn, explore and have fun.

View-Master VR, $30

Mattel has teamed up with Google to update View-Master, the ubiquitous red
plastic viewfinder of generations past, to offer a virtual reality experience.
The new viewing process is simple: You download one of several View-Master apps
to a smartphone and then secure the phone inside the View-Master device. Looking
at the app through the View-Master starts an immersive exploration of, for
example, Liberty Island, the African savanna or outer space, including photos,
video and minigames. The starter kit includes the viewer and a preview reel;
additional ''experience packs'' are available for $15. The device is aimed at
children 7 and up. The panoramic view can produce wonderment, but also
dizziness, so make sure there is nothing breakable nearby.

BB-8 App-Enabled Droid, $150

BB-8, a pint-size robot from Sphero, is one of the hottest toys this holiday
season. Modeled after its character in ''Star Wars: The Force Awakens,'' BB-8
has a personality that evolves, responding in different ways depending on your
interactions. After connecting BB-8 to an iOS or Android device via Bluetooth
Smart BLE, you can guide him around a room with the app or use voice commands.
(A favorite is ''It's a trap,'' which causes BB-8 to scurry away.) Or send him
out on patrol, during which he will explore his surroundings on his own. You can
also record and send a video message to BB-8, which he will transform into a
virtual hologram. BB-8 is for children 8 and up.

Playmation Marvel Avengers, $120

The Playmation Marvel Avengers system from Hasbro combines an app, wearable tech
and connected toys to create an adventure story intended to get children active
and using their imagination. After strapping on the Iron Man-inspired Repulsor
arm armor, players interact with the toys, becoming a superhero like Captain
America or Black Widow to defeat villains like Ultron and Iron Skull. Jarvis,
the artificial intelligence machine from the ''Iron Man'' series, instructs
players to shoot targets and block enemy fire while running, jumping and hiding.
Between battles, players can train and improve their skills. (The system is
meant for children 6 and up.) The app, for Android and iOS devices, tracks
battle stats and provides additional mission content.

Lego Dimensions Starter Pack, $100

With Dimensions, Lego has taken the leap into the toys-to-life category,
physical toys that come to digital life. Dimensions is a video game that
incorporates characters from DC Comics, ''The Lord of the Rings,'' ''The
Simpsons'' and many other entertaining fictional worlds. The game, aimed at
children 7 to 14, focuses on three characters -- Gandalf, Batman and Wyldstyle
-- as they travel through a portal to solve puzzles and fight enemies.
Dimensions adds physical interaction to the game: Players have to build the toys
first (269 pieces come in the starter kit), then rebuild them later to unlock
new features. But the real fun is mixing characters in unusual ways. Where else
could Homer Simpson save Lois Lane with a belch or Scooby-Doo sniff out clues
for the Twelfth Doctor?

Crayola Color Alive Easy Animation Studio, $25

Stop-motion animation typically requires painstaking hours of moving objects in
small increments and photographing each pose. With its ''smooth action
technology,'' the Color Alive Easy Animation Studio from Crayola simplifies the
process, helping young directors -- those 6 and up -- create seamless animated
clips with just a few photos. Children can choose one of 10 characters in a
booklet to design, including a fairy, a robot, a superhero or a zombie. Using
Crayola's Easy Animator app for iOS and Android devices, the design is scanned
into the app. Premade animations and backgrounds are offered in the app, or
children can create their own using an eight-inch poseable mannequin and
photographing places in their house or yard. Only a few poses are needed; the
app fills in the rest.

LittleBits Gizmos & Gadgets Kit, $200

The electronic building kits developed by littleBits are popular among young
tinkerers. This year, littleBits has expanded its line of electronic building
kits with Gizmos & Gadgets, a set that can be used to build and recombine 12
devices, including a fan and a doorbell. The kit, aimed at children 8 and older,
provides all the tools needed, including easy-to-understand instructions. The
components, called Bits, include power switches, light sensors, dimmers and
buzzers that snap together using magnets. For those inspired to greater heights,
supplemental kits are available, and littleBits has a community website for
inventors to show off their creations.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/technology/personaltech/tech-toys-to-inspire-a
-childs-imagination.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); MOBILE
APPLICATIONS (76%); VIRTUAL REALITY (76%); MOBILE DEVICES (75%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); WEARABLE TECHNOLOGY
(73%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

France Investigates Decision to Hold Worlds in Oregon

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 440 words


PARIS --  The decision to award the 2021 track and field world championships to
Eugene, Ore., is being investigated by France's national financial prosecutors
as part of a wide-ranging inquiry into the sport's governing body.

A spokesman for the prosecutors said Wednesday that prosecutors decided to open
the investigation on Dec. 1 after international news media reports questioned
the decision by the governing body, the International Association of Athletics
Federations.

The hosting rights were awarded to Eugene in April without a bidding process, to
the surprise of Gothenburg, Sweden, which was preparing to present its own case.
Sebastian Coe, now the I.A.A.F.'s president, said recently that the decision was
made after a presentation by his predecessor, Lamine Diack. Diack said certain
financial and commercial opportunities had arisen that he felt meant Eugene
should be awarded the rights without a bidding contest.

The world championships, which began in 1983, have never been held in the United
States.

The I.A.A.F. Council voted, 23-1, in favor of awarding the event to Eugene, with
one abstention, and those behind the Gothenburg bid were left frustrated and
confused at the change of tack. Bjorn Eriksson, leader of the Gothenburg bid and
a former head of Interpol, subsequently said the decision ''smelled'' and needed
an investigation.

Eugene is closely linked to Nike, and that connection also caused concern
because Coe, an I.A.A.F. vice president at the time of the vote, was a
longstanding paid ambassador for the company.

Diack is a subject of an investigation in France and is accused of taking bribes
to cover up positive doping tests. Other I.A.A.F. officials are being questioned
by the French police and Interpol.

Although Coe, a former Olympic champion, has denied any conflict of interest, he
severed his link with Nike two weeks ago, saying that the ''noise'' around the
situation had become a distraction as he sought to deal with the doping and
corruption crisis that has left the sport reeling.

Organizers of the Eugene event remained confident in their bid.

''We are very proud of and we stand by our bid,'' Vin Lananna, the president of
TrackTown USA, which organizes track events in Eugene, told reporters in Oregon.
''We stand by the integrity of the bid. We are 100 percent confident there has
been nothing outside of what are the norms for the presentation of an I.A.A.F.
bid.''

I.A.A.F. officials were unavailable for comment on Wednesday, but when
previously asked about the decision, they said: ''There is nothing to revisit.
This was a democratic decision of the I.A.A.F. Council.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/sports/france-investigates-decision-to-hold-wo
rlds-in-oregon.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS
GOVERNING BODIES (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); OLYMPICS (79%); ATHLETES (78%);
CORRUPTION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BRIBERY (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION
RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); SPORTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); DRUG TESTING
(76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLICE
FORCES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (55%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (89%); EUGENE, OR, USA (88%)

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Chief Says Gunman Used Encryption to Text Terrorist

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and NICOLE PERLROTH; David E. Sanger reported from
Washington, and Nicole Perlroth from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CODED MESSAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1049 words


WASHINGTON --  The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said Wednesday that
investigators could not read more than 100 text messages exchanged by one of the
attackers in a shooting this year in Garland, Tex., because they were encrypted,
adding fuel to law enforcement agencies' contention that they need a way to
circumvent commercially available encryption technology.

Mr. Comey, who two months ago appeared to have lost a battle inside the Obama
administration over forcing companies like Apple and Google to give
investigators a way to decode messages, told the Senate Judiciary Committee that
one of the attackers ''exchanged 109 messages with an overseas terrorist'' the
morning of the shooting.

''We have no idea what he said because those messages were encrypted,'' Mr.
Comey said. ''And to this day, I can't tell you what he said with that terrorist
109 times the morning of that attack. That is a big problem. We have to grapple
with it.''

The testimony was the first time Mr. Comey, a longtime critic of the
technologies that he contends are creating a ''going dark'' problem for law
enforcement agencies, had cited a specific example of a terrorist using
encrypted communications. He said he would not comment on whether similar
technology was involved in the time before the Paris attacks or the shooting
rampage in San Bernardino, Calif.

In the Texas shootings, two men armed with rifles and wearing armor opened fire
near an exhibit that was showing cartoon images of the Prophet Muhammad.
Depictions of the prophet are considered offensive in most interpretations of
Islam. The attackers were killed by the police, and the Islamic State claimed
responsibility.

There is no indication that the F.B.I. saw that such messages were exchanged
before the shootings began or recognized that one of the suspects was talking to
a foreign terrorist group member -- something that might have been detected even
if the authorities could not read the messages themselves.

The White House concluded recently that there was merit to the arguments of
companies like Apple that it is extremely difficult to create a ''back door''
for police or intelligence agencies to read such conversations without also
creating a breach that Russian, Chinese or other determined hackers could
exploit.

But Mr. Comey argued in his testimony on Wednesday that the technology
companies' defense of ''end-to-end encryption,'' in which only specific users of
a phone or computer hold the keys, was rooted in business decisions.

''It's a business model question,'' he said. ''Good people have made a decision
to design products and sell products where court orders are ineffective. And I'm
not impugning their motives. I understand they see it as a competitive issue or
they think it's just the right thing to do.''

But he asked if that model could be changed, and ''if that can't be done
voluntarily, what are the other alternatives?''

For Mr. Comey, whose 10-year term extends well beyond President Obama's, the
recent attacks have provided renewed arguments to pressure technology companies.

Cyrus R. Vance, the Manhattan district attorney, and William J. Bratton, New
York City's police commissioner, have faulted the encryption used by Apple,
Facebook and Google for thwarting terrorism investigations.

But to many business executives and some technology experts, their accusations
seemed premature, because there was little evidence that encryption had been
used in the planning of any attacks.

''It was fairly clear, months ago, that law enforcement was laying the public
relations groundwork to blame encryption for whatever happened to go wrong,''
said Paul Kocher, a cryptographer and president of the Rambus Cryptography
Research division, who has called for stronger encryption. ''But in a couple
cases, they blamed encryption and got it wrong.''

In the case of the attacks in Paris last month, there is still no evidence that
the attackers used encrypted messages to plot their attacks. In fact, a
cellphone belonging to one of the attackers suggested that they had communicated
using unencrypted text messages. There is also no evidence that the married
couple who waged the attack in a San Bernardino office building last week
communicated digitally about the attacks.

Yet it is clear that terrorists are looking for the strongest encryption they
can find. In a technology tutorial produced by the Islamic State militant group
that was circulated last January, the group offered its members a guide to
encrypted messaging apps, pointing out which it believed were ''safest,''
''safe,'' ''moderately safe'' and ''unsafe,'' according to the SITE Intelligence
Group, which monitors terrorists' communications.

In the wake of the Paris attacks, Mr. Vance's office published a report asking
why Apple could not roll back its latest encryption system, which puts the keys
to unlock encrypted iPhone communications on the device itself so that Apple
cannot unlock the communications for law enforcement even if presented with a
court order.

In the past, Apple could unlock communications under such circumstances, but the
current scheme forces law enforcement agents to go directly to their target to
read their communications.

But even if Apple rolled back its technology -- which Tim Cook, the company's
chief executive, has emphatically insisted will never happen -- it is unclear
whether it would make it easier for American law enforcement to track
terrorists.

Of the encrypted mobile apps recommended in the Islamic State tutorial, the top
five ''safest'' encryption schemes recommended by the group were made by
companies outside the United States -- in places like Switzerland, where a
United States court order would not be enforceable.

''We have far more to lose by having our information attacked than gained from
weakening everyone's information security,'' Mr. Kocher said. He added that
rolling back encryption in those products would only drive terrorists to use
other products, or create their own.

''You can't delete encryption software off the Internet or delete all the
textbooks telling people how to write it,'' Mr. Kocher said.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/fbi-chief-says-texas-gunman-used-e
ncryption-to-text-overseas-terrorist.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The scene of a shooting in Garland, Tex., in May at an exhibit
of caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad. One of the attackers is said to have
contacted a terrorist the morning of the shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX
CURRY/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRYPTOLOGY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES
(90%); TERRORISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(86%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY
POLICE (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); ISLAMIC STATE
IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); RELIGION (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

CITY: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

U.S. Wholesale Inventories Shrink, Hinting at More Anemic Growth

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 378 words


WASHINGTON -- United States wholesale inventories fell in October as businesses
stepped up efforts to reduce stockpiles of unsold merchandise, suggesting that
inventories would again be a drag on growth in the fourth quarter.

The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that wholesale inventories slipped 0.1
percent as stocks of durable and nondurable goods fell. September inventories
were revised downward to show them increasing only 0.2 percent instead of rising
0.5 percent as previously reported.

Inventories help drive changes in gross domestic product. The component of
wholesale inventories that goes into the calculation of G.D.P., wholesale stocks
excluding autos, also dipped 0.1 percent.

A record back-to-back increase in inventories in the first two quarters of this
year left warehouses bulging with unsold merchandise and businesses with little
appetite to restock. Inventories subtracted 0.56 of a percentage point from
G.D.P. growth in the third quarter. That restricted growth to an annualized rate
of 2.1 percent.

The drop in wholesale inventories in October prompted economists to trim their
fourth-quarter growth estimates by as much as two-tenths of a percentage point,
to a 1.7 percent rate.

''We think that the drag from inventories in the fourth quarter will be more
severe than we had previously believed,'' said Daniel Silver, an economist at
J.P. Morgan in New York.

Given downward revisions to September data, economists said they expected the
third-quarter G.D.P. estimate to fall to a 1.9 percent pace when the government
publishes its second revision later this month.

Data last week showed that manufacturing inventories fell for a fourth straight
month in October. Retail inventory data on Friday could shed more light on the
magnitude of the anticipated inventory drag in the final three months of the
year.

Sales at wholesalers were unchanged in October after increasing 0.5 percent in
September. Sales have been soft since last August, in part because of the
negative impact of lower oil prices.

At October's sales pace, it would take 1.31 months to clear shelves, unchanged
from September. This is a relatively high number and suggests that businesses
are unlikely to speed up their pace of inventory accumulation anytime soon.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/us-wholesale-inventories-shrink-hinti
ng-at-more-anemic-growth.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORY
MANAGEMENT (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DURABLE
GOODS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); NONDURABLE GOODS
(71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bad Review Is Forever: How to Counter Online Complaints

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE GUSTKE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURSHIP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1210 words


For the California restaurateur Andrew Gruel, poor online reviews demand rapid
responses.

One of his new Slapfish restaurants, serving sustainable seafood, was hit this
year with dozens of bad reviews that complained about its prices (too high) and
portions (too small).

So Mr. Gruel pulled out all the stops. He sent emails to customers begging them
to come back. And he rejiggered menu prices, increased portion size and even
introduced combo meal deals. Quickly, those one-star reviews shifted into five
stars.

''You can get buried by bad reviews,'' said Mr. Gruel, whose fast-casual
restaurants serve food like fish tacos and lobster burgers. ''So it's a race to
stop the bleeding.''

The payoff, he added, can be tremendous. Turning around one-star reviews creates
lifetime customers -- and better reviews draw more customers.

Mr. Gruel's extreme approach to bad reviews may sound like overkill. But studies
show that consumers overwhelmingly choose businesses based mainly on star
ratings. Even a decline of one star, on a scale from one to five, can hurt
revenue and send a business into a slide.

So tracking a business's online reputation is a critical part of building a
thriving company, experts said.

''Star ratings persist forever,'' said Daniel Lemin, author of ''ManipuRated:
How Business Owners Can Fight Fraudulent Online Ratings and Reviews.''
''Meanwhile, actual reviews can fall off the first pages of review sites. And
consumers rarely read reviews older than three months.'' After problems are
addressed and solved, he added, there's a high chance that disgruntled customers
can become avid advocates.

So small businesses have nothing to lose by engaging their critics, Mr. Lemin
said. The recipe is simply apologizing and asking for another chance. The
criticism may hurt, he adds, but the way a business responds matters.

Yelp is, of course, the powerhouse review site that is most watched. According
to a Nielsen survey, 44 percent of consumers use Yelp to search for local
businesses. TripAdvisor and Angie's List have far smaller followings.

This has prompted the growth of reputation management firms such as
ReviewTrackers, Reputation.com, and Status Labs. They typically use
data-analysis tools or software to find online reviews and rapidly respond to
them.

For example, ReviewTrackers, based in Chicago, tracks over 70 review sites, said
Chris Campbell, the chief executive and founder. ''That number grows every
quarter,'' he said. Free tools like Google Alerts do not always pick up every
review site, he added. ''Your customers are already talking about you,'' Mr.
Campbell said. ''So you can't just ignore them. Anyway, businesses that engage
with their customers are growing.'' Studies show, he said, that the quality of a
restaurant's online reviews can even predict how fast it will close.

Mr. Gruel, a trained chef who started his business in a food truck, prefers to
respond to reviews himself. He fears using ''canned responses that aren't
personal.'' If he cannot respond quickly, he asks an employee to do so. Using
two smartphones and an iPad, Mr. Gruel already responds to about 50 online
reviews a day, regardless of whether they are positive or negative.

''Dining experiences live on in the computer,'' he said. ''And they reach
thousands of people. But you can only manage a fraction of that experience
inside the restaurant.'' He also checks Yelp statistics, which analyze things
like how many people visit a review page, that are emailed to him.

Checking online reviews every few days is now a business necessity, many experts
said. Barbara Findlay Schenck, author of  ''Small Business Marketing Kit for
Dummies,'' recommends finding out which three sites customers use most and then
setting up online alerts to monitor them. ''Be strong where your customers are
looking,'' she advised.

''The minute you see a bad review, look for a shard of truth,'' she said. ''Is
this something you can improve? Look for what you can fix.'' But don't fight
fire with fire by getting into an argument with a reviewer, she added.

Meg Piercy, who heads the furniture company MegMade, based in Chicago, checks
reviews on multiple sites each day. Her business has more than 3,000 pieces of
refurbished furniture that can be customized and they are sold in several
states. Besides Yelp, she also checks Instagram, Etsy and the MegMade Facebook
page. ''This only takes a few minutes,'' she said. If a review is negative, she
calls the customer within 48 hours.

''I want people to know my true heart,'' said Ms. Piercy, who doesn't want to
outsource her review scans either. ''And I'm thankful for their feedback.'' When
one customer gave MegMade a two-star review a few weeks ago, Ms. Piercy
responded by giving her $100 off the next changing table.

Reviews need to be four stars or above to satisfy Ms. Piercy, a self-proclaimed
perfectionist. She also said online reputation issues can keep her up at night.
''It's so important,'' she said. But she also sees ratings as a potent marketing
tool, given consumers' growing clout.

Ms. Piercy even uses an Excel spreadsheet to track all posted reviews. ''I look
at the quality of the review,'' she said.

Positive reviews are indeed good marketing fodder. ''You can blast them out by
putting Yelp badges with the number of five-star reviews on your website,'' said
Darnell Holloway, director of local business outreach at Yelp. Now it's all
about relational capital, he said, and you don't need a big marketing budget.

Mr. Gruel also enlists Yelp's Elite Squad, which reveals emerging hot spots.
''About 70 percent of our business has grown through Yelp and Instagram,'' he
said. One study even found that a 3.5-star rating that is bumped up to four
stars can result in a 19 percent increase in peak-hour bookings.

The rating system is hard to manipulate, experts cautioned.

Bad reviews can't be scrubbed on Yelp, Mr. Holloway said. The only exceptions to
this rule is when someone violates content guidelines through hate speech or by
not having had the experience they're actually reviewing.

For example, the Minnesota dentist who killed a lion in Zimbabwe got hundreds of
negative Yelp reviews. ''We removed them,'' Mr. Holloway said. ''Yelp isn't a
place to post political reviews.'' Disgruntled employee posts are also cut.
Software evaluates every review, he added.

Yelp and other sites also discourage offering incentives to reviewers. ''We make
sure that we catch business owners who are offering these incentives,'' Mr.
Holloway said. ''We're focused on quality control.''

Yelp's sting operations also track down people who write fake reviews for money.
But they can be hard to pinpoint, some experts said. ''Everyone is looking for
answers to fake reviews,'' Mr. Holloway added. ''But don't get hung up on
negatives. It's still important to join the conversation diplomatically.''

The phenomenon of fake reviews has only grown worse, Mr. Lemin said. Review
writers even solicit work on the website Fiverr.com, he said. But don't panic
when you get a bad review. One can't harm you. ''And a bad review can even
validate the good ones,'' he said.

Mr. Gruel said he aimed for four- or five-star reviews. ''They will make my
business sustainable,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/smallbusiness/small-business-counter-
bad-reviews.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Gruel, chef and owner of the Slapfish restaurant chain,
responds to about 50 online reviews a day, positive or negative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (89%);
SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (78%); MENU PRICES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PRICE
CHANGES (77%); MARKET INCIDENCE (76%); CUSTOMER RELATIONS (76%); CASUAL DINING
RESTAURANTS (73%); FAST CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%);
REPUTATION MANAGEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: ANGIE'S LIST INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: ANGI (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS
SERVICES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH
PORTALS (52%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Atlassian Sets Its I.P.O. at $21

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 564 words


This year has proved a tough one for stock market debuts. But the year is poised
to end on a high note, thanks to a software company born in Australia.

Atlassian, a maker of business development and collaboration software, priced
its initial public offering at $21 a share on Thursday, above its expected price
range of $19 to $20, and raising $462 million.

At the I.P.O. price, the company was valued at $4.38 billion, making it the
fifth biggest company to go public this year, according to Renaissance Capital.
The software maker's last private investment round valued it at $3 billion.

The stock sale is a rare bright spot for companies looking to go public. Even
prominent names have struggled to win the valuations that they had sought. That
has chilled a once-heated market, with the number of I.P.O.s filed this year
down 32.6 percent from the same time last year, according to data from
Renaissance Capital.

Companies as varied as the luxury department store Neiman Marcus and the
Caribbean telecommunications company Digicel postponed their market debuts after
investors proved reluctant to pay up.

And many of those who did make it to the public markets have suffered from
faltering performance. Over all, the average I.P.O. that priced this year has
fallen 2.4 percent from its offer price, according to Renaissance Capital.

Tech companies, which had flown high over the last several years with intense
investor enthusiasm, have proved no exception. Square, the payments company
co-founded by the Twitter co-creator Jack Dorsey, took a steep discount when it
priced its I.P.O. last month, and after an initial trading pop its shares have
fallen 8 percent, to $11.99. (They are still above their offer price of $9.)

Unlike many other tech ''unicorns'' -- companies valued above $1 billion --
Atlassian was founded not in Silicon Valley but in Australia, begun in 2002 and
initially financed in part by some $10,000 in credit card debt.

Since then, the company has grown to 51,000 customers and more than 1,200
employees.

The company makes a number of products meant to make life easier for software
developers, like its JIRA project management tool -- a name derived from the
Japanese moniker for Godzilla -- its HipChat chat software, and its Bitbucket
code management tool.

Among its most notable traits is that Atlassian has not actually collected money
from outside investors. Instead, it is a ''bootstrapped'' company, financed by
its own profits. (Several financial firms, including Accel Partners and T. Rowe
Price, bought shares from employees in so-called secondary transactions, but
never actually invested directly in the company.)

The company has been profitable for the last three years. In the fiscal year
that ended June 30, the company earned $6.8 million on revenue of $319.5
million, compared with net income of $19 million on revenue of $215 million in
the previous year.

Another distinguishing feature of Atlassian is that it does not employ a huge
sales force, bucking the trend of software companies hawking their products as
far and wide as possible. Instead, the company relies on word-of-mouth
marketing, as teams within a client persuade others to adopt its software.

The company is expected to begin trading on the Nasdaq stock market on Thursday
under the ticker symbol ''TEAM.''

Its offering was led by Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/atlassian-sets-its-ipo-at-21
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%);
STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%);
TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SOFTWARE
DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NETWORK SOFTWARE
(73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); RETAILERS (69%);
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); CREDIT CARDS (64%);
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: ATLASSIAN PTY LTD (92%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799
INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JACK DORSEY (54%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Study Finds Director Pay Rising Sharply

BYLINE: By LIZ MOYER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 418 words


It pays to sit on the board of an oil, mining or energy company.

Directors in the basic materials sector of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index
had the highest pay compared with directors of companies in other industries,
according to a new study by Equilar, an executive compensation firm in Redwood
City, Calif. Their median retainer last year was $275,000, a 23.6 percent
increase from 2010.

Over all, for companies in the S.&P. 500, director pay hit a new high of
$233,600 last year, according to Equilar, up 16.8 percent from 2010.

The next highest paid were directors of technology and health care companies,
where the median retainers were $265,000 each, up 15.8 percent for tech and 16.5
percent in health care. The pay of directors at consumer goods companies was
$225,000, up 12.5 percent.

Financial services was second lowest, next to utility companies. Median director
pay was $205,000, up 16 percent.

Director pay is on the rise while boards face greater scrutiny by proxy advisory
services and activist shareholders. Boards are confronting more disclosure
requirements and tougher regulations.

''We anticipate similar increases in the near future for directors as demands
continue to grow in the post-Dodd Frank environment,'' said Matt Wolfson, a
senior consultant with Meridian Compensation Partners.

Institutional Shareholder Services, a proxy advisory firm in Rockville, Md., is
pushing to limit the number of boards that non-chief executive directors sit on
at any one time. I.S.S. now puts the limit at six boards. By 2017, it will
recommend no more than five boards.

''There's too much work and too much time required'' of directors, said Carol
Bowie, the proxy advisory firm's head of research in the Americas. Rising
director pay is a reflection of the greater time commitment, she said.

Pay is also on the rise as courts crack down on compensation plans for
non-executive directors. A Delaware court ruled this year that plans should be
evaluated under stricter standards, particularly where directors were deciding
on equity compensation.

The Equilar study found that 97.8 percent of S.&P. 500 company directors had
some of their pay in cash, 36 percent had some stock and 59.4 percent had
restricted stock units. In health care, 70 percent of the companies offered
stock units as part of director pay. In financial services, only 48 percent
offered units.

Director roles matter, too. Non-executive board chairmen had a median retainer
of $387,500, up 12.7 percent from 2010.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/dealbook/study-finds-director-pay-ris
ing-sharply.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); SHAREHOLDER PROXIES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS
(89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY
(78%); COMPANY STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%);
SHAREHOLDERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%);
US DODD FRANK ACT (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 22 words


A  film review on Friday about ''Youth'' described incorrectly the role played
by Paul Dano. He plays a movie star, not a rock star.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 29 words


The New Music column on Nov. 19 misstated part of a lyric in the song ''All I
Ask'' from Adele's new album, ''25.'' It is ''There is no tomorrow,'' not
''There is a tomorrow.''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD RELEASES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about powerful figures in
Latin American soccer who were charged in the latest chapter of the United
States' broad investigation of corruption in international soccer misstated the
given name of the president of the Guatemalan soccer federation in some copies.
He is Brayan Jiménez, not Bryan. The article also rendered incorrectly in some
copies the surname of a former representative to Conmebol, soccer's governing
body for South America. He is Eduardo Deluca, not de Luca.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (88%); CORRUPTION (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GUATEMALA (91%); SOUTH
AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 37 words


The On Pro Football column on Monday about the Jets' 23-20 victory over the
Giants misstated, in some copies, the number of plays run by the Giants during a
second-half drive that ended with an interception. It was 17, not 22.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


The Sports Business column on Saturday, about the firing of Purdue offensive
coordinator John Shoop and his activism for players' rights, misidentified, in
some copies, his position with the Carolina Panthers in 1995, when he was 25. He
was an assistant coach, not the quarterbacks coach. (He took over that role in
1997.) The article also misidentified, in some copies, the position played by
Bob DeMars, who made the documentary ''The Business of Amateurs,'' which Mr.
Shoop's wife wanted to show at a forum. He was a defensive lineman, not a
linebacker.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (88%); COACHES & TRAINERS (88%); ATHLETES (86%)

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (83%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


An article on Wednesday about TSG Consumer Partners, a private equity firm that
has made strides in gender equality, misstated the number of female investors it
had 2004. In that year, when Hadley Mullin, who is now a senior managing
director, was hired, there was one other full-time investor and one contractor
who were women; Ms. Mullin was not the only female investor there at the time.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); GENDER
EQUALITY (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Rush to Cram Pet Projects Into Spending Deal Ahead of New Deadline

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1057 words


WASHINGTON --  Congressional negotiators are lurching toward a year-end deal
that could combine a $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill with a slate of more
than $750 billion in tax breaks for businesses and low-income workers, setting
off a frenzied push by lawmakers, lobbyists and interest groups to attach pet
provisions to the catchall legislative package.

Republican leaders on Capitol Hill conceded that they will miss a Friday
deadline, and the House Appropriations Committee on Wednesday put forward a
stopgap measure to prevent a government shutdown and give negotiators an
additional five days to reach an agreement.

But while all sides are voicing guarded optimism, discussions are still hung up
on some fierce areas of disagreement, particularly over politically charged
policy changes, known as ''riders,'' on topics as diverse as new restrictions on
Syrian and Iraqi refugees, environmental regulations and campaign finance rules.
Perhaps the most significant of these proposals would lift a more than
40-year-old ban on exports of crude oil.

With a presidential election year approaching, and control of Congress also at
stake, the current negotiations represent one of the few opportunities in the
near future to pass sweeping legislation.

''Anyone who wants to get anything done, who has already been frustrated by a
virtually nonfunctioning Washington, is trying to cram whatever they can into
this bill,'' said Maya MacGuineas, the president of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget, a fiscal watchdog group.

The proposed changes include numerous Republican priorities, such as blocking an
environmental regulation that would expand federal authority over domestic
waterways and rejecting a proposed Department of Labor conflict-of-interest rule
that would impose new restrictions on financial advisers handling retirement
funds.

And there are other provisions that would have a more narrow impact, like a
tweak to a Depression-era law protecting creditors that critics say would
pointedly benefit Apollo Global Management, which owns the Caesars Entertainment
casino conglomerate.

That provision is of particular interest to the Senate Democratic leader, Harry
Reid of Nevada.

The House has voted twice in recent months for bills that would lift the ban on
crude oil exports, a move eagerly sought by lawmakers in oil-producing states.

Supporters of lifting the restriction, like Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican
of Alaska, say that doing so would help the American oil industry, which has
struggled amid lower global prices.

Ms. MacGuineas has called the end-of-year legislation a borrowing ''bonanza''
with both parties prepared to add about $1 trillion to the nation's debt, partly
because Democrats are eager for more spending and also because Republicans in
Congress do not insist on offsetting tax cuts with reductions in spending.

''If we were paying for this bill, if we were paying for the tax extenders
portion, you wouldn't be able to put in all these other things,'' she said.

The spending measure and the tax package were drawn up separately, and
ultimately may reach the House and Senate floors that way as well. But as is
often the case in Congress, many of the underlying issues have become
intertwined as negotiations come down to the wire, and political and policy
imperatives collide.

Among the policy prescriptions sought by Republicans is a provision that would
prevent the National Labor Relations Board from enforcing a rule that would make
it easier for employees of fast-food restaurants to unionize.

Democrats, in turn, are hoping to extract major concessions in exchange for
lifting the oil export ban, including indexing of the child tax credit to
inflation, long sought by the House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy
Pelosi of California.

There are also bipartisan efforts to use the year-end deal to complete
legislation that for various reasons lawmakers could never quite push across the
finish line, including a bill that would aid emergency workers now suffering
from health ailments related to the work at the site of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack in New York City.

In recent years, persistent deadlock between Democrats and Republicans over
budget policy -- as well as the general elimination of so-called earmarks, the
individual lawmaker-designated provisions, from appropriations bills -- has
often left Congress and the White House negotiating over relatively tiny changes
in discretionary spending, with far less room for maneuvering by special
interests.

The budget accord reached in October between congressional Republicans and the
White House, which set overall spending limits for 2016 and 2017 above
previously agreed-upon limits, as well as the Republican policy that permits tax
cuts without corresponding increases in revenue, has created a rare opportunity.
It is all the more tantalizing because Mr. Obama and the new House speaker,
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, seem to have a shared interest in
completing a deal without a protracted fight.

Paul Winfree, the director of the Heritage Foundation's Thomas A. Roe Institute
for Economic Policy Studies, a conservative think tank, said that some
Republican lawmakers were hoping to extract a victory through the policy changes
because they were not satisfied with the accord in October that lifted the
spending caps.

The White House, which had indicated the president would support a stopgap
measure to give negotiators more time, nonetheless accused Republicans of
politically motivated foot-dragging.

''They've already had weeks and months to negotiate an agreement,'' said Josh
Earnest, the White House press secretary. ''And the only reason that we haven't
come to an agreement is the continued insistence on the part of Republicans to
insert ideological riders into the process.''

Ms. MacGuineas said Democrats and Republicans were complicit in a long legacy of
failed federal fiscal policy making.

''It all goes toward a bigger picture in that we don't budget in a sensible
way,'' she said. ''You have these terrible deals and both sides patting
themselves on the back and chortling about successful bipartisan efforts.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/politics/lawmakers-rush-to-cram-pet-project
s-into-spending-deal-ahead-of-new-deadline.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE
BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%);
TAXES & TAXATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%);
ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS
(78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); AGREEMENTS (78%); PRICES (78%);
LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
(78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PETROLEUM
EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS
(72%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (72%); REFUGEES (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS
(57%)

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (53%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (53%); APO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (53%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO
HOTELS) (53%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7011
HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attacker's Plots May Have Begun as Early As 2012

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and SALMAN MASOOD; Michael S. Schmidt reported
from Washington, and Salman Masood from Multan, Pakistan. Matt Apuzzo
contributed reporting from Washington, Declan Walsh from Cairo and Adam
Nagourney from San Bernardino, Calif.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words


WASHINGTON --  Syed Rizwan Farook, the man at the center of last week's massacre
in San Bernardino, Calif., might have plotted an attack as far back as 2012 with
one of his longtime friends, senior law enforcement officials said Wednesday.

In addition, the F.B.I. revealed Wednesday that Mr. Farook and his wife,
Tashfeen Malik, were discussing jihad and martyrdom online in 2013 before they
were married and she came to the United States.

The new timeline suggests that the couple were considering violent action before
the Islamic State rose to prominence in 2014 and began trying to inspire
sympathizers to carry out attacks in the West.

And the disclosures raise questions about how thoroughly American law
enforcement and immigration officials vetted the wife before giving her a visa
to enter the United States from Pakistan a year before the shooting, which left
14 dead and 21 wounded.

''ISIL inspiration may well have been part of this, but these two killers were
starting to radicalize towards martyrdom and jihad as early as 2013,'' the
F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said during testimony before the Senate
Judiciary Committee, using an acronym for the Islamic State.

''And so that's really before ISIL became the global jihad leader that it is.''

Mr. Comey said the F.B.I. still believed that the couple had been inspired by
foreign extremist groups but that it had not found evidence the husband and wife
team was ordered to attack by the Islamic State or any other group.

''We are working very hard to see if anyone else was involved in assisting,
equipping or helping them,'' he said. ''And did they have other plans?''

The account of a possible attack in 2012 came from Enrique Marquez, a longtime
friend and former neighbor of Mr. Farook's, according to law enforcement
officials who would only speak anonymously about a continuing investigation.

Mr. Marquez has been cooperating extensively in recent days with federal
authorities, discussing at length his relationship with Mr. Farook.

Mr. Marquez, a Walmart clerk who converted to Islam several years ago and sold
or gave Mr. Farook the two assault rifles used in last week's attack on county
public health workers in San Bernardino, has told the authorities that in 2012,
he and Mr. Farook had plans for an attack at that time. It is not clear why they
decided not to go forward with it.

Mr. Marquez, whose wife is a sister-in-law of Mr. Farook's brother, has also
told investigators that Mr. Farook had radical beliefs but that he did not know
Mr. Farook and his wife were plotting the recent shootings or what may have
motivated them.

The authorities are still seeking to corroborate what Mr. Marquez is telling
them. Because he provided two of the four weapons used by the attackers, some
investigators have questioned his credibility, thinking that he might exaggerate
what he knows about the couple to win favor with the authorities.

Mr. Marquez is also said to have mental health issues. Shortly after the
attacks, he checked himself into a mental health facility in California. He has
not been charged or detained.

Clues also surfaced on Wednesday about what else the couple might have been
planning. According to law enforcement officials, they had not finished building
at least some of the dozen pipe bombs that were found in their home, leading
investigators to believe they had a much larger attack planned for the future.

And although Mr. Farook had smashed his cellphones and taken steps to delete
files from his computer, the F.B.I. has been able to retrieve photographs from
them. One of the images is of a local high school, suggesting to investigators
that it may have been a target.

Law enforcement officials have also found that Mr. Farook had contacts with six
people in Orange County, Calif., whom federal authorities had scrutinized at
some point in recent years for their apparent ties to terrorism. While officials
do not believe these people were involved in the massacre, the connections have
suggested to investigators that Mr. Farook was associating with like-minded
people.

In Mr. Comey's appearance on Capitol Hill, he said that the couple, who some
relatives say met on an online dating site, had radicalized at least as far back
as two years ago.

They were ''talking to each other about jihad and martyrdom before they became
engaged and married and were living in the U.S.,'' Mr. Comey said.

He said that the ''investigation to date shows that they were radicalized before
they started courting or dating each other online.''

Mr. Comey said the conclusion came from ''data'' and intelligence that American
authorities had obtained.

Ms. Malik declared allegiance to the Islamic State in a Facebook post around the
time of last week's shooting, which led the authorities to conclude that the
shooting was a terrorist attack.

But the authorities say that the couple may have decided to commit terrorism in
the name of the Islamic State late in the planning process, after their views
had hardened and they had already committed to violence.

With some members of Congress asking how Ms. Malik had been cleared for a K-1
visa to come to the United States, a spokesman for the State Department, John
Kirby, said Wednesday that ''it's too soon to know what, if anything, might have
been missed in the screening process'' that allowed Ms. Malik to enter the
country on the special 90-day visa for people planning to marry Americans.
President Obama has asked for the department to review the program.

Mr. Kirby added that ''if in the context or in the process of the review we find
things that we can do, we're not going to wait for the review to be complete
before we make the changes.''

''But clearly,'' he added, ''we're going to keep an open mind about the program
going forward and make whatever changes we need to make.''

More details about Mr. Farook and Ms. Malik and their relationship emerged
Wednesday in interviews with family members, neighbors and classmates in
California and in Saudi Arabia -- including a fateful meeting at Islam's holiest
site that pushed the couple toward marriage.

Speaking by telephone from Saudi Arabia, Ms. Malik's father, Gulzar Ahmed Malik,
recounted a meeting between him and his wife and Mr. Farook's mother during the
annual hajj pilgrimage in the Saudi city of Mecca in July 2013.

In an encounter just outside the Kaaba, the cuboid building at the center of
Islam's holiest mosque, Mr. Farook's mother, Rafia, told the Pakistani couple
that her family sought a ''pious, religious girl'' to marry their son, he said.

Mr. Malik replied that he was looking for a similar match for his daughter, and
that he liked the young American man because, like his daughter, he had
memorized the Quran. The couple married months later by telephone, as allowed
under Islamic custom, Mr. Malik said, and they held a celebration in the Saudi
city of Jidda in July 2014, shortly after Ms. Malik had obtained her visa from
the American Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan.

Ms. Malik's state of mind at that time is a point of intense focus for American
investigators. She had spent the previous three or so years living with her
mother at the family home in the southern Pakistani city of Multan, where she
obtained a degree in pharmacology from the city's largest university, and
studied part-time at an Islamic center for women that teaches a literalist
version of the Quran.

At home, her father said, she spent much of her time alone in her room, studying
for university or reading the Quran. ''She was always busy in her studies,'' he
said.

The Multan police chief, Tariq Masood Khan, said in an interview that his
investigators had found no links between Ms. Malik and local militants -- a
sensitive suggestion in a country whose citizens have taken part in several
attacks in India, Europe and the United States.

''So far, the feedback I have received hasn't raised any red flags,'' he said.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/san-bernardino-massacre-fbi.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, said Wednesday that the
bureau still believed the San Bernardino attackers had been inspired by foreign
extremist groups. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RELIGION (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ &
THE LEVANT (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%);
WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); WOUNDS
& INJURIES (68%); FIREARMS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%)

CITY: SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (93%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suspect in Rampage at Clinic Disrupts Court With Outbursts

BYLINE: By RICHARD FAUSSET

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words


COLORADO SPRINGS -- ''I'm guilty. There's no trial,'' the accused mass killer
Robert L. Dear Jr. told a startled courtroom here on Wednesday. ''I'm a warrior
for the babies.''

It was a bizarre development in a horrific case, with Mr. Dear using his first
court appearance since the deadly rampage at a Planned Parenthood clinic to
disrupt the proceedings. There were angry outbursts, declarations of guilt and
expressions of anti-abortion politics.

''Let it all come out,'' he said in one of a series of outbursts that seemed to
remove any doubt about his motivation. ''The truth.''

Mr. Dear -- bearded and unkempt, his leg and arms in manacles -- was in court to
face 179 felony counts, including first-degree murder, in the Nov. 27 shooting
that killed three people and wounded nine.

It was a vivid reminder of the horror of the Colorado shooting, which was
eclipsed by the massacre in San Bernardino, Calif., five days later

As Judge Gilbert Anthony Martinez of Colorado's Fourth Judicial District and the
lawyers discussed which parties might be affected by a pretrial publicity order,
Mr. Dear, 57, shouted: ''Could you add the babies that were supposed to be
aborted that day? Could you add that to the list?''

Mr. Dear's declaration of guilt came before his formal arraignment, which has
not yet been scheduled. His lawyer, Daniel King, a public defender, said in
court Wednesday that he wished to explore issues of Mr. Dear's mental health,
and hinted that he might argue that he was not competent to stand trial.

''We have serious concerns about competency in this case,'' Mr. King said,
shortly after Mr. Dear had exclaimed, ''You're not my lawyer!''

Mr. Dear has been described by relatives and neighbors as a loner with an
antigovernment worldview and has expressed extreme anti-abortion views, say an
ex-wife and others. According to one law enforcement official, Mr. Dear said
''no more baby parts'' after his arrest. But the authorities have not publicly
ascribed a motive to the shooting.

The charges against Mr. Dear are so numerous that Mr. King waived the right to
have them read aloud in court. The charges of first-degree murder could
potentially carry the death penalty, which prosecutors will have the opportunity
to seek after an arraignment.

There are eight first-degree murder charges in all, covering the three shooting
deaths. In a news conference, Dan May, the district attorney for Colorado's
Fourth Judicial District, explained that the multiple charges stemmed from the
fact that there were distinct ''theories'' undergirding each of those charges.

For example, three counts were filed related to the death of Jennifer Markovsky,
a 35-year-old mother of two children. One of the counts alleges that Mr. Deal
acted with ''deliberation'' when he caused her death. A second count alleges
that Mr. Dear caused her death in furtherance of a burglary, for which he was
also charged (prosecutors allege that he unlawfully entered the Planned
Parenthood building).

A third murder charge alleges that he evinced an ''attitude of universal malice
manifesting extreme indifference to the value of human life generally.''

Multiple counts were also filed related to the deaths of K'Arre Stewart, 29, an
Iraq war veteran, and Garrett Swasey, 44, a police officer at the local campus
of the University of Colorado.

Many of the other charges are counts of attempt to commit first-degree murder
and first-degree assault, all of them connected to Mr. Dear's arrival at the
clinic and the subsequent attack and standoff, in which the authorities said Mr.
Dear was armed with a semiautomatic rifle.

On Wednesday, Jeff Dorschner, a spokesman for the United States attorney for
Colorado, said that a federal investigation, headed by the F.B.I. and assisted
by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, was continuing. Investigators
are interviewing Mr. Dear's friends, associates and relatives to determine
whether he had ties to any extremist groups or if anyone helped him plot the
attack, according to senior law enforcement officials. The authorities also want
to know whether Mr. Dear told anyone about his intentions in recent weeks, the
officials said.

During the hearing, a pattern developed. As the lawyers discussed finer points
of various motions, Mr. Dear seemed to wait for moments in which he could inject
a comment based on a theme or a word that had come up.

''You'll never know what I saw in the clinic, the atrocities,'' he said on one
occasion. ''Protect the babies!'' he said on another.

After each outburst, the lawyers picked up the thread of their conservation,
almost as if the outbursts had not occurred. Judge Martinez set the next hearing
in the case for Dec. 23.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/colorado-planned-parenthood-shooting.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert L. Dear made his first court appearance in connection
with the Planned Parenthood shootings in Colorado Springs. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY
CROSS) (A25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); MURDER (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ABORTION (89%); SHOOTINGS
(89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); FELONIES (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (76%); LAW
ENFORCEMENT (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (83%)

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (89%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: Konstantin Lifschitz Takes a Liberal Approach to 'The Baroque Keyboard'

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 356 words


There was a time, not all that long ago, when a program called ''The Baroque
Keyboard'' would have meant a recital played on anything but the piano. Works of
the 17th and 18th centuries were, at the height of the early-music movement's
influence, the preserve of harpsichordists.

Thankfully, the debate over original instruments is no longer as obstinate as it
once was. So, as part of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center's miniature
Baroque Festival, the soloist Konstantin Lifschitz could play at a Steinway on
Tuesday at Alice Tully Hall without fear of reproach.

This was no censored pianism, either -- no attempt to make the piano sound
''period.'' All three pedals were deployed, though modestly. Mr. Lifschitz's
crouching, spidery technique could draw chords as fierce as any in Stockhausen
in toccatas by Frescobaldi, or swoon through a melody with coy ease in ''La
Ménetou'' from François Couperin's Order No. 7 in G.

The result, though, was a curiously homogeneous vision of the Baroque, played
with such freedom that the lines between composers blurred. Ornamentation was
elaborate yet natural, though not always ideal in separating out the stylistic
differences between Louis Couperin, whose ''Chaconne et Passacaille'' in C was
weighed down by floridity, and Bach, represented by the C minor Partita.

Even within selections from a single composer, Mr. Lifschitz's playing was
disorienting. An array of 14 of Scarlatti's more than 500 sonatas was often
breathtaking, but, played with barely a break between them and in the same key,
they merged into a seamless muddle. And while Rameau's ''Les Cyclopes'' had
urgency and his ''Tambourin'' a steamy heat, his more deliberately characterful
pieces were wrapped in uneasy intensity. Here were birds preening beyond their
humble station in ''Le Rappel des Oiseaux,'' and a hen gussied up as a peacock
in a hammered-out ''La Poule.''

More persuasive were the encores. Bach reappeared in Brahms's literalist
left-hand transcription of the ''Chaconne'' for violin (slightly embellished by
Mr. Lifschitz himself) and in two movements, gentle and poised, of his Toccata
in G.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-konstantin-lifschitz-takes-a
-liberal-approach-to-the-baroque-keyboard.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); FESTIVALS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Climate Negotiators Face Hurdles on Key Issues as Deadline Looms

BYLINE: By CORAL DAVENPORT; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 904 words


LE BOURGET, France -- Less than two days before their deadline to conclude a
sweeping new climate accord, negotiators from nearly 200 countries have yet to
resolve major issues, such as how and when pledged cuts to carbon emissions
would be verified.

Lead negotiators said they were confident that a deal could still be reached --
and perhaps in time to meet the Friday deadline. But some outside observers who
have been monitoring the talks said that the compromises necessary to bring it
across the finish line could weaken the deal so much as to make it nearly
toothless.

At the heart of the proposed deal are a set of pledges from 186 countries,
representing over 90 percent of the global economy, to cut their emissions. But
a draft text published on Wednesday did not include any details on how those
emissions cuts would be monitored and verified.

Meanwhile, even if enacted, those pledges would cut emissions about only half as
much as necessary to curb greenhouse gases to the level needed to prevent the
atmosphere warming by 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. At that
point, scientists say, catastrophic effects would kick in, such as devastating
floods, droughts, food shortages and intense storms.

A group of countries led by the United States, Europe and small island nations,
known as the ''High Ambition'' coalition, have pushed for provisions that would
require countries to submit to verification of their cuts by an outside body,
and to return to the table every five years with more stringent pledges.

Developing nations like China and India have strongly resisted such provisions
-- particularly the demand to ratchet up their emissions commitment. Some
nations have expressed concerns that the verification demand would infringe on
their sovereignty and lock them into actions that could become untenable.

While the draft released on Wednesday discussed all those issues, it left blank
the key details.

''We need to press forward for ambition,'' said Todd Stern, the lead negotiator
for the United States. ''The text that came out is a step forward. We need
clear, strong cycles for countries to communicate either an update or revision
of their targets, and we need that to start early.''

He added, ''We need a strong transparency article so we know what's going on
with those 186 pledges.''

India, the world's third largest carbon polluter, has resisted the demand that
it return to the table in five years with more ambitious plans for cutting
emissions.

''There needs to be flexibility,'' said Ashok Lavasa, secretary of India's
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. ''Countries that can put
forth every five years can do so. But without a technology breakthrough, other
countries will need 10 years.''

Tony deBrum, the climate change envoy for the low-lying Marshall Islands, a
country that is vulnerable to the devastation of sea level rise due to climate
change, said, ''We will not accept a minimalist or low-ambition package.''
However, he added, ''I'm encouraged to see many of the elements we have argued
for are there but we have a long way to go.''

In an effort to help smooth the passage of an accord, Secretary of State John
Kerry threw more money into the fund to help poor countries adapt to and
mitigate the effects of climate. He announced on Wednesday a proposal to double
the amount of pledged grants by 2020 to $860 million, from $430 million.

The issue of money has been a crucial sticking point in the talks, as developing
countries demand that richer countries open their wallets to help pay for them
to adapt to the ravages of climate change, such as increased floods and
droughts.

Secretary Kerry, who has been attending the international climate change talks
since the first summit meeting in Rio de Janiero in 1992, plans to remain here
all week to help facilitate the deal.

Observers said the announcement appeared explicitly intended to give a boost to
the stalled climate talks.

China and India are resisting a push by the United States to create an
aggressive outside monitoring system for emissions, and to require countries to
come back to the table every five years with more stringent pollution reduction
plans.

''This impasse has slowed progress to a crawl, with the U.S. lacking leverage
and China and India seemingly content to wait out the process,'' Paul Bledsoe, a
former climate adviser in the Clinton administration who is attending the talks,
said by email. ''The decision to double U.S. adaptation funding itself is a
strategic play to head off loss and damage calls by developing nations. This is
why Kerry is pushing these lines right now.''

Others agreed that the pledge could help move things along. ''The doubling of
public commitments for adaptation is a very helpful development as we head into
the final days in Paris,'' said Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources
Institute, a research organization. ''We are entering crunch time.''

No matter the shape of the deal that emerges, it is certain to require
governments which have already committed to substantial emissions cuts to begin
looking at how they can do still more.

''We're going to get a deal,'' said Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute
for Governance and Sustainability, a research organization. ''It'll be good
enough to drink the champagne. And the next day we'll wake up with hangovers and
realize we have a lot more work to do.'




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/europe/paris-climate-conference.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL
TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SEVERE WEATHER (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%);
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (77%); EMERGING
MARKETS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS &
DISASTERS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); GLOBALIZATION
(69%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (66%); FLOODS & FLOODING (66%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (91%); FRANCE (90%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schools Close, but Pupils Are Stuck Indoors (With Homework)

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNÁNDEZ; Edward Wong contributed reporting. Zhang
Tiantian, Owen Guo, Yufan Huang and Emma Du contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1228 words


BEIJING --  Wu Yiling, a 15-year-old student with a love of hamburgers and Hello
Kitty, celebrated when she heard that her school was canceling classes for three
days because of air pollution. Finally, she would be able to stay up late
watching her favorite Korean soap operas, she imagined, and playing computer
games with friends.

Yet at the crack of dawn on Wednesday, Yiling's mother jolted her out of bed.

Her literature teacher had assigned 100 pages of reading, including an intricate
Song dynasty poem. Her mother had arranged a tutoring session with a math
instructor. An English teacher had announced that there would be a six-part exam
on Friday.

''I quickly learned that there's no such thing as a day off,'' said Yiling, who
attends a high school in eastern Beijing. ''Even when we can barely breathe
outside, somehow we are supposed to do our schoolwork.''

As smog blanketed this city for a second day on Wednesday, reviving calls for
officials to take action, millions of families grappled with the unexpected
closing of schools across the city.

Parents searched frantically for day care options. Teachers drew up impromptu
lesson plans for use at home. Students who dreamed of leisurely breaks and trips
to the mall braced for hours of drills and review sessions instead.

''It's hard to be at home and doing nonstop work,'' said Zhang Wei, 14, a
student at a middle school in central Beijing. ''I wish the skies were clear and
we could play outside.''

In online forums, students bemoaned the amount of work they had to complete over
the three-day break.

''You may never know how badly we will be tortured by the teachers in the three
days that we are home,'' an unidentified student wrote on a widely circulated
post on Weibo, a microblogging service. ''Kids in Beijing, go cry.''

Several parents and students said they were concerned that school closings would
become more frequent as the severe air pollution persisted. While Beijing has
historically kept its schools open, no matter how poisonous the air, the
government this week issued what it called a red alert for the first time,
advising schools to close down from Tuesday through Thursday.

Factories were also shut and half of all cars were kept off the roads. But in
other cities across northern China, tens of millions of people, including
schoolchildren, went about their daily routines in toxic air that was far worse
than Beijing's. ''Smog will be the norm in the future, so what are you going to
do about it?'' said Zhang Lili, 38, a university instructor in Beijing and the
mother of an 8-year-old son. ''Are we supposed to suspend classes whenever there
is smog? Am I supposed to become a stay-at-home mother?''

As smog levels reached hazardous levels on Wednesday, parents hoarded face masks
and bought air purifiers. Some said it was unsustainable to have students
studying at home and questioned whether it was an effective safety precaution.

''Schools and homes share the same air pollution problem,'' said Chen Xiao, 35,
a translator who is the father of a 9-year-old boy. ''My son can still be hurt
by smog.''

Mr. Chen said the pollution had gotten so bad recently that his family was
considering leaving Beijing.

Chinese parents invest extraordinary amounts of time and money to ensure that
their children succeed academically, and many said they worried their children
might fall behind if they were kept out of school too long.

School closings in Beijing are rare, given the city's dry climate and lack of
snow. An exception was the outbreak of the SARS respiratory virus in 2003, when
the city suspended classes for several weeks.

The red alert led residents to take more precautions, but the lack of official
responses in cities like Anyang, in Henan Province, and Handan, in Hebei
Province, both with hazardous levels of smog, pointed to a major shortcoming of
efforts by Chinese officials to battle air pollution and protect people from its
effects.

Some experts said that Beijing's red alert was a watershed moment, though, and
that other provinces could feel pressure to impose stricter measures -- if only
to lessen some of the pollutants from their factories blowing to Beijing, a
showcase metropolis and home to more than 20 million people -- including the
Communist Party leadership.

''There will be pressure on them, but whether they will do it or not is a
question,'' Wang Tao, an energy and climate scholar at the Carnegie-Tsinghua
Center for Global Policy, said of provincial and local officials.

In issuing the red alert this week, Beijing officials told parents that while
classes were suspended, students should continue studying. They encouraged
parents to use the time to teach their children ''life and safety'' lessons. The
government also unveiled a database of 5,000 lecture videos, covering topics
like Chinese history and biology, on a state-run digital education platform.

Private tutoring companies, a booming industry in China, seized on the
disruption caused by the smog to make a pitch for their products. Some offered
extra tutoring sessions to help prepare for college exams. Others advertised
online courses, saying that parents could return to work with peace of mind
while their children studied at home.

At Beijing Jingshan School, a prestigious public school, teachers led online
classes for students in subjects like math and Chinese. One class on Wednesday
focused on the history of air pollution in China, making the argument that it
was present even in ancient times, when fog and dust storms were common in
Beijing.

At some of Beijing's most competitive schools, parents were asked to provide
pictures of their children completing school assignments as proof that they were
still studying. They happily complied, flooding online forums with snapshots of
their children seated at desks and next to calculators.

He Mei, 40, a housewife in Beijing, said her daughter, He Xiang, 8, could have a
healthier lifestyle by studying at home, taking more breaks and eating more
fruit.

''Beijing is dirty and dry,'' Ms. He said. ''Staying at home is good for her
health.''

Her daughter disagreed. ''I don't like the smog,'' she said. ''I want to go
outside and play with my classmates.''

When Ma Chenlei, 44, an engineer, and Wang Yanhui, 46, a salesman, first heard
that the pollution in Beijing would reach hazardous levels this week, they
decided to stay home with their two children until classes resumed. They have
alternated study time with play breaks and occasional walks around the block, to
make up for missed exercise classes.

''I don't like it, I cough a lot,'' said their 7-year-old daughter, Yifan.
''When I wear a mask, I feel a little suffocated.''

Inside the family's apartment on Wednesday, Yifan showed off her completed math
and English homework, which she had sent to her teachers, while her 3-year-old
brother, Yichen, played with racecars.

Ms. Ma said her daughter's school was planning to install air filters next year.
In the meantime, she said, there was nothing they could do to alleviate the
pollution.

''We hope that every day the air is clean,'' she said. ''But it will take much
longer than one or two days to solve this problem.''

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/in-beijing-a-day-off-school-for-smo
g-is-no-fun-for-anyone.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the police in Beijing wore masks on a cold Wednesday
morning in Tiananmen Square. The city has been operating in a red alert, the
highest warning for smog. At left, Ma Chenlei
her daughter, Yifan, 7
and son, Yichen, 3, at home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMIR SAGOLJ/REUTERS
 LI QIANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HOMEWORK (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); AIR POLLUTION
(89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LITERATURE
(78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); SMOG (77%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); POETRY (71%)

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As West Passes Hat at Climate Talks, China Clings to Developing-Nation Status

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and CORAL DAVENPORT; Keith Bradsher reported from
Paris, and Coral Davenport from Le Bourget, France. Sewell Chan contributed
reporting from Le Bourget.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1274 words


PARIS --  Last week, China was trumpeting its arrival as one of the world's
great economic powers, as the International Monetary Fund elevated the renminbi
to the ranks of leading currencies, alongside the dollar, euro, yen and British
pound.

This week, China is crying poverty.

A crucial issue at the climate negotiations now taking place in Le Bourget, a
northeast suburb of Paris, lies in who will foot the bill for $100 billion a
year in long-promised assistance for developing countries, starting in 2020.

Europe and the United States, still feeling the effects of the global financial
crisis of 2008 and 2009, have been trying to pass the hat for contributions from
increasingly affluent middle-income countries, particularly China.

China has considered itself a developing country for purposes of climate
negotiations for more than 20 years. And it is sticking to that position, even
as locking in sources for the $100 billion annually for poorer countries is one
of the biggest remaining hurdles for the talks, which are scheduled to end
Friday.

Li Junfeng, the director general of climate change strategy at the National
Development and Reform Commission, China's top government planning agency, ruled
out any change in China's classification as a developing country.

''That is the most important regulation, based on the kind of convention that
China still recognizes themselves as developing,'' he said on Tuesday, speaking
at The International New York Times Energy for Tomorrow conference in Paris.

Western officials have responded to China's stance by volubly praising Beijing
for its willingness to limit future emissions of greenhouse gases while also
pursuing quiet diplomacy on the financial issue. They are trying to find legal
language acceptable to China that would mandate a sizable financial
contribution.

''Hopefully we can work quietly and effectively with China to bring them even
further on board, but I think China has made a huge difference and has already
stepped up significantly,'' Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday at
the conference.

He also noted that hundreds of millions of people in China are still very poor.

Later in the day, Mr. Kerry announced a planned doubling of American assistance
for climate change adaptation by developing countries, to $860 million in 2020
instead of $430 million, subject to Congressional approval.

Less than two days before their deadline to conclude a sweeping new climate
accord, negotiators from nearly 200 countries have yet to resolve major issues,
including how and when pledged cuts to carbon emissions would be verified.

Lead negotiators said they were confident that a deal could still be reached,
although Rachel Kyte, the World Bank's special envoy for climate change,
mentioned at the energy conference that the talks could run into Saturday or
Sunday. But some outside observers who have been monitoring the talks said that
the compromises necessary to bring it across the finish line could weaken the
deal so much it would become nearly toothless.

At the heart of the proposed deal is a set of pledges from 186 countries,
representing more than 90 percent of the global economy, to cut their emissions.
But a draft text published on Wednesday did not include any details on how those
emissions cuts would be monitored and verified.

China has been splashing out huge sums for other projects, but refuses to let
them count toward the $100 billion in annual contributions called for in the
climate negotiations.

The country is setting up a $100 billion, 57-nation Asian Infrastructure
Investment Bank, and it created a separate $40 billion fund at the end of last
year to help pay for investments in countries along the ancient Silk Road. Three
months ago it created a $3.1 billion ''China South-South Climate Cooperation
Fund'' to provide direct assistance to developing countries.

China is also the world's largest exporter and holds $3.5 trillion in foreign
reserves. The reserves have been financed with money borrowed from China's
commercial banks, however, and the potential need to repay that money someday
means that it can be invested in overseas projects but not donated outright.

Chinese officials have worried that if they agree to contribute toward the $100
billion annual assistance for developing countries, China might someday be
classified as an industrialized country and asked to follow more stringent
limits on greenhouse gases. The Kyoto Protocol in 1997 set binding limits for
emissions from industrialized countries but was less stringent on developing
countries.

Western officials have been seeking a compromise. Energy Secretary Ernest J.
Moniz told reporters on the sidelines of the energy conference that he welcomed
Chinese assistance to developing countries, even if it did not count toward the
$100 billion a year that developing countries want from the West.

''To me, it's money in the game, but that's not the U.S. government response,''
he said, adding that the Treasury would have the final say on financial issues.

Negotiators have been looking for a way to finesse China's concerns about being
labeled an industrialized country while still including China's ambitious
international investment programs in the needed $100 billion. With the deadline
for the climate talks looming, any absence of Chinese money makes it harder to
come up with pledges of $100 billion a year.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based club of
industrialized democracies, recently estimated that $62 billion of the $100
billion was raised last year. But countries like China and India question how
much of that money represents firm pledges.

''Developing countries are saying, 'We're not seeing the money' -- that's why
transparency is so important,'' said Xie Zhenhua, China's top climate
negotiator, at a news conference on Tuesday in Le Bourget, on the sidelines of
the climate talks. ''The O.E.C.D.'s number has not been acknowledged by
developing countries. This is something that we need to address.''

Mr. Xie joined officials from Brazil, India and South Africa in calling on
Tuesday for the world's rich countries to bolster and expand their commitment of
$100 billion a year by 2020, which was announced in 2009 during climate talks in
Copenhagen. The fund would be used to help developing countries mitigate, and
adapt to, the effects of climate change. The Copenhagen talks ultimately failed.

Mr. Xie defended China's ability to represent the interests of the Group of 77,
a bloc of largely very poor nations that coordinate their stances in many
international negotiations. China remains a member of the group despite three
decades of rapid growth that have given it the world's second-largest economy.

''We are actually part of the G-77,'' Mr. Xie said. ''So why can't we mention
the G-77?''

Mr. Li, of the National Development and Reform Commission, said that Western
governments had refused to keep pace even with Western businesses in addressing
climate change. ''That's the barrier, I think, not China,'' he said. ''We hope
in the next three or four days we can solve the problem.''

No matter the shape of the deal that emerges, it is also certain to require
governments that have already committed to substantial emissions cuts to begin
looking at how they can do still more.

''We're going to get a deal,'' said Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute
for Governance and Sustainable Development, a research organization. ''It'll be
good enough to drink the Champagne. And the next day, we'll wake up with
hangovers and realize we have a lot more work to do.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/as-us-and-europe-pass-the-hat-at-cl
imate-talks-china-clings-to-developing-nation-status.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Izabella Teixeira, Brazil's environment minister, and Xie
Zhenhua, China's top climate negotiator, at a news conference on Wednesday
during the climate talks in Le Bourget, France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACKY
NAEGELEN/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%);
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL
ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BRITISH
POUND (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); APPROVALS (67%);
ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (64%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Chinese-Language Readers Speak Out on the Emissions Challenge

BYLINE: By SHAOJIE HUANG

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SINOSPHERE; Pg.

LENGTH: 857 words


As negotiators from nearly 200 countries meet in Paris to work on an accord to
address climate change, we asked readers of The New York Times's
Chinese-language website how pollution affected their lives, what they believed
caused the problem and what could be done.

The responses included criticism of what they called government failure in
curbing choking smog in Chinese cities and claims that China was being unfairly
targeted on a global stage. Some looked at energy use and its consequences while
others expressed optimism that with good governance, a community could clean up
its mess.

Here is a selection of the responses. They have been edited and condensed for
clarity.

Dependence on Fossil Fuels

I blame the three Chinese oil giants over their crude oil processing standard.
And China's infrastructure is frustratingly inadequate. There would be fewer
cars and the air quality would improve if there were better public
transportation. It is a complicated chain effect, and the underlying problem is
bad governance.

-- Li Muzi

The main issue is fuel structure. China is using too big a percentage of fossil
fuels. A secondary issue is its low standard in refining its fossil fuels.

-- Ran Cheng, Chengdu, China

People always say, let's restrict gas-burning vehicles and instead encourage
electric cars. But bringing cars like Tesla into China won't make a difference.
They run on electricity and not on fossil fuels, but most of the electricity
comes from coal-fired power plants. So the source of our problems is still
there.

-- Seamus Wu

Water Is Not Better

China pushes hydro power as clean energy. But hydro power brings proven damage
to the ecosystem. Maybe it means less carbon emission, but it has some
disastrous effects, too.

-- Forest Deng

A China Problem?

Just look at Beijing now, you will find how hypocritical China is.

-- Jammy Hsieh, Taipei, Taiwan

Carbon emission is not any single country's problem. You can't just blame China.
Other countries like the U.S. and the U.K. are just as bad emitters as China.
Blaming China alone is unfair.

-- Kl Soon, Malacca, Malaysia

You Americans and Europeans went through the same: economic growth first and
environmental cleanup later. China is on the same road as you were! If this is
not a carefully dressed innuendo, then what is it? It is like saying when you
pollute, it is legal, but when others do it, it is not! Cheap shot!

-- Jessy Gu, Shanghai

China will do the world a big favor if it can clean up its own environment.
Let's not wish for any more than that.

-- Chen Lianhao, Xinyang, Henan, China

To me, smog is just a visual problem for now. China will be doomed if it ever
becomes more than that.

-- Xu Ning, Zhengzhou, Henan, China

There Is Still Hope

People used to throw trash everywhere outside my apartment building. Then the
community built a recycling station and ran educational campaigns about sorting
your garbage before taking it out. Now our community is much better. The people
are nicer.

It takes the government and NGOs working together to improve neighborhood
service and public education.

-- Wang Zechen

There is nothing wrong with saving fuels and cutting emissions without hurting
the economy and people's lives. It's for an environment we all share.

-- Zhang Yunlong, Dezhou, Shandong, China

A Dystopian Beijing

I published a sci-fi story that did not feel so sci-fi called ''The Smog
Society'' in 2006. The story is set in a heavily polluted Beijing in the future,
where everybody wears a mask when they go outdoors. The protagonist, Lao Sun, is
a retiree and a member of the Smog Society, a nongovernmental organization that
runs independent monitoring of the air quality for real, uncensored data.

Nine years later, everything has become our everyday reality. Beijing has become
the smog capital, with its air pollution as bad as that of London on Dec. 5,
1952. The official air-quality reports are not reliable. The Chinese have
learned to make fun of it and of themselves, posting surreal photos on social
media and writing smog jokes. They research on different brands of masks and air
filters. My friends, middle-class elites with good educations and handsome
incomes, are all worried about their children. When the government lifted the
ban on a second child and encouraged couples to have children, one mom said,
''The weather is depressing. What is the point of choosing kindergartens, or
buying a house close to a good school? What is the point of choosing between a
public school and an international one? It's all pointless. I feel guilty and
anxious seeing my kid grow up in this environment.''

I think China has moved past the time when people could be reduced to
statistical numbers and living equaled surviving. Perhaps policy makers should
change the way they think accordingly as they handle pollution and other issues
where people's lives are at stake.

-- Stanley Chan, 34, Beijing, tech start-up manager and science-fiction writer

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/china-climate-change-smog-pollution
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SMOG (89%);
ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%);
AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%);
FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); POWER PLANTS (70%);
ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY
(68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES
(54%)

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%);
CHENGDU, SICHUAN, CHINA (73%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); HENAN, CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%);
EAST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); TAIWAN (79%);
EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holiday Hearth

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 331 words


A caroling session sprinkled with occasional reminiscences, Irish Repertory
Theater's ''A Child's Christmas in Wales'' adapts the Dylan Thomas prose poem
into a play with plenty of hymns.

Five actors, clad in red and green, and an accompanist are crammed onto a cozy
stage with presents, wreaths, a roaring hearth and a half-dozen Christmas trees.
(How they found room for the piano is anyone's guess.) Chief among the players,
attired in a grandfatherly cardigan, is John Cullum, who holds an oversized book
in his lap and occasionally seems to be checking his place. No matter. This
sweet and modest show conjures plenty of good will toward men, Mr. Cullum very
much included.

Thomas's work is a cavalcade of imagery and sensation -- the snowy sights,
smells and sounds that marked the Christmases of his boyhood. ''All the
Christmases roll down the hill towards the Welsh-speaking sea, like a snowball
whiter and bigger and rounder, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the
sky that was our street,'' Mr. Cullum recites. The actors take the prose parts
in turn, though Ashley Robinson (a sweetly likable actor, though overly fond of
hair gel) most often plays Thomas as a boy. This is a change from last year's
''A Christmas Memory,'' in which Mr. Robinson played the adult version of the
narrator of that Truman Capote story.

The descriptions of treats and toys are evocative, the carols appealingly sung,
the cast charming. No one attempts the Welsh accent with which Thomas read his
own work, but two of the songs are sung in Welsh: a version of ''Silent Night''
and the hymn ''Calon Lân.'' A few of the tunes are by the show's director,
Charlotte Moore, who adapted Thomas's poem for the stage. Her tone is
occasionally a little treacly, but then again, so is Christmas. Figgy pudding
for all!

''A Child's Christmas in Wales'' continues through Jan. 3 at DR2 Theater, 103
East 15th Street, Manhattan; 212-727-2737, irishrep­.org. Running time: 1 hour
10 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/09/theater/review-a-childs-christmas-in-wales-fro
m-irish-repertory-theater.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Child's Christmas in Wales: John Cullum in this adaptation of
the Dylan Thomas prose poem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); POETRY (90%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (77%)

COUNTRY: WALES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Suffolk Police Chief Accused of Beating Man and Pressing His Fellow Officers
to Lie About It

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR; Arielle Dollinger contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 596 words


The former police chief of Suffolk County was arrested Wednesday on federal
charges that he walked into an interrogation room three years ago, badly beat a
man who was suspected of having stolen items from his police vehicle, then
coerced fellow officers to cover up the act, prosecutors said.

The former chief, James Burke, 51, who left the force recently as a federal
investigation into the episode mounted, faces charges that he violated the man's
civil rights and later obstructed an investigation into the matter.

''No one is above the law,'' Robert L. Capers, the United States attorney for
the Eastern District of New York, said while outlining the allegations at a news
conference at the federal courthouse in Central Islip, on Long Island.

The charges, as well as details about the altercation, were filed in Federal
District Court, where Mr. Burke was arraigned.

Mr. Burke, who worked in the Suffolk County Police Department for nearly three
decades and was appointed chief in January 2012, showed no emotion as he pleaded
not guilty to all charges before Judge Leonard D. Wexler. Mr. Burke will be held
at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn until a bail hearing that is
set for Friday.

The Associated Press reported that federal prosecutors sent a memo to Judge
Wexler that said that during the encounter on Dec. 14, 2012, Mr. Burke
threatened the suspect, Christopher Loeb, 29, by telling him that he would
administer a ''hotshot'' to Mr. Loeb, a slang term for a fatal dose of heroin.
The letter was later ordered sealed.

The charges stem from an episode in which police officers searched the Smithtown
home where Mr. Loeb lived with his mother.

Mr. Loeb was suspected of having broken into several cars and stealing their
contents; in the search, items were discovered that belonged to the police
chief, whose car was among the vehicles that had been robbed. Among the items
were a gun belt, several magazines of ammunition, a humidor and box of cigars,
clothing and a bag of toiletries. Mr. Loeb ultimately pleaded guilty to the
theft.

At the news conference, Mr. Capers said that after the chief's possessions were
discovered, officers allowed Mr. Burke into the suspect's home. He then drove to
the Fourth Precinct station house, according to Mr. Capers, and walked into a
room where Mr. Loeb was being interrogated. Mr. Loeb was handcuffed and chained
to the floor. The chief then punched and kicked Mr. Loeb, striking his head and
body, according to a news release from the Justice Department.

Mr. Burke's lawyer, Joseph Conway, did not respond to a phone message requesting
comment.

Mr. Capers said that once the federal civil rights investigation into the events
began, Mr. Burke sought to quash the report, coercing detectives into agreement
on a false story to cover up the assault. One of those detectives lied under
oath and gave false testimony during a state pretrial hearing in Mr. Loeb's
prosecution in October 2013, the United States attorney's office said.
Prosecutors suggested that more arrests may be forthcoming, according to The
A.P.

The Suffolk County Police Department, with more than 2,700 sworn officers and
more than 600 civilian members, provides law enforcement for much of eastern
Long Island.

In the statement from the Justice Department, Diego Rodriguez, the assistant
director in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's New York field
office, denounced Mr. Burke's alleged behavior.

''When caught at a crossroads between right and wrong,'' he said, ''Burke took a
shortcut on the path to justice.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/james-burke-former-suffolk-county-pol
ice-chief-is-arrested.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Burke, who led the Suffolk County police force, being
escorted outside the Federal Bureau of Investigation's offices in Melville on
Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWSDAY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); FEDERAL
INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS
(78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAWYERS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); JUDGES
(75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); BAIL (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%);
HEROIN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY
(56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schneiderman Takes Control of Inquiry Into Fatal Police Shooting

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN and AL BAKER; Noah Remnick and Eli Rosenberg
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 833 words


The New York State attorney general's office has taken control of an inquiry
into the fatal shooting on Tuesday of an unarmed man in a wooded area in
Westchester County by a New York City police officer.

It is the first time the office of Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general,
has done so in a police shooting since an executive order in July that requires
his office to begin independent reviews of certain categories of civilian
killings by police officers and, if the evidence warrants, present the evidence
to a special grand jury.

The inquiry began even before an autopsy of the slain man, Miguel Espinal, 36,
was completed on Wednesday, or the two officers involved in the case had even
been interviewed. Soon after the shooting, representatives from Mr.
Schneiderman's office arrived at the scene, off the Saw Mill River Parkway in
Yonkers, to oversee the earliest gathering of evidence. Mr. Schneiderman's
office declined to say whether the officers had been interviewed as of Wednesday
evening.

''We will work with our partners in law enforcement to conduct a full and fair
investigation, Eric Soufer, a spokesman for the attorney general, said.

Westchester County officials said they had not yet received autopsy results from
the medical examiner's office. The New York Police Department will also conduct
its own internal inquiry into the shooting.

The initial police investigation was led by Westchester County's public safety
department. The department chief, George Longworth, is the brother of a New York
City police union lawyer, Greg Longworth, who was an aide to Commissioner
William J. Bratton when he first led the department in the 1990s.

The executive order, issued by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, was a direct response to an
outcry over the past year after fatal shootings and other deaths of civilians at
the hands of police officers that did not result in indictments as a result of
grand jury proceedings overseen by local prosecutors. The order itself made
reference to the public concern ''that such incidents cannot be prosecuted at
the local level without conflict or bias, or the public perception of conflict
or bias.''

The shooting of Mr. Espinal represents the first big test of the new approach.
The attorney general has begun one previous investigation, which is continuing,
into the death of a 42-year-old woman, Raynette Turner, who was found dead in a
Mount Vernon holding cell after she was arrested for stealing crab legs from a
wholesale food store.

Mr. Espinal died, the police said, from a single shot fired by a uniformed
officer, Garthlette James, in a densely wooded park after a car chase and
pursuit on foot. The initial police investigation did not reveal any witnesses
to the shooting itself, which the New York City police said in a statement came
''during a struggle'' in which ''one officer's firearm discharged.''

The confrontation began in the Bronx, after Officer James and his partner, Romeo
Francis, tried to pull over a gray 2009 Nissan Z. The Nissan fled and the
officers followed it into Westchester County. After losing sight of the car on
the Saw Mill River Parkway, the police said, the officers next saw it coming
toward them, traveling against traffic. The Nissan crashed into three cars and
Mr. Espinal ran into the woods of Tibbetts Brook Park.

A second man in the car, Akeem Smith, 25, was injured in the crash and arrested
on the parkway, officials said.

By Wednesday morning, Alvin L. Bragg Jr., who is leading the attorney general's
new unit, and two other lawyers had already been to the scene, along with
several investigators, Mr. Soufer said. In all, the unit has roughly 15 lawyers
and 20 investigators.

The governor's order requires the new unit to look at police killings of unarmed
civilians, or killings where serious questions exist over whether the slain
civilian was armed.

If Mr. Schneiderman's office decides there is enough evidence to pursue criminal
charges in the Yonkers shooting, it would impanel a special grand jury to hear
evidence, taking the matter out of the hands of Janet DiFiore, the county
prosecutor whom Mr. Cuomo, a Westchester resident, recently nominated to replace
Jonathan Lippman as chief judge of the State Court of Appeals.

One critical piece of evidence will be Mr. Espinal's autopsy, which could shed
light on how close he was to Officer James when he was shot. The details of
their confrontation, including whether Officer Francis saw any physical struggle
leading up to the shooting, remained unclear on Wednesday.

At the White Plains home of Officer James, who has been on the job in New York
City for just under four years, two local police officers arrived at midday and
told reporters he did not want to be bothered.

Farther north, at a two-story house in Pine Bush, a woman who answered the door
holding a baby said that her husband, Officer Francis, an eight-year veteran,
was not home. She declined to speak further. A small, white windmill spun in the
front yard.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/new-york-state-attorney-general-takes
-control-of-inquiry-into-fatal-police-shooting.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An unarmed man was shot by a New York City police officer on
Tuesday in a park near the Saw Mill River Parkway in Yonkers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); ATTORNEYS
GENERAL (91%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); AUTOPSIES (90%); POLICE FORCES
(90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); CORONERS COURTS
& OFFICES (78%); WITNESSES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ARREST WARRANTS
(77%); ARRESTS (77%); INDICTMENTS (75%); DEATHS (75%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS
(73%); LARCENY & THEFT (62%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; West Bank: Attackers Wound 4 Israelis

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 137 words


Gunmen presumed to be Palestinians fired more than 20 bullets at an Israeli car
in a drive-by shooting in the occupied West Bank on Wednesday, wounding an
Israeli couple, according to the Israeli military and news media. The Israelis
were identified as Shaul and Rachel Nir. Mr. Nir was a leader of the so-called
Jewish Underground that carried out attacks against Palestinians in the 1980s.
He was sentenced to life in prison for his role in a gun and grenade attack on
the Islamic College in Hebron, in which three Palestinian students were killed,
but his sentence was commuted and he was released after about seven years.
Earlier on Wednesday, a Palestinian stabbed and wounded two Israelis in the West
Bank city of Hebron, the Israeli authorities said. An Israeli security guard
fatally shot the assailant at the scene.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/middleeast/west-bank-attackers-wound-4-i
sraelis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (87%); CORRECTIONS (86%); PRISONS (86%); SENTENCING (86%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%);
RELIGION (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%)

COMPANY: EAST WEST BANCORP INC (58%)

TICKER: EWBC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%);
SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Researchers Trace Virus's Path

BYLINE: By SHERI FINK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 148 words


Ebola viruses that sickened many people during the height of the epidemic in
Liberia can be traced back to a single case of the disease probably introduced
from Sierra Leone, according to a report published Wednesday in the journal Cell
Host and Microbe. ''The data are consistent with the vast majority of cases in
Liberia coming from a single event,'' said Jason T. Ladner of the U.S. Army
Medical Research Institute for Infectious Diseases. The virus then spread from
Liberia back into Guinea, where the current epidemic was first identified.
Scientists analyzed genomic sequences from 140 blood samples, nearly 2 percent
of all reported cases in Liberia, collected over 11 months, after a smaller
outbreak had been controlled. Liberia had no new Ebola cases last week, and a
recent cluster was most likely linked to a rare case of transmission from a
survivor, officials said Wednesday.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/africa/report-traces-ebolas-spread-in-li
beria.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VIROLOGY (90%); EBOLA
VIRUS DISEASE (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); DISEASE
REPORTING (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (88%); RESEARCH
REPORTS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); US ARMY (54%); ARMIES
(54%)

COUNTRY: SIERRA LEONE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asia; Azerbaijan: Activist Freed From Prison

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 96 words


Azerbaijan on Wednesday released Leyla Yunus, a human rights activist whose
imprisonment was denounced by critics as politically motivated. Ms. Yunus, the
director of the Institute for Peace and Democracy, had been detained since July
2014. She was sentenced to eight and a half years in prison in August this year.
Her husband, Arif Yunus, was released on Nov. 12. They were convicted of
treason, espionage and tax evasion in a case that human rights groups say was an
effort to muzzle dissent. A court of appeals on Wednesday changed their
sentences to suspended sentences.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/azerbaijan-activist-freed-from-pris
on.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(90%); CORRECTIONS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); TREASON (87%); ESPIONAGE
(87%); LITIGATION (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (86%); TAX FRAUD (84%); TAX
LAW (83%); APPEALS COURTS (51%)

COUNTRY: ASIA (91%); AZERBAIJAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Carolina: Suit Filed Over Marriage Recusal Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words


Three couples filed a lawsuit Wednesday challenging a state law allowing
officials to refuse to perform same-sex marriages based on their religious
beliefs. Their lawyer says the state is violating the First Amendment and using
taxpayer money to advance a religious point of view. The law was pushed by
Republicans and passed in June over the veto of Gov. Pat McCrory, also a
Republican. It allows local magistrates, who can preside over marriages, and
some register of deeds officials, who issue licenses, to opt out of performing
marriages if they have a ''sincerely held religious objection.'' About 5 percent
of the state's roughly 670 magistrates had filed recusal paperwork as of
September, according to the state court system.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/north-carolina-suit-filed-over-marriage-rec
usal-law.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%);
MARRIAGE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (88%); SAME
SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); VETO (88%); MAGISTRATES
(86%)

PERSON: PAT MCCRORY (55%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Colorado: No Charges for Students in Sexting Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | ROCKIES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 170 words


More than 100 students involved in a sexting scandal at Cañon City High School
will not face criminal charges, a prosecutor announced Wednesday in a case that
illustrated the reality of sexting cases across the country. District Attorney
Thom LeDoux of Fremont County said the investigation did not show that any
adults had been involved. None of the 351 images were posted to the Internet,
and there was no evidence of coercion or bullying, Mr. LeDoux said. The
exchanges of explicit photos involved 106 children in some way. An unknown
number of students were suspended when the scandal broke in November, and the
high school football team forfeited its last game because players were involved.
Police said students used a cellphone app that hid the photos. Possession of
explicit photos of minors is a felony in Colorado, which, like many states, has
not updated laws intended to fight adult exploitation of children for the
smartphone age. Mr. LeDoux said his office is sending warning letters to the
students involved.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/colorado-no-charges-for-students-in-sexting
-case.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXTING (93%); CHILDREN (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES
(88%); FELONIES (88%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (87%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (86%);
HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS
(73%); CHILD WELFARE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Mexico: Conviction in Murders of Homeless Men

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
24

LENGTH: 134 words


A jury convicted a 20-year-old man Wednesday of beating two homeless men to
death with cinder blocks and other items as they slept last year in Albuquerque.
The man, Alex Rios, was found guilty of two counts of second-degree murder in
the attack on Allison Gorman, 44, and Kee Thompson, 46, in a vacant lot. The
police said Mr. Rios and two teenagers killed the men, who were both Navajo. The
attack led the city's mayor to establish a task force on Native American
homelessness, though prosecutors have not said the victims were targeted because
of their race. Mr. Rios's lawyer, Daniel Salazar, said his client did not
participate in the attack and only watched from a distance, scared and in shock.
The defense also said prosecutors lacked physical evidence proving that Mr. Rios
struck the victims.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/new-mexico-conviction-in-murders-of-homeles
s-men.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EVIDENCE (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (69%)

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Astronauts Get Christmas Delivery

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 128 words


The International Space Station accepted its first American shipment in more
than half a year on Wednesday, receiving Christmas presents and groceries for
the resident astronauts. ''There's much rejoicing on the ground,'' Mission
Control at Cape Canaveral radioed. One NASA astronaut, Kjell Lindgren, used the
station's big robot arm to grab the capsule and its three and a half tons of
cargo. He operated the crane using joysticks, and after practicing the operation
earlier in the week he joked, ''I knew those hours playing video games would
come in handy!'' The supply ship, named Cygnus after the swan constellation,
rocketed into orbit Sunday. Cygnus will remain at the space station for a month
before being filled with trash and cut loose for a fiery re-entry.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/florida-astronauts-get-christmas-delivery.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES
(90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); ROBOTICS (71%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New '70s Throwback Bar in Bushwick

BYLINE: By BRIAN SLOAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; BOîTE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 412 words


It may look like an old-man dive bar, but the scene inside Birdy's is super
young. Opened in September by members of the local rock band Weeknight (Holly
MacGibbon and Andy Simmons), the bar channels 1970s-era rock with kitschy
touches like pinball machines, a bust of Elvis lording over the bar and a
vintage Colt 45 advertisement with Billy Dee Williams.

Birdy's is among a rash of new bars that have opened in this formerly remote
section of Bushwick. On a recent Saturday night, the cute 20-something crowd was
buzzing about one retro touch in particular: drink prices. ''You can get a
Budweiser and a shot for $6,'' a woman in a leather jacket said to her friend.
''That's solid.''   The Place

Under the elevated M train between the Myrtle Avenue and Central Avenue
stations, Birdy's sits at the apex of a colorful five-corner intersection that
includes a coffeehouse, a Family Dollar store and a small triangular park.
Inside, a narrow front room has a row of wooden booths, black velvet paintings
and a long bar accented by Christmas lights. In the back, a spacious rec room
has wood paneling, foosball and four pinball machines.

The Crowd

Under 30. It's a friendly mélange of Brooklyn types who could be extras in a
''Girls'' episode, with a few Marnies from Manhattan thrown in. There's also a
strong gay and lesbian presence, which may say more about the generation than
the bar itself.

The Playlist

When the owners are rock musicians, expect a lot of rock, including late-'70s
rock and punk (Buzzcocks, Blondie) and alt-'80s favorites (Public Image Ltd.,
Nine Inch Nails). It sounds like college radio from the '90s (some of the
millennials there may know what that means).

Getting In

The only challenge is navigating all the smokers on the sidewalk. Inside, there
is a bouncer who checks IDs, even for those clearly above age 30.

Drinks

Perhaps in line with the '70s theme, it's cash only (though there's an A.T.M.
inside). Vintage cocktails like a whiskey sour are $7, beers start at $3, or
splurge on a can of Colt 45 for $5. The Utz party mix in faux wood bowls is
free.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.

Birdy's, 1215 Myrtle Avenue (corner of Willoughby Avenue and Charles Place),
facebook.com/birdysbushwick. Open Monday through Friday 5 p.m. to 4 a.m.,
Saturday 2 p.m. to 4 a.m., Sunday 2 p.m. to midnight.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/birdys-bushwick-70s-bar.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PABÓN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%);
MUSIC (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); BEVERAGE PRICES (69%); PHOTO & VIDEO
SHARING (67%); CHRISTMAS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS
(64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Record of Mosque Hints at Muslims' Long History in New York

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BUILDING BLOCKS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 833 words


Muslims have been called many things lately in America. New Yorkers, however,
have had their own word for them, going back more than a century:

Neighbors.

Historians have long known about Little Syria, a flourishing community in Lower
Manhattan, south of what is now the World Trade Center. But most evidence,
including the landmark former St. George's Syrian Catholic Church, spoke to its
having been an overwhelmingly Christian enclave.

Today, evidence is coming to light that Muslims not only lived in Little Syria
but worshiped there, too, in a mosque -- or masjid -- on Rector Street, between
Greenwich and Washington Streets (just around the corner from St. George's).

''Muslims are not a recent, foreign intrusion that should generate fear, but are
an ever-present feature of the American -- and specifically New York --
fabric,'' said Todd Fine, president of the Washington Street Historical Society
and a doctoral candidate in history at the City University of New York.

''Most Americans identify with iconic stories of ethnic immigration,'' Mr. Fine
said. ''The Rector Street mosque in Little Syria offers an elegant way to show
that Muslims also belong.''

A tantalizing description is found in the files of The New York Sun newspaper.

''While the voice of the muezzin, calling the faithful to prayer, is never heard
in New York, nevertheless the Mohammedan form of worship is carried on here,''
The Sun told its readers on Feb. 25, 1912.

The newspaper's office was 16 blocks from a six-story building, the Oriental, at
17 Rector Street. ''There is nothing about the building to indicate that here is
a temple where gather those who believe in Allah and Mohammed,'' The Sun said.

There was certainly something -- a barber pole -- to indicate that here was a
shop where gather those looking for a shave and a haircut. Above the basement
barbershop, lacy undergarments were displayed in the Moutran family store.

Upstairs, on the third floor, was a suite of rooms, including an apartment,
rented by the consulate general of the Ottoman Empire for the use of Mehmed Ali
Effendi, an imam and an attaché to the Ottoman Embassy in Washington. From his
conventional streetwear, The Sun said, ''You might mistake him for a German
scholar.''

Beginning in 1910, the imam had promoted greater adherence to religious
practices among the city's Muslims, the newspaper said.

''In the Rector Street mesjed, the same ceremonies are prescribed for entrance
as rule at mosques,'' the newspaper said. ''You have to remove your shoes and
wash your arms, face and feet.'' It was for men only. Extra services were held
on Sundays for those whose work kept them from the Friday congregational prayer.

''The chapel consists of two rooms, soberly furnished,'' The Sun said. ''One of
the rooms is the sanctuary and the other is the audience room. As the worshipers
say their prayers standing, it often holds as many as from 75 to 100.''

However, on the feasts of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha, which the newspaper
called by their Turkish names, the crowd spilled into the imam's private rooms.

Patrick D. Bowen described the masjid as ''one of the earliest immigrant mosques
in the U.S.'' in his new book, ''A History of Conversion to Islam in the United
States, Volume 1.''

In a three-volume 1897 account, ''The American Metropolis: From Knickerbocker
Days to the Present Time,'' Frank Moss said there were about 600 Muslims in New
York City and that they were planning to erect a mosque.

Nothing more was heard of their effort, Linda K. Jacobs wrote in her new book,
''Strangers in the West: The Syrian Colony of New York City, 1880-1900.''

She said the most convincing aspect of the 1912 article was a mention of Turkish
students at Columbia being among the imam's charges, implying that the masjid
''really was a place of worship attracting people from other parts of the
city.''

Given the imam's affiliation with the Ottoman government, it is difficult to say
where politics left off and worship began at 17 Rector Street -- if such a
distinction can even be made. It is also potentially misleading to assume that
the ''Turks'' or ''Syrians'' described by writers 100 years ago, when the
Ottoman Empire existed, correspond exactly to those nationalities today.

What happened to the masjid is unclear, though the building lasted until the
mid-1950s, when it was torn down to expand a skyscraper at Rector and Greenwich
Streets that is now the Greenwich Club Residences. Its site is marked by a
Dunkin' Donuts shop and the storefront law office of Jeffrey E. Levine.

Despite all the unknowns, students of Little Syria are pleased to have expanded
their understanding of the quarter.

''This story could finally be the missing key that we have been looking for,''
said Carl Antoun, the collections director of the Washington Street Historical
Society. ''This solidifies the notion that Muslims and Christians were living
side by side, not only in Lebanon and Syria but in Lower Manhattan, as well.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/nyregion/mosque-shows-that-muslims-have-long-b
een-a-part-of-new-york.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: One of New York's first mosques operated
out of 17 Rector Street, seen in 1930, in the Little Syria neighborhood in Lower
Manhattan. An 1892 map roughly indicated Little Syria. The building that housed
the mosque was torn down in the mid-1950s
its site is now marked by a Dunkin' Donuts shop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PERCY SPERR
 TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ''THE SUN'S GUIDE TO
NEW YORK'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES
(74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); BARBER SHOPS (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Blendle, a Journalism Payments Start-Up, Targets a U.S. Start Date

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 290 words


Blendle, a publishing start-up that aims to simplify the way that people pay for
journalism online, will be introduced in beta form in America in early 2016, the
company said Wednesday.

The company allows people to pay small amounts for individual articles, rather
than having to sign up for full subscriptions to particular publications. It is
backed by The New York Times and the German publishing company Axel Springer,
and has more than 500,000 subscribers in Germany and the Netherlands, where it
signed up major national publishers, as well as The Economist, The Wall Street
Journal and The Washington Post.

''Paywalls are getting more and more common in the United States,'' Alexander
Klöpping, the company's founder, said in a statement. ''Some of the best content
is only available behind those paywalls, doesn't go on the web until days after
publication in print newspapers and magazines and is still viewed through an
array of intrusive ads.''

The company, Mr. Klöpping said, seeks to address those difficulties, and also
curates and suggests articles, using both technology and human editors. It has
been called the ''iTunes of journalism,'' a reference to Apple's music store,
which stores credit card details so that people can buy music easily.

So-called micro-payments, or the ability for readers to quickly buy individual
articles with a minimum of form-filling, have long been a hope for a beleaguered
news industry struggling to make ends meet online. Many publishers are moving
toward subscription models, as digital advertising remains a much less lucrative
business than its declining print counterpart.

The articles that have sold best so far, Blendle said, are longer, and offer
background, analysis or opinion.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/blendle-a-journalism-payments-s
tart-up-targets-a-us-start-date.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAYWALLS (90%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); JOURNALISM
(90%); PRINT JOURNALISM (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CREDIT
CARDS (69%)

COMPANY: GRAHAM HOLDINGS CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NASH HOLDINGS LLC
(57%)

TICKER: GHC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120
TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%);
NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NETHERLANDS
(56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Review: Samuel Blaser Quartet's 'Spring Rain' Recalls a Ghost

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


Samuel Blaser Quartet

''Spring Rain''

(Whirlwind)

The free-thinking American composer, clarinetist and tenor saxophonist Jimmy
Giuffre was already a bit of a ghost when he died in 2008, at 86. His career had
stalled out decades earlier, reaching its commercial peak in the late 1950s,
when he was leading a sparse but stylish trio with the valve trombonist Bob
Brookmeyer and the guitarist Jim Hall.

The spontaneous flair and chamber-like cool of Mr. Giuffre's music have brought
him back into favor in recent years. One of the contemporary artists tapping
into his legacy is Samuel Blaser, an intrepid, Swiss-born trombonist living in
Berlin, whose new album, ''Spring Rain,'' is a thoughtful and energetic tribute.

Because Mr. Blaser plays trombone, it's only natural to assume his interest in
Mr. Giuffre starts with Mr. Brookmeyer. But ''Spring Rain'' bears more affinity
with a later edition of the Jimmy Giuffre 3, the spikier trio Mr. Giuffre led in
the early '60s, with Paul Bley on piano and Steve Swallow on bass. This album
includes compositions from that group's repertory, like the lonesome fanfare
''Cry, Want,'' and two durable tunes by Carla Bley.

Mr. Blaser explores this music, and the terse angularities of his own originals,
with a smartly elastic rhythm section: Russ Lossing on piano and keyboards, Drew
Gress on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums. (He'll have a different lineup on
Friday and Saturday at Ibeam in Brooklyn: Mr. Lossing, the bassist Masa
Kamaguchi and the drummer Billy Mintz.) The band's interactions give the
impression of an alert and contingent poise.

Mr. Blaser has a precise, expressive style on trombone and he's an ace with
multiphonic techniques, which enable him to growl chords on the instrument; one
track, ''Trippin','' finds him in solo reverie, calmly deploying garbled
effects. (That title suggests a nod to the Giuffre tune ''Trudgin','' also found
here.)

Mr. Blaser's focused interiority and dauntless self-possession point toward Mr.
Giuffre even when the connection is otherwise unclear. The same can be said for
his sidemen. One original, ''The First Snow,'' has a solo by Mr. Lossing that
evokes the limber scrawl of a graffiti artist, played on both acoustic piano and
Minimoog synthesizer. It's a moment that ducks any direct emulation, but its
bristling composure recalls Mr. Giuffre's ideals, especially a focus on
originality.

Samuel Blaser Quartet

''Spring Rain''

(Whirlwind)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/arts/music/review-samuel-blaser-quartets-sprin
g-rain-recalls-a-ghost.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC
GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); RECORD
RELEASES (70%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (56%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Happy Birthday' Copyright Case Reaches a Settlement

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 319 words


After more than two years of litigation, ''Happy Birthday to You'' -- often
called the most popular song in the world, but one that has long been under
copyright -- is one step closer to joining the public domain.

In September, a federal judge ruled that Warner Music, the song's publisher, did
not have a valid copyright claim to ''Happy Birthday,'' which has been estimated
to collect $2 million a year in royalties. But what that ruling meant for the
future of the song -- and Warner's liability -- was unclear, and a trial had
been set to begin next week.

In a filing on Tuesday in United States District Court in Los Angeles, the
parties in the case said they had agreed to a settlement to end the case. The
terms of that deal are confidential. But if the settlement is approved by the
court, the song is expected to formally enter the public domain, meaning that it
will not be covered by copyright and can be performed freely.

The origins of ''Happy Birthday'' date to 1893 with the publication of ''Good
Morning to All,'' a song with the same tune but different lyrics that was
written by Mildred Hill and her sister Patty, a kindergarten teacher in
Kentucky. Birthday-themed variations began to appear in the early 1900s,
although their authorship was murky. Warner, which had owned the song since
1988, traced its copyright claim to registrations made in 1935 by the Hill
sisters' original publisher, the Clayton F. Summy Company.

In a twist to the case, the Association for Childhood Education International, a
nonprofit group that was co-founded by Patty Hill and has collected a large
portion of the song's royalties, filed a motion last month arguing that if
Warner did not control the copyright to ''Happy Birthday,'' then it did.

A lawyer for the association declined to comment on Wednesday, but the document
filed with the court this week said that the organization was a party to the
settlement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/business/media/happy-birthday-copyright-case-r
eaches-a-settlement.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT &
COMPROMISE (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); ROYALTIES (89%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); PRIMARY
SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%);
JUDGES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILDREN (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY
SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

First Officer Takes Stand in Baltimore Police Trial

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and JESS BIDGOOD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1100 words


BALTIMORE --  A cool and composed Officer William G. Porter took the witness
stand in his own defense Wednesday, telling a jury he thought Freddie Gray was
faking his injuries and had no idea the young man's life was in danger until a
police transport van arrived at the Western District police station and he
opened the door to find Mr. Gray, shackled and unresponsive, slumped against a
bench inside.

''It was traumatic for me also,'' Officer Porter, 26, who faces manslaughter
charges in Mr. Gray's death, told a rapt jury during more than four hours of
testimony, with Mr. Gray's mother and other relatives looking on. ''Knowing I'm
in the neighborhood, seeing him every day, not getting a response.''

As he and other officers waited for a medic to arrive, he said, ''it felt like
an eternity.''

For months, this city has been consumed with talk of Mr. Gray, a 25-year-old
black man whose death, from a spinal cord injury sustained in police custody,
set off the worst riots here since the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. in 1968. The testimony of Officer Porter, who is also
African-American and grew up in Baltimore not far from Mr. Gray, was the first
time the public heard directly from any of the six officers facing criminal
charges in the death.

At turns deferential and at turns argumentative, he seemed well prepared, often
interrupting himself to use the honorific ''Mr.'' when discussing Mr. Gray. He
clashed repeatedly with a prosecutor, Michael Schatzow, as Mr. Schatzow sought
to poke holes in his story and ferret out inconsistencies between his testimony
Wednesday and what he had told internal affairs investigators earlier. At one
point, Mr. Schatzow suggested that Officer Porter had tried to protect his
fellow officers and that the Baltimore Police Department had a ''stop
snitching'' culture.

''Absolutely not,'' Officer Porter said sharply. ''I'm actually offended that
you would say something like that.''

His testimony helped open the defense's case after a forensic pathologist
testified that Mr. Gray's death had been an accident, not a homicide. Addressing
the state's main accusations against him, Officer Porter told jurors that he had
not called for a medic when Mr. Gray asked for one because Mr. Gray ''was unable
to give me any reason for any kind of medical emergency,'' and that he had not
buckled Mr. Gray into the van because the wagon compartment was so tight that it
could have put Officer Porter's gun within reach of a prisoner.

Dressed in a gray suit, striped shirt and blue tie, Officer Porter spoke calmly
as he took jurors through the six stops the van made as it carried Mr. Gray
through West Baltimore -- a neighborhood whose residents, including Mr. Gray, he
had gotten to know well. He painted Mr. Gray as a petty drug dealer who, shortly
before his death, had tried to kick the windows out of a police cruiser when
under arrest.

''If he wasn't dirty, he'd come over and talk with me,'' the officer said,
explaining that ''dirty'' was a reference to someone carrying illegal drugs. He
said he was sorry Mr. Gray had died. ''Freddie Gray and I, we weren't friends,
but we had a mutual respect,'' he said.

Mr. Gray was arrested on the morning of April 12 near the Gilmor Homes, a
low-income housing complex in West Baltimore; Officer Porter was called as
backup. When he arrived, he said, he could overhear a man, who he now knows to
be Mr. Gray, saying, ''I can't breathe; I need an asthma inhaler.'' But he said
Mr. Gray never told him that directly, contradicting lawyers for the state and
one of their key witnesses.

Officer Porter's first conversation with Mr. Gray took place at the van's fourth
stop; the prosecution contends that Mr. Gray was gravely injured by then. But on
Wednesday, Dr. Vincent Di Maio, a former chief medical examiner in San Antonio,
told the jury that Mr. Gray's fatal injuries must have occurred between the
fifth and sixth stops, because he would have been instantly paralyzed and unable
to talk as soon as it happened.

''You're talking about a massive fracture,'' said Dr. Di Maio, a frequent
defense witness who also testified for George Zimmerman, a Florida man acquitted
of killing a black teenager, Trayvon Martin. He went on, ''To get that fracture,
his head had to hit one of the walls or the door in the van, and it had to hit
with such force as to break his neck.''

Under questioning from a defense lawyer, Gary Proctor, Officer Porter used
another lawyer, Joseph Murtha, as a prop to show how he said he had helped Mr.
Gray onto a bench at the fourth stop. He slipped his right arm through Mr.
Murtha's left arm, which was pinned behind his back as if in handcuffs. He
insisted that Mr. Gray had been well enough at that moment to help himself.
''That would be physically impossible,'' Officer Porter said, ''to pick up a
150-pound man, and I weigh 220 pounds. He assisted me in helping himself.''

Later, Mr. Schatzow challenged him, saying, ''At stops four and five on April
12, 2015, you did not protect Freddie Gray's life, did you?''

''Untrue,'' Officer Porter replied.

He also said that he and the van driver, Officer Caesar R. Goodson Jr., had
discussed taking Mr. Gray to the hospital, mostly because when detainees
complain of injuries, the department's central booking unit will not take them
unless a doctor signs off. But he said he had had no authority to order Officer
Goodson, who faces a more serious murder charge, to take Mr. Gray to a hospital.

''I cannot order Officer Goodson to do anything,'' Officer Porter said. ''He is
my equal.''

Officer Porter has pleaded not guilty to charges of manslaughter, assault,
reckless endangerment and misconduct in office. If convicted on all counts, he
could face more than 25 years in prison. During the trial, he has been a quiet
presence: a stocky man dressed in a suit and tie, sitting at the end of the
defense table with his lawyers, accompanying them to the bench for conferences
with the judge.

A handful of his supporters -- they have not said if they are friends or family
-- have attended the trial each day, and he has greeted them warmly. Before
Wednesday, he had not said a word publicly, though the jury heard his voice at
length last week when the state played a 55-minute videotape of an interview he
had given to police internal affairs investigators. On Wednesday, Mr. Schatzow
repeatedly pressed him on why he had provided more detail in the courtroom than
in that interview.

He answered that he had thought he was a witness, not a suspect. ''I didn't know
I needed to defend myself,'' he said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/us/freddie-gray-trial-baltimore.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Baltimore Police Department van that transported Freddie
Gray on the day of his arrest and fatal spinal cord injury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN
DUNCAN/THE BALTIMORE SUN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 William G. Porter (A31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TESTIMONY
(90%); HOMICIDE (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (75%);
MANSLAUGHTER (75%); AUTOPSIES (75%); FORENSICS (73%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES
(72%); RIOTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); INTERNAL
INVESTIGATIONS (62%); PATHOLOGY (60%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bitcoin Mystery and a Police Raid

BYLINE: By MICHELLE INNIS and AUSTIN RAMZY; Michelle Innis reported from Sydney,
Australia, and Austin Ramzy from Hong Kong.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 419 words


SYDNEY, Australia --  The Australian authorities on Wednesday raided the home of
a computer expert and entrepreneur in suburban Sydney, just hours after two news
outlets identified the man as a likely creator of the digital currency Bitcoin.

The Australian Federal Police said the raid on the residence of the man, Craig
Steven Wright, was for a tax investigation, and a spokesman said it had no
connection to the Bitcoin reports. The Australian Taxation Office, which asked
the police to carry out the raid, declined to comment on ''any individual's or
entity's tax affairs.''

The raid, in the leafy suburb of Gordon on Sydney's upper north shore, came
hours after reports in Wired magazine and Gizmodo drew strong links between Mr.
Wright and Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous creator of the virtual currency
that has grown to billions of dollars in total value.

The identity of Mr. Nakamoto has been a mystery since the currency's computer
code was released in 2009, with several false leads having been aired and
debunked. The growing value of Bitcoin, which is managed by computers that run
its peer-to-peer software, has driven the search for its creator or creators.

Wired, which was first to identify Mr. Wright as a possible inventor of the
currency, cited old blog posts as well as leaked documents and emails. The
magazine acknowledged that the trail of clues could be a hoax, but it added:
''If Wright is seeking to fake his Nakamoto connection, his hoax would be
practically as ambitious as Bitcoin itself.''

The Gizmodo report said that Mr. Wright and Dave Kleiman, an American who died
in 2013, ''were involved in the development of the digital currency.''

Both outlets cited what was described as a transcript of a 2014 meeting among
Mr. Wright, lawyers and tax officials, in which he is quoted as saying, ''I did
my best to try and hide the fact that I've been running Bitcoin since 2009.''

''By the end of this, I think half the world is going to bloody know,'' he
added, according to the transcript.

Efforts to reach Mr. Wright on Wednesday were unsuccessful.

A Newsweek investigation in 2014 incorrectly identified the Bitcoin creator as
Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, a physicist living with his mother in Southern
California. He denied the report, saying he had only learned of Bitcoin weeks
earlier after a reporter contacted his son.

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/australia/sydney-bitcoin-raid.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Australian police said the raid was for a tax inquiry, and a
spokesman said it had no connection to reports that the home's resident, Craig
Steven Wright, was the likely creator of Bitcoin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID
GRAY/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CURRENCY (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%);
TRANSCRIPTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE
(77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); CURRENCIES
(72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%)

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding a New Star: Morrison Is Leaving 'Neverland'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 236 words


Matthew Morrison, the star of ''Finding Neverland,'' is leaving the Broadway
musical next month.

Mr. Morrison, who plays J.M. Barrie, the British playwright who wrote ''Peter
Pan,'' has been with the show since it began previews in March. His contract is
expiring; the show has not yet announced a replacement.

Best known for his portrayal of the teacher Will Schuester on ''Glee,'' Mr.
Morrison got his break on Broadway, earning a 2005 Tony Award nomination for his
work in ''The Light in the Piazza.''

He is departing ''Finding Neverland'' on Jan. 24, just five days after Kelsey
Grammer, an actor famed for his role in ''Cheers,'' returns to the cast in a
dual role, as Captain Hook and the theater producer Charles Frohman.

''Finding Neverland,'' based on a 2004 film of the same name, is about how Mr.
Barrie was inspired to write ''Peter Pan.'' The musical features a book by James
Graham and music and lyrics by Gary Barlow and Eliot Kennedy.

The show started strong at the box office, grossing more than $1 million a week
through much of the spring and summer, but dipped during the fall, to a low of
$652,542 during the week that ended Nov. 1 -- a bad week for most shows on
Broadway. It has since rebounded somewhat; the show topped $1 million again
during Thanksgiving week, and grossed $867,467 last week.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/08/matthew-morrison-is-leaving-neverla
nd/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); MUSIC (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); MUSICAL
THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); TONY AWARDS (78%); ACTORS &
ACTRESSES (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); THEATER (73%);
ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yardbird Lives

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words


The opera company folded, but the show will go on. When Gotham Chamber Opera
closed this fall, it looked like one of the casualties would be the New York
premiere of ''Charlie Parker's Yardbird,'' the ambitious new work it had
co-commissioned with Opera Philadelphia and which it had planned to perform at
the Apollo Theater, where Charlie Parker himself played.

But thanks to fast work by Opera Philadelphia and the Apollo, which teamed up to
save the production, New Yorkers will get to hear ''Charlie Parker's Yardbird''
after all, the two organizations announced Wednesday. They said it would be
performed April 1 and 3 at the Apollo, featuring the acclaimed tenor Lawrence
Brownlee, who originated the title role last spring in Philadelphia; most of the
original cast; and its original conductor, Corrado Rovaris, who will lead the
Opera Philadelphia Orchestra in the company's first appearance in New York.

Mikki Shepard, the Apollo's executive producer, said that the theater had been
especially excited to stage an opera about Parker, noting that he had played at
the theater numerous times and that he had, fittingly, given his first live
''Charlie Parker With Strings'' performances there. So when Gotham went under,
she said, she immediately got on the phone with Opera Philadelphia to try to
salvage the production.

''We called Opera Philadelphia and said, 'Let's go!' '' she recalled. ''And they
said 'Yes, let's go!' ''

David B. Devan, the general director and president of Opera Philadelphia, said
that he had been about to phone the theater himself. ''This piece needed to be
at the Apollo,'' he said.

The two organizations hammered out a plan to co-produce the New York premiere of
the work and began raising money from the Ford Foundation, the Howard Gilman
Foundation, Merrill Lynch, the Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation and
others. (They still have more to raise.)

The opera, composed by Daniel Schnyder with a libretto by Bridgette A. Wimberly,
was described by Anthony Tommasini in The New York Times as a ''swift-paced
chamber opera with a pulsing, jazz-infused score.'' He wrote that Mr. Brownlee,
who is one of today's leading bel canto tenors and who regularly sings at the
Metropolitan Opera and other leading houses, ''deftly'' handled bursts of bebop
and scatting and ''dispatched runs that suggested jazzy Rossini.''

Mr. Brownlee said that he was excited to bring the opera to Harlem. He said in a
statement, ''Taking on this role is a challenge that I have greatly enjoyed and
I am thrilled to revisit it in New York, where Charlie enjoyed some of his
greatest triumphs and endured some of the hardships and trials that ultimately
brought his life to a premature end.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/09/charlie-parker-opera-will-go-on-aft
er-all/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%);
MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (75%);
FUNDRAISING (71%); FOUNDATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Living Room to Close

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 279 words


The Living Room, a no-frills nightclub that gave an early start to Norah Jones
and the Lumineers, and for almost 18 years has hosted countless
singer-songwriters in three locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn, will close at
the end of December, its owners, Steve Rosenthal and Jennifer Gilson, announced
on Tuesday.

The club, founded in 1998 in a cramped space at the corner of Allen and Stanton
Streets on the Lower East Side that had once been a fried chicken restaurant,
quickly gained a reputation as an intimate stage that often showcased
extraordinary talent. Besides Ms. Jones, its early performers -- documented in a
series of compilation albums -- included Jesse Harris, Richard Julian, Joseph
Arthur and Jesse Malin.

The Living Room moved to a more spacious room on Ludlow Street in 2003 but
closed last year after being priced out of the neighborhood, Ms. Gilson and Mr.
Rosenthal said. Late in 2014 it moved again, to an even bigger space in
Williamsburg, where the club had a balcony and a rooftop bar -- palatial digs
compared to its first home -- but it struggled to establish itself there.

Mr. Rosenthal is also the owner of the Magic Shop, a recording studio in SoHo
that has been used by David Bowie, Lou Reed, Ms. Jones and the Foo Fighters,
among many others, but that business has also been strained and may also close
soon, Mr. Rosenthal said.

''Thanks so much to all the great bands that played here and gave us many
memorable nights,'' Ms. Gilson and Mr. Rosenthal wrote on the club's Facebook
page. ''Please keep supporting live music at your local venues.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/12/08/the-living-room-to-close-at-the-end
-of-december/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); SONG WRITING (89%);
RESTAURANTS (77%); MUSIC (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(75%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gunfight at Taliban Hostage Siege in Kandahar Kills Dozens

BYLINE: By TAIMOOR SHAH and MUJIB MASHAL; Taimoor Shah reported from Kandahar,
and Mujib Mashal from Kabul, Afghanistan. David Jolly contributed reporting from
Kabul.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 530 words


KANDAHAR, Afghanistan --  A hostage siege by Taliban attackers near the Kandahar
Airfield military base stretched into a second day on Wednesday, leaving dozens
dead. And in neighboring Helmand Province, the insurgents were reported to have
overrun a major district.

After about 24 hours of fighting, Zia Durrani, a spokesman for the Kandahar
police, said Wednesday evening that the shootout was over and that the casualty
toll was mostly civilian: At least 37 people were killed, including three
members of the security forces and several children, and 33 people were wounded.
The attack began at 6:20 p.m. on Tuesday, officials said, when 16 insurgents
armed with rocket-propelled grenades, hand grenades and assault rifles fired at
an Afghan military convoy, the military said.

The Taliban fighters then barricaded themselves into at least three places in
the residential and shopping area for the families of security forces at the
base, including a building used to train teachers and a former school building
being used for shops. They took hostages, including a family that had been
shopping.

''When the bombers got into the vicinity of civilians, they first targeted the
shopkeepers indiscriminately,'' Mr. Durrani said. ''The shops caught fire.''

He added that the hostage family was among the dead and that the final toll was
expected to rise once the area was fully searched.

Gen. Dawood Shah Wafadar, an Afghan Army corps commander based at the sprawling
airfield, said 14 of the attackers, including four wearing explosives vests, had
been killed. The search for two others continued, but it remained unclear
whether the attackers remained hidden in the residential buildings they had
holed up in or had fled.

Col. Michael Lawhorn, a spokesman for NATO in Afghanistan, said the insurgents
had not made it onto Kandahar Airfield itself. He said that some rockets had
been fired toward facilities used by American troops, but that no American
service members had been wounded and no aircraft damaged.

Qari Yousuf Ahmadi, a Taliban spokesman, said the insurgents had sent 10 suicide
bombers on the mission, wearing Afghan Army uniforms. On their website, the
Taliban posted a video message of the attackers wearing white robes and sitting
in front of the Taliban flag. They also posted a picture of the 10 men dressed
in what looked like United States military uniforms.

''It is my suggestion from Obama: Obama, you are not safe in Afghanistan,'' one
of the attackers said in broken English, brandishing a knife. His two colleagues
seated next to him could not restrain their chuckles, seemingly at his
grammatical mistakes. ''When you are go anywhere, we will kill them there. We
will finish your technology and kill your power.''

Abdul Ali Shamsi, the deputy governor of Kandahar Province, said the clearance
operation lasted so long because Afghan security forces were moving carefully to
avoid casualties among civilians or the hostages.

In neighboring Helmand Province, the Taliban overran a district, Khanashin,
after 24 hours of intense fighting that left more than a dozen policemen killed,
according to the provincial council chief, Mohammad Karim Attal.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/world/asia/afghanistan-kandahar-suicide-bomber
s.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS
(90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%);
MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); AIRPORTS (89%);
TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%);
RETAILERS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (67%); FIREARMS
(54%)

CITY: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (98%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remembering Holly Woodlawn, a Warhol Star

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; POSTSCRIPT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 583 words


''Everyone thinks Andy Warhol made me a superstar, but it was Paul Morrissey who
put me in 'Trash,''' Holly Woodlawn was saying by telephone from West Hollywood,
Calif., in the days after Lou Reed's death in October 2013.

Holly was a war horse of the Warhol era, a rare survivor from a group whose most
incandescent talents burned hard and burned out fast. She left an indelible
stamp on underground films like ''Trash'' and ''Women in Revolt,'' and was a
talented if eccentric cabaret performer and an erstwhile heroine of the
transgender movement. Yet she had few illusions about what would constitute her
claim on posterity.

'''Walk on the Wild Side' made me immortal, honey,'' she said, ''for what that's
worth.''

By the time that phone call took place, Woodlawn had been ill for some time with
the liver cancer that this week claimed her life at age 69. She had long since
fallen on hard times, career opportunities for aged Warhol superstars being what
they are. ''All I do these days is drink wine and smoke electronic cigarettes,''
she said, letting loose a throaty cackle.

''Everyone thought I was going to be the first to go,'' she added, referring to
her extended downtown cohort. ''Ha ha, I fooled them all!''

The mordant humor, impeccable comic timing and matchless deadpan that Holly
Woodlawn brought so vividly to the screen as a welfare cheat married to Joe
Dallesandro's heroin addict in ''Trash,'' and as man-hating nymphomaniac fashion
model in ''Women in Revolt,'' was never really an act. Holly was that loopy in
life.

The character in ''Trash'' with eyebrows penciled on to resemble existential
question marks, the one who stuffed a pillow under her sweater in order to dupe
a caseworker into thinking she was pregnant and adding her to the welfare rolls,
was actually drawn from her own experience.

It was Holly, after all, who, as she wrote in her 1991 memoir, ''A Low Life in
High Heels: The Holly Woodlawn Story,'' changed her name from Haroldo Danhakl,
hitchhiked to New York from Miami at 16 and fell in with a group of prostitutes
of any and every gender (led by a ringleader with the unappetizing pseudonym
Porky), turning tricks and buying 25-cent lipsticks from subway vending
machines, living off the streets and ''wondering when my next meal was coming.''

Unlike those in the Warhol orbit like Brigid Berlin or Baby Jane Holzer or Edie
Sedgwick, girls with upper-class backgrounds and private incomes, Holly did not
hail from what she called ''the aristocratic.'' Hers was a different kind of
aristocracy, one formed not from bloodlines but brazen moxie, heedlessness in
the face of convention and determination to claim for herself the glamorous
existence denied her by some obvious misalignment of fate.

''Honey, I told everyone I was the heiress of Woodlawn Cemetery,'' she once
remarked to me between takes in some mercifully long-forgotten underground
movie. Of course, she repeated that story to anyone who'd listen, never
expecting anyone to believe it.

''I can't lie,'' Holly Woodlawn said in 2013, between drags on a vape pen.

''I'm a lousy liar, honey,'' she said, but her truth was more potent than a
thousand shrewdly concocted celebrity fictions.

''You can't take everything too heavy in life,'' Holly said at the time, musing
aloud about how she would attend memorial services for Mr. Reed when she hardly
had bus fare. ''Listen, you have to have a real sense of humor to get through
this life,'' she said then. ''I mean, honey, get real.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/remembering-holly-woodlawn-a-transgend
er-star-of-the-warhol-era.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Holly Woodlawn with Joe Dallesandro in 1997. The two starred
together in Andy Warhol's ''Trash.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY GREENFIELD-SANDERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (69%); SMOKING (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%);
WELFARE FRAUD (64%); HEROIN (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (61%); LIVER DISEASE
(53%); CANCER (53%); ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES (51%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Snowflakes, Check. Trees, Check. Antlers?

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 964 words


For large segments of the resident Grinch population, holiday time can be a
period of ambivalence, malaise, Bing Crosby overload and eggnog-induced regret.
It is tough enough inducing jollity when looming at month's end is what amounts
to a calendar blackout -- consecutive days of holy observance when little or
nothing gets done -- followed by the New Year and lots of credit-card debt.

Yet what is the harm in succumbing to some ephemeral splendor in the form of a
city bedecked? Particularly now that a resurgent economy has inspired commercial
landlords, civic groups and retailers to outdo themselves in seasonal display,
there is reason -- whatever one's system of belief -- to celebrate the current
blitz of Christmas decoration as an excuse for communal convergence, a chance to
stand slack-jawed in awe in front of a giant tree.

''As time goes by, the only holiday that sticks to the holiday heritage seems to
be Christmas,'' Chris Suarez, a 39-year-old livery car driver, said recently,
noting that in his recent rounds, he had seen more trees, lights, snowflakes and
giant candy canes than he could ever recall. ''Even Citibank had, like, this
mesh in the windows with snowflakes coming down.''

This is, in fact, a banner year for twinkling trees, wooden nutcrackers and
artificial snowflakes in bank windows, or else hovering over Fifth Avenue; the
most imposing of these is the Unicef snowflake suspended above 57th Street like
a Baccarat meteorite.

Is it adequately appreciated that the snowflake, at one of the world's greatest
retail intersections (Tiffany, Louis Vuitton, Bulgari, Van Cleef & Arpels anchor
its four corners), was designed by Ingo Maurer? It is not. Yet the glittering
3,300-pound flake composed of 16,000 crystals is almost self-evidently the
output of this brilliant German-born industrial designer, one whose work is in
museum collections throughout the world.

With a characteristic gift for incorporating into his designs negative space
around a source of illumination, Maurer's flake (which replaced a far cruder one
introduced in 1984) manages to draw in the stately architectural ensemble
surrounding it and seems to pinpoint the fabled intersection as the center of
the universe as twilight descends.

Maybe the creation of enchantment is an ideal inimical to modernity, as the
Mexican architect Luis Barragán once claimed. Or maybe we can all still be
stirred by atavistic urges to let nature bewitch us. Seemingly everywhere in the
city this season there are pleasures to be gained from gawping at dying
evergreens. Even a cynic would have to concede the elegance of, for instance,
that forest of Christmas balsams installed each year in the Seagram Building's
plaza pools.

''It's a tricky design job, because if you don't put them in at the proper
height and width, the whole thing goes off kilter,'' said John Egan, president
of Egan Acres Tree Farm, which for decades has provided the sheared premium
balsam trees used in an installation that calls to mind Sarah Orne Jewett by way
of Mies van der Rohe.

Just as wondrous is the facade and a walkway outside Lord & Taylor, embowered
and turning a dull stretch of Midtown into a magical wood. Equally fantastical
are the evergreen dinosaurs flanking the entrance to the Museum of Natural
History, which may not make sense in the context of a Christian holiday, yet
remain a welcome presence in a season that also, let's not forget, includes
Hanukkah and Kwanzaa and Chinese takeout for nonbelievers.

In their own way, the goofy, grinning prehistoric reptiles rendered in greenery
befit their site as well as the Magi, shepherds, woodsmen, washerwomen and putti
populating the Neapolitan Baroque Nativity scene surrounding the tree at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Do these figures -- some dating to the 18th century, some brand new -- seem as
hectic and neurotically preoccupied with their own concerns as the humans gazing
at them? Perhaps so, and for good reason. ''We always modeled them on local
people,'' explained Gennaro di Virgilio, whose family's atelier in Naples has
produced hand-carved and painted figures for Nativity scenes since 1830.
''Neapolitans are a little bit ... dramatic,'' he added in local dialect, ''like
people in New York.''

Few attending the annual lighting of the Christmas trees that have stood in the
Park Avenue median for the last 71 years are likely to have been aware that the
custom began as a commemoration of American military members who died in World
War II. Yet by their presence last Sunday, members of those crowds jamming the
avenue outside the Brick Presbyterian Church made a tacit statement of belief in
still-potent democratic ideals in a world plagued by terrorist threats.

And surely, if the astonishing 78-foot, 10-ton colossus at Rockefeller Center is
nothing else, it is a testament to sharing, especially when you consider that
Albert Asendorf first encountered the tree 59 years ago, when he was 4, on the
lawn of the Gardiner, N.Y., house he was raised in. By donating to the city what
is doubtless the most photographed tree on earth, Mr. Asendorf and his domestic
partner, Nancy Puchalski, were making what they called a gift to the world.

By creating a tree of an altogether more ominous sort, the society event planner
Bronson van Wyck made a clear contribution of his own -- to the Annals of Weird.
There it stands, just off the lobby of the St. Regis hotel, a towering tree that
looks as if it were created by committee via séance: Edward Gorey, meet Johann
Grimm. If you can hear me, rap twice. Neatly framed and tucked in amid the
branches of this tree is a sign that makes the curious, if not entirely
reassuring, claim that no stags were harmed in creating a tree bristling from
base to crown with gilded antlers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/manhattan-as-tinsel-town-holiday-decor
ations-traditional-and-weird.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D8-D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (71%);
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); RETAILERS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%);
PERSONAL DEBT (56%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%); VAN CLEEF & ARPELS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (54%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES
(53%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (53%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES,
& PRECIOUS METALS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


An article last Thursday about a new generation of strongly scented perfumes
referred incorrectly to the term ''me decade.'' The term, as coined by Tom Wolfe
in an article published by New York magazine in 1976, was used to describe the
1970s -- not the 1980s.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CORRECTIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 35 words



An article last Thursday about the disappointing box office performance of the
movie ''Steve Jobs'' misidentified the publication for which Larry Magid wrote
an essay about Mr. Jobs. It is Forbes, not Fortune.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fashion's Agent of Change

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SCHNEIER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1738 words


Matthew Moneypenny (his real name) is Hollywood handsome, with a dressed-down
wardrobe of Saint Laurent and an easy patter somewhere between pitchman and
showman.

He laughs loudly and has a favorite table at Sant Ambroeus in the West Village,
as well as a preferred room at the Chateau Marmont in West Hollywood, Calif. He
looks like what industry types call ''talent,'' but Mr. Moneypenny, 46, isn't
talent (though talented). In the congested little world of fashion image-making,
he is talent's agent, the bargaining power behind the throne.

Mr. Moneypenny's job is to secure high-revenue deals for top-tier images and
image-makers. In effect, he said with a practiced twinkle over cookies at a Sant
Ambroeus corner table, ''to make the world a prettier place.''

Mr. Moneypenny is the president and chief executive of Trunk Archive, a
photography licensing agency, whose back catalog of images run in magazines and
product packaging, are loaded as smartphone backdrops and hang on hotel walls.
In Trunk's trunk are images by hundreds of photographers, including many of
fashion's marquee names: Annie Leibovitz, Bruce Weber, Arthur Elgort and Patrick
Demarchelier.

Mr. Moneypenny has built Trunk into a digital, long-tail boutique of stylish
imagery, making the photographers (and the company) significant amounts of money
in the process. They are high-end images for high-end prices.

''If Corbis and Getty are Kmart and Walmart,'' Mr. Moneypenny said, ticking off
two of the larger stock-photo agencies, ''we're Bergdorf Goodman.''

Having made a success of reselling existing images, Mr. Moneypenny is now
getting into the business of creating new ones.

Fueled by investment capital from Waddell & Reed, which has taken positions in
companies like Richemont and LVMH, Mr. Moneypenny has spent the last two years
quietly buying creative agencies. The result is Great Bowery, a group that will
include Trunk Archive and 11 other assignment and licensing agencies under its
umbrella.

Great Bowery is a mega-agency, one whose ambition is to rebalance the scales,
empowering those who make fashion's imagery -- photographers, fashion stylists,
hair and makeup artists and set designers -- and checking, implicitly, the
powerful and increasingly integrated luxury companies and media conglomerates
that have traditionally commissioned their work.

He sees it as nothing less than the fashion analogue of the rise of the agency
system in Hollywood, which unseated the film studios as the sole kingmakers and
deal-brokers.

''If one can say three pillars were originally music, television and film, I
would argue that fashion is now the fourth pillar,'' Mr. Moneypenny said.
''Twenty years ago, it was the socialite on the Upper East Side or the resident
of Mayfair or Beverly Hills that was aware of what was coming down the Chanel or
Dior runway. There's so much more interest about the creativity that comes out
of this world.''

Mr. Moneypenny is far from the only observer to make this connection, but he is
better positioned than most to connect the dots. He is, by his own estimation,
the only fashion agent with a background in Hollywood representation and
management. He began his career at ICM, the Hollywood agency, talking his way
from the mailroom to the desk of Nancy Josephson, the co-president.

''He would call up Gucci at the time Tom Ford was designing and say, 'My boss
has no time to shop, send over the entire line,''' said Ms. Josephson, now a
partner at WME. ''I have a lot of chutzpah, but I would not have thought to do
that. And he got me a discount!''

The Hollywood model was an explicit reference for Great Bowery. ''So many of the
systems I learned during my time at ICM, I still employ today,'' Mr. Moneypenny
said.

Fabien Baron, the editorial director of Interview Magazine, has seen what the
corporatization of the industry has wrought: the move to be more things to more
people, with static budgets and increased demands. Mr. Baron, who is considering
a handful of projects with Mr. Moneypenny, expressed admiration for his
strategy.

''The idea of turning this into the CAA of fashion is interesting,'' he said,
referring to the Hollywood agency. ''It makes a lot of sense to me.''

Most of the agencies now under the aegis of Great Bowery, like CLM, M.A.P,
Management & Artists and Streeters, are unfamiliar to the public. So, too, are
many of the artists they represent.

Their work is not. You have seen it in the glossy spreads of fashion magazines,
the ad campaigns that precede them, the billboards and bus shelters luxury
companies commandeer and the videos that run on their Instagram accounts and
websites.

If they are not, on the whole, household names the way CAA clients like Julia
Roberts, George Clooney and Madonna are, Mr. Moneypenny is betting that they can
be. Their rates can already run Hollywood stratospheric (''It's not unusual for
a highly talented artist in our world to generate a seven-figure annual
income,'' he said), and their visibility is rising to match. Is Pat McGrath, the
most in-demand of the runway makeup artists, say, primed to become a name-brand
megastar?

''Some designers are big famous stars,'' Mr. Baron said. ''Also photographers
are, and stylists are, and models are. Everybody's kind of important. It's
become popular culture.''

With importance comes opportunity. Mr. Moneypenny envisages product lines, brand
extensions, exhibitions and endorsements even if the jobs these artists now do
didn't exist a generation or two earlier.

''Makeup artists and hairdressers who specialized in photo shoots were
completely nonexistent,'' Grace Coddington, the creative director of Vogue,
wrote of her early modeling days in a 2012 memoir. ''There was no such thing as
a stylist, either, so the better your accessories, which you carried in your
bag, too, the more jobs you were likely to get.''

As the professions developed and careers were made, agencies evolved to
represent artists' interests and handle their logistics, for a percentage. But
the systems put in place, many involved agreed, had stagnated and failed to keep
pace with the industry's changes.

''As the companies we do business with became huge, it became more and more
difficult to maintain what we believe to be fair terms and conditions for our
talent,'' Mr. Moneypenny said.

Fashion businesses developed into luxury groups and billion-dollar brands;
magazines rolled together into media corporations like Condé Nast and Hearst.
Arrangements had once been made over handshakes; today contracts can run to 20
pages or more, with byzantine rights agreements and complicated loopholes about
usage. Even as the revenues top artists could earn grew, those of many others
flat-lined.

At the same time, the expectations placed upon them grew. Artists are asked to
shoot video in addition to photos, come with social media followings, stage
exhibitions and publish books; agencies are expected to support them with
departments on digital and technological fronts: ''all these new areas,'' said
Camilla Lowther, a pioneering agent in London and the founder of CLM, which
joined Great Bowery in 2014, ''which none of us have any experience in. I'm an
agent. And probably quite an old-fashioned agent, to be totally honest with you.
I've been doing this for 35 years.''

Many of the changes Great Bowery hopes to affect are of the unsexy,
business-efficiency type. By combining agencies into one organization -- and, as
of late March, one lavishly grafittied building, the 1898 former Germania Bank
building on the Bowery -- it hopes to consolidate back-end services like legal,
accounting, human resources and operations and share them across the entire
company. Mr. Moneypenny said that individual agencies would be left to conduct
business as they see fit, and artists would not be asked to sign new contracts.

But even if Mr. Moneypenny does not aim to hijack the fashion world, as he told
Fantastic Man magazine, he is looking to disrupt it. Great Bowery is making new
hires who will focus on developing social media, branded content, endorsements
and collaborations for artists companywide, and the agency plans to act as a
producer of its artists' projects, rather than merely a conduit to them.

''We would all like to see the agency operate as a studio,'' Mr. Moneypenny
said, ''packaging'' projects (in Hollywood parlance) and marketing them itself.

''That package doesn't necessarily have to be fashion,'' he added. ''It could be
a line of products for an electronics maker. It really could be almost
anything.''

His hope is that every qualified artist in the stable can become a polymath.

He held up the photographers Inez van Lamsweerde and Vinoodh Matadin, whose
archive Trunk licenses, as an example: They are in-demand photographers, working
for Vogue and W, Chloé and Calvin Klein. They also design jewelry and a
collection of jeans, recently published a career-spanning retrospective with
Taschen and shot a music video with Paul McCartney, Rihanna and Kanye West.

In his version of the future, deals similar to those might be worked through
Great Bowery with a commission on each.

''We really are the only ones who are attempting to change the game,'' he said.

Asked why, he shrugged: ''Old dogs, no new tricks.''

As is to be expected, Mr. Moneypenny's competitors dispute this.

Art & Commerce, where Mr. Moneypenny worked in licensing after ICM, is one of a
handful of high-profile agencies that remains unaffiliated with Great Bowery.
Along with the Wall Group, which represents primarily red-carpet stylists, it is
owned by WME-IMG. Mark Shapiro, the chief content officer of WME-IMG, said that
developing behind-the-scenes fashion talent into brands using all of the
agencies' channels, resources and relationships is top of mind. ''Otherwise,
frankly, we wouldn't have bought the companies,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''If someone
wants to follow our model, all the merrier. We invite the competition.''

He added: ''Matthew has had great success in terms of the archive business that
he built. Trying to jump into these waters is an entirely different story.''

Another agency, the independent Art Partner, which represents some of the
brightest stars in the fashion pantheon, including Mario Testino and Steven
Klein, declined to comment.

''I think we make our competitors very nervous,'' Mr. Moneypenny said. ''I'm not
terribly concerned about any of them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/matthew-moneypenny-trunk-agency.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew Moneypenny has been buying creative agencies to create
a giant agency for fashion's photographers, stylists, hair and makeup artists
and set designers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL LOCCIASANO/GETTY IMAGES
CLINT SPAULDING/PATRICK McMULLAN.
THEO WARGO/GETTY IMAGES
CARLY ERICKSON/BFA.
KRIS CONNOR/GETTY IMAGES
PIER MARCO TACCA/GETTY IMAGES
JEMAL COUNTESS/GETTY IMAGES.
JEMAL COUNTESS/GETTY IMAGES
PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES
VITTORIO ZUNINO CELOTTO/GETTY IMAGES
DAVID X PRUTTING/BFA.
NEIL HALL/REUTERS
OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES
CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BILLY FARRELL/BFA.) (D12) CHART: One Umbrella Spreads Broadly: After a two-year
acquisition spree, Great Bowery, the coalition of agencies put together by
Matthew Moneypenny, has made itself into a megalith, with hundreds of artists
under its umbrella. (Mr. Moneypenny, its chairman and chief executive, runs the
company with nine partners, directors and former owners of several of the
agencies.) Those agencies maintain a degree of independence, but between them,
they represent a huge number of the top-tier photographers, stylists, hair and
makeup artists and more who make fashion imagery. Here are some of their biggest
(if not necessarily most recognizable) names, from left to right in each case.
(D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%);
COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); STYLISTS & IMAGE CONSULTANTS (78%); FILM (78%);
FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (74%); VISUAL ARTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); PRICES (72%);
PHOTOJOURNALISM (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MISC INFORMATION
SERVICES (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO
PRODUCTION (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (53%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC
(53%); WADDELL & REED INC (53%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (53%); LVMH (BIT) (53%); WDR (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS312140
DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wrap Party

BYLINE: By ERICA M. BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; DRESS UP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 133 words


Wrap skirts, a hit on the street this fall, can easily become the centerpiece of
a holiday outfit. The skirts come lean and '70s-ish in suede, and asymmetric and
modern in leather and Pop colors. Paired with your go-to black turtleneck and
boots, they'll work nicely for daytime dress-up -- your friend's matcha green
tea cookie-making party, perhaps, or an office get-together. For a winter
getaway, give one a twirl with a white tee and sandals.

Clockwise from top left: Maison Margiela cotton corduroy wrap skirt, $640 at
mytheresa.com; Marni crystal-embellished skirt, $1,390 at Barneys New York and
modaoperandi.com; Aritzia 1-01 Babaton faux suede skirt, $245 at Aritzia,
aritzia.com; Tibi suede skirt, $995 at Tibi, tibi.com; No 21 lace-trimmed wool
skirt, $710 at Otte New York, otteny.com.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Survive on a Tropical Island

BYLINE: By BEE SHAPIRO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 888 words


The art-world and front-row favorite Shala Monroque, 36, is living life at a
different pace since moving from New York to her native St. Lucia. A former art
gallery saleswoman, Ms. Monroque is now working as an editor-at-large for Garage
magazine, editing a coffee-table book of images of her favorite Caribbean
islands and serving as the ambassador of the newly introduced online fashion
retailer 151Luwolt. Below, learn how she balances island and city beauty.

Skin Care

I shower in the morning and evening. For the shower, especially since I moved
back to St. Lucia, I love Dr. Bronner's peppermint bath. It's so hot here most
of the time now, and this really cools you down. And I use bars of soap like
Ivory.

For face wash, I'm using one by Aesop that I discovered at Barneys. I also got
Kiehl's Crème de Corps there. For face moisturizer, I like La Mer.

For night, I do the same thing. A few times a week, I do a scrub. I might do
cocoa butter, or sometimes I use the St. Ives Apricot Scrub for my face. And
since I live on a volcanic island, I go to the sulfur baths. You're literally
sitting in a crater, and there's mud that you put all over your face and body. A
lot of tourists come, and they just put it on and wash it off.

But there's a trick that a Rasta told me. If you go during the day, you put the
mud on and let it dry. Then, after it's dried, you rub it gently so it kind of
sands off and smooths your skin. It's great for detoxing, and it's good for acne
as well. It also relaxes you, as it's really hot water.

I also have a sulfur powder because, as grown as I am, I still get hormonal acne
once a month. I got it in St. Lucia, but I think it's from Guyana. It's
basically sulfur and alcohol, and you dab it on. It dries things up really
quickly, and it's pretty natural.

Makeup

I've been wearing zero makeup during the day. It's so hot, and I feel like I'm
always touching my face. But at night, generally it's lipstick, blush and some
eyeliner and mascara. I just got this Nicka K lipstick at a local store. I like
the color, Amethyst, but it feels really good on, too.

I have Chanel blush in Tweed Fuchsia and something sparkly from Armani that I
use like a blush, and it brightens up your face. I got both of those at fashion
shows. Sometimes you discover some really cool stuff.

The foundation and powder by Black Opal I just got. I hadn't been wearing makeup
at home, but then I went out with my cousin and she looked flawless. I was
completely converted. Before that, I was wearing the Maybelline mousse
foundation. I still swear by it.

Mascara, I've been using one from MAC that I really like. Eyeliner, I'm not
picky. I use a mix of things. It takes a while to figure out what works for you.

Fragrance

Scent is a big thing for me. If I want to go back to another moment, sometimes
I'll put something on to remind me. Like Prada's Amber perfume is one of my
favorites. I stopped using it for a few years, but it reminds me of a certain
time.

I'd say now my fragrance is Seven Veils by Byredo, though. A friend gave it to
me for my birthday three to four years ago, and I've worn it ever since. I've
reached the point that I can't smell it anymore, so recently I went back and got
Tom Ford Tobacco Vanille, which reminds me of Venice. I guess I wanted to
cleanse my nasal palette so I can smell my Seven Veils again.

Hair

I wash my hair only every few days. When I moved back, I cut it because chemical
processing was really drying and thinning it out. Then I had an Afro but got
bored with it, so now I'm growing it out again.

Because my hair was so dry, I've gone through many different kinds of shampoo
and conditioner. Shea Moisture, which I got at Target and I'm using now, is
really good. Otherwise, I try as much as possible not to blow dry or use heat.

I do relax it myself, though, because otherwise it's too much trouble to deal
with. If I'm not doing anything, I'll just put it in two braids or two cornrows.
If I go out, I'll take them out and my hair will be wavy.

Services

There's this amazing guy, Julian, who comes to my house for massages. I've been
doing a lot of physical stuff -- gardening, and I'm building a little shack and
making this rock pathway, all myself -- and massage really helps.

I also swear by laser hair removal for the bikini area and any stray hairs in
places you don't want to talk about. I've been going to Romeo & Juliette on 57th
Street for years.

Diet and Fitness

I don't have a set workout. I've gotten back into shape just doing the gardening
and landscaping. Hauling rocks is really something. I also started diving.
Recently I got sea urchin from one of my dives. I didn't realize how many sea
urchins you have to get to fill a small bowl.

Since I moved back to St. Lucia, my mother has been so excited, she keeps
cooking and cooking. I was like, ''Stop, you're making me fat!'' She does make
an amazing stewed pork.

Also, one of the best things in St. Lucia is that the fishermen bring in fresh
catch, like lobster. And near where I'm doing my landscaping, there's a man who
collects whelks. It's wonderful to have access to all these exotic things. He'll
pass by, and I'll buy a bag.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/shala-monroques-beauty-tips.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After moving back to the Caribbean, Shala Monroque simplified
her style. ''If I'm not doing anything, I'll just put it in two braids or two
cornrows,'' she said.
LEFT TO RIGHT, SHEA MOISTURE HAIR PRODUCTS
CHANEL BLUSH AND NICKA K LIPSTICK
TOM FORD AND BYREDO SEVEN VEILS PERFUMES
 AND FOUNDATION AND POWDER BY BLACK OPAL. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ACNE (89%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); CLOTHING
& ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); FASHION SHOWS (71%); RETAILERS (71%)

COUNTRY: SAINT LUCIA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); GUYANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ferragamo Plays Footsie

BYLINE: By ERICA M. BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CELEBRATE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 109 words


Edgardo Osorio, who designs the sexy Aquazzura footwear line, is having a busy
holiday season. His first stand-alone pop-up shop opened in Miami, and a capsule
collection he created for Ferragamo in celebration of its 100 years in Hollywood
has just hit stores. Those styles put a playful spin on Ferragamo classics like
the rainbow wedge and include high-drama sandals with feathered wings, $1,250;
strappy rainbow lace-up sandals with mesh detail, $875; and rather darling
polka-dot bow pumps, $695. A well-timed drop for party dressing, we'd say.

Edgardo Osorio for Salvatore Ferragamo collection at Ferragamo, Bergdorf Goodman
and Saks Fifth Avenue.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%)

COMPANY: SALVATORE FERRAGAMO ITALIA SPA (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES
(55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (58%); NAICS452111
DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT
STORES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gucci Opens at Brookfield Place and Other Shopping Events

BYLINE: By ALISON S. COHN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; SCOUTING REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words


Openings and Events

Ready to kick-start your holiday shopping? This week there's a spate of holiday
bazaars and pop-ups and a few major retail openings. You'll find the Gucci
designer Alessandro Michele's hit accessories, like a floral print leather
shoulder bag ($2,700), at the label's new Brookfield Place store. At 200 Vesey
Street.

On Thursday, the California eyewear specialist Garrett Leight will open his
first East Coast store. In honor of the occasion, he has made a squarish
limited-edition frame inspired by one of his favorite New Yorkers, Allen
Ginsberg. At 149 Grand Street.

That same day, the Bing Bang designer Anna Sheffield will join the feminist
apparel line Me & You to open a pop-up at American Two Shot featuring ''Bad
Bitch'' hoop earrings ($295) and other cheeky jewelry. At 135 Grand Street ...
And Henrik Vibskov will open a pop-up for Côte&Ciel where you can find
minimalist backpacks like a cowhide leather style ($750). At 456 Broome Street.

On Friday, Kinfolk will unveil a second-floor space in its Brooklyn boutique
that will host a roster of pop-ups. First up is Album, a range of handmade
quilts (starting at $1,000) that the lifestyle label's creative director
Jeremiah Mandel makes with his wife, Syvan Yehezkel. At 94 Wythe Avenue.

On Saturday from noon to 8 p.m., the creative work collective NeueHouse will
team with 10 local artisans for its second annual holiday bazaar featuring
D.I.Y. gifts like bespoke Joya scented candles ($30) and homemade books from
Twigg's Bindery ($75). At 110 East 25th Street.

That same day, the Elder Statesman will open a winter shop filled with luxe
cashmere pieces like a multicolor striped robe ($1,765). At 159 East 64th
Street.

On Saturday and Sunday, Friend of a Friend, a new lifestyle website, will host a
pop-up that has a Lizzie Mandler kite necklace with white diamonds ($395), among
other pretty baubles. At 43 Crosby Street.

And on Tuesday from 5 to 8 p.m., Creatures of Comfort will host a holiday bazaar
with crafty bits like Quarry marble earrings ($184) and a Laurence Jaccottet
ceramic hand ($150). 205 Mulberry Street.

Sample Sales

The cashmere label White & Warren will have a sample sale from Monday to
Wednesday offering discounts up to 70 percent on cozy bits like a Sherpa trapper
hat ($75, originally $220) and a blanket poncho ($150, originally $350). At 80
West 40th Street, third floor.

Tanya Taylor will have a sale on Tuesday and Wednesday with discounts up to 80
percent on fun separates like an embroidered knit skirt ($150, originally $625).
At 495 Broadway, third floor.

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.

Send shopping suggestions to­ scouting@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/gucci-opens-at-brookfield-place-and-ot
her-shopping-events.html

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CLOTHING LABELS
(89%); RETAILERS (78%); QUILTS & QUILTING (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (54%)

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3171
WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (94%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Women and Girls in Prison

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 618 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Women Behind Bars'' (editorial, Nov. 30):

Many of these women suffer from trauma, mental illness and substance abuse
problems while trying to maintain relationships with their children during a
prison stay. Many have young children; it is critical to support them as they
prepare to be released and reunited with their children so that the transition
from inmate to parent goes smoothly.

There are inadequate resources to support the particular needs of released
mothers.

Collaborations between researchers and practitioners are identifying promising
practices to address the needs of mothers behind bars. One such program is the
MOMobile at Riverside in Philadelphia's county jail.

The program helps prepare women for childbirth, assists mothers in staying
connected with their children, works closely with the caregiver to support the
child's needs, provides support during childbirth and works with women for a
year after release.

Preparing women for re-entry throughout their prison or jail stay and providing
support upon release are critical in preventing recidivism and ensuring
successful outcomes for them and their children.

MARJIE MOGUL

LATOYA MYERS

Philadelphia

The writers are with the Maternity Care Coalition. Ms. Mogul is director of
research, and Ms. Myers, the director of Family Support Programs, oversees the
MOMobile at Riverside program.

To the Editor:

With so many mothers behind bars, it becomes all the more important to
understand what is happening to them.

We know that there are pregnant women in prisons and jails and that many of them
have limited access to the full scope of quality pregnancy care. But we have
little to no data about just how many pregnant women there are and about what
happens to those pregnancies.

The only statistics on the number of births in prison were collected in 1998;
the last assessment of pregnancy prevalence was more than 10 years ago, and
there has never been data collected about the number of miscarriages, abortions,
stillbirths, preterm births and other pregnancy outcomes.

Prisons and jails should collect and report these data so that we can better
understand the effect that pregnancy behind bars has on these women, their
families and our communities.

CAROLYN SUFRIN

Baltimore

The writer is an obstetrician-gynecologist at the Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine and an anthropologist who works with incarcerated women.

To the Editor:

''Women Behind Bars'' aptly portrays the enormous costs of incarcerating women.
But it did not mention an important point: This trend begins with girls as young
as 10.

Most girls enter the criminal justice system for nonviolent offenses. They are
often punished for attempting to escape family abuse and trauma, arrested for
running away or for prostitution, even when they are too young to legally
consent to sex.

This sexual abuse to prison pipeline lets the real offenders -- those who
exploit and abuse children and teenagers -- off the hook, while failing to treat
girls' mental health and other trauma needs. Indeed, girls often receive more
severe sentences for less serious offenses than boys. Incarceration is often
justified as for ''their own good.'' Its overuse also reflects the lack of
shelters for runaways; some police officers lament that jail is the only
''safe'' place they can take minors found on the streets.

We should stop jailing nonviolent juvenile offenders and start providing more
services and shelters for young people escaping violent families.

CYNTHIA GODSOE

Brooklyn

The writer teaches criminal law and family law at Brooklyn Law School and used
to represent young people in abuse and neglect cases and criminal cases.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/helping-women-and-girls-in-prison.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); FAMILY (89%);
PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); SUBSTANCE
ABUSE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); RECIDIVISM RATES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%);
CHILD ABUSE (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (74%);
MISCARRIAGES (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY &
ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (65%); ABORTION (64%); SEX OFFENSES (62%);
PROSTITUTION (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); MARYLAND, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Are Prescription Drug Ads Good for Consumers?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 443 words


To the Editor:

''Turn the Volume Down on Drug Ads'' (editorial, Nov. 27) argued that while
''some patients say the ads are helpful,'' many doctors warn that they are
''often misleading'' and ''can also lead to patients' demanding inappropriate
drugs from their doctors.''

Under existing law, the Food and Drug Administration has the power to ban or
impose serious civil penalties on any false or deceptive prescription drug
advertising. These ads are the most regulated in the country and include lengthy
mandated disclosures. Further, these products can be obtained only through a
doctor's prescription.

Numerous studies demonstrate that prescription drug advertising provides
extremely valuable information to millions of Americans who are not adequately
informed about the dangers of high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes
and other life-threatening and debilitating diseases.

Proposals to ban or tax prescription drug ads, as described in the editorial,
are nothing more than a prescription for the American public to have far less
access to health information -- to their detriment and society's.

DAN JAFFE

Exec. V.P., Government Relations

Association of National Advertisers

Washington

To the Editor:

As observers of prescription drug use for more than 30 years, we appreciate the
strong stand against direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription drugs made
recently by the American Medical Association. We agree and say ''turn the volume
off!''

The advice of David Vladeck, a former director of the Bureau of Consumer
Protection at the Federal Trade Commission, for a two-year moratorium on
direct-to-consumer advertising of new prescription products could no doubt be
helpful but doesn't go far enough.

Experience with prescription drug safety leads us to prefer the advice of Dr.
Sidney M. Wolfe, the founding director of Public Citizen's Health Research
Group: We should wait at least seven years from the date of release to take any
new drug unless it is one of those rare ''breakthrough'' drugs that offer a
documented therapeutic advantage over older, proven drugs.

We favor a flat-out prohibition on direct-to-consumer prescription drug
advertising, which would return us to the 1985-87 Food and Drug Administration
moratorium that restricted such advertising. It would also put us in sync with
the rest of the Western world's drug policies and reduce unnecessary demand for
prescription drugs.

JULIE M. ZITO

DANIEL J. SAFER

Baltimore

Dr. Zito is a professor of pharmacy and psychiatry at the University of
Maryland, Baltimore. Dr. Safer is a professor of psychiatry and pediatrics,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/are-prescription-drug-ads-good-for-con
sumers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (95%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (93%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS TO CONSUMER
MARKETING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); OUTPUT & DEMAND
(78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATION &
POLICY (78%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY
(78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); CONSUMER WATCHDOGS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%);
CONSUMER LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); DIABETES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES
(71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
(66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CHOLESTEROL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL
ADVERTISERS (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (65%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congressman Doubts Agency's Revised Climate Data

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 283 words


To the Editor:

I believe that federal employees at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration have altered temperature data to try to refute an 18-year plateau
in global temperatures that numerous other scientific studies have reported.

A Dec. 4 editorial, ''The Latest Attack on Climate Science,'' and a Dec. 8 Op-Ed
essay by a climate scientist, Michael E. Mann, ''The Assault on Climate
Science,'' unfairly described my efforts to get the American people the facts.

Atmospheric satellite data, considered by many to be the most objective, has
clearly showed no warming for the past two decades. But NOAA inexplicably
omitted satellite data to reach the conclusions it wanted.

Federal employees whose salaries are paid for by American taxpayers have an
obligation to be open and honest. Current law allows official communications to
be made public, and that is why I have subpoenaed NOAA communications about its
study. The American people have a right to know the real motivations behind this
study, which are clearly suspect.

The climate is always changing, and human activity likely plays a small role.
But what climate alarmists say is sometimes untrue and often exaggerated. We
should rely on good science, not science fiction, when we evaluate climate
change.

Alarmists like Mr. Mann seek to promote a political agenda, then claim to feel
intimidated when anyone asks questions. But claiming that the debate is settled
is the opposite of the scientific method.

If NOAA has nothing to hide, why not provide the evidence to support the
agency's claims?

LAMAR SMITH

Washington

The writer, a Texas Republican, is chairman of the House Committee on Science,
Space and Technology.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/rep-lamar-smith-questions-agencys-revi
sed-climate-data.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (92%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE
(92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%);
LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%);
CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS
(78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUBPOENAS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (84%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Yemeni Peace Talks

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 252 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Yemeni Government and Rebels to Begin Peace Talks'' (news article, Dec. 8):

The talks scheduled to begin in Switzerland offer an opportunity to end Yemen's
devastating war, which has killed nearly 6,000 citizens and left more than 80
percent of the population in desperate need of assistance.

The Houthi leader, Abdel-Malik al-Houthi, and former President Ali Abdullah
Saleh should stop the fighting; end the targeting of civilians, civilian
infrastructure and heavily populated areas; lift their blockade on urban areas;
and allow the free movement of humanitarian assistance and commercial shipments
to all areas.

The Yemeni government, the Saudi-led Arab coalition and their allies should do
likewise.

All parties to the conflict, along with the five permanent members of the
Security Council and the international community, should take this chance to
push toward a tangible peace settlement, which is the only way to regain the
trust of Yemenis and let them resume their lives and rebuild what war has
destroyed.

Leaving countries like Yemen and Syria in a state of unresolved anarchy will
prolong civilian suffering, create a fertile environment for terrorist
organizations to plot and launch attacks, and worsen the refugee crisis.

FAREA AL-MUSLIMI

RAFAT AL-AKHALI

Beirut, Lebanon

The writers are, respectively, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Middle East
Center and a former Yemeni minister of youth and sports. The letter was also
signed by 21 other Yemeni intellectuals.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/yemeni-intellectuals-on-peace-talks.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORISM
(72%); REFUGEES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (97%); SWITZERLAND (90%); LEBANON (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SAUDI
ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Terrorism and the Internet

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 175 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Kazakhstan Moves to Tighten Control of the Internet'' (Bits column,
nytimes.com, Dec. 3):

We understand that many countries want to intercept citizen communications for
reasons including information about terrorism threats. But undermining the
effectiveness of encryption and reliance on it for millions of Internet users
will neither stop attacks nor be without severe security, economic and social
costs.

Weakening encryption enhances the ability of hackers, identity thieves and
terrorists to cause harm.

When the Obama administration and other officials see news like this, they
should remember that United States security policies must be a positive model
for a world that includes numerous authoritarian regimes.

We need to lead the world and use diplomacy to vigorously encourage other
countries to refrain from responding to threats with policies that would be
counterproductive and create other security problems.

ED BLACK

President and Chief Executive

Computer and Communications Industry Association

Washington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/opinion/terrorism-and-the-internet.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%);
INTERNET & WWW (88%); COMPUTER CRIME (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (74%); IDENTITY THEFT (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPUTER & COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

COUNTRY: KAZAKHSTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Ace of Hearts

BYLINE: By ERICA M. BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; BEDECK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 98 words


Jordan Askill, an Australian jeweler in New York, by way of Paris and London, is
ending the year on a high note, having just been named emerging accessory
designer of the year at the British Fashion Awards. Mr. Askill, who started his
label in 2008, had his first hit with a sweet heart-shaped ring, which became a
popular gift. His collection now includes several versions of the heart, like
this ring with pavé diamonds, $725, as well as some nice new gifts, including
this delicate star chain necklace, $905, and these fabulously feline panther ear
crawlers, $965.

At jordanaskill.com.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWELRY (90%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Whole New Ball Cap

BYLINE: By JOHN ORTVED

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; GEAR; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 93 words


In this season of balmy days, one men's wear accessory is catching on: baseball
caps fashioned from wool. The fabric adds warm, gentlemanly swagger to a boyhood
classic.

''While it's a bit early for a beanie, the ball cap is the perfect autumnal
accessory,'' said Mordechai Rubinstein, the popular men's wear blogger known as
Mister Mort. ''With headwear making a statement lately, it's a lot easier to don
a cap than a fedora.''

For Mr. Rubinstein, it's also an example of post-normcore fashion. ''Forget
exclusivity,'' he said. ''The basics are what's up.''




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ERIC PATTON: Pendleton Lo Pro Handmade from repurposed
Pendleton wool yardage, this cap features a fabric strap and a brass buckle
$75.
AMI: Men Cap in Herringbone Metallic eyelets and a grosgrain sweatband reinforce
this cap's wool and alpaca
$130.
LAROSE: Casentino 5 Panel in Blue This cap, made from fuzzy wool, has a short
brim and adjustable strap
$140.
BRUNELLO CUCINELLI: Wool Flannel Baseball Cap A sporty look reimagined in soft
flannel and secured with an adjustable strap made of buffalo hide
$330.
PAA: Bouclé Ball Cap in Camel The curled ply of this snapback version uses
Japanese fabrics and is made in the United States
$115.
PAUL SMITH: Men's Khaki Melton Wool Cap A classic made of feltlike Melton wool,
with a colorful print lining and contrasting gray wool under the peak
 $110.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FABRICS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); BLOGS &
MESSAGE BOARDS (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

They'll Be All Worked Up

BYLINE: By ERICA M. BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; GET FIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words


You'll stand out front row at SoulCycle in activewear from one of the canny
artist collaborations hatched by Bandier, the popular one-stop retailer of
fashion-focused workout clothes. Check out the three limited-edition
collections: Christopher Lee Sauvé, a creative director in New York, joined
forces with the Strut-This label on a kinetic tribal-meets-Pop-Art print for
leggings and tops; the Los Angeles street artist Upendo Taylor conspired with
Reebok on graphic dance sneakers; and the London street artist Malarko
Hernandez, known for his vibrant murals and cartoon drawings, teamed with
Ultracor on the sports bra, $97, and leggings, $175, shown here. There's also a
bomber jacket with pixelated monsters that Miley Cyrus would surely approve of.

At Bandier stores and bandier.com.




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STREET ART (88%); PAINTING
(88%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Enigma Is Part of the Allure

BYLINE: By MOLLY YOUNG

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words


A bin of cream-colored fluff sat on a table near the store's front entrance. My
friend Teddy picked up a tuft, examined it and laughed.

''Cool!'' he said. ''A box of wool.''

He put the wool down and moved on to an aromatherapy station, where an array of
gizmos misted the air with relaxing scents. ''This is nice,'' he said. ''I feel
peaceful.''

''How do you normally feel when you shop?'' I asked.

''Terrible.''

We were visiting the new Muji store on Fifth Avenue, across the street from the
magisterial New York Public Library and its crowds of tourists and lunch-eating
locals.

Muji, founded in 1980 in Japan, offers what the company calls ''no-brand quality
goods'': unembellished household items, stationery, clothing and knickknacks.
Each item is packaged minimally, priced reasonably and injected with a higher
dose of design intelligence than you find at most mass retailers.

There are boxes of wool to play with and potted plants purifying the air. The
store soundtrack is weighted toward instrumental flute arrangements. It's like
Ikea on Klonopin.

Other Muji stores I've visited (there are five in New York) offer a selection of
merchandise that combines the randomness of a country flea market with the
utility and value of a Toyota Corolla. This is true of the new flagship, which
sprawls over two floors connected by escalators.

Teddy wandered into the men's clothing section and immediately began filling a
basket with socks in smoky greens and grays ($4.90). ''Should I throw away all
my current socks and just have Muji socks? I'm gonna do it.'' He added another
sock to the basket. ''I feel like I'm gonna buy a lot of things here.'' He
paused again and looked down at his sock collection before saying, ''But do I
actually like any of this stuff?''

This is the Muji experience compressed into a bite-size truffle. As I added
items to my basket -- rolls of decorative indigo masking tape ($5.50), a pair of
fleece indoor socks ($7.90), a porcelain toothbrush stand ($5.50) -- I
experienced a similar chain of thoughts: ''I need this,'' and then ''No, I don't
need this,'' and then ''Ooh, but it's so nice.''

The porcelain toothbrush stand, for example. It struck me as exactly the
implement I needed to keep my toothbrush standing fully erect on the bathroom
counter. But wait, does my toothbrush need to stand upright on the counter at
all times? Then again, it's only $5 and comes in such pleasing hues (melon,
mint, peach).

Teddy and I moved on to a nook of clocks, where we faced a row of exceedingly
legible timepieces. Teddy picked up a lollipop-shaped clock ($29.50). ''This is
not useful,'' he determined.

''Why not?'' I asked. With its bold face and obvious time-keeping function, the
lollipop clock looked like an illustration of utility to me.

''Because ... why would you need a clock on a stick?''

Right.

The enigma of Muji is also its allure. It combines practical items -- moist
towelettes, notebooks, shampoo -- with items that have the promise but not the
delivery of usefulness, like a shoehorn on a key ring (only $8.50, but when do
you need to slip into a fancy shoe on the go?) or a silicone jam spoon (only
$6.25, but who eats enough jam to warrant a specialty spoon?).

Here are four rules for expedient shopping at Muji.

Avoid anything that you didn't know existed, such as a CD player with a pull
cord to start the music.

Avoid anything that you didn't know you needed, such as a cylindrical cardboard
storage container. (If you didn't know you needed it, you don't.)

You know the adage about not going to the supermarket when you're hungry? Don't
go to Muji when you're bored.

Finally, use your hands. You can derive a lot of satisfaction simply by picking
up items, rotating them to discover their purpose and putting them back down.

Much of the store's charm can be found in its foreign flourishes, like the
inexplicable boxes of wool and the tiny shopping baskets. There are two
varieties of dried squid available for impulse purchase ($2.50) at the checkout
counter. An embroidery bar offers $3 custom embroidery on items purchased
in-store, with available icons neatly labeled in binders: Mt. Fuji, Shrimp,
Broom, a cloud (labeled ''Crowd''), a frog (labeled ''Flog'') and dozens of
others.

Hospitality is key: A meadow of beanbags at the store's entrance offers a
sanctuary for customers who need to check email or take a short public nap. The
beanbags -- Muji calls them ''body fit cushions'' ($190) -- are stuffed with a
microbead filling that eerily replicates the sturdiness of sitting on a dad's
lap.

An hour into our trip, Teddy was still unvexed by his customary shopping
anxieties. He was especially pleased by Muji's policy of the softest possible
sell, pointing to a bag of cookies labeled ''bear shaped biscuits'' as proof.

'''Bear shaped biscuits' is not only the simplest way to describe this item, but
the blandest,'' he marveled. ''It toes the line of sounding deliberately
unappealing without quite crossing it.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.

Muji 475 Fifth Avenue, 212-447-1690; muji.us.East Is East The store's home wares
are small and easily stackable, which may be due to the constraints of Japanese
real estate.Moveable Feast Service is unobtrusive, like shopping at a
supermarket. No one offers help, but prices are clearly marked and displays are
tidy.Last But Not Least The cheery price of ritzy-looking items, like acacia
wood bowls ($10) and men's chambray shirts ($49), makes it tempting to buy in
multiples.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/muji-flagship-fifth-avenue.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LIBRARIES
(69%); MEN'S CLOTHING (64%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Learning Manners, Thank You

BYLINE: By ALYSON KRUEGER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1081 words


Middle schoolers are not generally known for their good manners. But Cord
Ivanyi, a teacher in Chandler, Ariz., said that he was fed up after seeing ''the
sheer rudeness and carelessness the boys showed'' during his classes, especially
during parties when they would shove their way to the front of food lines.

And so a few years ago, when he was a teacher in Gilbert, Ariz., Mr. Ivanyi
began teaching etiquette to seventh, eighth and ninth graders, giving a
15-minute lecture on ''lessons from the past,'' he said, from holding doors open
to offering to seat people, taking their backpacks, carrying books when others
are overloaded or injured, waiting while being spoken to and using phrases such
as ''in my opinion.'' The students soon started championing the rules
themselves, he said.

At a turbulent time in America, with guns invading workplaces and gender
politics dividing college campuses, some adults are trying, in small ways, to
impart lessons of old-fashioned civility, even chivalry, to children.

The Etiquette School of Manhattan started a program last year to train nannies
and caretakers on how to teach children, from babies to young adults, about
proper behavior.

In the curriculum, which is being translated into Spanish, are lessons on how to
help children build listening skills, overcome shyness and calm themselves when
they are angry so that they can learn to express themselves with kindness and
consideration.

Heather Haupt, a mother in Dallas who home-schools her children, created what
she calls a ''knights in training'' program for her boys, ages 7, 9 and 11, when
they were toddlers. She armed them with fake shields and foam swords and gave
them rewards for showing bravery, honesty or gallantry toward women. She
uploaded the curriculum to her blog Cultivated Lives in 2011 and said parents
are still sharing and downloading it.

Scott Farrell is the owner and director of Chivalry Today, a company in San
Diego whose offerings for young people include sword fighting and falconry, but
also ethics and having a sense of honor. ''The ideals of chivalry, of being
honest and fair and polite, they don't need to be rooted in the society of our
grandparents' day,'' Mr. Farrell said.

Swords are optional, of course. Debbie Hays enrolled her two young sons in a
six-week session at Polite Is Right, a local etiquette school teaching
''life-skills classes for kids and teens.''

There, the boys learned to greet a new acquaintance by making eye contact and
offering a firm handshake. They were instructed to debate respectfully, listen
to others without interrupting and make arguments in a kind tone. They learned
to set a table with multiple plates and utensils and to take care of their looks
and hygiene by wearing clean clothes and combing their hair every day.

Years before their first crushes, they learned to give up their seats for women
on the bus and to open the doors for them.

''Being the mother of two boys, I was determined that this tradition would live
on,'' Ms. Hays said. ''We do a lot in the community, and they can go up to the
mayor, the police chief, the fire chief, extend their hand and look them in the
eye and say, 'Hello.'''

Her older son, Grant, 16, said: ''I talk to adults in a more grown-up way I
guess than most kids my age and I shake hands with them. I don't give them a
one-hand shake. I hate when people do that.''

Some parents have been motivated to turn to chivalry as a small measure of
taking control after seeing violence and aggression on the news. ''With our
culture, where it is going, we don't honor and respect one another,'' Ms. Haupt
said.

If chivalry is making a small comeback, social media deserves a thank-you note,
said Dianne Marsch, the director of the Etiquette School. Parents worry that
their children are spending so much time on text, Snapchat, and Instagram, she
said, that they don't know how to have a quality face-to-face conversation.

Another, less gentle impetus: to give children a leg up in school interviews.
''The competition is fierce, so the parents are calling me,'' Ms. Marsch said.

Dates and parties are also covered. ''Throw any of my students into a situation,
and they will know what to do,'' said Denise Honaker, the owner of Polite Is
Right, who charges $140 for a six-week session. She tries to make the lessons
fun, taking students to the mall to teach them to pick out clothing, and to a
restaurant to learn proper dining skills.

''I had fun doing it, especially the eating,'' Grant said. ''I remember eating
pasta, chicken and steak in a restaurant setting so we learned to behave. I
apply it in my everyday life.''

But chivalry can also be a loaded word, with its echoes of medieval knights.
Some people find the notion of treating women specially to be outdated and
sexist.

Dr. Alexandra Barzvi, a clinical psychologist in New York City, urges caution
when teaching this behavior to young boys. ''It might be hypocritical when on
the one hand you are trying to teach your boys, your sons, that women and men
are equals,'' she said. ''Then you are saying, 'But this is how you treat a
woman which is different than how you might treat a buddy.'''

The values these classes are trying to teach -- respect, honesty and bravery --
are also hard lessons that require time and introspection to master. ''It's not
that if you teach these values of chivalry, you will turn out this perfectly
kind, respectful boy,'' Dr. Barzvi said. Rather, she advised helping boys to be
in touch with their emotions and learn sensitivity and empathy for others.

While classes can reinforce principles, they obviously aren't a replacement for
proper parenting. ''A lot of parents have their kids at my class a couple of
times because they say, 'He isn't fixed,''' Ms. Honaker said. ''I say, 'What are
you doing at home?'''

Dr. Barzvi encourages dads to think about the way they are treating and talking
about women in front of their sons.

When done well, chivalry classes can teach much more than a perhaps outdated
code of conduct; they can enhance human connections.

Ms. Honaker remembers when her own son was 7, and he opened the door for an
older couple. The two thanked him and said they didn't see that very often.
''His eyes just lit up,'' she said. ''He was so excited. And at that point I'm
like, 'I need to bottle that.'''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/10/fashion/schooling-children-in-manners-thank-yo
u-very-much.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above center, Denise Honaker monitors children as they order
lunch at Hey 19 restaurant in Torrance, Calif. Paige, top left, practices wiping
her mouth, while Ella, top right, learns to hold her utensils. Bottom left and
right, Richa shakes hands and learns to butter her bread. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN
FRANCIS PETERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (92%); CHILDREN (90%); CURRICULA (89%); MIDDLE &
JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ADULTS (74%); ETHICS
(73%); HOME SCHOOLING (73%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); GRANDPARENTS (62%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Luxury Brands and the Social Campaign

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1181 words


José de Cabo spends a lot of time on social media. But unlike most people who
post on Twitter and Facebook to keep up with friends and family, Mr. de Cabo and
his team of more than 140 people -- primarily based in New York and London --
have another goal.

They scour the world's most popular social media sites on behalf of luxury
brands like Lancôme and Yves Saint Laurent, hunting for photos taken by
individuals that feature the brands, say an image of a handbag or pair of shoes,
that could be used in marketing campaigns.

By tapping into the digital world, Mr. de Cabo said, brands (which have final
say over what photos are used and do not pay people for their online images) can
foster closer relationships with their followers. They also can add extra
credibility to marketing at a time when consumers are increasingly turned off by
traditional advertising.

''There's an army of fans out there for every brand, and they want to be part of
your world,'' said Mr. de Cabo, who started the company, called Olapic, with
friends soon after completing an M.B.A. at Columbia University in 2010. The
start-up says that its social media content can increase online sales by roughly
5 percent compared with traditional marketing photos.

''People are now wired in a different way,'' Mr. de Cabo said. ''They are used
to seeing authenticity online. By embracing that, brands can build a stronger
connection with consumers.''

Services like Olapic are the latest attempt by luxury brands -- alongside
traditional retailers -- to stay relevant in a world where social media has
given people greater power over how a company is perceived online.

Where once a brand could use its marketing campaigns to present a coherent
message, the meteoric rise of social media -- and its billions of daily digital
discussions, many involving global luxury brands -- has forced companies to
reassess how they use, interact and respond to the likes of Instagram and
Snapchat.

That includes finding new ways to engage with those brand followers, either
through regular digital interactions on popular social media sites or offering
online extras, like behind-the-scene looks at fashion shows or photo shoots, to
reinforce their ties to a designer or fashion house. Brands also have turned to
social media to extend their presence beyond the traditional customer base,
partly to reach a new generation of consumers that have grown up online.

Yet just like in the offline world, some luxury brands have embraced social
media and other digital activities with greater energy than others.

Those are the findings of a recent report by L2, a company based in New York
that tracks the digital impact of brands. The study, based primarily on U.S.
consumer habits, compared the digital strategies of some of the world's most
well-known fashion houses, such as Chanel and Dior, ranking each company on
their social media outreach, digital marketing, e-commerce and daily
interactions on mobile platforms.

Some digitally savvy brands like Burberry, according to L2's report, have
incorporated social media and other online platforms directly into their wider
marketing campaigns. These activities, says Maureen Mullen, L2's head of
research, have given companies a greater reach in the online world, associating
Burberry's regular posts on the likes of YouTube and Snapchat with people's
increasing desire to be connected to the next online trend.

''Seven years ago Burberry meant 'British' and 'plaid,' and now a core
association of the brand is innovation,'' Ms. Mullen said. ''They've effectively
changed the brand values through a lot of the things they've done in a digital
capacity.'' (Kate Spade is the only other company in L2's ''genius'' category.)

But most luxury brands have yet to turn a growing digital presence into
increased sales.

Online sales still represent just 6 percent of luxury companies' total revenues,
according to L2. And roughly 10 companies, including Ralph Lauren and Michael
Kors, dominate this digital world, generating a combined 65 percent of all
traffic to websites associated with the luxury industry.

Yet retailing experts say that how a company is viewed online -- not just by its
primary customers, but also by the wider online population -- can have a
significant impact on a brand's overall reputation, particularly with digitally
literate young shoppers.

''With social media, consumers are taking brands and reinventing them to fit
their own tastes,'' said Frederic Court, a London-based partner at Felix
Capital, a venture firm that invests in fashion-related digital companies.
''Brands need to find a new way to relate to their customers.''

This change has been particularly acute for luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton
and Chanel. These companies -- born decades before social media -- have fostered
an image of exclusivity as part of their marketing strategies, portraying a
lifestyle that is often out of reach for most people.

In response to the digital free-for-all that is synonymous with the Internet,
analysts say many companies have had to expand their brands' online footprint,
often teaming up with social media darlings and other celebrities to present a
more populist image.

That includes Dior, which joined forces with the music star Rihanna, whose
social media following is four times as large as that of the fashion label.
Calvin Klein signed a deal with Justin Bieber, in part to tap into the Canadian
singer's avid following on Instagram and Twitter, where his audience is up to 15
times as large as that of the brand.

''Each brand needs to strike a balance between exclusivity and inclusiveness,''
said James Lovejoy, an analyst at Brandwatch, a technology firm in New York that
tracks discussions on social networks.

''When Rihanna wears Dior in an Instagram photo, the reach she gets might not be
exactly Dior's consumer base,'' he added, ''but she certainly attracts a wider
audience.''

For Matt Jacobson, head of market development at Instagram, the photo-friendly
online platform that has become the social network of choice for luxury brands
and their followers, this ability to engage with a wider audience lies at the
heart of how companies should use online platforms.

The British label Karen Millen, for instance, has crowdsourced photos from
social media as part of its online store, showing how its customers -- and the
wider world -- view the brand online. And Coach turned to user-generated images
in a recent advertising campaign to highlight its range of footwear, including
an interactive map showing where customers had taken their digital photos around
the world.

These types of online interactions, Mr. Jacobson said, would happen irrespective
of a brand's participation. But by engaging with both core consumers and the
broader digital audience, luxury brands have an opportunity to use the marketing
potential offered by social media.

''The conversation is happening, with or without you,'' he added. ''You can't
choose to opt out. But you can choose not to participate.''

Rachel Felder contributed reporting.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/02/fashion/luxury-brands-and-the-social-campaign.
html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The spring 2016 show for Burberry, which has shown particular
savvy in its use of online platforms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN TALLIS/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); BRANDING (90%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); FASHION
DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (89%); PRIVATE
LABELS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); FASHION SHOWS
(75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); RETAILERS (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); LANCOME SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials GERBER, STACY PHILIP OCT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 21 words


GERBER--Stacy Philip Oct. 10, 1945 - Dec. 10, 2014. My beautiful husband, gone
too soon. Love you forever. Michael Dillinger 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials EHRMAN, LUNCHEON GROUP

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 84 words


EHRMAN--Luncheon Group. On the occasion of our 43rd annual luncheon, the members
of the Ehrman Luncheon Group salute our departed friends. Departed: Giles
Brophy, Sam Davis, John Donovan, Brent Harries, Bill Horton, Kevin Kenny, Mark
Kessenich, Fenn Putnam, Frank Smeal, Bob Tighe, Sam Yonce. Continuing: Ted
Beason, Dick Chapedelaine, Lang Cook, Dale Horowitz, Wayne Jahns, Dick Leach,
Jim Lowrey, Billy Moffat, Ed Moos, Bill Robertson, Dave Rochat, Jim Roddy, Jules
Vachon. Respectfully, The Committee 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SIMON, JOHN J.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 61 words


SIMON--John J.,86, of Westport, CT, died on December 8, 2015. Survived by Laura
Lee Simon, beloved wife of 65 years; children, Terri, James and Andrew; seven
grandchildren; and sister, Patricia Scheines. Voracious reader, classical music
lover, passionate civil libertarian. Services at Abraham L. Green Funeral Home,
Fairfield, CT, on Thursday, December 10, at 1pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROSENBERG, STEPHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 75 words


ROSENBERG--Stephen, of Union, NJ, passed away on December 8, 2015. Born on May
18, 1943 in Queens, NY, he married Lucille on June 23, 1968. Stephen attended
Columbia University and Harvard Law School, working as an attorney for 47 years.
He is survived by his wife, children, Jonathan and Michele, and their spouses
and his six grandchildren. Donations can be made to Temple Emanu-El, Westfield,
NJ. Services by Menorah Chapels at Millburn, Union, NJ. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL
SCHOOLS (87%); LAWYERS (85%); GRANDCHILDREN (83%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths RIVERA, ROBERT M

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 119 words


RIVERA--Robert M. (Robert Storm), age 60, died suddenly November 27, 2015. A
solid, reliable, humble man; spiritual and kind. He never spent a day without
music: a Latin percussionist and dancer. He served on the security team at
Bloomberg, LLP for two decades. Beloved partner of Stasia Pasela; brother of
Eddy and Maria Rivera, Violet and Frank Contreras; nephew of Gladys Cruz, Brunny
Cruz; uncle of Joseph M. Rivera and Eddy Rivera Jr., Debbie Manzella and Frank
Contreras Jr. Memorial and Celebration of Life Service, Saturday, December 12 at
1:00pm at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th St. (2nd Avenue). In lieu of flowers,
contributions in memory of Robert M. Storm to Arts Horizons,
www.artshorizons.org. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 153 words


POLLACK--Lester. The NYU School of Law mourns the death of Lester Pollack,
alumnus, trustee, benefactor, and treasured mentor. Lester counts among the Law
School's most dedicated and visionary leaders. His commitment and generosity led
to the creation of the Pollack Center for Law & Business, a unique joint venture
between the Law School and NYU Stern School of Business providing
interdisciplinary legal and business education. In addition to serving for
decades as a member of our Board of Trustees and for ten years as its Chair,
Lester was President and Director of our Law Alumni Association and Chairman of
the Board of our National Center on Philanthropy and the Law. The Law School
community is grateful for Lester's extraordinary life and transformative
generosity. We will miss him deeply, and join his family and friends in mourning
his loss. Anthony Welters, Chairman of the Board Trevor Morrison, Dean 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); BUSINESS
EDUCATION (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (86%);
ALUMNI (73%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); JOINT VENTURES
(56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 71 words


POLLACK--Lester. The JCC Movement mourns the loss of Lester Pollack, chair of
JCC Association 1990-94, recipient of the Frank L. Weil Award for Distinguished
Contribution in the JCC Field and the Community Builders Award. We extend our
deepest condolences to Lester's beloved wife Geri, their children Wendy and
Bruce and family. May his memory be for a blessing. Stephen P. Seiden, Chair
Stephen H. Arnoff, CEO JCC Association 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTERS ASSOCIATION OF NORTH AMERICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 116 words


POLLACK--Lester. We mourn the passing of our founder, Lester Pollack, but
celebrate his many accomplishments in the New York and international community
through his charitable endeavors, in the academic world, in his numerous
activities at NYU, in the domestic and international political arenas in the
promotion of peace and in the business world through his founding of Centre
Partners and Odyssey Partners, as well as his guiding role at Loews Corporation
and United Brands. Our sincere thoughts are with his beloved wife Geri, his son
Bruce and his wife Susan, his daughter Wendy and grandchildren, Shayna, Jordan,
Kayla, Justin and Rachael. Your Friends and Colleagues at Centre Partners 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN
(83%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (69%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%);
NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%);
NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS
(69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 27 words


POLLACK--Lester. Founding member, 1950, of The Jinx Social/Athletic Club,
Brooklyn, NY. Lester never forgot his roots or his friends. He will be sorely
missed. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 72 words


POLLACK--Lester. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel
Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem mourn the death of our dear friend,
Lester Pollack, husband of our Board Secretary Geri Pollack. Heartfelt
condolences to Geri and the entire family. Stacey Bronfman, President, AFIM
Stephen Lash and Judy Steinhardt, Board Co-Chairs, AFIM James S. Snyder, Anne &
Jerome Fisher Dir, IM Leah Siegel, Exec Dir, AFIM 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 109 words


POLLACK--Lester. The National Center on Philanthropy and the Law (NCPL) at New
York University School of Law mourns the death of Lester Pollack, beloved
Director and friend of the NCPL. Lester was a generous philanthropist and
devoted leader, giving seemingly unlimited amounts of time, energy, and
resources to causes he believed in. Lester served as the Chair of the NCPL Board
of Directors from 1998 until his passing on Wednesday morning. The NCPL and the
community it serves are grateful for Lester's extraordinary life and his
transformative impact on the nonprofit sector. We will miss him. We join
Lester's family and friends in mourning his loss. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); DEATHS &
OBITUARIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (85%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths POLLACK, LESTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 77 words


POLLACK--Lester. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish
Organizations mourns the loss of its esteemed Past Chair, Lester Pollack. He was
held in highest regard by leaders here and abroad, and widely recognized for his
integrity and acumen. Our heartfelt condolences go to Lester's wife, Geri, and
children Bruce and Wendy. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion.
Stephen Greenberg, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman/CEO 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (85%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths OBERWAGER, SUSIE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 182 words


OBERWAGER--Susie. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew
University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Susie Oberwager, who was devoted to
Israel and the cause of higher education. Together with Karl (z"l), her beloved
husband of 53 years, Susie Oberwager established the Philipp Rothbart and Helene
Gottheil Rothbart Endowment Fund at Hebrew University in honor of her dear
parents. This benevolence created scholarships for deserving students. The
humanitarian couple was honored in 2000 as Benefactors of the university, and
attended the moving ceremony on Mount Scopus. Susie and Karl emigrated to the
U.S. from Romania, and maintained a steadfast devotion to the global Jewish
community throughout their meaningful lives. We extend our deepest condolences
to the Oberwager family. May Susie be remembered among the mourners of Zion and
Jerusalem. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson,
President American Friends of The Hebrew University Michael S. Kurtz, Chairman
Daniel I. Schlessinger, President Beth Asnien McCoy, National Executive Director
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS
& GRANTS (88%); ENDOWMENTS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); JEWS &
JUDAISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LAMBERT, JOSEPH A

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 35 words


LAMBERT--Joseph A. Died peacefully in New York on December 1, 2015. He was the
beloved son of the late Mildred and Cecil. Survived by his devoted brother,
Steven (Barbara), and nephew, Corey. Services private. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KELLOGG, DYANE DYE WOOD (1918, 2015)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 216 words


KELLOGG--Dyane Dye Wood (1918-2015). Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and
friend, Dyane Dye Wood Kellogg, 97, passed away Sunday, December 6, 2015. Born
July 2, 1918 to Fred Dye and Esther Monroe in Detroit, MI. She graduated from
Indiana University with an AB in Fine Arts and French, and MA in Spanish from
the Universidad Inter-Americana in Saltillo, Mexico. She was a passionate
historian, Certified Genealogist, and award-winning author. An avid traveler,
she visited over 100 countries on all seven continents gaining her entry into
both the Circumnavigators Club and the Travelers Century Club. A member of
nearly twenty lineage societies including Colonial Dames of America and
Daughters of the American Revolution, as well as, both MENSA and Intertel. Dyane
and her devoted husband, Fred, held residences in both New York City and Little
River, SC. She is survived by her husband Fred Kellogg, Jr., daughters, Dr.
Diandra Wood and Paula Neal, and granddaughter, Jordan Neal. Dyane also leaves
behind numerous friends and family that were so grateful to be a part of her
life. Services will be held Friday, December 11, 2015 at 11am at Church of the
Incarnation, 209 Madison, New York, NY 10016. In lieu of flowers, the family
requests donations be made to the New York Public Library. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); GENEALOGY (76%); HISTORY (71%); WRITERS
(70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); AMERICAN MENSA (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DOWNING, DANIEL P.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 97 words


DOWNING--Daniel P.,on December 8, 2015, born Kenmare, County Kerry Ireland.
Beloved husband of the late Sheila M. Loving father of Patrick (Brian), Mary,
Daniel, Patricia, Teresa, and Sheila. Also survived by eight grandsons, four
granddaughters, and two great-grandsons. Reposing at Martin A. Gleason Funeral
Home, 10-25 150th St. Whitestone, NY. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday 9:15am
St. Luke's R.C. Church Whitestone, NY. Visiting Friday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Interment
Mt. St. Mary's Cemetery Flushing, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made
to Calvary Hospice Bronx, NY. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); HOSPICE (82%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CLARKSON, JOAN LEROY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 102 words


CLARKSON--Joan Leroy, of Centre Island, Oyster Bay, NY. Passed away December 5,
2015. Born in New York City on May 31, 1926, daughter of the late John Minturn
and Georgiana Palmer LeRoy. Wife of the late Robert Livingston Clarkson, Jr.
Survived by daughter Courtney Schuyler Clarkson (Roy C. Leggitt, III) of San
Francisco, CA, and son Robert Livingston Clarkson, III (Teresa C.) of Spofford,
NH, granddaughters Tasha C. and Cassandra C. Clarkson and great-granddaughter
Livingston Celia. Funeral Service 1pm on December 12 at St. John's of
Lattingtown. Memorial contributions to Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%)

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (69%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
